DRN-3881326
Complaint
Mrs A has complained that Zopa Limited (Zopa) unfairly brought about an unaffordable 
loan for her. 
Background
Zopa operated the electronic system in relation to lending which led to Mrs A being provided 
with a loan in September 2018. The loan was for £4,000.00 and had an APR of 24%. This 
meant that the total amount to be repaid, which included interest, fees and other charges 
totalling £1,477.52, was due to be repaid in 36 monthly instalments of £152.15.
Mrs As complaint was reviewed by one of our adjudicators. He thought that Zopa ought to 
have seen that Mrs A wasnt in a position to repay this loan at the time it arranged it. So he 
upheld Mrs As complaint. Zopa disagreed with our adjudicators view. As Zopa disagreed, 
the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive 
referred to this when deciding Mrs As complaint. 
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions 
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Mrs As complaint. These two 
questions are:
These two overarching questions are:
Did Zopa complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that     
Mrs A would be able to meet her obligations under the P2P agreement in a 
sustainable way? 
oIf so, did it make a fair decision?
oIf not, would those checks have shown that Mrs A wouldve been able to 
do so?
Did Zopa act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did Zopa complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mrs A would be 
able to meet her obligations under the P2P agreement in a sustainable way? 
The rules, regulations and good industry practice in place when Zopa brought about this P2P 
agreement with Mrs A required it to carry out a proportionate assessment of whether she 
could afford to make his repayments. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an 
affordability assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Zopa had to think about whether repaying the 
loan sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mrs A. In practice this 
meant Zopa had to ensure making the payments to the loan wouldnt cause Mrs A undue 
difficulty or adverse consequences. It wasnt enough for Zopa to simply think about the 
likelihood of Mrs A making payments, it also had to consider the impact of this on Mrs A. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the application. In 
general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an 
extended period); and 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. 
Ive carefully thought about all of the relevant factors in this case.
Were Zopas checks reasonable and proportionate?
Zopa has said that it completed an income and expenditure assessment with Mrs A before 
arranging this loan. It also carried out a credit check to work out what Mrs As existing credit 
commitments were too. However, Im mindful that any credit check carried out is likely to 
have shown that Mrs A already had a reasonable amount of existing debt and that she was 
close to her limits on her revolving credit accounts. 
Given the information obtained is likely to have shown the extent of Mrs As existing 
indebtedness, Zopas own checks suggest that Mrs A had a debt to income ratio of 
approaching 45%, I would have expected Zopa to have taken further steps to verify Mrs As 
expenditure to ensure she had the necessary funds to repay the loan it was arranging. After 
all Mrs As indebtedness and sudden need to utilise most of her existing lines of credit, didnt 
tally with someone who had the level of disposable income Zopas checks appeared to 
suggest.
 In reaching this conclusion, Ive kept in mind that this was the first and only loan Zopa 
arranged for Mrs A. But bearing in mind what Ive highlighted about the information gathered, 
I do think that it would have been fair, reasonable and proportionate to have carried out 
further checks before proceeding in this instance.
As Zopa proceeded with approving this loan without taking further steps to verify Mrs As 
expenditure, Im satisfied that the checks Zopa carried out before arranging this loan werent 
reasonable and proportionate.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have indicated to Zopa that Mrs A would have 
been unable to repay this loan?
As reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out before this loan was provided, 
I cant say for sure what they wouldve shown. So I need to decide whether it is more likely 
than not that proportionate checks would have told Zopa that Mrs A wouldve been unable to 
sustainably repay this loan. 
Mrs A has now provided us with evidence of her financial circumstances at the time she 
applied for this loan. Of course, I accept different checks might show different things. And 
just because something shows up in the information Mrs A has provided, it doesnt mean it 
wouldve shown up in any checks Zopa mightve carried out. 
But in the absence of anything else from Zopa showing what this information would have 
shown, I think its perfectly fair, reasonable and proportionate to place considerable weight 
on what this information says as an indication of what Mrs As financial circumstances were 
more likely than not to have been at the time. 
Its also important to note that Zopa was required to establish whether Mrs A could 
sustainably make her loan repayments  not just whether the loan payments were 
technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence basis might be 
an indication that a consumer could sustainably make the repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow that this is the case. And as a borrower shouldnt have to borrow further 
in order to make their payments, it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to sustainably make their repayments if 
it is on notice that they are unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing 
further. 
Ive carefully considered the information available in light of all of this.
Having done so, its clear that Mrs A was struggling to manage her finances. It doesnt take 
too much probing to see that the reason for Mrs As difficulties and indebtedness was 
because she was gambling unsustainable sums of money. And her ability to repay this loan 
would in large part be dependent on her success as a gambler, which isnt a reasonable 
basis for concluding that Mrs A could repay these loans without borrowing further or 
experiencing significant adverse consequences. 
Bearing all of this in mind, Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would 
more likely than not have demonstrated that Mrs A was unlikely to have been able to make 
the repayments to this loan without borrowing further and/or suffering undue difficulty. And, 
in these circumstances, I find that reasonable and proportionate checks would more likely 
than not have alerted Zopa to the fact that Mrs A would not be able to sustainably make the 
repayments to this loan. Did Zopa act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mrs A in some other way?
Ive carefully thought about everything provided. Having done so, Ive not seen anything here 
that leads me to conclude Zopa acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mrs A in some other 
way.  
So I find that Zopa didnt act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mrs A in some other way.  
Did Mrs A lose out as a result of Zopa unfairly and unreasonably bringing about her loan?
Mrs A had to pay interest, fees and charges on a loan that should never have been arranged 
for him. So I find that Mrs A did lose out because Zopa unfairly arranged this loan.
Fair compensation  what Zopa needs to do to put things right for Mrs A
Having considered everything, I think it is fair and reasonable for Zopa to put things right for 
Mrs A by:
refunding all the interest, fees and charges Mrs A paid on her loan;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any refunded payments from the date they 
were made by Mrs A to the date the complaint is settled;
removing any adverse information recorded on Mrs As credit file as a result of this 
loan. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Zopa to take off tax from this interest. Zopa must give 
Mrs A a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mrs As complaint. Zopa Limited should put 
things right for Mrs A in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 February 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman