DRN-4263627
The complaint
The estate of Mr W is unhappy with the way in which Great Lakes Insurance SE handled a 
claim made on Mr Ws travel insurance policy including delays in repatriating him back to the 
UK and only paying part of the expenses being claimed.
Any references to Great Lakes include its claim handlers and medical assistance team.
What happened
Mr W had the benefit of an annual, multi-trip, travel insurance policy, underwritten by Great 
Lakes (the policy) which covered him for a trip abroad in July 2022. 
Whilst away Mr W became ill and initially attended a private hospital. After contacting Great 
Lakes for assistance, he was subsequently admitted to a public hospital and formally 
diagnosed with terminal cancer. Mr W didnt return to the UK on his scheduled flight.
After Great Lakes obtained a medical report from the treating hospital and his GP notes, it 
concluded that Mr W hadnt declared a heart condition when applying for the policy and 
answering questions about his medical history. So, Great Lakes said it would only cover 
73% of his claim.  
Based on the medical information available and the treating hospitals assessment that Mr W 
was fit to fly subject to certain arrangements being made, Great Lakes took steps to arrange 
repatriation including booking a flight back to the UK on 24 August 2022. Based on further 
medical information  and medical advice that a second medical escort should be with Mr W 
on the flight home  Mr W was re-booked on a flight departing the country hed been visiting 
three days later. 
Very sadly, Mr Ws health deteriorated and a day before the re-booked flight, it was 
determined that he wasnt fit to fly. An air ambulance was considered but ultimately, after 
discussions with the treating hospital, Mr Ws family decided to leave Mr W where he was 
and seek palliative care. Mr W died a few days later and Mr Ws body was repatriated back 
to the UK.
The estate of Mr W (the estate) is very unhappy with the overall support Mr W received 
from Great Lakes and the way in which Mr Ws claim was handled. The estate says because 
of Great Lakes delays, a window of opportunity was missed to repatriate Mr W home whilst 
he was alive. The estate also says Great Lakes decision to only cover 73% of the claim is 
unfair, that it should pay the costs of an additional family member accompanying Mr Ws 
daughter who travelled to be with Mr W. The estate is also unhappy that Great Lakes didnt 
initially agree to cover the full costs of the undertaker/repatriation service the family used to 
transport Mr W back to the UK.
In its final response letter, Great Lakes didnt agree that it had handled the claim unfairly. 
However, it did agree to cover the full cost of the undertaker/repatriation service to repatriate 
Mr Ws body back to the UK even though it had initially only agreed to cover 73% of the cost 
of its preferred agents which was around £1,500 less expensive.
The estate complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Our investigator looked into 
what happened and didnt uphold the estates complaint. The estate disagreed so this 
complaint has been passed to me to consider everything afresh and decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset I acknowledge that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the 
estate has, and in my own words. And Im not going to respond to every single point made. 
No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues 
here. The rules that govern our service allow me to do this as we are an informal dispute 
resolution service. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive overlooked it. 
I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual point to be able to fulfil 
my statutory remit.
Id also like to pass on my sincere condolences to the family of Mr W during an incredibly 
upsetting time.
Proportionately settling the claim
When considering whether Great Lakes has acted fairly and reasonably, Ive taken into 
account The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) as I 
think its relevant here. This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer (so in this case, Great Lakes) has to show it would 
have offered the policy on different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the 
misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Its Great Lakes position that when taking out the policy and answering the medical 
questions, Mr W failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. So, it only 
agreed to cover 73% of the claimed costs. For the reasons set out below, Im satisfied Great 
Lakes decision to only cover a percentage of the claim is fair and reasonable. 
Great Lakes says Mr W applied for the policy online and without any evidence to the 
contrary, I accept that. Ive been provided with the sales process journey he followed, 
including the questions asked at the time. The questions included:
For each traveller named on this policy please select Yes if they:
a. Have, in the last two years, suffered from any medical or psychological conditions 
and for which theyve received treatment, been prescribed medication, attended 
any consultations, investigations or check-ups. 
b. Have ever suffered from or received treatment, investigations or test for:Heart attack, angina, chest pain(s) or any other heart condition
Im satisfied these questions are clear. If any of these questions were answered yes, Im 
also satisfied that the applicants are then asked to input the medical conditions and theyre 
asked further, specific questions about these.
Its accepted that Mr W declared one of his pre-existing medical conditions. However, the 
medical records provided to Great Lakes also detailed other medical conditions which hadnt 
been disclosed, including a heart condition. I think Great Lakes was entitled to rely on the 
contents of Mr Ws medical records when deciding whether hed answered questions about 
his medical history with reasonable care.
Having done so, Im satisfied that Great Lakes has fairly concluded that Mr W didnt disclose 
all his medical conditions as he ought to have in response to the questions asked. And, 
because of this, Im satisfied that Great Lakes has fairly concluded that he made a qualifying 
disclosure as he acted carelessly.
Great Lakes says had Mr W declared the other conditions, the policy wouldve still been 
offered but he wouldve paid more for the annual premium. And its provided evidence 
showing how its reached that conclusion. Im satisfied that Great Lakes has accurately 
rescreened Mr Ws medical conditions by fairly answering the follow up questions Mr W 
wouldve been asked if hed declared his other medical conditions. And that this resulted in a 
higher weighting being applied to the premium resulting in the increase in premium. 
Im satisfied Mr W only paid around 73% of the correct premium. And I dont think Great 
Lakes has acted unfairly by offering to proportionately settle the claim made on the policy 
and paying 73% of the costs its accepted as covered under the terms of the policy. 
Great Lakes decision to decline certain claims under the policy and the overall 
service it provided
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS). 
ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with
the best interests of their customers. It also says they should handle insurance claims 
promptly and fairly - and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.
I know the estate will be very disappointed but, overall, Im satisfied Great Lakes has acted 
fairly and reasonably in the way in which it handled the claim and the assistance provided to 
Mr W. Ill explain why.
Claims
Mr W had travelled abroad alone to stay with family. After he became ill, his 
daughter travelled to the country Mr W had been visiting to be with him. She 
was accompanied by another family member. Great Lakes has agreed to 
cover 73% of the costs of Mr Ws daughters flights and accommodation, 
which  for the reasons set out above - I think is fair and reasonable. 
The terms of the policy only provide cover for one relative or friend to travel 
from the UK to stay with and travel home with Mr W if deemed necessary by 
Great Lakes medical officer. Ive taken into account the reasons why Mr Ws 
daughter says she needed to be accompanied but I think Great Lakes has 
reasonably relied on the terms of the policy to conclude that the travelling 
costs (and any additional accommodation costs) relating to the family 
member who accompanied her werent covered under the policy. So, it doesnt need to pay  or proportionately settle  those particular expenses. 
Nor do I think Great Lakes is reasonably required to pay the family members 
loss of earnings as a result of travelling to the country Mr W was in.
Medical assistance and claim handling
Subject to the remaining terms of the policy, Great Lakes covers emergency medical 
and repatriation expenses. The policy also says treatment in a private hospital or 
clinic abroad isnt covered where a suitable public or state facility is available.
When first contacting Great Lakes for assistance, Mr W said he was in a private 
hospital. I dont think Great Lakes acted unreasonably by telling Mr W that it would 
need a medical report to advise on cover. And given the country he was in, hed need 
to enrol for Medicare as required by the terms of the policy. He was also given details 
of how to find the nearest medical centre where Medicare was accepted. I dont think 
this was unreasonable and if a medical report had been provided by the private 
medical facility setting out Mr Ws symptoms and likely diagnosis and that it wasnt 
medically safe to move him at that stage, Ive got no reason to doubt that Great 
Lakes would have considered covering the costs of the private treatment. 
As it transpired, the private facility didnt provide a medical report and Mr W 
subsequently attended a public hospital. Im sorry to hear that Mr W was waiting 
some time to be admitted when he clearly wasnt feeling well, and his condition was 
deteriorating. But I dont think I can reasonably hold Great Lakes responsible for this. 
Particularly at this time, it didnt have a medical report to understand the likely cause 
of his symptoms and seriousness of his condition.
Im satisfied that Great Lakes promptly sent Mr W a document to sign and return, 
consenting to release his medical information. After this was returned by Mr W, Im 
satisfied Great Lakes quickly requested a medical report and travel 
recommendations from the treating hospital. 
Despite Great Lakes chasing for this and asking Mr W to remind the treating hospital 
to send this information to Great Lakes, it took several days for the treating hospital 
to do so. Initially it only sent a document on 16 August 2022 reflecting that Mr W was 
fit to fly as of that day, which was also his original return date. And that he could fly 
unassisted with a full reclining seat in the front row. 
However, I dont think Great Lakes acted unreasonably by wanting to see a full 
medical report before arranging Mr Ws repatriation. And I dont think I can 
reasonably hold Great Lakes responsible for the delays in the medical report being 
provided. Although it had received information from the treating hospital that Mr W 
was fit to fly, until it had a medical report to fully understand the nature and 
seriousness of Mr Ws condition, I dont think Great Lakes was able to properly 
assess the available  and most beneficial - options for Mr W. Whilst the fit to fly 
document contained some information about Mr Ws vital signs, it didnt contain any 
information about his symptoms, diagnosis or prognosis.
Based on the available information at the time, I dont think Great Lakes acted 
unfairly by contacting the original booking provider to see whether Mr Ws pre-
booked return flight ticket could be moved to a later date if he was deemed fit to fly 
on a commercial plane. Its not unusual for travel insurers to look into that option in 
order to mitigate the cost. And, in principle, I dont think thats unfair.The medical report was sent on 17 August 2022 reflecting a new diagnosis of 
terminal cancer. Given the information in the medical report, and in light of the 
medical declarations made by Mr W when taking out the policy, I dont think Great 
Lakes acted unfairly by seeking to verify cover under the policy by then requesting Mr 
Ws GP records. Im satisfied that its standard practice for travel insurers to request 
GP medical records when a policyholder falls ill whilst abroad and requires 
assistance from their travel insurer. Thats so it can check a policyholders medical 
history (usually against the medical declarations made when the policy was taken 
out) before verifying a claim. 
The GP notes were promptly requested shortly after receipt of the treating hospitals 
medical report and were received on the dame day. It then took Great Lakes over 24 
hours to review the GP records in light of the medical report and medical disclosures 
made by Mr W applying for the policy. I dont make any finding on whether this was 
too long in the circumstances of this case because even if the review had happened 
more quickly than it did, for reasons set out below, I dont think this had a material 
impact or wouldve led to Mr W being repatriated back to the UK.
After concluding that cover wouldve still been provided at an additional premium, Im 
satisfied Great Lakes promptly and reasonably told Mr W and his family that it would 
only be covering 73% of the claim. Im not a medical expert but based on the 
available medical evidence, I dont think Great Lakes unreasonably concluded that 
Mr W was fit to fly business class with a medical escort. It then promptly made 
arrangements for a medical escort to travel to the country Mr W was staying to escort 
him home. Given the distance, its understandable why this took a couple of days to 
arrange. I dont think thats unreasonable. 
Great Lakes also booked a flight home for Mr W for 24 August 2022, subject to airline 
clearance. I can understand the estates disappointment that this ended up being 
pushed back a few days. However, I dont think Great Lakes unreasonably relied on 
the medical evidence received around 23 August 2022 reflecting that given Mr Ws 
condition, the length of the flight and Mr W needing continuous care, a second 
medical escort would be required to travel back with Mr W.
Im satisfied Great Lakes looked into further options such as using a local medical 
professional to also travel to the UK with Mr W and existing medical escort and a 
medical escort meeting them in the country, they were due to stopover in. But 
ultimately, Im persuaded by the reasons why Great Lakes didnt think these were 
viable alternatives and it promptly arranged for a second medical escort to fly to the 
country where Mr W was staying. Based on the available information at the time, I 
think that was reasonable. 
Around this time, there seems to have been confusion about the treatment Mr W 
might be having at the treating hospital. However, I dont think Great Lakes are 
responsible for that and looking at the correspondence from the time, Im satisfied 
that Great Lakes was doing what it could to get up to date and accurate information 
about the status of Mr Ws health. 
Around 26 August 2022, so the day before Mr W was due to be repatriated to the UK, 
the medical advice that Mr Ws condition had deteriorated, and he was no longer fit to 
fly and wouldnt be for the foreseeable future.
Im persuaded by what Ive seen that Great Lakes considered arranging an air 
ambulance to repatriate Mr W to the UK.  And on 29 August 2022 a discussion took place with the treating doctor. Its reflected the treating doctor wasnt able to make a 
call on the air ambulance and would need to speak to their senior team. Ultimately, 
the option of an air ambulance wasnt explored any further as the treating doctor met 
with the family the following day, who decided to keep Mr W where he was with 
palliative care. But I think Great Lakes acted reasonably by exploring this as an 
option when repatriation by commercial flight, with the assistance arranged, was no 
longer deemed medically appropriate.
The policy also covers the cost of returning an insured persons body or ashes to 
their home country. Mr Ws family used an undertakers services whilst abroad and 
Great Lakes initially concluded that it would only make a contribution to the amount 
its preferred agents would charge. That was around £1,500 less expensive. And 
because Mr W made a careless disclosure when applying for the policy, Great Lakes 
said it would only pay 73% of the contribution it would ordinarily make.
However, in its final response letter, Great Lakes has agreed to cover the undertaker 
costs and the costs of repatriating Mr Ws body to the UK in full. It accepts it took 
three days to provide Mr Ws family with the quotes from its preferred agents and this 
was the reason why they made the family made their own arrangements. Great 
Lakes also says the estate doesnt need to make a 27% contribution to those costs. 
Thats more than I would reasonably expect Great Lakes to do. So, I think its acted 
fairly. 
I know Mr Ws family are unhappy with the communication they received with Great 
Lakes and delays confirming details of the undertaker, at a very upsetting time for 
them. But Mr W was the sole beneficiary of the policy. So, although they may have 
experienced distress and inconvenience, they arent eligible complainants in respect 
of the complaint Ive been asked to decide. They didnt enter into a contract of 
insurance with Great Lakes. So, I dont have any power to direct it to pay Mr Ws 
family members any compensation for distress and inconvenience theyve personally 
experienced as a result of anything Great Lakes may have done wrong. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask the estate of Mr W to accept or reject my decision before 16 November 2023.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman