DRN-3829855
The complaint
A limited company, which I will call S, has complained about QBE UK Limiteds settlement of 
a claim for business interruption under its business insurance policy. 
Mr S, as a director of S, has brought the complaint on its behalf. 
What happened 
In September 2020, S made claim under the policy for its business interruption losses 
incurred as a result of restrictions imposed by the Government in response to the Covid-19 
pandemic.
QBE accepted the claim fell under the section of the policy that provides cover for 
prevention of access to the insured premises as a result of an emergency which is likely to 
endanger life. QBE paid S the maximum sum insured under this section of cover, which is 
£25,000. I understand this was offered in March 2021. 
However, S did not accept the settlement offered until 2022, when it agreed to it being paid 
on an interim basis. S thinks that it should have paid more in settlement of the claim. S also 
made a second claim under the policy that renewed in June 2020 and ran to June 2021, and 
which would have a new claim limit. 
QBE has accepted the second claim in principle and has asked for evidence of the losses 
incurred before it can progress it. As far as I am aware, QBE has not determined this claim 
yet.  
S says the total claim is for just over £160,000 and has asked that this be paid. It has made 
a number of points in support of its claim. I have considered everything S has said and have 
summarised the main points below: 
It was never made aware that there were any limits to the cover under this section of 
the policy.  
The policy also covers the occurrence of a notifiable disease, which carries a 
maximum indemnity limit of £50,000. Its claim should be met under this section of 
cover as well as the prevention of access section, which together would provide a 
sum insured of £75,000 for each policy year. 
It was decided by the Supreme Court in the FCA Covid-19 business interruption test 
case in the test case that Covid-19 should be listed as a notifiable disease and that 
its claim should therefore be covered under this section of cover. 
In addition, QBE should pay the sum of just over £10,000 towards the costs it 
incurred in making the business safe for employees to return and resume operations.
S also wants a decision on whether it was underinsured, as the value of the 
insurance never increased, even though the business profits had been increasing 
prior to the pandemic. 
One of our Investigators looked into the matter. He did not recommend the complaint be 
upheld, as he thought QBEs settlement was fair. 
S does not accept the Investigators assessment, so the matter has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst I am sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact Covid-19 
restrictions have had on S, I wont be upholding its complaint. My reasons are substantially 
the same as the Investigators. 
The type of cover S is claiming under is business interruption insurance. There are a range 
of business interruption insurance policies on the market covering different risks. For 
example, some only provide cover for basic things such as fire or flood, whilst others provide 
cover in more circumstances either as part of the policy or as optional add-ons. The starting 
point is to consider the specific policy S took out. 
Ss policy includes various extensions to the standard business interruption cover. Ive 
considered the two extensions that are potentially relevant to this claim below. 
The Disease extension 
Ss policy does include an extension to the business interruption section that provides cover 
where a disease has led to the premises being closed. But this is limited to providing cover 
in the event of certain diseases. 
The Disease, Infestation and Defective Sanitation extension to the business interruption 
section of Ss policy includes cover for losses caused by the occurrence of: 
Notifiable Human Infectious or Contagious Disease within a 1 mile radius 
However, this section of the policy defines Notifiable Human Infectious or Contagious 
Disease as: 
Acute Encephalitis, Acute Poliomyelitis, Anthrax, Chickenpox, Cholera, Diphtheria, 
Dysentery, Legionellosis, Legionnaires Disease, Leprosy, Leptospirosis, Malaria, 
Measles, Meningococcal Infection, Mumps, Opthalmia Neonatorum, Paratyphoid 
Fever, Plague, Rabies, Rubella, Scarlet Fever, Smallpox, Tetanus, Tuberculosis, 
Typhoid Fever, Viral Hepatitis, Whooping Cough or Yellow Fever. 
Having considered this term, Im not persuaded this section of the policy would have 
provided S with cover for the circumstances of its claim. This is because Covid-19 isnt one 
of the diseases listed in the definition. 
I dont think anything in the policy indicates that QBE intended to, or suggested they would, 
provide cover for all diseases. QBE deliberately chose to define the term above by reference 
to a static list of certain diseases. I dont think the list is indicative of the kind of diseases that 
are included, I think its an exhaustive list. There is nothing in the policy which implies that it 
provides cover for other diseases, including any new diseases which might emerge.
As Ive said above, a range of policies are available. And some provide cover for all 
notifiable diseases  a list of diseases updated by the Government. These policies might, depending on the circumstances, provide cover. But this is not the type of policy S had. I 
think the purpose and effect of the policy S had is to provide cover in the event of the 
diseases listed in the policy definition above.
So, the policy clearly only intended to cover certain diseases. And I dont think it can fairly 
and reasonably be read in a different way. Ss claim resulted from a disease that was not 
included in the list of covered diseases. As cover was not provided under this part of Ss 
policy for losses resulting from business interruption caused by Covid-19, I am satisfied 
QBEs decision to decline the claim under this section of cover was in line with the policy, 
and in all the circumstances of this case fair and reasonable. The sum insured limit under 
this section does not therefore apply to Ss claim.
The Government or Local Authority Action extension 
A further extension to the business interruption section of Ss policy is the Government or 
Local Authority Action extension. This provides cover for losses caused by: 
Prevention of access to The Premises due to the actions or advice of a government 
or local authority due to an emergency which is likely to endanger life or property. 
QBE has agreed that this covers Ss claim. 
The clause also says: 
The maximum we will pay under his clause is £25,000, or the Business Interruption 
Sum insured or limit shown in the schedule, whichever is the lower, in respect of the 
total of all losses during the period of insurance. 
It is not uncommon for some sections of cover to have set claim limits such as this. I do not 
consider this to be inherently unfair. It is also sufficiently clear and unambiguous in my 
opinion. I am therefore not persuaded it was unreasonable of QBE to rely on this term to limit 
the settlement paid. 
I do not therefore consider that QBE needs to make any further payment for the claim made 
under the June 2019-June 2020 policy. 
Second claim and additional costs
QBE has confirmed it will consider a claim under the policy year June 2020 to June 2021 
and says it has asked S for information to enable it to progress that claim. I would suggest S 
provides the information requested and if it is unhappy with QBEs response to that claim, it 
can ask us to consider that as a separate complaint. 
S has also recently said it incurred additional working costs in making its staff and customers 
safe when it was able to resume operations. As far as I can see this was not part of the initial 
claim and has not been considered by QBE. I cannot therefore make any finding on this as 
part of this decision. S can ask QBE to consider this as well.  
Mis-sale
S has also raised an issue about not knowing about this limit before making this claim and 
being underinsured. QBE did not sell the policy to S and was not therefore responsible for 
arranging the level of cover or for providing S with information about the terms of the policy. 
These issues would need to be addressed to the seller. Supreme Court judgment 
S has also referred to the Supreme Court judgment in the FCAs Business Interruption 
Insurance test case in support of its complaint. The Court considered various policies which 
covered businesses which were forced to close as a result of notifiable diseases but it didnt 
consider policies that required an occurrence of a disease from a static list of diseases.
Whether a claim is covered or not depends on the wording of the particular policy and as S 
hasnt shown that there was an occurrence of any of the diseases on the list covered by its 
policy, its claim is not covered under the diseases section of cover. 
I am not persuaded that the judgment impacts the outcome of Ss complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2023.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman