DRN-2967864
The complaint
Mrs N complains that BCR Legal Group Limiteds (BCR) provided a structural building 
warranty with her new home with an insurer who later collapsed and didnt provide a 
replacement warranty.
What happened
Mrs N bought a new home that came with a ten-year building warranty. This was provided by 
BCRs appointed representative, who I will refer to as C. The warranty was with an insurer I 
will refer to as A. In 2018, A was declared bankrupt and all its policies were terminated. 
C initially contacted Mrs N to say it was trying to find a suitable replacement. However it later 
wrote to her to say the new supplier had pulled out. It said Mrs N could seek a partial refund 
through the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS). However she only received 
around £150, and a new warranty would cost over £2,000. 
Mrs N made a complaint to C. She said it shouldnt have provided a policy with A as it was 
unrated. And she thought it should pay her the amount it would cost her to get a replacement 
warranty.
C didnt agree it should pay the difference. It said only the premiums were paid to A and the 
rest of the warranty cost was for services C carries out on behalf of A, such as underwriting 
risk management and required surveys.
Mrs N wasnt happy with this and brought her complaint to this service. She said she thought 
C was irresponsible for providing polices with A when it was unrated. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He said when the policy was 
bought the developer paid C to set up the arrangement and carry out all the necessary 
surveys, which is what it did. And as C wasnt responsible for the collapse of A, he didnt 
think it had done anything wrong. And it wasnt responsible for providing a new warranty in 
the circumstances. Further, he said he was satisfied that C carried out the required checks 
before providing policies with A and didnt think it could have reasonably foreseen that A 
would collapse. 
Mrs N didnt agree and asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our jurisdiction 
BCR says our service doesnt have the authority to look into this complaint, and others like 
it. It says C was working as an agent of A and therefore BCR wasnt responsible for Cs 
actions. Further it says surveys, inspections, risk assessments and the membership of Cs 
construction register werent regulated activities under The Financial Services and Markets 
Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 2001 (RAO), and our service cant consider them 
under our compulsory jurisdiction. 
Ive considered this and I am satisfied that I have jurisdiction. I find: 
(a) the activities are either part and parcel of the carrying on by C of the regulated activities 
of: (i) dealing in investments as agent (Article 21 of the RAO) 
or (ii) arranging deals in investments (Article 25 of the RAO); or 
(b) they constitute the carrying on of ancillary activities in relation to these regulated 
activities; and 
(c) the activities were ones for which BCR had accepted responsibility under the appointed 
representative agreement, such that it is responsible for Cs acts/omissions in relation to 
them. 
So I find I can consider this complaint about C carrying out these activities against BCR 
under our compulsory jurisdiction.
When considering a complaint, its my role to decide whether the business thats being 
complained about has got something wrong. And where I find it has, decide what it should 
do to put its customer back in the position they would have been in if it hadnt
Mr Ns complaint
When considering a complaint, its my role to decide whether the business thats being 
complained about has got something wrong. And where I find it has, decide what it should 
do to put its customer back in the position they would have been in if it hadnt.  
Here, Mrs N isnt happy that she has to pay over £2,000 for a new warranty when she only 
received a refund of around £150 for the one provided by C. And she thinks C shouldnt 
have provided a policy with A in the first place, as it was unrated. I first need to decide if C 
got something wrong. 
Its important to note that as C were acting as an appointed representative of BCR, BCR is 
responsible for Cs actions. So if I find C got something wrong, it is BCR that would be 
responsible for putting things right. Which is why this complaint is against BCR.
Mrs Ns complaint stems from the fact she has been left without a warranty for her new 
home. And therefore needs to buy a replacement which is costly. I can understand this will 
have been distressing for Mrs N to find out. And that she will suffer a financial loss because 
of it. However the collapse of A wasnt the fault of either C or BCR, so I cant hold them 
responsible for Mrs N no longer having a warranty. 
When the developer of Mrs Ns home arranged the warranty with C, it paid for the warranty 
and the services that C provides in order to arrange this. And Ive seen that C carried out 
these services in order for the warranty to be activated. So Im satisfied it met its obligations 
under the agreement. The only reason Mrs N now doesnt have the benefit of this warranty is 
because A has collapsed. And not because of the actions of C. So I cant find that C has 
done anything wrong here.I understand why Mrs N thinks C should provide a new warranty in the circumstances. And it 
would have been particularly disappointing because it said it was looking to do this, but then 
confirmed this wasnt possible. However C arent required to offer a new warranty if the 
insurer it has provided one with collapses. So while it attempted to do so as a goodwill 
gesture, this isnt something it is required to do and so it wouldnt be fair to ask it to provide a 
new warranty.
Mrs N has also said that she thinks C acted irresponsibly by providing polices with A, as it 
was unrated. Weve asked BCR to provide evidence of the due diligence carried out before 
placing policies with A. And while Im not able to share details of these checks due to the 
information being commercially sensitive, Im satisfied that it met the requirements laid out 
by the regulator. And as the warranty was arranged some time before A collapsed, I dont 
think C could have reasonably foreseen that this would happen when it arranged cover. So I 
dont think C acted unreasonably by providing the policy with A.
For these reasons, while I understand Mrs N has been left in a difficult situation and the 
matter will have caused her distress, this isnt due to the actions of C or BCR. So I wont ask 
BCR to do anything differently.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mrs Ns complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman