DRN-1997404
 
The complaint
Mr C complains that Hughes Insurance Services Limited (Hughes) cancelled his motor 
insurance policy without giving him sufficient opportunity to provide evidence of his No 
Claims Discount (NCD), and that Hughes did not return the whole of his premium.
What happened
In mid-August 2019, Mr C took out a motor insurance policy through Hughes. On the 
following day, Hughes sent Mr C the policy documents and a request for proof of his NCD.
On 26 August 2019, Hughes wrote to Mr C via post reminding him of the need to submit the 
required proof of his NCD. And on 4 September 2019, Hughes sent a similar letter again. 
On 12 September 2019, Hughes called the landline number provided by Mr C to request the 
evidence required, but there was no response and no facility to leave a message.
On 13 September 2019, Hughes wrote again to Mr C, this time by recorded delivery as well 
as by first class post. This letter repeated the previous requests for proof of Mr Cs NCD but 
also informed Mr C that his policy would be cancelled in 7 days should the evidence required 
not be provided. The letter also set out the charges which would be deducted from any 
premium repayment. 
On 20 September 2019, Hughes tried again to speak to Mr C. Hughes left a message with 
Mr Cs father, asking for Mr C to call back before 8pm. However, Mr C did not call back. 
At midnight on 20 September, Hughes cancelled Mr Cs policy.
Hughes then returned to Mr C the premium paid for the policy less a £60 administrative 
charge and a pro-rata amount relating to the first 30 days of the policy during which time 
insurance cover had been provided. Hughes has since returned the £60 fee to Mr C as a 
goodwill gesture.
Mr C complained to Hughes, saying that it should have tried harder to reach him prior to 
cancelling his insurance, ie by using his email address and mobile phone. Hughes 
responded that Mr C had not indicated a preference for contact by email so it had defaulted 
to contacting him by post, using the address provided. Hughes said it had sought extensively 
to notify Mr C what would happen should the proof of NCD not be provided and had 
cancelled the policy in line with the terms of the policy and the warnings it had given. 
Mr C also complained about the refund he received. Hughes said that it had calculated the 
repayment due to Mr C in line with the information provided to Mr C with the policy, and had 
even repaid to Mr C the cancellation fee.
Mr C was not happy with how Hughes had resolved his complaint, so he brought it to us.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What happened, as set out above, is not in dispute. Therefore, the questions for me are 
whether Hughes should have tried harder to reach Mr C before cancelling his policy, and 
whether it returned the right amount to him on cancellation.
Notice of cancellation
The terms of the policy taken out by Mr C state:
Where there is a valid reason for doing so we, or Hughes Insurance, may at any time cancel
this policy, explaining the reason, by giving seven days notice by recorded delivery to
you at your last known address. Examples of when we could cancel your policy include,
but are not limited to:
-where you do not provide documents that we, or Hughes Insurance, have requested 
(such as proof of No Claims Discount or copy Driving Licences) in the time period 
provided.
Hughes not only fulfilled its obligations as set out in the terms of the policy, it sent in total 
four requests for proof of Mr Cs NCD to his registered address. I recognise that Mr C would 
have preferred to have been contacted by email but, when the opportunity had been 
provided to request this method of communication, it had not been taken. Therefore, I do not 
believe Hughes acted unreasonably in continuing to use postal contact. 
There was no requirement for Hughes to contact Mr C by phone, however it tried to do so 
twice, including on the evening of cancellation. I recognise that Mr C would have preferred to 
have been contacted on his mobile phone but, given this phone communication was 
additional to the postal letters, and given Hughes did manage to speak to Mr Cs father on 
20 September to leave a message, I do not believe Hughes can reasonably be expected to 
have done more.
Therefore, I believe Hughes acted fairly in its efforts to reach Mr C to request the required 
proof of NCD and, in the absence of that proof, it appropriately cancelled the policy.
Return of premium
Hughes has returned to Mr C the cancellation fee it initially charged, so I will not consider 
this amount further.
Consistent with the policy, Hughes also deducted from its repayment to Mr C a pro-rata 
amount for the 30 days of insurance cover it had provided. This seems to me entirely fair as 
a proportionate fee should be paid for the service which was provided. The fact there was no 
claim on the policy in this period is irrelevant.
I recognise that Mr C would have been distressed to discover that his insurance was 
cancelled, and concerned over any implications for finding new insurance; however, I have 
seen nothing to indicate that Hughes acted unreasonably in either how it sought to contact 
Mr C to request proof of his NCD or in how it calculated the repayment due to Mr C of his 
premium. 
Therefore, I require no further action of Hughes.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 August 2020.
 
Andy Wright
Ombudsman