DRN-3640416
The complaint
Mr M and Mrs M complain that Nationwide Building Society is unfairly asking them to pay an 
early repayment charge (ERC). They ask that Nationwide confirms the matter is resolved 
and it wont chase them for payment.
What happened
Mr M and Mrs M had a joint mortgage. They separated and sold the property in April 2021. 
Their solicitor repaid the mortgage from the sale of the property. However, Nationwide hadnt 
included the ERC on the redemption statement.
Nationwide contacted the solicitor and asked for the ERC (nearly £5,000) to be paid. Mr M 
and Mrs M say this is unfair. They say made a financial settlement between them based on 
the money received from the sale. They say this was Nationwides error. And theyre 
unhappy about Nationwides poor communication.
Our investigator said Nationwide had made Mr M and Mrs M aware of the ERC on a number 
of occasions, including in the product offer and on a call in February 2021. He said Mr M and 
Mrs M had agreed to the ERC, and it was fair for Nationwide to ask them to pay it. Our 
investigator said the compensation paid by Nationwide (£100 each) for its error was fair.
Mr M and Mrs M didnt agree. Mr M said Nationwide made a big mistake. He said theyd 
separated and tried to get on with their lives apart, and this had stopped them. He said they 
had to deal with cost of living increases and the distress. Mr M said the whole time period of 
the complaint  including while it has been with us  should be taken into account. He said 
Nationwide should consider how this affects them. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M and Mrs M took out a fixed interest rate product in September 2019. This included an 
ERC which was payable if the mortgage was repaid before August 2022. The ERC was 
clearly set out in the product offer in the form of a table. Mr M and Mrs M agreed to this when 
they took out the product.
Mr M and Mrs M repaid the mortgage in April 2021. Nationwide was entitled under the 
mortgage terms and conditions to ask them to pay the ERC. 
Mr M and Mrs M say its unfair for Nationwide to ask them to pay the ERC. This is because it 
didnt include it on the redemption statement.
In deciding whether its fair to require Nationwide to waive the ERC, Ive taken the following 
into account.
The product offer set out the ERC and Mr M and Mrs M agreed to this when they took 
out the product. The product offer said the ERC payable if the mortgage was repaid 
between October 2020 and September 2021 was about £5,000.
Nationwide sent annual mortgage statements to Mr M and Mrs M which said an ERC 
would apply. The annual statement sent in January 2021 said there was an ERC of 
about £5,000. It said the ERC was payable until August 2022.
Mrs M called Nationwide in late February 2021 to ask if there was an ERC as they were 
selling the property. She said her statement showed there was a fee, but shed been told 
previously there wasnt one. Nationwide confirmed their three-year fixed rate didnt end 
until August 2022 and there was an ERC of about £5,000.
Nationwide issued a redemption statement on 14 April 2021 for redemption on 30 April 
2021. The redemption statement said the ERC was zero. 
Nationwide wrote to Mr M and Mrs Ms solicitors on 11 May 2021  less than two weeks 
after the mortgage was repaid. It said about £4,000 was needed to close the mortgage 
account (£1,000 having been paid).
Nationwide wrote to the solicitor on 25 May 2021 saying the ERC of about £5,000 was 
due (Mr M and Mrs M had recalled a direct debit of £1,000 since its previous letter). 
Nationwide wrote to the solicitor again on 2 June 2021 and 16 June 2021 saying it hadnt 
had a response. It said the ERC of about £5,000 remained unpaid and without this it 
couldnt close the account or remove the charge.
Mrs M made a complaint on 21 June 2021. Nationwide sent its final response on 23 July 
2021. It accepted it made an error and offered compensation. It didnt agree to waive the 
ERC.
There no doubt that Nationwide made an error when it didnt include the ERC in the 
redemption statement. But I dont think I can fairly find that Mr M and Mrs M werent aware of 
the ERC. Nationwide had told them about it on a number of occasions. 
I think it would have been reasonable for Mr M, Mrs M or their solicitor to question why the 
ERC wasnt included on the redemption statement. This conflicted with the information 
theyd been given previously. There was enough time for Mr M, Mrs M or their solicitor to 
query this before completion. 
Nationwide made Mr M and Mrs M aware of the error within two weeks, by writing to their 
solicitor. This was reasonable as it didnt have new addresses for Mr M and Mrs M at that 
time. Neither Mr M nor Mrs M has said, or provided evidence, that they were at that point 
unable to pay the ERC. I do appreciate that having to pay the ERC at this point was 
inconvenient, especially as Mr M and Mrs M were separating their finances. I think its right 
that Nationwide offered compensation for the inconvenience, and I think the amount it paid 
(£100 each) was fair. I dont think its fair and reasonable to require it to waive the ERC, 
which Nationwide had made Mr M and Mrs M aware of a number of times before they sold 
the property.
Mr M says they should be compensated for having to deal with this for months. I dont think 
thats fair. Nationwide contacted their solicitor less than two weeks after the mortgage was 
repaid. The matter could have been settled at that point or soon after.
Mrs M made a complaint in June 2021 and Nationwide responded in July 2021. While it was 
Mr M and Mrs Ms right to bring their complaint to us, it was inevitable this would mean the matter continuing for longer. This was something Mr M and Mrs M had to take into account 
when deciding to bring the complaint to us in November 2021.
Mr M says they dont have funds available to repay the ERC immediately. Nationwide says it 
doesnt have the facility to agree an arrangement for a mortgage with a shortfall and this 
would have to be agreed with a third party. Mr M will need to contact the third party with the 
aim of agreeing a suitable arrangement to pay the amount owed. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. This is because I find the compensation 
paid by Nationwide Building Society is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 October 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman