DRN-4287001
The complaint
Miss S complains about the quality of a car she has been financing through an agreement 
with Close Brothers Limited, trading as Close Brothers Motor Finance, who Ill call Close 
Brothers.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Close Brothers, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Ill explain 
why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss S acquired her car under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our 
service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation. It says that the car should have 
been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Close Brothers, who are also the 
supplier of the car, are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is 
satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory 
taking into account any description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant 
circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Miss S. The car here was about 
twelve years old and had completed about 41,000 miles. 
An old car with a high mileage will not be expected to be as good as a newer car with a low 
mileage, but it should still be fit for use on the road, in a condition that reflects its age and 
price.
The relevant legislation explains that if the fault occurs within the first six months we are to 
assume it was present at the point of supply, when Close Brothers were responsible for its 
quality, unless they can demonstrate otherwise. The VANOS unit was replaced on the car 
only about a month after Miss S took receipt of the vehicle. Ive not seen any evidence to 
suggest that unit wasnt failing when the car was supplied, and I think its more likely than not 
that that was the case.
The relevant legislation gives the business one opportunity to repair a fault that was 
developing at the point of supply, and I think Close Brothers therefore had that opportunity in 
November 2022. But the car failed again in December 2022; the breakdown service report 
explained that the VANOS unit was at fault.
I think that suggests its likely the November repair failed and in those circumstances, Miss S 
should have been allowed to reject the car.
The independent engineers report of March 2023 doesnt persuade me that the fault had 
been rectified or that the fault didnt exist. The engineer wasnt able to replicate the fault 
during his three mile test drive, but I think it would have been a surprise if he had been able 
to, as the fault was always an intermittent one, the test was over only three miles, and it was 
clear Miss S was able to complete some mileage ahead of each failure. I note the engineer 
explained We do consider that there may be an intermittent fault although this was not 
evident at the time of inspection. His report also explains that there were no fault codes 
stored at the time of his inspection, but I note that the vehicle health check completed later, 
in mid-April 2023, did identify a VANOS fault code and I think that suggests a further fault 
occurred after the independent inspection and before the health check. That supports my 
view that the VANOS problem hasnt been resolved and is intermittent.
On balance, Im persuaded this car has, therefore; been of unsatisfactory quality and that 
Close Brothers should allow Miss S to reject it.
Putting things right
Close Brothers should collect the car at no cost to Miss S and they should end the finance 
agreement.
Theyll need to refund any deposit Miss S has paid and, as shes been deprived of that 
money, they will need to add interest to that refund.
I think Miss Ss use of the car has been impaired. Shes completed about 1,300 miles but I 
think she expected to complete more as her insurance was taken out on the basis of 8,000 
annual miles. In those circumstances, I think it would be fair for Close Brothers to retain two 
monthly finance instalments, but they should refund any others that have been paid, with 
interest as Miss S has been deprived of that money.
Miss S has been inconvenienced by these issues. Shes had to call recovery services on a 
couple of occasions, and shes also had to escalate her complaint to this service when I 
think it could have been resolved earlier. Shes also been placed in potentially dangerous 
situations when the car cut out. In those circumstances Close Brothers should pay her £200 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience shes experienced.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Close Brothers Limited to:
Allow Miss S to reject the car and end the finance agreement.
Collect the car at no cost to Miss S.Refund any deposit that has been paid and add 8% simple interest* per year from the 
date of payment to the date of settlement.
Retain two monthly finance instalments but return any others that have been paid in 
respect of the loss of use Miss S has experienced. Add 8% simple interest* per year 
from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Pay Miss S £200 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience shes 
experienced.
Remove any adverse reports they may have made to Miss Ss credit file in relation to 
this issue.
*If HM Revenue & Customs requires the business to take off tax from this interest they must 
give the consumer a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if the consumer asks for 
one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 November 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman