DRN-4295791
The complaint
Miss B complained that Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 118 Money (Madison) 
irresponsibly granted her two personal loans (in February 2019 and March 2020) that she 
couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
In February 2019, Miss B took out a loan of £2,000 over a term of 24 months, with a monthly 
payment of £114.49. The loan was repaid in March 2020, when she took out a further loan of 
£2,632.43 over 24 months, with a monthly payment of £151.24. Part of this loan (£1,082.43) 
was used to repay the first loan, with £1,550 as additional borrowing.
In summary, Miss B told us that she had other loans and credit card debts when she took out 
the loans detailed above, and she was overcommitted. She said this affected her mental 
health.
Miss B complained to Madison, but it said that it had carried out appropriate checks before 
granting the loans, and told Miss B that it did not uphold her complaint. Miss B then brought 
her complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into it but didnt think it should be 
upheld. Miss B didnt agree, and asked for it to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website, and Ive taken this into account here.
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
In summary, before providing credit, lenders need to complete reasonable and proportionate 
affordability checks. There isnt a set list of checks required of a lender, but it needs to 
ensure the checks are proportionate when considering matters such as the type and amount 
of credit being provided, the size of the regular repayments, the total cost of the credit and 
the consumers circumstances. So Ive considered whether Madison completed reasonable 
and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss B would be able to make the repayments 
on each loan account in a sustainable way.
Miss B sent in copies of bank statements from the times around the loans being granted, 
along with a copy of her credit file. Madison sent in copies of the credit file information it 
used to make the lending decisions, and the loan agreements. 
I can see from Miss Bs bank statements that her monthly income in Feb 2019 was just over 
£1,450 and in March 2020 it was just over £1,775 (although I note that the application 
information from Madison shows £1,582 for each loan).
With regard to the first loan, Madison had identified as part of its checks that Miss B had 
credit card balances of £4,843, (and was near her limit) and a loan balance of £2,125. There 
was a default listed from what looks like a phone company, involving a balance of £173, but 
this dated from 2014. And apart from one late payment on a credit card, there was no other 
adverse information on her credit record. The purpose of this loan isnt stated on the 
application documents. One account had been opened in the preceding six months  this 
was a loan with another provider, also for £2,000. 
The application information shows no outgoings for rent, council tax and utilities (and this is 
consistent with the bank statements), so it looks as though Miss B was living with her 
mother. 
On the basis that Miss B was near her limit on her credit card balances, and the information 
also showed that she was generally making the minimum payments towards them, I think 
Madison ought reasonably to have made further enquiries about her income and outgoings, 
especially as she had recently taken a loan from another provider.
However, having looked at the bank statements Miss B sent in, I dont think Madison acted 
unfairly in granting the loan. I say this because the bank statements show the credit 
commitments that Madison had already identified, along with payments to Miss Bs mother, 
as would be expected if Miss B was living at home and contributing to household expenses. 
But I cant see a great deal by way of other commitments  there are relatively small 
payments to phone providers, but much of the other spending appears discretionary. So 
from what I can see, Im satisfied Miss B had enough disposable income to meet the loan 
repayments sustainably.
Miss B has mentioned that she was making payments to two debt collectors, and she used 
part of the loan to clear the remaining debts. Ive thought about what she said, and I can see 
payments of £10 and £5 on one of her statements, but neither the credit report she provided, 
nor the information from Madison, showed any debt problems at this time, apart from the 
default I mentioned earlier. Its possible the payments related to that, but otherwise I dont 
think Madison would reasonably have been aware of a commitment that did not appear on 
Miss Bs credit file. 
Miss B also mentioned borrowing from her mother. There are a number of payments to Miss 
Bs mother on her bank statements, as I noted above, but I cant see a pattern of payments 
that leads me to think Miss B was borrowing from her mother on a regular basis.
So taking everything into account, although I think Madison ought reasonably to have made 
further enquiries of Miss B before agreeing the loan, I dont think this wouldve affected its 
lending decision and I dont think Madison acted unfairly in granting the loan. 
Turning to the second loan, I again think that Madison should have made more detailed 
enquiries, for much the same reason as before. I can see Miss Bs unsecured lending had 
increased, and again she was near her limit on her credit cards and was making minimum 
payments.
However, Miss Bs income had increased, and looking at her bank statements she was 
generally in credit with a reasonable balance. Again, much of the spending appears 
discretionary, so as before, Im satisfied Miss B had enough disposable income, after 
allowing for her credit commitments, to meet the new loan repayments. 
In summary, although I think Madison should reasonably have made further enquiries before 
granting the two loans to Miss B, Im satisfied that the repayments were affordable and sustainable for her. So I dont consider that Madison acted unfairly in granting the loans to 
Miss B and therefore I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons stated above, I have decided not to uphold Miss Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 October 2023.
 
Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman