DRN-1934629
The complaint
Mr J has complained that his motor insurance provider Covea insurance plc (Covea) has 
unfairly declined a claim he made for the theft of his car.
What happened
Mr J told Covea his car was stolen some time between 22 September 2018 and
24 September 2018. He had been on a night out on 22 September 2018 and had left his car 
at the first venue he had visited. Mr J was feeling unwell on the 23 September 2018 so didnt 
attempt to collect his car until the following day when he realised it had been stolen.
Covea considered Mr Js claim but felt they needed more information before a decision could 
be made about paying it. Covea said there were discrepancies between what Mr J had told 
it, and what he had told the police.
Covea also suspected Mr J had two keys to his car but was only able to provide one.
Due to the findings made during Coveas investigation it had not paid Mr Js claim by the 
time he complained to this service.
Our investigator looked at Mr Js complaint and thought that there were only minor 
discrepancies in the information given to Covea and the police and that these could be 
explained, and he didnt think there was enough evidence to show Mr J had two keys for the 
car.
So, our investigator thought Mr Js complaint should be upheld. Covea disagreed and said it 
was arranging to speak to the garage that sold the car to Mr J so it could determine how 
many keys Mr J was given at the time.
Covea was given more time to carry out this task but explained it was unable to gain any 
further information as it was unable to gain the garage owners cooperation. Despite this 
Covea has still not paid Mr Js claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Covea has explained that its investigation into Mr Js claim brought up questions that needed 
to be answered before it would look to pay it.
number of keys
Covea say it spoke to BMW and when the car was originally sold two remote keys were 
provided. Mr J has explained that he bought the car second hand and only received one key. 
I dont think this is unusual, over the course of a cars life keys can be lost or broken and a 
replacement isnt always considered to be necessary.I understand that as part of Coveas investigation it would want to investigate this a bit 
further. Following the investigation of the key provided by Mr J, evidence showed that the 
key was last updated when the car mileage read 183072 and the MOT carried out 4 days 
before the theft recorded the mileage at 183142. So it would appear that there may have 
been a second key Mr J was using that had recorded the additional mileage, and that Mr J 
did have two keys after all.
However, Coveas own investigation also found that the key would update at every driving 
cycle which is defined as a distance travelled over 40km/h and further than 10km. 
Considering the short time between the MOT being carried out and the theft it is possible 
that a driving cycle was not completed and therefore Mr Js only key wasnt updated.
Covea took more time to investigate this aspect of the claim while Mr Js complaint has been 
with our service. It attempted to discuss the number of keys with the garage Mr J bought the 
car from, but Covea was unable to gain anything further to support Mr J having more than 
one key for the car.
Having taken everything into account I dont think Covea has shown Mr J had more than one 
key for his car when it was stolen.
Discrepancies in police report and description to Covea
It isnt uncommon, or unreasonable for an insurer to compare different reports of the same 
incident given by a customer, and to have concerns if the two dont match up.
Covea say Mr J told them he last saw his car around 11.30pm on the 22 September 2018, 
but that the police report says the car was stolen between 9.30pm on 22 September 2018 
and 5.30am on 24 September 2018.
I have considered both the police report and the description of the circumstances given by 
Mr J to Covea.
Mr J has told us that he parked his car on 22 September at 9.30pm at one venue and 
changed venue around 11.30pm. I dont think its unreasonable that Mr J would start a night 
out in one place and move to several places throughout the evening. I think these times 
could easily have become interchanged and in any event,  I dont think this information alone 
is enough to reject Mr Js claim.
Mr J has also told us that he felt like Covea was insinuating he had something to do with the 
theft of his car. I have looked at the information provided by both sides including the content 
of letters from Covea to Mr J and I can see why he would feel this way. Mr J has also been 
waiting a long time for his claim to be settled. I think Covea could have been more proactive 
in its investigation.
I dont think Covea has made a fair decision to reject Mr Js claim on the information it has 
gathered. The service it has provided to Mr J throughout the claim has also been at a 
standard lower than he should have expected.
Putting things right
With the above in mind I think Covea should pay Mr Js claim plus 8% simple interest from 
the date of the loss to the date the payment is made. Covea should also pay Mr J £500 
compensation for the trouble and upset it has caused
My final decisionI uphold this complaint and require Covea Insurance plc to:
pay the claim plus 8% simple interest from the date of the loss to the date the 
payment is made, and
pay Mr J £500 compensation for the trouble and upset it has caused
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 August 2020.
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman