DRN-3341767
The complaint
Mr V complains that QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) have unfairly declined his claim for damage to 
underground pipes and the septic tank at his property.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties and has been detailed by our 
investigator previously. So, Ill summarise the key points Ive focused on within my decision.
Mr V contacted QIC in October 2020, explaining that he was having to empty the 
septic tank with increased frequency. He thought this could be related to an incident 
in June 2020 where a delivery truck tyre accidentally damaged the manhole cover
QIC appointed their contractors to inspect the tank and their opinion was that the 
increased emptying was due to gradual deterioration which wasnt covered under 
the policy
Mr V asked his own contractor to inspect the tank and they found that there was 
damage to the inlet and gradual deterioration wasnt mentioned
QIC reviewed his contractors findings but they didnt change their view that the claim 
wasnt one that their policy provided cover for
Mr V feels the claim should be covered by his insurance policy and hes incurred 
costs at having to empty the tank much more regularly, as well as the cost hes paid 
to instruct his own contractor
Our investigator considered Mr Vs complaint but didnt uphold it. She felt that it 
hadnt been shown that the damage caused by the delivery truck had led to the 
issues found in the tank. Her view was that the increased emptying was due to 
issues with the soakaway and a missing T piece in the tank
Mr V didnt agree with our investigators findings. He said hed lived at the property 
for 13 years and the septic tank had only required emptying on an annual basis. 
Following the incident with the truck in June 2020, the tank has needed to be emptied 
monthly. Therefore, Mr V feels theres a connection between damage thats been 
caused by that event to the increased emptying of the tank, and he thinks this should 
be something that his insurer investigates and provides cover for. 
The complaint has therefore been passed to me, an ombudsman, to make a final decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For any insurance claim, the onus is on the policyholder to evidence that they have a claim 
that falls under the cover the policy provides. The only part of the policy that this claim could 
be considered under would be if the damage had been caused by accidental damage to 
main services. And the definition of accidental damage would mean that it would have to be 
a one-off event, at a specific time by a cause that could be identified.
There have been two professionals whove looked at the issues at Mr Vs property. One was 
appointed by QIC and one by Mr V, and Ive looked at both sets of findings. Neither say 
theres been accidental damage; in fact, Mr Vs own contractor clearly says they cant see 
any sign of it. Both contractors found an issue with the T-piece and the soakaway and 
having reviewed their findings, theyve arrived at similar conclusions on the issues within the 
tank.
I can appreciate that the timing of the truck incident and the increased need to empty the 
tank would lead Mr V to thinking that both are connected. However, Ive seen no evidence to 
support this, and so Im not persuaded that they are linked. Theres clearly an issue thats 
led to the tank needing to be emptied more regularly, but Im more inclined to say that this is 
due to the soakaway and T-Piece which both contractors say is the cause.
As I dont consider that the issue has been shown to be a result of an insured peril that the 
policy provides cover for, I wont be asking QIC to do anything further on this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2022.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman