DRN-1180157
 
complaint
Mr A complains that PayPal Europe Sarl & Cie, SCA (PayPal) should not have refunded 
his customer the cost of a mobile phone he sold, because it hasnt been returned to him.   
background
In October 2018, Mr A sold a mobile phone to a buyer based overseas. The buyer used 
PayPal to pay for the phone. Later the buyer claimed the phone was a fake. PayPal say it 
couldnt check this, so it told the buyer to return the phone to Mr A. 
PayPal says the buyer gave it valid tracking information to show the phone had been 
returned to Mr A. PayPal refunded the buyer their money. Mr A says he didn't receive the 
phone. Unhappy with what happened Mr A complained to PayPal. 
PayPal didnt uphold Mr As complaint. He then referred his complaint to this service. One of 
our investigators looked into this matter and concluded PayPal had acted reasonably based 
on the evidence available. 
Mr A was unhappy with this, so the matter has been passed to me to decide. 
To be clear this decision only deals with the complaint as explained above. Mr As other 
complaint against PayPal is being dealt with under a different reference number at this 
service. 
my findings 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. And having done so Ive decided not to 
uphold this complaint  Ill explain why. 
Mr A says that our investigator missed a crucial point when arriving at their conclusion. That 
is that the courier company claim to have delivered the package, but it hasnt provided any 
specific contact information about whom the phone was delivered to  and where it was 
delivered.   
Mr A has said that he finds it absurd that such an expensive item isnt tracked or signed for 
as evidence it has been delivered. Hes also added that he was the only one working in the 
office, and that the courier knows him personally. 
In its submissions PayPal says it has done what it should, based on its terms and conditions. 
Its not entirely clear if PayPal is relying on what the terms say about proof something has 
been delivered in relation to this complaint. Notwithstanding that Ill consider what they say:  
11.9 What is Proof of Delivery?Proof of Delivery for tangible items means online documentation from a postal company that 
includes all of the following: 
a.A status of delivered (or equivalent) and the date of delivery.
b.The recipients address, showing at least the city/country or postcode (or 
international equivalent). 
 
PayPal has given me a copy of the couriers postage document  its been split down the 
middle into two sections. The left-hand side relates to the sender and I can see the senders 
name and address here. At the bottom of this section I can see a date and time has been 
handwritten into some boxes  it says 16/11/2018 and 11:24. There are two signatures in 
boxes adjacent to this.  And next to this there is a stamp made by the courier.
The right-hand side of this courier note relates to the receiver and I can see the name of the 
business Mr A says he owns a franchise for. I also note the address matches that which 
Mr A has given us for his complaint correspondence. There are then some blank boxes 
below this. Its not possible to read the wording in these boxes. It would have been useful if 
the courier note required signatures here to show the parcel was delivered and received. 
The corresponding boxes on the other side  senders information  have signatures. But it 
does not, and PayPal isnt responsible for the format of the courier note.
So our investigator asked PayPal to give us any information it has that would show the 
phone  or more accurately the package  was sent and delivered from the buyer to Mr A. 
PayPal gave us details it had kept from the couriers website. 
The first entry on here shows that the parcel was received from the sender on 16.11.2018 
at 11:24:01. This information matches with whats written on the senders side of the 
couriers postage document as mentioned above. I note that it also references the sending 
city which also matches the postage document too. Because of this Im satisfied this 
information relates to Mr As package.  
The website information then itemises several processes which includes when it was in an 
overseas sorting office, when it was sent to the destination country, when it entered the UK, 
and when it was sent for dispatch. It then says that the package is waiting for the addressee 
at the place of delivery and that it was accepted by the recipient in his home town on 
28 November 2018.   
Given the address on the courier delivery document is the correct address for Mr A, and 
having carefully reviewed the couriers website information which Ive detailed above, Im 
persuaded on balance, that the package was delivered and received at Mr As designated 
address. 
Mr A has said that he was the only one working in the office. Of course I cant be sure Mr A 
personally took custody of the parcel. But from everything Ive seen, Im satisfied PayPal has 
acted fairly and reasonably in these circumstances when concluding theres enough 
information to say the phone had been returned, and therefore delivered, to Mr A.   
Finally, Mr A has referred to conversations hes had with the online sales platform that 
suggest the buyer is a known fraudster. However, I dont think it would have been 
reasonable for PayPal to accept his claim based on this alone, given the evidence it 
obtained from the courier
my final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 February 2020. 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman