DRN-2126363
The complaint
Mrs and Mr E complain that they were mis-sold a reviewable whole of life policy by Scottish 
Friendly Assurance Society Limited (Scottish Friendly). Specifically, theyre unhappy the 
premiums for their joint life assurance policy needs to be increased to maintain the same 
level of cover.
Mrs and Mr E were sold their policy by Manulife Financial who were subsequently purchased 
by Canada Life. Their policy was then transferred to Scottish Friendly. All references to 
Scottish Friendly will include Canada Life and Manulife Financial.
What happened
Mrs and Mr E took out a joint whole of life policy in early 1994 with cover of £20,000 costing 
£20 a month. The policy was reviewable after the first ten years and then, every five years 
until the eldest party reached the age 75 when the review period became every year. 
The policy had a number of reviews that didn't require changes but at the end of 2013, the 
results of a review meant Mrs and Mr E needed to either increase their premiums to £41, or 
accept reduced cover of £12,010. As this review wasnt responded to, the cover reduced 
with the premiums remaining at £20 each month. Another review happened at the end of 
2018. This time, the review resulted in the cover being reduced to £7,868 if premiums 
remained the same. Alternatively, Mrs and Mr E could choose to increase their monthly 
premiums to £34 and maintain cover of £12,010.
Mrs and Mr E complained to Scottish Friendly saying they werent made aware by the 
adviser at the time of sale, that the premiums and/ or the sum assured could change.
Scottish Friendly rejected the complaint saying Mrs and Mr E were told about the reviewable 
nature of the policy at the time of sale. It pointed to a number of documents that refers to this 
including a Product Information booklet and Policy Provisions, which it said Mrs and Mr E 
wouldve been provided with at the time of sale. 
Unhappy with Scottish Friendlys response, Mrs and Mr E referred the matter to our service.
Our investigator didn't recommend that the complaint be upheld. In brief, she noted the 
reviewable nature of the policy was made clear in the point of sale documents. So she was 
satisfied Scottish Friendly hadn't done anything wrong and she would not be asking it to pay 
back the premiums Mrs and Mr E had paid. 
Mrs and Mr E disagreed with the investigators view. So they asked for the matter to be 
passed to an ombudsman for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked at everything, Im not upholding the complaint. Before I explain my reasoning, 
I'll mention that where there's a dispute about whats happened, I've based my decision on 
what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light of the evidence.
To start with, its worth setting out how reviewable whole of life policies work. This assurance 
is not limited to a specific period like term assurance and it pays the sum assured in the 
event of a death claim. Policy premiums go into a fund thats invested and used to cover the 
cost of claims. When the policy is set up, the amount payable on death and the premiums 
are calculated according to a number of assumptions  for instance, about the cost of life 
cover (which increases as you get older), the investment performance of the fund and the 
number of other death claims that have been paid out of the fund. The hope is the 
investment element will grow enough to fund the shortfall when the policy reaches the point 
that the cost of cover becomes greater than the premium. 
The early reviews for Mrs and Mr Es policy in late 2003 and 2008 showed the level of 
premiums of £20 a month, was sufficient to maintain the life cover to the next review date. 
But the review that happened at the end of 2013, showed the cost of life cover had 
increased. This meant Mrs and Mr E would need to increase their monthly premiums or 
accept a reduced amount of cover. Similarly, the review that happened at the end of 2018, 
also required an increase in premiums to maintain the relevant level of cover. 
Mrs and Mr E said they werent told about the reviewable nature of the policies. But I see the 
Product Information document, that wouldve been given to them at the time of sale, makes 
reference to the reviewable nature of the policy. Notably, under the heading plan reviews it 
said: the Plan is reviewed periodically by [Scottish Friendly] to determine whether your 
regular premiums will be sufficient to continue to support the same sum insured. It goes on 
to say that if the premiums werent sufficient to maintain the same level of cover, Mrs and 
Mr E could choose to increase your premium or decide to continue paying at the same 
level and the sum insured will be reduced. 
I also see a similar explanation about the reviewable nature of the policy and when these 
reviews were due to happen, was given in the Policy Provisions booklet under the section 
Policy Reviews. Further reference was made in the Policy Schedule where it noted the first 
policy review date was 7 February 2004. Similarly, the review letter in 2008 said: NB: Our 
reviews assume a future annual growth rate of 6.00%. If the future fund growth experience is 
less that (sic) 6.00% your premium may not be sufficient to maintain your life cover and may 
have to be increased at a future review or you may be required to reduce your life cover. In 
my view, this reinforced what Mrs and Mr E had already been told at the point of sale.
So while I understand Mrs and Mr Es frustration with being told about the increase in 
premiums to maintain the same level of cover, I think the point of sale documents made it 
reasonably clear to them that such a change was a possibility.
Mrs and Mr E say the adviser told them the sum assured and/ or premiums were guaranteed 
and that they didnt read the point of sale documents but rather, relied on what they had 
been told by the adviser. I appreciate what Mrs and Mr E are saying here. But in weighing up 
the evidence, Ill need to give more weight to evidence from the time of advice than more 
recent recollections. And given the time thats passed and what the documents from the 
actual time of the advice say, on balance, I cant fairly say the adviser did say anything that 
was different to what was outlined to Mrs and Mr E in these documents.
I know Mrs and Mr E think the increase in premiums may be the result of the transfer of the 
policy to Scottish Friendly from Canada Life. But the only thing thats changed as a result of 
this transfer, is who administers the policy. As Ive explained, the way the policy works is the 
cost of cover can increase over time. This is a result of, for example, the policyholder getting older and/ or poor investment performance and/ or the number of other death claims that 
have been paid out of the fund. And Im satisfied, that its these events which will have 
impacted on the cost of Mrs and Mr Es life cover.
So for all these reasons, whilst I appreciate Mrs and Mr E will be disappointed with this 
outcome, I'm not upholding the complaint.
 
My final decision
I don't uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E and Mr E to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 October 2020.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman