DRN-3950776
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) declined a claim on an income
protection policy. 
What happened
Mr B was a partner in a Law firm and had an income protection policy through his 
partnership. The policy was underwritten by Aviva.
He has a history of suffering from chronic depression. He was referred to the mental health
team in 2016. And the psychiatry team in 2017 where his medication was changed, and he
attended psychotherapy sessions. In May 2019 Mr B consulted his doctor again and his
medication was increased.
In June 2020 Mr B begun to feel too unwell to work and his doctor made an urgent referral to
the mental health team. He was advised by the doctor to significantly increase his dose of
medication and attend counselling.
Due to the deterioration in M Bs mental health, he agreed with the other partner in his firm,
that he needed to permanently step away from the partnership due to serious ill health. But
he couldnt exit the business until 31 October 2020 because he was required to give the firm
notice before leaving  and this was non negotiable. So Mr B felt he was unable to stop work 
immediately, so he stayed at work on reduced responsibilities from June until October, when 
his notice period ended. 
In January 2021 Mr B made a claim on his policy for his absence from 1 November 2020. 
Aviva said it needed to be made by the partnership as they were the policy holder, so the 
remaining partner spoke to Aviva in support of Mr Bs claim. He confirmed Mr Bs last day as 
partner was 31 October 2020, and that hed had to step away due to serious ill health.
The policy was due for renewal on 1 February 2021 so the remaining partner also confirmed 
to Aviva he didnt intend to renew the policy at that stage, but he didnt think this would affect 
Mr Bs claim. He asked Aviva to tell him if this wasnt the case.
Aviva went on to decline the claim. They said cover is only available for an insured person
while they were still employed in providing their services to the business and Mr B ceased to
be an insured person from the date he left the business on 31 October 2020. They also said,
even if there was cover in place, they didnt think there was enough medical evidence to
support he was unable to work.
Mr B disagreed. He said the policy was still in force at the time of his claim and there is no
provision within the terms of the policy which requires him to still be a partner at the
time of the claim - the policy only requires the sickness to be contracted during
the period for which the premium has been paid. He explained there was a severe 
deterioration in his symptoms which is what caused the urgent referral to the Mental Health 
Unit, and he referred to the significant increase in his medication.
The matter was referred to this service. Our investigator looked into what had happened and
didnt think Aviva had acted unfairly. Mr B didnt agree and requested an ombudsman review 
the matter, so the case was passed to me to decide. I asked the investigator to obtain some 
further information and Aviva confirmed:
The policy wording shown in the 1975 policy document here has never been 
updated.
'Insured Person' isnt defined there isnt a definitions section in the policy
Mr Bs premiums were paid in full up to 31 January 2021. The scheme cancelled 
from this date because the firm didnt renew.
I issued a provisional decision explaining I was intending to uphold this complaint. In 
summary I said:
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say Aviva has a responsibility to handle
claims promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Is Mr B an insured person?
Aviva has said this is an employee benefit, so the insured person leaving the firm means
theres no cover from the time they left. Ive thought carefully about this, but taking
everything into account, Im not persuaded this is a fair and reasonable way to approach the 
circumstances of this specific claim.
The policy says:
The Insurer provides insurance in respect of sickness of Insured Persons contracted and
declaring itself during the period for which the Insured has paid the insurer the premium.
Mr Bs premiums were paid up until 31 January 2021, so Im satisfied the insured had paid 
the insurer the premium at the time of Mr Bs claim in November 2020. 
I dont think the policy term here is clear that a customer isnt eligible to claim if they leave 
the partnership. As an Insured Person isnt defined and there is a lack of clarity in this 
policy term, I think its fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case for it to be 
interpreted in the consumers favour. 
I say that because Im persuaded the lack of clarity has caused a detriment to Mr B - if hed 
realised that he couldnt claim if he stopped being a partner due to his ill heath, then I think 
its most likely he wouldve acted differently and not ended his partnership. I think Mr B 
wouldve gone off work due to ill health which would mean hed have got the benefit of cover 
until 31 January 2021 when Aviva has confirmed his premiums were paid up until. Mr B 
wouldnt have a valid claim beyond that date as the policy wasnt renewed.
So I dont think it was fair for Aviva to say Mr B wasnt eligible to claim in November 2020. 
The medical evidence
This policy provides cover for total disablement of any of the Insured Persons from carrying
out the duties pertaining to normal Occupation.
Aviva says this means, for a claim to be accepted they would need to receive evidence
which supports Mr B as being unfit to carry out the duties of his normal occupation
throughout the deferred period and beyond.
I think its important to note Mr B has a history of suffering from severe depression. Althoughhis condition has been managed over the years and he hasnt needed to make a previous
claim, its clear he has suffered from repeated ups and downs over the years. Im persuaded
by the available medical evidence, and Mr Bs overall mental health journey, that in 2020 his
condition peaked to the point where he was no longer able to continue working due to his
serious ill health.
Looking closely at the relevant period around the claim, it seems Mr Bs condition started to
deteriorate from May 2019 when he consulted his doctor about his mental health and his
medication was increased. By June 2020 his health had deteriorated so much that it was
agreed with the other partner that he needed to permanently step away from the partnership
because of his health.
This is supported by the medical evidence which shows on 10 June Mr Bs doctor made an
urgent referral to the mental health team following a lengthy telephone where Mr B said he
was having thoughts of life not being worth living. He has days that he cant function and he
experiences chronic fatigue.
I can see Mr B was also advised in June to significantly increase his dose of medication and
attend further counselling. And in September 2020, Mr Bs work partner contacted his doctor 
again to raise further concerns about Mr Bs mental health. So Im satisfied Mr Bs health
continued to deteriorate during this time.
I note that Mr B did carry out reduced duties between June and October 2020, but this was
during a non-negotiable notice period, and its been confirmed he wasnt carrying out the
normal duties of his occupation during this time.
Taking the above as a whole, especially Mr Bs history of suffering severe depression, and
the mental health services available during this period of the Covid-19 pandemic, Im
persuaded Mr B provided enough evidence to show from June 2020 he was unfit to carry out
the duties of his stressful profession as a partner in a law firm. 
As such, I think Aviva unfairly declined Mr Bs claim. And based on the evidence set out 
above, it would be fair and reasonable for the deferred period to run from Mr Bs visit to his 
GP on 10 June.
Section 8 of the policy
Aviva has made several references to the section 8 of the policy which states:
Leaving service of insured
In the event of an Insured Person leaving the Insured's service for any reason other than
dismissal for fraud or misconduct the Company undertakes to issue to the Insured Person a
policy providing the same benefits as hereunder subject to
(a) the new occupation not being of a different character from that in which he was
previously engaged
(b) payment of the premium required
(c) the new policy being effected within thirty days of leaving the Insured's service
I agree with Mr B that its unreasonable for Aviva to rely on this part of the policy for the
circumstances of his claim. Arguably, in my mind, this section of the policy suggests cover 
can continue even after you leave employment, if premiums continue to be paid. But in any 
event, this clause isnt relevant as Mr B isnt continuing to work for a different company. And 
given the lack of clarity on cover ending when the insured leaves the company, I dont think it 
was fair for Aviva to rely on this clause to decline Mr Bs claim. In summary, I didnt think the policy made it clear that customers arent eligible to claim if 
they leave the partnership. And as Mr Bs premiums had been paid until January 2021, I 
thought his claim in November 2020 was valid.  I was also persuaded Mr B provided enough 
evidence to show from June 2020 he was too unwell to carry out the duties of his stressful 
profession as a partner in a law firm. 
So I explained I intended to uphold the complaint and ask Aviva to put things right by running 
the deferred period from 10 June 2020 and paying the benefit owed up until cover
ends on 31 January 2021. 8% simple interest should be added per annum from
the date that the payments should have been made, up to the date that the claim is
settled.
Responses to my provisional decision 
Aviva didnt agree with my provisional decision and made a number of further points. In 
summary they said:
Mr B raised his claim from 1 November 2020, so they dont agree Mr B was eligible 
for cover under the policy as he left the company on 31 October 2020. 
In any event, even if they were to accept cover was in place on 1 November, the 26-
week deferred period means benefit wouldnt be due until 2 May 2021, which is after 
the policy lapsed, so there would be no claim payable. 
They had concerns that Id considered an earlier date of incapacity when Mr B hadnt 
raised this, and they hadnt had the chance to consider it. They said they would need 
to be given the opportunity to assess this earlier period themselves, and make a 
decision based on the evidence. 
Mr B said:
He was unhappy Id said he was only entitled to payment under the policy up until 
31st January 2021. He said the policy terms dont place any limit on the period of 
payment of benefit other than turning 65 years old or retirement age.
His former partner didnt renew the policy on the basis it wouldnt impact his claim - 
and they asked Aviva to advise if that wasnt the case. He said if hed have thought 
that benefit under the policy might cease without renewal, he wouldve asked for the 
policy to continue and pay privately. 
Ive agreed that there is no requirement under the policy for continuing partnership in 
the firm for there to be cover. He made a valid claim on the policy whilst it was in 
place so he can see no justification for payment of benefit being limited to the period 
for which a premium was paid.
There was another former partner in the firm who was forced to retire due to physical 
ill health quite a number of years ago and theyve not had an issue with receiving 
benefit as a result of them ceasing to be an insured person on the policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Ive taken into account the further detailed submissions from both parties and carefully 
reconsidered all the relevant evidence. However, theyve not changed my thoughts about the 
outcome of this complaint for the reasons Ill go on to explain.
I think its important to note that the policy in question is from 1975 and the terms and 
conditions havent been updated, so they dont include the detail and clarity one 
would expect over 40 years later. Mr Bs complaint turns on the interpretation of the 
following definition of cover: 
The Insurer provides insurance in respect of sickness of Insured Persons contracted and
declaring itself during the period for which the Insured has paid the insurer the premium.
The crucial point here is that Insured Person' isnt defined and there is no eligibility 
criteria set out in the policy. So I dont think the policy is clear that benefit will end if 
someone leaves the partnership. If it was, I think its most likely Mr B wouldve acted 
differently and gone off with ill health rather than ending his partnership. On that 
basis, Im persuaded the lack of clarity has caused a detriment to Mr B and my 
position remains that its fair for the lack of clarity in the policy to be interpreted in the 
consumers favour.  
As Mr Bs premiums had been paid until Jan 2021, I think it was unreasonable Aviva 
said he wasnt eligible to submit a claim in November 2020.
Aviva raised concerns that Id considered an earlier date of incapacity when Mr B 
hadnt raised this, and they hadnt had the chance to consider it. However, my 
inquisitorial remit allows me to consider all the evidence in the round. And having 
done so I was persuaded Aviva shouldve concluded Mr B was unfit to carry out the 
duties of his occupation as a partner from June 2020. 
My provisional decision explained that I think it would be fair and reasonable for the 
26 week deferred period to run from Mr Bs visit to his GP on 10 June 2020 because 
the medical notes show his GP made an urgent referral to the mental health team 
following concerns around suicidal thoughts. Mr B was advised to significantly 
increase his medication and attend further therapy. And his health had deteriorated 
so much by this point, it was agreed that he needed to permanently step away from 
the partnership because of his serious ill health.
Aviva said they would need to be given the opportunity to assess this earlier period 
themselves, and make a decision based on the evidence. But Im satisfied theyve 
already had the opportunity to review the evidence I relied upon as it was included in 
the medical notes they had during the claim
I understand Mr B is disappointed I think hes only entitled to payment under the 
policy up until 31st January 2021. But I dont think its unreasonable for Aviva to only 
provide cover for the period premiums had been paid. 
Mr B argues that his former partner didnt renew the policy on the basis it wouldnt 
impact his claim - and they asked Aviva to advise if that wasnt the case. But even if 
Aviva should have done more here, the evidence shows the partner decided not to 
renew the policy due to his age and because they were unable to add a new partner 
onto the policy. So Im not persuaded the policy would have been renewed even if 
theyd known Mr B wouldnt be able to claim. Mr B also said if hed known benefit 
under the policy might cease without renewal, he wouldve asked for the policy to 
continue and pay privately. But I havent seen anything to show this was an option under the policy because he wasnt going on to follow any other occupation.
Mr B said Ive agreed that there is no requirement under the policy for continuing 
partnership in the firm for there to be cover. For clarity, my decision is that I dont 
think the policy is clear that you arent eligible to claim if you leave a partnership. And 
as Mr Bs premiums had been paid until January 2021, I think his claim in November 
2020 was valid. Mr Bs premiums werent paid past 31 January 2021, so my position 
remains that he doesnt have a valid claim from this point.
 
I note Mr B has made reference to the continuation of a colleagues claim. But I cant 
comment or take into account someone elses claim. My role is to decide if Aviva 
treated Mr B fairly based on his individual circumstances. And for the reasons set out 
above, I dont think they fairly applied the policy terms here. 
Putting things right
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited need to put things right by:
Accepting Mr Bs claim. The deferred period should run from 10 June 2020 and then 
benefit paid up until cover ended on 31 January 2021. 
8% simple interest should be added per annum from the date payments should have 
been made, up to the date the claim is settled.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold this complaint against Aviva Life & Pensions UK 
Limited and direct them to put things right in the way Ive outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2023.
 
Georgina Gill
Ombudsman