DRN-4031863
The complaint
Miss O has complained that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) removed her overdraft 
and downgraded her account to a basic account - without telling her - when it was informed 
that she had entered into an individual voluntary arrangement (IVA).
What happened
RBS says that it had followed the procedures it had in place when it is informed that an 
account holder has entered into an IVA. But it did acknowledge that it couldve handled 
Miss Os calls better and so paid Miss O £100 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed everything that Miss O and RBS have provided, I dont think RBS needs to 
do anything more than what it has already done to put matters right in this case.
I understand that Miss O entered into an IVA. RBS records indicate that it was informed of 
the IVA on 12 April 2022. And as per its procedures, it then removed the arranged overdraft 
facility on Miss Os account and downgraded the account to a basic account on 26 April 
2022. RBS says that it sent Miss O a letter to inform her of the actions that it had taken. 
Overall, it seems to be the case that Miss O was not aware that this would happen to her 
account. However, this is a fairly standard procedure in such circumstances. And it wouldve 
been up to the Insolvency practitioner to explain to Miss O what would likely happen to her 
account once RBS had been informed about the IVA. Therefore, I cant reasonably hold RBS 
responsible if this didnt happen.
Having said that, I do think that it wouldve been reasonable for RBS to have given Miss O 
some notice that her account was being downgraded to a basic account. But from what I 
understand, RBS only issued a letter to Miss O on the day that it downgraded her account. 
Miss O says that when RBS removed the overdraft, it removed all available funds to pay off 
the overdraft. Miss O says that RBS should repay her money. However, having looked at 
Miss Os bank statements, I can see that Miss O paid in £200.70 on 26 April 2022. This 
effectively repaid the overdrawn balance that had built up on the account. Therefore, I cant 
say that RBS was being unreasonable by choosing to remove the overdraft at that point, 
given that it was put back into a credit balance on that day (although subsequent spending 
on the same day later made the account overdrawn again). Nor can I reasonably ask RBS to 
pay this money back to Miss O  given that it was money that was rightfully owed to RBS by 
Miss O. 
Miss O has said that she experienced difficulties trying to speak to RBS when further 
attempted payments were declined. Miss O says that she spoke to a number of different 
people and says that members of RBS staff hung up on her. 
Overall, I think that RBSs payment of £100 is reasonable redress for not giving Miss O 
notice that her account was being changed and for the inconvenience Miss O experienced 
when attempting to speak to RBS about her account. As such, I dont think RBS needs to do 
anything more in relation to this complaint.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, Im unable to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 May 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman