DRN-3799572
The complaint
Mr C complains on behalf of Miss H that her home emergency insurer, Astrenska Insurance 
Limited, operating via its handler C, took 19 hours to send an engineer while her home was 
being damaged by a leak. Ive just referred to Miss H in this decision.
What happened
On 3 December 2021 Miss H saw water coming through her ceiling from a leaking radiator. 
She called C at 2.30pm who said it would send an engineer. She called again at 10pm and 
at 1am was told someone would come in the morning. Miss H called back at 9am and was 
told to deal with the problem herself and they'd send someone out on 6 December 2021. 
Miss H called a friend who managed to stop the leak. The engineer came on 6 December 
and said there's nothing more to do and took measurements of the radiator. Miss H said she 
called C many times to speak to a manager, but no one got back to her. The following day C 
called her to say the measurements were incorrect, and needed to be redone.
Miss H said she eventually spoke to a manager who said a replacement radiator wasn't 
covered by the policy, but would provide one as it had been ordered. But Miss H said the 
first engineer was late and then the new radiator didnt work, and she was told a new pump 
was needed. C said it wouldn't replace the pump unless the system was power flushed. 
Miss H said she wanted the damage from the leaks repaired (wallpaper, and plaster) and a 
different firm to check the pump. C offered £50, but she was unhappy as this didn't even pay 
for the wallpaper. In March 2022 C offered compensation of £400 and apologised to Miss H. 
Miss H asked C to reconsider the compensation and if a power flush was necessary. She 
said C hadnt sent her recordings of all her calls and shouldnt have taken photos and video 
recordings of the damage without her permission. Miss H referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He said C communicated poorly 
and didnt provide an engineer. But as there would have been some damage in any event, 
and the radiator replacement wasnt covered by the policy the compensation was fair. The 
investigator said it was reasonable for C to have taken video recordings inside Miss Hs 
home to have evidence of damage. He said the policy doesnt cover a power flush so it was 
fair for C to ask Miss H to have this done before replacing the faulty pump, but should pay 
towards it if the problem isnt resolved following replacement of the pump. 
Miss H disagreed that C had resolved her complaint fairly. She said the compensation C 
offered was a goodwill gesture rather than towards the damage to her home. She said C 
tried to cancel the replacement of the radiator and were making the best out of the situation 
by replacing it. She thought payment of a further £150 compensation would be fair. The 
investigator disagreed and Miss H requested an ombudsman review her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss H said C offered the £400 compensation for her inconvenience rather than for the 
damage caused to her home through its failure to send an engineer. Miss Hs home 
emergency policy with Astrenska states that in the event of an incident C will stop the 
emergency from causing further damage, but it doesnt cover repair of the damage itself. 
Ive looked carefully at what happened to Miss H and her home to see if the compensation is 
fair in respect of her distress and inconvenience as well as the damage caused, as this may 
have been consequential to the delay in Cs response.
To begin with I think that C taking three days to provide an engineer whilst promising Miss H 
a visit during her calls was very poor service. We would expect a responder to arrive within 
the first 24-48 hours, for an emergency policy. C also provided very poor communications 
during the initial period and about the replacement radiator. 
I think it was unfair of C to put Miss H in the position where she needed to arrange for the 
leak to be stopped. And I can understand the worry she felt with water coming through her 
ceiling with no support from an engineer. 
All parties agree that there would have been some damage from the leak in any event, but 
also that this would have been exacerbated by Cs delayed response. Fortunately Miss H 
was able to get a friend to attend and deal with the leak so that it wouldnt get any worse and 
there does not appear to have been very much damage to Miss Hs home.
 
C told Miss H that replacement of her radiator wasnt covered under the policy. This appears 
to be correct, though once C agreed to honour the commitment given to Miss H by its 
engineer it needed to provide an effective service. Miss H said this was the best thing C 
could do about its mistake. I agree, and Ive seen there was a further delay involved, but as it 
was over and above what C was required to do by the policy its fair to consider the new 
radiator as part of the redress for the poor service Miss H received. 
I take Miss Hs point that the £400 and new radiator was compensation for her 
inconvenience rather than for the repairs, but I think it represents fair recompense for both 
her experience and modest increase in damage to her home. 
Miss H said she had no issues with the heating prior to the contractors work and questioned 
the need for a power flush. We rely on expert opinion on technical issues and an engineer 
stated there was sludge built up in the system. Miss H said she had seen dirty water, and 
this was evident from the video C obtained. I think this was an indication that the system 
needed flushing through. This a fairly common problem, particularly with an older system 
and so I see no reason why C shouldnt have recommended a power flush. 
Payment for a power flush isnt covered by Miss Hs policy. I agree with the investigator that 
if Miss H pays for a power flush and the pump is replaced, but the heating isnt fixed, then C 
should still fix the heating and pay for the power flush.
I think it was helpful for C to obtain video and photos of the damage and we would expect an 
insurer to need this in consideration of a claim.
Having considered all the issues associated with this complaint Im afraid I have to 
disappoint Miss H as I dont feel further compensation is justified. I think the compensation 
offered and the replacement radiator are about the right reflection of the impact the poor 
service had upon her and the damage to her home, and I dont think it would be fair to 
require Astrenska to pay any more. Im pleased C has acknowledged its failings and apologised to Miss H for its delays and poor 
service. I recommend that Miss H accepts the offer of £400 compensation. However, if she 
doesnt and rejects this decision, she isnt bound by my findings and can take up her 
complaint by other means outside of our service.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given above it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 February 2023.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman