DRN-3989633
The complaint
Mrs S is unhappy that Klarna Bank AB (publ) Klarna defaulted her fixed sum loan account 
and passed the outstanding balance to a debt collector.
What happened
Mrs S took out a 39-month fixed sum loan with Klarna on 10 October 2020. The loan was for 
£2,745. Mrs S was required to make 38 monthly payments of £70.39, followed by a final 
payment of £70.18 to repay the loan.
 
Payments were made monthly until July 2021, when that payment failed. The following 
month Mrs S paid a double payment to clear any arrears and bring the account up to date. 
Following this Mrs S current account was closed. As a result, there was no connected bank 
account for Klarna to take payment from. The payments for September and October 2021 
were therefore missed. Klarna sent correspondence to Mrs S to confirm the payments had 
been missed and that she was now in arrears. 
On 19 October 2021, Klarna issued a default notice. This advised Mrs S that she needed to 
repay £140.78 before 5 November 2021. If payment wasnt received before 5 November 
2021, then Klarna would terminate the agreement and demand immediate repayment of the 
full £2,181.88 that remained outstanding. 
Mrs S didnt make payment before 5 November 2021 and the account was terminated. Mrs 
S did contact Klarna on 5 November 2021. However, at this stage the account had already 
been terminated and Klarna was requesting full repayment and not just the £140.78 figure 
given in the default notice. Given this, Mrs S asked if it would be possible for the original 
repayment terms to be reinstated.
The Klarna advisor Mrs S was speaking with couldnt authorise this and therefore escalated 
the matter. Mrs S provided an email address for Klarna to use that differed from the one she 
provided when originally taking out her loan.
 
Given the different email address, Klarna has explained that its team that dealt with the 
escalation wasnt able to identify Mrs S. Therefore, in line with its process, Klarna proceeded 
by asking Mrs S to first verify her details. Mrs S has advised that she didnt hear from Klarna 
and thats why she didnt respond. As there was no response and the outstanding balance 
remained, Klarna passed the loan account to a debt collection agency. 
Mrs S says she received notification of this from the third-party debt collector and set up an 
arrangement to clear the debt with it on 25 November 2021. Mrs S says she took this action 
as both Klarna and the debt collector has advised her the debt couldnt be sent back to 
Klarna. Mrs S has provided a screenshot to show that on 30 November 2021, she made her 
first repayment of £545.47 to the debt collector. 
However, following this payment the account was passed back to Klarna with an outstanding 
balance remaining of £1,636.41. Mrs S says was never made aware this was going to 
happen. When the next payment to the debt collection didnt take place at the end of 
December 2021, she contacted the debt collector and Klarna. Mrs S has explained that both 
advised her ownership of the debt was with the other party. 
Mrs S therefore complained to Klarna in February 2022. She was unhappy with the default 
that had been recorded onto her credit file and how Klarna had passed and then taken back 
the debt to a debt collector without telling her. Klarna issued its final response on 30 March 
2022. In this it explained that it was satisfied it had sent Mrs S notification via email and text 
message to advice she had missed payments. Therefore, the default and account 
termination were correct. 
It went on to say that Mrs S had been given contradicting information regarding the debt 
collection process and it confirmed that it had taken back the debt from the debt collection 
agency. Finally, it offered Mrs S £70 for the distress and inconvenience she had been 
caused. Mrs S repaid the outstanding balance of £1,636.41 in June 2022.
Unhappy with Klarnas response, Mrs S also referred her complaint to our service. One of 
our investigators looked at the complaint and initially said that Klarna had acted fairly when 
recording the default and didnt make any errors with the subsequent passing and taking 
back of the debt from the debt collector. 
Mrs S was unhappy with this and provided further comments for the investigator to consider. 
Upon further review the investigator concluded that Klarna had issued the default notice 
earlier than it shouldve. Therefore, he recommended Klarna remove the default and mark 
the agreement as settled from when the debt was fully repaid. In addition, he said Klarna 
could record the missed payments for September and October 2021, but no further missed 
payments should be recorded. Lastly, he concluded that Klarna should pay Mrs S £100 
compensation. 
Klarna didnt agree and said the default had been applied to Mrs Ss credit file correctly. 
Klarna also disagreed with the £100 compensation and offered £75. This offer was put to 
Mrs S, but she declined it.
 
Therefore, as Klarna didnt agree with the investigators findings, the case has been passed 
to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I would like to point out Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my
comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not
because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it but because I dont think I need to
comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome.
In this case Mrs S had missed payments in September and October 2021, prior to the 
default notice being issued. Klarna has mentioned a missed payment in July 2021, but I can 
see Mrs S paid that missed payment alongside August 2021s payment. As a result, her loan 
account was no longer in arrears at that point.
 
Given this, when Klarna issued the default notice to Mrs S on 19 October 2021, she was two 
months in arrears at that time. Ive therefore considered whether Klarna has acted 
reasonably in issuing the default notice when it did. Having done so I dont believe Klarna 
did, and Ill explain why.
 The Information Commissioners Office (ICO) guidance states a default normally occurs 
when a credit agreement is three to six months in arrears. Here Klarna didnt wait for the 
account to be at least three months in arrears before issuing the default notice. The default 
notice also advises that payment of the arrears needed to be made before the deadline of 5 
November 2021. Mrs S payment date as given in the Notice of Sums in Arrears dated 5 
October 2021, is 5 November 2021. Therefore, by saying payment needed to be made 
before then, Klarna effectively defaulted the account at a point when its still only two months 
in arrears. 
In this case I dont feel that Klarna has acted in line with the ICOs guidance on defaults. Had 
Klarna done so, the account wouldnt have been terminated on 5 November 2021. 
Consequently, when Mrs S called up to make payment on 5 November 2021, she wouldnt 
have been met with demands for full repayment. But would instead have been required to 
make November 2021s payment, alongside the previous two months of arrears. Given that 
later in November 2021 Mrs S repaid £545.47, I feel it reasonable to say she wouldve been 
in a position to do this. 
I can see that Mrs S didnt make monthly repayments between December 2021 and the full 
repayment in June 2022, I dont believe this to be unreasonable given the account had been 
terminated and the confusion caused after the outstanding balance passed to a debt 
collector and back again. Mrs S did pay the debt collector in November 2021, and Im 
satisfied she had an arrangement in place to repay the outstanding amount monthly if the 
account hadnt been taken back by Klarna. Therefore, whilst no payments were made, I 
dont feel it would be fair to mark late payments for this period.
  
Given the distress and inconvenience caused by the default being applied incorrectly. I 
agree with the investigator that Klarna should pay Mrs S £100. I believe this fairly reflects the 
distress she has been caused by the default being on her credit file and the inconvenience 
thats been caused in trying to rectify the situation with Klarna.
Putting things right
Klarna should remove the default from Mrs Ss credit file. 
Missed payments for July, September and October 2021 can be recorded, but no 
further missed payments should be recorded after October 2021. 
The account should show as being settled from the date Mrs S made full repayment. 
Klarna should pay Mrs S £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused
My final decision
Im upholding Mrs Ds complaint. Klarna Bank AB (publ) should put things right in the way 
Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2023.
 
Paul Blower
Ombudsman