DRN-3134028
complaint
This complaint is about a single premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken 
out alongside a personal loan in 2003. Mr M says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr Ms 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Mr M bought the policy in 2003 at the same time as taking out a loan. He applied for the loan 
and PPI policy in branch. 
The policys one-off upfront premium of £659.13 was paid in advance by being added to the 
loan (a single premium) where it attracted interest over the term of the loan. The loan was 
repayable over a 36 month term and the policy term matched that of the loan The monthly 
loan repayment was £155.93 with the PPI costing an additional £20.55 making the total 
monthly repayment £176.48. 
The policy provided cover for Mr M for accident, sickness, unemployment and life  subject 
to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay Mr Ms monthly loan repayment for the 
remaining term in the event of a successful disability claim and 12 months in the event of 
unemployment. 
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mr Ms representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ms. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr Ms complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 
I think Lloyds made it clear that Mr M didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to 
take it out. Lloyds has given me a copy of the loan agreement that Mr M signed. In this, 
there was a separate section for PPI which had a yes and no box. I can see an X has 
been printed into the yes box and I think it was equally clear the no box could have 
been selected if Mr M didnt want it. Ive considered the fact that the X has been printed 
onto the page, and I can see some of Mr Ms other information, such as his name and 
address, has also been printed onto the page. And I think its more likely this agreement 
has been printed out following a discussion with a member of staff in a branch. And I can 
see that Mr M has signed the agreement to agree with its contents. So, on balance, I 
think Mr M agreed to take out the PPI, knowing he didnt have to. 
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr M so it had to check that the PPI was right for him. 
And the evidence about Mr Ms circumstances at the time, shows that the policy wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. For example Mr M was eligible for the cover 
and while he had some sick pay available to him, the policy would have paid out in 
addition to his sick pay and for as long as Mr M was sick for. Or for 12 months if he was 
made redundant. So I think he still seems to have had a need for cover. 
There was nothing about Mr Ms employment or occupation which would have made it 
difficult for him to claim. And he hasnt told us about any pre-existing medical conditions 
that could affect his ability to claim. There were also no additional restrictions on cover 
for mental health and back problems. 
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this 
type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr M as I concluded above, or 
too dissimilar to what he reasonably thought he was buying from the information he was 
given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it would have been useful for 
him if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think Mr M would have declined the 
cover had Lloyds done anything more.
Overall, I consider that Mr M would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy could provide a 
useful benefit in a difficult time, given his circumstances at the time. I also think the policy 
was sufficiently close to what its likely he thought he was getting. And in those 
circumstances, I think that he would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr Ms representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty 
of utmost good faith meant Lloyds should have disclosed the poor value and explained the 
significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances of making 
a claim.
But Mr Ms representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr Ms individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr Ms particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint.
This means Lloyds doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2022. 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman