DRN-2800573
The complaint
Ms M has complained to us that Wrights (Motors) Limited (Wrights) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy in May 2008 in connection with a car loan.
What happened
Ms M says she didnt want the policy and it wasnt properly explained to her. The PPI 
included cover for accident, sickness and unemployment. It also included life cover.
Our adjudicator didnt think the PPI was mis-sold. Because Ms M doesnt agree with our 
adjudicator, Ms Ms complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of payment protection 
insurance on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
Ms M says Wrights recommended that she should buy the policy. Wrights agrees and 
says that Ms M bought the PPI at a meeting. So Wrights had to make sure that it was 
suitable for her and that the information it gave her was clear, fair and not misleading.
Ive looked at the statement of demands and needs that Wrights says it would have 
discussed with Ms M at the time of the sale. Ive seen on the form that Wrights was 
recommending the particular level of PPI cover that Ms M took out. I see that Ms M signed 
and dated a box below this section to show she was accepting the PPI recommendation. 
There was a separate box for her to sign and date if she didnt want to take out the policy. I 
notice on the same form that Ms M had chosen to decline a different insurance product in 
this way. So I think Ms M was aware at the time that she had a choice about whether or not 
she wanted to take out the cover and in the circumstances she decided that she did. 
I accept that this form may have been completed on Ms Ms behalf by the sales 
representative. But she would still have had the opportunity to review and consider it before 
signing the form. 
Ive also seen that on the same day Ms M was given or sent a quotation form that again 
included the monthly cost of the PPI. So at this point it would have been open to Ms M to 
change her mind, had she wished to. 
Ive also considered what Ms M has told us about not being in the habit of taking out PPI, 
having declined it when purchasing other cars. But having thought carefully about 
everything Ive seen from the time of the sale I think that on this occasion, having been 
recommended the cover, Ms M decided to go ahead and take it out so that her monthly 
payments would have protection if needed. 
Ive next taken a look at the other aspects of the sale to see if theres anything else to 
make me think it may have been mis-sold. I can see that Ms M was eligible for the cover 
and I cant see that she wouldve been affected by any of the main policy exclusions.
Ive seen that Ms M was in full time employment and had some work benefits. She also told 
us that if shed been unable to make her repayments she could have relied on some 
financial support from her family. But that doesnt mean the PPI was unnecessary. If Ms M 
wasnt able to work, and made a successful claim, the policy would pay out for a period of 
at least 12 months. That would be in addition to her existing employer benefits. And whilst 
its good to have the offer of family support, individual circumstances can easily change. So 
on balance I think she would still have found the policy to be useful for her situation.
Ive seen that the monthly cost of the policy was £11.75 and was set out on the quotation 
form. So I think that Ms M most likely knew about this when she bought the cover. And I 
havent seen anything to make me think she couldnt afford to pay the premiums.
I can also see its possible there may have been some shortcomings in the way this 
policy was sold. But, having looked at the sale carefully, I think Ms M would still have 
decided to buy the policy if shed been better advised and informed.
It follows that I wont be upholding this complaint. Im sorry to have to disappoint Ms M on 
this occasion.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im not upholding Ms Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 June 2021. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman