DRN-3198306
The complaint
L has complained that China Taiping Insurance (UK) Co Ltd unfairly declined their business 
interruption insurance claim for losses arising out of the COVID-19 pandemic.
What happened
L held a commercial insurance policy. This policy provided a number of areas of cover, 
including for business interruption. This part of the policy was underwritten by China Taiping. 
In March 2020, L had to close their premises as a result of the government-imposed 
restrictions introduced to control the spread of COVID-19. L contacted China Taiping to 
claim for the losses incurred.
China Taiping declined the claim. Over the course of several letters, China Taiping explained 
that the core business interruption cover related to incidents of damage, and such damage 
was not the cause of Ls claim. China Taiping also said that the Denial of Access extension 
to this cover did not apply to the circumstances, because the actions taken that led to the 
closure of Ls premises were not those of the Police or other competent local authority. And 
that a further extension, providing cover in relation to Disease, was limited to a specified list 
of diseases that did not include COVID-19.
L complained and, when China Taiping did not change its decision, L referred their complaint 
to this service. However, our Investigator felt that China Taipings decision was in line with 
the policy terms.
The Investigator said that, in the context of this policy, he thought the term competent local 
authority referred to a localised body, rather than central government. And that the cause of 
L closing their premises was the announcement of and restrictions introduced by the 
UK Government. The Investigator also said that the emergency that had led to these 
restrictions was the national emergency, rather than one localised to Ls premises. The 
Investigator also agreed with China Taipings reasoning on the other parts of the policy.
L remained unsatisfied, saying that if they had remained open, they would have been closed 
by the Police or local authority. As the Investigator did not alter his opinion, L asked for a 
decision and so this case has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact lockdown had on L. And for the 
circumstances they find themselves in. But I dont consider this complaint should be upheld. 
I have set out below why I have come to this decision.
Relevant considerations
I have considered all the circumstances of this complaint and borne in mind the relevant 
FCA rules contained in its Handbook. I have also taken into consideration the relevant 
legislation and case law, including The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) v Arch Insurance 
(UK) Ltd & Ors [2020] EWHC 2448 (Comm) (the FCA test case).
Additionally, I have taken into account the Award reached in a separate arbitration process 
China Taiping engaged in. The arbitration process was agreed between China Taiping and 
some of its policyholders. The policyholders were hospitality businesses (restaurants, cafes, 
bars and pubs). As part of the agreement to go to arbitration, China Taiping agreed to pay 
the reasonable legal costs of the policyholders. The policyholders were therefore 
represented by a law firm, as well as a QC and junior barrister who specialised in insurance. 
The arbitrator was a retired Supreme Court Justice called Lord Mance. As the arbitrator, 
Lord Mance had a duty to act fairly and impartially, giving each party a reasonable 
opportunity of putting its case and dealing with that of its opponent.
This arbitration, in part, considered the meaning of the subclauses in the Denial of Access 
extension. And so, as the matters subject to the arbitration proceedings were largely 
comparable to those in this complaint, I have considered the arbitrators Award. A copy of 
the Award is available on China Taipings website - 
https://uk.cntaiping.com/tplresource/cms/www/taiping/file/Award_ANNEXA.zip. 
The arbitrator concluded the policy did not provide the cover that was suggested by the 
policyholders involved in the arbitration. The key reasoning in the award, as far as I consider 
relevant to the current complaint, is that:
The natural meaning of the term competent local authority was a local, rather than 
central, body. The policyholders argued that competent local authority meant any 
authority which was competent to take action in relation to the local area. The 
arbitrator did not think this was right because it would mean that the word local did 
not add anything to competent authority.
Elsewhere, the policy distinguished between local authorities and government. 
However, there was no direct link between the relevant provisions; and insurance 
policy language may be taken from different sources.
The legislation in relation to diseases enables the Secretary of State to impose 
restrictions on a local or national basis; or to empower a local authority to do so. The 
Civil Contingencies Act (which grants powers to deal with emergencies) is in similar 
terms. China Taiping relied on the distinction under the legislation between 
government and local authorities. It also relied on other legislation conferring powers 
on local authorities to deal with emergencies and take enforcement action in relation 
to situations covered by the Denial of Access and Disease extensions, such as public 
safety issues, food poisoning, anti-social behaviour, sanitation, and vermin. 
The test case judgment on the wording in an Ecclesiastical Insurance Office PLC 
policy wasnt of much assistance, given the different contexts and wording of the 
policies. This included the Ecclesiastical policys use of the terms Government, 
Police and Local Authority as well as competent local authority; and the 25-mile 
radius in the Ecclesiastical disease clause. In the Ecclesiastical policy, it would have 
led to a very odd result if the two terms had meant different things. 
China Taipings interpretation was not contrary to commercial common sense. 
Limiting the insured peril to local authority actions was understandable and most 
pre-pandemic claims would have been covered. It was also a pragmatic way of 
indicating that the cover was localised.The arbitrator therefore decided that competent local authority meant a body with local, 
rather than countrywide authority.
The Award the arbitrator reached is not binding on this service (or on L), but I have 
considered the outcome and reasoning in the arbitration when reaching my own decision, for 
the reasons set out above.
The terms of Ls policy
The starting point is to consider the specific policy L took out and what situations the 
insurance it provides responds to. As such, Ive considered every aspect of the policy L 
holds with China Taiping to determine whether there are any sections that would require 
China Taiping to meet the claim L is making. Having done so, I dont think there are.
Ls policy includes cover in relation to losses resulting from an interruption to Ls business. 
As with most policies of this nature, the business interruption section is initially based on the 
interruption being caused by damage to the policyholders premises. However, this cover is 
extended to include a number of other perils.
I have set out below the wording of the two clauses in Ls policy that Ive referred to directly 
within this decision. However, in reaching this provisional decision I have considered the 
whole policy.
The terms below are all extensions to the business interruption section of Ls policy. The 
italicised words in these terms are defined within the policy. Ls policy includes 10 pages of 
general definitions, as well as further definitions which relate to specific sections. Their 
interpretation, as far as is relevant to the current complaint, is not in dispute. The terms 
competent local authority and Police or other competent local authority are not defined 
within the policy however and the interpretation of these terms is a key issue for me to 
determine as part of this complaint.
The terms are:
1 Denial of Access
Insured Section 2 is extended to include interruption of or interference with the 
Business in consequence of
a Damage to property in the vicinity of the Premises which prevents or hinders the 
use of the Property Insured or access to the Premises (whether or not the 
Property Insured or the Premises suffer similar loss, destruction or damage), 
provided that the cause of such Damage is covered and not excluded under 
Insured Section 2;
b the closing down or sealing off of the Premises or property in the vicinity of the 
Premises in accordance with instructions issued by the Police or other 
competent local authority for reasons other than the conduct of the Insured or 
any director or partner of the Insured or the condition of the Premises or the 
carrying out of repair or maintenance work at the Premises or the Insureds non-
compliance with a prior order of the Police or other competent local authority;
c the actions or advice of the Police or other competent local authority due to an 
emergency threatening life or property in the vicinity of the Premises;
provided thati in the absence of Damage to property in the vicinity of the Premises this 
Extension does not apply to interruption of or interference with the Business 
lasting less than 24 (twenty four) hours;
ii the Indemnity Period with respect to this Extension will in no event exceed 31 
(thirty one) days in the absence of Damage to property in the vicinity of the 
Premises;
iii the most that the Insurers will pay under this Extension is the amount entered in 
the Schedule against Extension 1 (Denial of Access) or £100,000 if no such 
amount is entered in the Schedule.
2 Disease, Infestation and Defective Sanitation
Insured Section 2 is extended to include interruption of or interference with the 
Business commencing on the first day of any such interruption or interference in 
consequence of the occurrence at the Premises:
a of murder, suicide or food or drink poisoning;
b of a notifiable, human, infectious or contagious disease excluding Acquired 
Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS) or an AIDS related condition;
c of vermin, pests or defective sanitation;
d which causes restrictions on the use of the Premises on the order or advice of 
the competent local authority; or
e Damage covered and not excluded under Insured Section 2 to the drains or 
sanitary apparatus at the Premises which results in closure of the Premises for 
the Business
The most that the Insurers will pay under this Extension is the amount entered in the 
Schedule against Extension 2 (Disease, infestation & defective sanitation) or, if no 
such amount is entered in the Schedule, £100,000.
Clarification of Notifiable Human Infectious or Contagious Disease 
Endorsement
It is hereby understood and agreed that for the purposes of the cover afforded by this 
Extension, the reference to a notifiable, human, infectious or contagious disease 
contained in paragraph b shall be deemed to mean solely the following diseases:
Diseases notifiable under the Public Health (Control of Disease) Act, 1984 or 
the Public Health (Infectious Diseases) Regulations, 1988, namely:
Acute encephalitis, Acute poliomyelitis, Anthrax, Cholera, Diphtheria, Dysentery, 
Food poisoning, Leptospirosis, Malaria, Measles, Meningitis, Meningococcal, 
Pneumococcal, Haemophilus influenzae, Viral, Other specified, Unspecified, 
Meningococcal septicaemia (without meningitis), Mumps, Opthalmia neonatorum, 
Paratyphoid fever, Plague, Rabies, Relapsing fever, Rubella, Scarlet fever, Smallpox, 
Tetanus, Tuberculosis, Typhoid fever, Typhus fever, Viral haemorrhagic fever, Viral 
hepatitis, Hepatitis A, Hepatitis B, Hepatitis C, Whooping cough and Yellow fever. 
No other disease shall be added to the above list without the prior written consent of 
the Insurers.
I have referred to these terms as the Denial of Access extension and the Disease extension 
within this decision.
Subclause a of the Denial of Access extensionAs with the core business interruption cover, subclause a requires there to have been 
Damage. In the case of this subclause, the Damage needs to be in the vicinity of Ls 
premises and prevented or hindered Ls use of their premises. Damage is defined as loss of 
possession of, destruction of or damage to tangible property.
However, there hasnt been any such Damage that caused Ls use of their premises to be 
prevented or hindered. COVID-19 hasnt caused loss, destruction or damage to tangible 
property. And whilst I can appreciate L has suffered significant financial losses, the cause of 
this was ultimately the government-imposed restrictions which prevented L using their 
premises.
So, I dont consider China Taiping acted inappropriately when not meeting Ls claim under 
this subclause. The same applies to the other parts of the business interruption cover, 
including the core cover, that require there to have been Damage.
Subclause b of the Denial of Access extension
The cover offered by subclause b is seemingly quite broad. But it does require there to 
have been instructions issued by the Police or other competent local authority that have led 
to the closing down or sealing off of the premises.
Neither the terms the Police nor other competent local authority have been defined within 
the policy. As such, it is necessary for me to consider what these terms are most likely to 
mean in the context of this policy.
Like the Investigator, I think the Police can be interpreted in line with the normal everyday 
usage of this term and I think this would be commonly understood. The closure of Ls 
premises was a requirement following the instructions of the government-imposed 
restrictions, rather than any action of the police. 
L has said that if its premises had remained open in contravention of the Governments 
restrictions, it would have been instructed to close by the Police. This may be true. But this 
did not happen in the circumstances of Ls claim. And whilst I note Ls comments, I am only 
able to come to a decision based on the circumstances of the claim.
I do note that L has said that it attempted to provide a take-away service during the period its 
premises were closed. But that they were visited by the Police who advised them to stop 
providing this in the manner they were. It seems this was a new activity and not one that 
formed part of its normal business activity. If so, it would not be possible to say that Ls 
normal business activity was interrupted. And so, it would not be possible to claim for any 
loss of this new business. 
So, the circumstance of Ls claim are not covered by this part of the clause.
It is though necessary for me to consider in more depth what the term competent local 
authority means. China Taiping has said that whilst Ls premises were closed, this was not 
due to the instructions of a local authority. And that this is what the term requires.
Taking everything into account, including the arbitrators decision, I consider that the term 
competent local authority as it is used in Ls policy means a localised authority. As the 
arbitrator has concluded, there is seemingly no reason for the inclusion of the word local in 
this term other than to limit the relevant authorities to a narrow geographic area. And I 
consider the natural way of reading this term would be to conclude that it referred to local 
bodies only.When reaching this conclusion, I am mindful of the fact Ls insurance contract should be 
interpreted objectively, based on the understanding a reasonable person, with the 
background knowledge of Ls directors, would have had at the time the contract was 
entered. I dont think the reasonable person would have read this policy and considered that 
this term referred to a national authority/the UK Government. That would not be the natural 
understanding of the words used in the term.
I do note that a slightly different interpretation of the term competent local authority was 
reached in the FCA test case when the court considered the Ecclesiastical policies. 
However, such terms need to be interpreted based on the context of the contract they 
appear in. And there are significant differences between the Ecclesiastical policies and Ls 
policy. To my mind, the key difference was that the Ecclesiastical policy used this term in a 
clause that also contained the term Government Police or Local Authority. And it would not 
have made commercial sense for the two terms to have a different meaning in that context.
I think that restrictions that might be imposed on L which might fall generally into the areas of 
cover provided by sub-clauses b and c in the Denial of Access extension, as well as the 
Disease extension, could be following instructions of either local or national bodies. But that 
there is reasonable commercial sense in China Taiping having limited cover to where those 
instructions are given by a local body. This would have given L cover for the events which 
were most likely to affect it, but would also have limited China Taipings exposure to extreme 
events, which are more likely to result in a national response, such extreme events likely to 
result in high value claims. And, significantly, I dont think L would reasonably have 
understood the policy as providing cover different to this when it was entered.
Ultimately, I consider that in the context of Ls policy the term competent local authority 
refers to a localised body. The instructions that led to the closure of Ls premises were 
issued by the Prime Minister and the UK Government. And I dont consider these to be a 
localised body. As such, I do not consider L was instructed to close its premises by a 
competent local authority. And I consider China Taiping acted fairly and reasonably when 
declining Ls claim under subclause b of the Denial of Access extension.
Subclause c of the Denial of Access extension
I also do not consider it would be fair or reasonable to require China Taiping to meet the 
claim under subclause c of this extension.
The actions and advice of the Government, and other relevant bodies, in March 2020 in 
dealing with the COVID-19 pandemic were not due to an emergency in the vicinity of Ls 
premises.
The term vicinity is not defined within the policy, but it would relate to an area immediately 
around the premises, such as the neighbourhood. And whilst the size of this area might differ 
depending on the emergency in question, I do not think the entire country can would be 
considered the vicinity of the premises. The actions taken in March 2020 were as a result of 
an emergency, the pandemic in general, which was affecting the entire country. Thus, this 
was not an emergency in the vicinity of the premises.
This was also the conclusion reached by the High Court in the FCA test case in relation to 
similar wording in other policies. And whilst I note the arbitrator made some comments 
around these conclusions, I see no reason to depart from the High Courts findings at this 
time. And even if I did, for the reasons given above when discussing the meaning of 
competent local authority, this subclause would still not offer cover.
The Disease extensionI also agree with the Investigator, and with China Taiping, that the Disease extension in Ls 
policy does not respond to the current claim.
The cover provided by the Disease extension in Ls policy is limited to a specific list of 
diseases. This does not include COVID-19. This disease was not in existence at the time 
this policy wording was originally drafted, and so could not have been included in this list. 
The clause has been drafted to limit cover to only those diseases named. 
Other policies provide cover for all notifiable diseases  a list updated by the Government 
when certain diseases emerge or become a cause for concern. This term in Ls policy is 
limited to only the diseases mentioned, and says no other diseases will be added without 
China Taipings agreement. I do not consider it provides cover for COVID-19 as it is not 
included in the list of specified diseases.
I note Ls comments around the wording of this extension, particularly in relation to d. 
However, like the Investigator, I dont think it would make sense to read the wording at d as 
being a discrete insured event. I think a reasonable person reading this policy at the time it 
was taken out would understand that d was a qualification of the cover provided by the 
preceding subparagraphs. So, I dont think a claim can be considered under subparagraph 
d alone. 
Ultimately, I do not consider China Taiping were incorrect when declining Ls claim under 
this extension. 
Having considered the rest of Ls policy carefully, I do not consider there to be any area of 
cover that means China Taiping should have met Ls claim. I know this decision will be 
disappointing for L and their directors, but I hope Ive provided them with a thorough 
explanation of why Ls policy doesnt offer cover in the circumstances of this claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2022.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman