DRN-3766536
The complaint
Mr N complains that Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited (Sun Life) 
provided unsuitable advice when it recommended him to invest in a Capital Builder unit 
linked savings policy with life insurance, over an 18 year term (the policy). 
He mainly complains that:
there is no evidence to show the advisor discussed other savings options that 
were also tax efficient, offered greater flexibility, less risk, and no surrender 
penalties
there is no evidence that his attitude to risk was established to ensure he was 
given appropriate advice when a significant proportion of the investment was 
placed in high risk funds
the sum assured exceeded the minimum amount that was required to make the 
investment qualifying (in terms of its tax status).
Mr N feels hes been financially disadvantaged as a result and to put things right, he 
wants financial compensation. 
The investment advice was provided by a financial business trading under a different name. 
But, to keep things simpler, as Sun Life is responsible for dealing with the complaint, I will 
refer to it as the financial business that provided the advice and sold the investment 
complained about. 
What happened
Mr N sought investment advice from Sun Life in 1993. He told Sun Lifes advisor that he 
wanted to create capital out of income over a medium term and he needed life cover. 
Sun Life recommended Mr N to invest £51.50 each month in the policy, consisting of 
investment in three managed funds within a life policy with a sum assured of £19,895. 
Mr N maintained the policy for the full 18 year term. When the policy matured in 
March 2011, Mr N had paid in £11,124 and he received back £13,448.
Sun Life said, in brief summary, that the Capital Builder policy had matched Mr Ns 
needs and circumstances and been ideally suited to meeting his investment objectives. 
Mr N wasnt happy with this response and so he brought his complaint to this service 
with the assistance of a claims management company (CMC). Our investigator looked 
into what happened. 
Our investigator didnt recommend upholding Mr Ns complaint, because:
she felt the policy had most likely been in line with his attitude to risk
that he was willing and able to accept the level of overall risk
the investment had been affordable for him and hed had capacity to accept 
losses
whilst the level of life cover was higher than it needed to be solely for the purpose 
of making this a qualifying investment, she didnt think that made it unsuitable. 
Overall, the investigator felt the policy had been suitable for Mr N, given his 
circumstances at the time and what he wanted from his investment. 
On Mr Ns behalf, the CMC disputed the investigators findings and said:
he had wanted a medium-term policy and a 10 year term is generally considered 
medium term. If he specifically wanted an 18 year term, then he should have been 
offered a 10 year policy with extension option which would have been the most 
suitable product in the firms product range. This would have had lower charges over 
any length of time.
Mr N was disadvantaged by the excess life cover in that it detracted from the 
investment performance.
The CMC wanted to see evidence to show why the investigator had said Mr N had 
previous investment experience. 
Our investigator wasnt persuaded to change her view, so the complaint comes to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although the Financial Ombudsman Service doesnt always have power to investigate 
complaints about events that happened more than six years ago, Sun Life has consented to 
us looking into Mr Ns complaint about what happened in 1993 when it recommended this 
policy. So, I am satisfied that I can consider the complaint.Ive looked carefully at what I know about Mr Ns overall financial situation and 
circumstances at the time. I've taken into account the information in the point of sale 
paperwork, including the Confidential Financial Planning Profile (the fact find) carried out 
by Sun Lifes financial advisor. This shows that Mr N was in well paid work with a workplace 
pension and he had many years ahead of him before he reached state pension age, giving 
Mr N the possibility of plenty of earning potential. He was married with two dependents and 
owned his own home subject to mortgage. His net monthly income was around £1,800 and, 
after allowing for his usual monthly outgoings, he had disposable income of around £760 
each month. 
Mr N had £17,000 in readily accessible cash savings, a Managed Investment Plan (MIP) into 
which he contributed £50 a month and three Qualified Savings Plans (QSPs) into which he 
contributed a total of £85 per month. 
Based on all the information I've seen and been told, I am satisfied that Mr N was in a strong 
enough financial situation to be able to invest £51.50 per month into the Capital Builder 
policy. This is borne out by the fact he seems to have maintained these payments into the 
policy for the next 18 years. 
Given that Mr Ns main investment objective was capital growth, I find it was reasonable for 
Sun Life to recommend a risk-based investment to Mr N.
The managed funds
Mr N needed to be comfortable that the level of risk associated with the recommended 
investment reflected his risk approach. Ive particularly kept in mind that the risk profile of 
two of the three funds Mr N invested in were given a 5 out of 5 risk rating. I take this to mean 
that those funds were evaluated by Sun Life as carrying the highest level of risk. The other 
fund was medium risk and was given a risk rating 3 out of 5. 
Mr N said the advisor hadnt discussed his preferred risk approach, but what Mr N says 
about this isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold his complaint. I must look at all 
the available information and decide what I think is most likely on a balance of probabilities. 
This means making some reasonable assumptions where theres only limited information. 
And I must be impartial. 
Its not clear what discussion took place around Mr Ns attitude to risk and reward as the 
point of sale paperwork doesnt record any information about this. Sun Life said that the 
advisor would have discussed risk and reward and Ive no good reason to think that didnt 
happen. This doesnt however tell me what Mr N understood about risk.
I've considered what else I have been told about Mr N. As he was funding this investment out of income, he still had cash savings equivalent to 
around 9 months or so of his net pay which couldve helped Mr N to meet any unplanned or 
emergency spending and provided a useful financial safety net if he had needed to fall back 
on his savings. He was paying a relatively small monthly amount into the managed funds in 
the Capital Builder and he still had plenty of remaining surplus cash each month (as well as 
his other investments). So, overall, I think Mr N was able to mitigate risk if he had wanted to 
by offsetting his high risk investments in the Capital Builder with lower risk investment 
elsewhere and boosting his savings further if hed wanted to do that. And I can see why, in 
Mr Ns circumstances and financial situation, he appears to have had no particular need to 
be especially conservative in his risk approach:
I still need to be satisfied that Mr N made an informed decision about risk when he invested 
in the Capital Builder and I've thought very carefully about this. 
I think it's fair to say that Mr N was an investor with at least some previous experience of 
investment so I think he probably had some understanding of the principle that investment 
risk is commensurate with the potential for investment reward. So, I think he wouldve 
wanted to know and discuss details of the recommended funds. And I think its likely he 
wouldve been able to see the fund factsheet, either during the meeting with the advisor or 
following their discussion which makes reasonably clear that two funds were high risk 
investments and the other was medium risk.
Whilst Ive been mindful not to make an assessment with the benefit of hindsight, having 
considered everything, I am not persuaded that Mr N was exposed to more risk than he 
wanted to take. I think its likely that Mr N wouldve wanted to understand the risk of the 
funds that Sun Life advised him to invest in. The Capital Builder provided the potential for 
capital growth he was looking for. His circumstances and financial situation meant he 
was likely looking at this capital providing for future financial needs and I think he would 
have expected to keep this investment running for a period that likely matched the 
product recommended term, given that this seems to be very case specific  18 years 
suggests to me that the term was the product of some discussion as it isnt a typical term 
and looks to me like it was specially selected to suit Mr Ns particular wishes, needs and 
situation. 
Given the spread of individual funds within the policy, I think this went part way towards 
mitigating investment risk whilst offering Mr N the chance to grow his money as he hoped 
to do. 
To sum up, after taking all this into account, I find that Mr N had sufficient financial 
resources to be able to absorb some element of loss in pursuit of capital growth and he 
was able to take a degree of risk when investing. I have no good reason to think that the 
policy Sun Life recommended to him exposed Mr N to more risk than he wouldve felt 
comfortable taking. Based on Mr Ns recorded investment objectives, my view is that the 
investment Sun Life recommended to him was suitable for his needs at the time. It gave 
Mr N the possibility of achieving capital growth over the term he was looking to invest at a 
level of risk that overall I consider was appropriate for him. The Life Cover
Having an element of life insurance under the policy made it qualifying for tax purposes  in 
other words, Mr N would receive the policy proceeds free from any further tax. 
I note that the sum assured was set at more than the minimum level required to ensure the 
policy was qualifying in terms of its tax status. This indicates to me that the inclusion of life 
cover was likely to have been an important consideration and, at least in part, one of the 
objectives for the policy being sold. I think the significance of the 18 year policy term likely 
illustrates the importance to Mr N of arranging a policy that matched his life cover 
requirements.
In my view, whilst the policy was primarily a savings plan, it seems clear that Mr N also had 
a need for some additional life cover  this is reflected in the point of sale paperwork. And 
looking at his circumstances, the Capital Builder offered him the opportunity to have a level 
of life cover he felt was more suitable to his needs and circumstances without the necessity 
of taking out a separate policy just for this purpose, with the extra costs that would likely 
have involved. So I dont think there was any financial or other detriment caused to Mr N 
when the advisor recommended the Capital Builder that enabled him to combine his savings 
plan with the life cover in a single policy. Ive seen insufficient evidence to suggest that the 
life cover made the policy unsuitable. The fact alone that the level of life cover was higher 
than it needed to be to make the investment qualifying, didnt make this policy unsuitable on 
this occasion, for the reasons Ive set out above. 
In coming to my decision, I've taken into account the arguments put forward by the CMC on 
Mr Ns behalf. The CMC has suggested that advising Mr N to invest in a 10 year policy with 
the option to extend would have been more suitable, but this doesnt affect my view overall. 
I have found that Sun Life recommended a product that matched Mr Ns needs and 
circumstances and his investment goals and other wishes for the policy, which included a 
higher level of life cover for a specific 18 year term. And whilst there may have been some 
investment losses due to the life cover costs, offset against this is the fact that Mr N 
benefitted from not having to pay set-up and administrative charges on an additional life 
policy. I think all these features ensured that the recommendation Sun Life made to Mr N 
was suitable. So Im not upholding his complaint.I appreciate that what I've said here will come as a disappointment to Mr N but I hope that 
setting things out as Ive done helps explain why I've come to this overall conclusion.
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2023.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman