DRN-1189958
 
The complaint
Mr S complains Barclays Bank UK PLC didn't return his calls which meant he lost money 
when receiving funds from another country. He's also unhappy that the amount he was 
shown had been received changed to a lower amount and Barclays can't explain why.
What happened
Mr S was expecting a transfer of money from another country. He called Barclays on
20 June 2019 and 21 June 2019 to discuss the exchange rate available and on each time 
was told he would receive a call back. Barclays didn't call back on either occasion and Mr S 
wasn't able to get the information he wanted.
Mr S says when he first saw the funds pending in the account on 21 June 2019 the value 
was higher than what he ultimately received when the funds were credited to his account. He 
says he received around £1,000 less than he was expecting. 
Barclays investigated Mr S's complaint. It agreed he was told he would be called back and 
wasn't. And it offered £150 compensation for this. Mr S wasn't happy with this. He wanted 
Barclays to pay him the amount he says the transfer was worth when it was pending - 
approximately another £1,000. So he referred the complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He thought Barclays' offer of 
compensation was fair. He didn't think Mr S had lost out financially, so he didn't recommend 
it do anything else.
Mr S didn't agree with our investigator and asked for his complaint to be looked at by an 
ombudsman. So it's been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
It isn't in dispute that Barclays should've called Mr S back on two separate occasions. What I 
need to consider is the impact this has had on Mr S, whether he would've acted differently 
had he been given the information he was trying to obtain and whether he's lost out 
financially because of this mistake.
Whilst it must've been frustrating to not get a callback on two occasions, I don't think Mr S 
would've done anything different had he been called back and given the information he 
wanted. I say this as it seems the funds were always going to be sent to him at this time. It 
seems unlikely, based on what I've seen, that Mr S would've asked the sender to delay 
pending a potential increase in exchange rates. And Mr S has confirmed he had no other 
accounts which the funds could've been sent to. So ultimately Mr S had no option other than 
to accept the exchange rate at the time the funds cleared in his account.Mr S says he thinks Barclays should've held the money in a currency account until he 
wanted it converted at an exchange rate he was happy with. But Barclays has told us its 
systems don't work that way. It isn't able to hold funds pending a particular exchange rate, 
and it isn't possible for specific rates to be "booked". So unfortunately for Mr S, his funds 
coming in were always going to be subject to the exchange rate at the time they were 
received. The rates can change at any point throughout the day. I understand Mr S thinks he 
could've got a higher rate at a different time, but it's also possible he could've got a lower 
rate and received less. 
Barclays can't explain why Mr S saw a higher amount when the payment was pending, and 
this must be frustrating for Mr S. But based on the information it's provided to us, I'm 
satisfied it's completed the transfer at the correct exchange rate.
Considering everything I have, I don't think Barclays has made a mistake with regards to the 
transfer into Mr S's account. However, I do think Mr S has had a frustrating time not getting 
the call backs he was promised, and not receiving the information he received. And he 
should be compensated for this. However, Barclays' offer of £150 for the distress and 
inconvenience this matter has caused Mr S is fair and reasonable in my opinion based on 
the impact this has had. And I'm not going to ask it to do anything further in relation to this 
complaint.
My final decision
Whilst I understand Mr S will be disappointed, my final decision is I don't uphold this 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 April 2020.
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman