DRN-3326000
The complaint
Mr M complaints that St Andrews Insurance Plc (St Andrews) has unfairly rejected a claim 
under the public liability section of his buildings and contents policy. He would like the claim 
paid. 
Mr M is being assisted by his son in bringing his complaint, but I will just refer to Mr M in this 
decision.
What happened
Mr Ms dog bit someone in May 2015, this resulted in criminal proceedings and he was found 
guilty. The injured party subsequently brought a civil case against him in November 2016. Mr 
M defended this himself, but at the trial in November 2019 legal costs and damages of @ 
£43,000 were awarded against him. Mr M says he couldnt afford to pay these. A friend 
suggested he might have cover on his household policy, so he contacted St Andrews in 
December 2019. 
St Andrews asked why Mr M had only notified it of the situation at this point. Mr M said hed 
suffered a brain injury in 2009 and had difficulty with paperwork and his memory. St 
Andrews met with Mr M and his son and looked into what had happened. 
Mr M said hed never read the policy documents and wasnt aware it offered legal liability 
cover. He said he didnt initially realise the civil claim was genuine as hed already paid 
£2,000 in compensation awarded by the Criminal Court. He said he called the claimants 
solicitors to query matters but didnt manage to speak to anyone. And, he didnt reply to 
correspondence from the solicitors until Court proceedings commenced in June 2018. 
St Andrews said it couldnt accept the claim as the policy Terms and Conditions (T&Cs) 
required it to be notified about any potential legal claim as soon as possible without Mr M 
admitting liability or responding to any legal documentation received.
It said had the claim been reported to it as required under the T&Cs, it:
would have been able to manage it on your behalf. It is more than likely that a trial 
would have been avoided and that lower figures in respect of damages and costs 
would have been payable.
Mr M complained to St Andrews, saying the claim should be paid and that it wasnt helping 
him. St Andrews rejected the complaint saying it had made the correct decision and hadnt 
treated him unfairly. Mr M referred his complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into it, but she didnt uphold it.
She said what had happened was very unfortunate, but St Andrews hadnt been notified 
until after both a criminal and civil trial. This had put it in a negative position as a different 
outcome might have been achieved if it had been able to defend the claim. So, it hadnt 
acted unfairly in declining the claim.
Mr M said due to his memory problems even if he had read the policy, he wouldnt 
remember it the next day. He said that when St Andrews had met with him it said the policy 
didnt cover legal aid and wouldnt have appointed a solicitor for him, contradicting what it 
was now saying about taking over the legal claim. Our investigator said whilst she 
sympathised, even with Mr M struggling with reading documentation it was reasonable that 
he should have spoken to St Andrews before the trial concluded.
As Mr M doesnt agree it has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I know my decision will disappoint 
Mr M as this is a very unfortunate situation for him, but I dont think St Andrews has treated 
him unfairly in declining his claim. Ill explain why.
It isnt disputed that Mr M didnt notify St Andrews about the incident until after the 
conclusion of the civil proceedings, more than four years after it occurred. Mr M also a 
accepts that he defended the case himself and attended Court to do so. I think not advising 
St Andrews at the earliest opportunity and defending the legal claim himself, were clear 
breaches the T&Cs of the policy. However, for it to be reasonable for St Andrews to reject 
the claim, it also needs to show that this late notification was material to the claim or led it to 
being disadvantaged. 
St Andrews says the failure to notify it in good time of the civil claim prejudiced its position. 
Had it been notified in good time it says it would have managed the situation. And attempted 
to avoid the civil proceeding reaching Court with the objective of reducing costs and 
potentially the level of personal injury damages. Insurers often seek to manage situations 
like this, and the T&Cs provide for St Andrews to:
Take over with exclusive and complete control the defence and settlement of any 
claim.
In the circumstances here I think it is reasonable to conclude that by not being able to either 
defend or settle the claim St Andrews was disadvantaged. 
Ive thought about the reasons Mr M has given for not being aware that his policy offered 
liability cover and the requirements to claim under it and whether he has been treated 
unfairly here. Had he advised St Andrews of any problems, other arrangements could have 
been made to assist Mr M in understanding his policy and what cover it offered. However, 
theres no evidence Mr M had made St Andrews aware of his memory problems or 
difficultys in dealing with paperwork before he contacted it about this claim. And, Mr M says 
that he was able to continue to work as a public transport driver after his injury in 2009 until 
2019. So, I dont think St Andrews has made any error here.
Mr M says he was told the policy didnt provide legal aid and wouldnt have appointed a 
solicitor for him. That isnt my reading of the T&Cs which say that both damages and costs 
are covered to a limit of £2,000,000. And, as noted above the policy specifically provides for 
St Andrews to take over any legal claim.
Its possible that reference was being made to Legal Expenses cover which the policy may 
also have offered. This, subject to T&Cs, would cover solicitors costs. But again, any 
potential claim needed to be notified in good time. In this case within 180 days of when Mr M should have known about any insured incident. Whether this was the dog bite itself or the 
receipt of the letter of claim, Mr M was well outside this timeframe. He was also in breach of 
some other T&Cs of this particular cover, so any claim here would, fairly I think, also have 
been declined.  
Taking everything into account I think St Andrews position was prejudiced by the late 
notification of the claim and it wouldnt be fair for me to tell it to pay the claim. I dont think St 
Andrews has acted unreasonably or treated Mr M unfairly and it neednt do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2022.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman