DRN-3749476
The complaint
Mr M complains Santander UK Plc registered a fraud marker at CIFAS, the national fraud
database. He doesnt think its done so fairly.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 14 September 2022. Ive set this out 
below. These were my provisional conclusions, subject to any further comment or evidence I 
received from either party. I said:
What happened
Mr M held an account with Santander. On 16 and 17 September 2021, he credited this
account with several thousand pounds from an account he held with another bank who I
shall refer to as A. Mr M then made a series of payments using these funds out of his
account with Santander.
Soon afterwards, the payments into Mr Ms account were identified as fraudulent  A notified
Santander that it had received a report that the original source of those funds had lodged a
report that they had been a victim of a fraud.
Santander placed a block on the account and conducted a review. It later told Mr M that it
would be closing his account. Mr M discovered Santander had also placed a fraud marker
against him with CIFAS.
Mr M contacted Santander to complain, but it didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said,
it had placed the marker in line with its internal policies and regulatory obligations. Mr M
referred his complaint to us. In doing so, Mr M explained that his uncles friend had agreed to
loan him money towards buying a Tesla car and he had shown Santander that the money
had come from his account with A. He felt Santander should have carried out a proper
investigation rather than automatically close his account and record information with CIFAS.
He didnt believe hed been treated fairly. He said the information was having a negative
impact on his ability to get credit and affecting his health.
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint and upheld it. In summary, she said Mr M
had shown Santander that the funds had come from his account with A  hed provided an
extract from his account. And while the report from A may have been enough to trigger
suspicion it wasnt enough to show hed been complicit in fraud. So, she recommended
Santander remove the marker. She also considered the fact that Santander had also closed
Mr Ms account but concluded it was entitled to terminate its relationship with him under the
account agreement.
Santander didnt accept the adjudicators findings in relation to the CIFAS marker. It asked
that the matter be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not intending to uphold this complaint. I realise this will be a
disappointment to Mr M so, Id like to explain why.
The marker that Santander has filed is intended to record that theres been a misuse of
facility  relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a
marker, it isnt required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr M is guilty of fraud or a
financial crime, but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or
concern. The relevant guidance says:
- There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial crime has
been committed or attempted; [and]
- The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could confidently
report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that a bank must first be able to show that fraudulent funds
have entered Mr Ms account, whether they are retained or pass through the account.
Secondly, the bank will need to have strong evidence to show that Mr M was deliberately
dishonest in receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate
payment. This can include allowing someone else to use their account to receive an
illegitimate payment. But a marker should not be registered against someone who was
unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show complicity. To meet the standard of
proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out checks of sufficient depth
and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the account holder the
opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand their level of
knowledge and intention.
Ive reviewed Santanders records and Im satisfied it received a report from A that the
incoming payment was from a fraud. While the adjudicator noted Mr M had provided
Santander with evidence the payments came from his account with A, thats not in dispute.
But the information Mr M provided Santander didnt demonstrate anything beyond that. It
didnt show the original source of the funds or why they were being paid.
Mr M has explained why he paid money into his Santander account. However, I havent seen
anything contemporaneous from before he sent the funds to himself that corroborates his
understanding of the arrangement (to buy a car). I note Mr M has provided screen shots of
the payments originally made to him and an exchange of messages about sending money
on with his uncle. But as already alluded to, this information doesnt confirm the purpose of
the arrangement.
In response, Mr M has told us that he has no direct relationship with his uncles friend and
his uncle wont assist him. Ive thought about what hes said but theres also the fact that Mr
M didnt leave the money in his account to buy the car. Instead (and fairly quicky) he sent
some of that money onto himself. This isnt consistent with what hes told us he needed the
funds for.
Mr M sent £2,000 from the funds that had been identified as fraudulent to a third-party
company. I shall refer to this third-party as P. Mr M says P is a shipping company and that
he and his uncle needed to pay P for shipping the car. So, Ive looked into this further and
found that P is a company linked to his uncle. I cant see Mr M disclosed this link given the
business he says he was doing with his uncle. And I dont understand why the friendwouldnt have paid his uncle direct rather than for funds to pass through Mr Ms account in
this way, only for the funds to be paid to P (back to his uncle by way of his company). I think
this information is highly questionable.
In coming to my conclusion, Ive thought about the following relevant factors: Ive had regard
for the report of the fraud, what Mr M has said about what the money was to be used for, the
lack of any direct and persuasive evidence that supports the arrangement, the fact that the
funds werent then used for that purpose and the payments made to himself and P.
Santander should have asked further questions as per CIFASs guidance to its members.
But Im satisfied from looking at the evidence that if in possession of this information,
Santander would have still recorded the marker. And was therefore reasonably justified in
loading it. So, I dont think its treated Mr M unfairly and I dont think theres a basis for
asking it to remove the marker.
For completeness Im also satisfied Santander closed Mr Ms account in line with its terms
and conditions. So, I find it made no mistake. The agreement makes provision for Santander
to close the account where it considers its facility has been misused and I have already
outlined my conclusions about this aspect above.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I dont intend to uphold this complaint.
Mr M responded. In summary, he said:
- He didnt know P was a company linked to his uncle. He was shocked to learn this 
and had cut all ties with him. 
- His Santander account was the account registered with the auction site for buying 
cars. And hed made purchases using this account before. So, despite how it may 
seem, sending money immediately or otherwise upon receiving it could not in his 
view be seen as suspicious. 
- If he was complicit in what had happened, it wouldnt have impacted his health the 
way it did. 
Santander responded to say it didnt wish to add anything further. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint.  I adopt my provisional decision in full 
which sets out my findings but in addition to that I make the following points. 
Mr M has given detail about what he understood the funds were for. And hes referenced 
previous payments he made from his Santander account. But the funds in question were 
identified as fraudulent by a third-party bank and its key there isnt any contemporaneous 
evidence confirming the arrangement between him, his uncle and his uncles friend, about 
what he understood to be the purpose of the payments. 
Mr M believes hes been the victim of a scam and didnt know that in paying P for shipping 
he was paying his uncle. But I dont find this persuasive - theres no tangible evidence of him contacting his uncle about what happened and his response. Theres also no evidence a car 
was purchased yet money was paid for shipping. 
Ive no doubt Mr M health has suffered because of the loading and this is causing him 
difficulties but overall, having weighed the evidence, I dont think Santander has treated him 
unreasonably in recording information with CIFAS in the circumstances. It follows that I wont 
be asking Santander to remove the marker or reopen the account. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr M but this brings to an end our services review of this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2022.
 
Sarita Taylor
Ombudsman