DRN-3353369
The complaint
Mr C complains that Amtrust Europe Limited unfairly declined his claim under his legal 
expenses insurance policy. 
Any reference to Amtrust includes things said or done by its agent. 
What happened
Mr C has a legal expenses policy which is underwritten by Amtrust. 
Mr C had an escape of water at his property which resulted in documents being 
damaged.  
Mr C wanted to bring a claim against the utility provider to recover the costs of these 
documents. And he wanted a solicitor to value the documents so the loss could be 
quantified. 
Amtrust considered Mr Cs claim but said the circumstances did not constitute an 
insured incident. It said whilst there was cover for property damage this had to be in 
in respect of physical damage to your main home and did not include damage to 
contents.
Mr C disagreed and so brought a complaint to this service.  
An investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said Amtrusts decision to decline 
the claim was fair as there hadnt been an insured incident. 
Mr C remained unhappy and so the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken in to account the requirements set by the Regulator, which include that 
insurers must deal with claims promptly and fairly and must not unreasonably reject a claim. 
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and Ill explain why. 
The starting point is the policy document. Under the Family Legal Protection section of the 
policy, nine insured incidents are set out under what is covered  one of which is property 
damage which says: 
Advisers costs to pursue claims for financial compensation for damages against a 
person or organisation that causes physical damage to your main home []
Having read this, Im satisfied the policy makes it clear the damage must be in respect of 
physical damage to Mr Cs main home. As Mr Cs claim was for damage to contents  
namely, documents  Im satisfied Amtrust acted fairly when it declined Mr Cs claim based 
on there not having been an insured incident. 
Mr C said Amtrust told him there were additional terms and conditions which hadnt been 
included in the policy document. He thinks its unfair he didnt know about these. Having 
read Amtrusts final response letter to Mr C I dont consider this to be a fair reflection of its 
position. Amtrust hasnt said there were additional terms and conditions, rather it explained 
that it would be impossible for an insurance policy to cover and include every eventuality in a 
policy - and I agree. Whats key here is that the policy confirms what is covered and the 
respective exclusions. It wouldnt be fair or reasonable to infer that a particular scenario is 
covered based on it having not been expressly excluded in the policy  which is what Mr C 
is seeking to do here. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Cs argument that hes been unfairly treated by not knowing about 
additional terms and conditions because they do not, in fact, exist. While I know my decision 
will disappoint Mr C, I hope this is of some reassurance to him.
To summarise, Im satisfied the policy makes it clear which insured incidents are covered. As 
the circumstances of Mr Cs claim doesnt amount to an insured incident  because contents 
are not covered  Amtrust has acted fairly in declining his claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2022.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman