DRN-3970076
The complaint
Miss H complains that Marsh Finance Limited (MFL) acted irresponsibly when they provided 
her with car finance. Miss H says the lending was unaffordable.  
What happened
In February 2018 Miss H acquired a used car through a hire purchase agreement with MFL. 
The cash price of the car was £15,819. Miss H made a cash deposit of £100 and part 
exchanged a vehicle for £2,298.57. So, the total amount payable on the agreement was 
£13,420.43, over 36 repayments of £349.33, with an optional final payment of £6,279.
Miss H says that MFL didnt carryout the necessary affordability checks before lending her 
the finance, which meant she was unable to afford the repayments and had to give the car 
up. Miss H says the situation has negatively impacted her credit file.
In April 2022, Miss H complained to MFL, and in May 2022 MFL issued their final response. 
MFL didnt uphold Miss Hs complaint. They said they carried out the necessary checks 
required to assess her affordability and creditworthiness, which included a validation call 
where Miss Hs ability to sustain the repayments were discussed, and it was found that the 
lending was affordable for her. MFL concluded that at some point later a change in 
circumstances impacted Miss Hs ability to make the required payments.
MFL explained that from August 2018 they made a number of attempts to contact Miss H as 
they noted a decline in her ability to maintain her monthly repayments. However, the arrears 
on the account continued. 
Unhappy with their decision Miss H brought her complaint to our service for investigation. 
Having considered all the information on file our investigator recommended that the 
complaint should be upheld. Our investigator concluded that although MFL had carried out 
proportionate checks, they felt MFL should have carried out some further investigation with 
the information theyd been given. 
MFL disagreed with our investigators view. They believed they carried out the necessary 
and available checks in line with the guidance set out by the financial conduct authority 
(FCA). They said it was a change in circumstances rather than their irresponsible lending 
that made the lending affordable for Miss H.
MFL asked that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, Ive thought about all the evidence and 
information provided afresh and the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance 
and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. 
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
The agreement in this case is a regulated hire purchase agreement. As such, this service is 
able to consider complaints relating to it. 
The regulatory framework in place at the time Miss Hs finance was provided requires MFL 
to have carried out a proportionate and reasonable assessment, based on sufficient 
information, of whether Miss H could afford to repay her loan with in a sustainable manner.
MFL was required to follow the rules and guidance set out in the FCAs Consumer Credit 
Sourcebook (CONC).
CONC says that lenders need to carry out checks to ensure any lending it gives is affordable 
and sustainable for the borrower. This is often referred to as an affordability check. This 
check should be borrower-focussed. This means MFL needed to think about whether Miss 
H could afford the borrowing, not just how statistically likely she was to repay it back. The 
thoroughness of the checks MFL carried out needed to be proportionate to the situation. 
In deciding what was proportionate MFL ought to have considered the following (but not 
limited to):
The size and duration of the loan 
The overall cost of the borrowing and the size of the repayments; and 
Miss Hs personal circumstances
The total amount repayable under the agreement was around £13,420, with monthly 
repayments of £349.43 over a three-year term. This was therefore a relatively sizeable and 
lengthy credit commitment for someone to enter into. My starting point therefore is that a 
reasonable and proportionate affordability check ought to have been thorough.
In their final response MFL said at the time of the application they checked a number of 
pieces of information in relation to Miss Hs finance application. They said that shed met the 
criteria and affordability for the loan. MFL also confirmed they carried out a validation call 
where Miss H said she wasnt aware of any forth coming circumstances that would affect her 
ability to maintain the loan. 
MFL provided a copy of the information they reviewed as part of the checks they carried out. 
And having considered this, Im satisfied the checks carried out by MFL were proportionate 
for the type and size of loan that was given.  MFL were able to consider Miss Hs income, 
expenditure and credit history. I think its reasonable to say that MFL were able to make a 
fair lending decision from the checks they did.  
As Ive found the checks carried out by MFL were proportionate, Ive gone on to consider 
whether MFL made a fair lending decision based on the information it had.
On an enquiry and proposal form MFL noted Miss H as living with parents. MFL told our 
investigator that this was based on the information theyd been given.  I think this is key because when calculating affordability MFL said they didnt consider many household bills 
such as rent or council tax. 
Having reviewed Miss Hs bank statements for the month prior to the lending being given, I 
can see there are a number of regular debits going through Miss Hs account, this is in 
addition to what looks like significant payments to lenders. I think some of the debits are 
likely to be household commitments such as to a property management company, food 
shopping, TV subscriptions and a TV licence. I dont think its certain to say that Miss H was 
living alone at the time of application.
Having considered an average of Miss Hs monthly income, in the three months leading up 
to the inception of the agreement against her regular monthly commitments, Im satisfied 
Miss Hs disposable income wasnt sufficient to cover the new monthly repayments of the 
agreement,  let alone any additional outgoings that may not have been captured on Miss Hs 
bank statement. So, all things considered Im not persuaded the lending decision by MFL 
was a fair one.
Had MFL given further consideration of Miss Hs bank statement and explored her monthly 
expenditure, Im persuaded they would have considered the lending as set out in the 
agreement, was not affordable for her.  
I acknowledge MFL advised a change in circumstances was the likely cause of Miss H 
finding the agreement to be unaffordable. However, although I dont dispute that Miss H had 
a change in circumstances some months after entering into the agreement, Im persuaded 
the lending was unaffordable from its inception. 
I also acknowledge that a validation call was made to Miss H by MFL wherein Miss H gave 
assurances that the lending was sustainable, however I dont think that negates their 
responsibility to do further checks as described above.
As Ive found that MFL were not acting fairly when they decided to lend to Miss H, I think 
they need to put things right for her.
Having reviewed MFL system notes I can see that Miss H voluntarily surrendered her car in 
May 2019, however her last full repayment of £349 was made in February 2019. And up to 
when the car was collected in May 2019, the statement of accounts and system notes 
provided by MFL, show that Miss H was in arrears of about four months repayments, despite 
having possession of the car.
Miss H entered into a repayment plan from December 2019 with her repayments ranging 
from £30 - £60, for most months up to May 2022, when she brought her complaint to our 
service. I think this was fair considering she had use of the car for around four months up to 
when the vehicle was surrendered, without having made any repayments 
All things considered; I dont think itd be reasonable to ask MFL to refund any of the 
repayments Miss H made under the repayment plan. Thats because its fair that Miss H 
pays for the time she had use of the car. In addition, although Miss H may have repaid 
slightly less than the value of four monthly repayments from May 2019, I wont be asking 
Miss H to repay anything more, particularly in consideration that the finance was 
irresponsibly leant in the first instance. Im satisfied that any shortfall fairly recognises any 
inconvenience caused to Miss H as a result of this.  In the circumstances, as Miss H no longer has the car, Ill be instructing MFL to clear the 
outstanding balance on the account, and refund Miss Hs deposit along with all interest, fees 
and charges paid. MFL will need to remove all adverse information recorded on Miss Hs 
credit file in relation to this agreement and pay 8% simple interest on all refunds. 
My final decision
Having thought about everything above along with what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances, I uphold this complaint and instruct Marsh Finance Ltd to:
Clear the outstanding balance remaining from on Miss Hs hire purchase agreement
Refund to Miss H her deposit, including any part exchanged amount not used to 
settle any existing finance
Refund all interest, fees and charges Miss H has paid in relation to this agreement
Remove any adverse information that may have been recorded with the credit 
reference agencies in respect of the agreement
Pay 8% yearly simple interest on all refunds calculated from the date of payment to 
the date of settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 July 2023.
 
Benjamin John
Ombudsman