DRN-2477347
The complaint
Mr O is unhappy that Assicurazioni Generali SpA (AGS) declined a claim under a group 
income protection insurance policy which he had the benefit of.
What happened
In February 2018, Mr O became absent from work and was signed off by his GP with 
chronic fatigue syndrome / extreme tiredness. I will refer to chronic fatigue syndrome as 
CFS. 
Up until that time, Mr O had been working reduced hours and on restricted duties. He had 
the benefit of a group income protection policy (the policy) through his then employer which 
could pay out a portion of his income after hed been off work for 52 weeks (the deferred 
period). 
Mr O returned to work in April 2018 on reduced hours and restricted duties. This continued 
until past the end of the deferred period: February 2019. A claim was made under the policy 
in January 2019 and AGS said it would consider a claim for a proportionate benefit.
AGS declined Mr Os claim on the basis that he didnt meet the policy definition of 
incapacity throughout the deferred period.  Mr O didnt think that was fair, so he appealed 
AGS decision. His appeal was unsuccessful. 
Unhappy, Mr O complained to our Service. Our investigator didnt uphold his complaint. 
Based on all the available evidence, our investigator felt that AGS had fairly and reasonably 
declined Mr Os claim. 
Mr O disagrees, so his complaint has now been passed to me to look at everything afresh 
and to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold it. I know Mr O will be very disappointed with my decision and 
I dont doubt hes been through a very difficult time over several years. My decision is in no 
way intended to be dismissive of the health issues hes suffered. But for the reasons below, I 
dont think AGS has unfairly declined the claim.
AGS has a duty to handle complaints promptly and fairly  and it mustnt unreasonably 
decline a claim. 
The policy can pay out a proportion of a members income if they become incapacitated and 
are unable to work. Under the policy incapacity is defined as follows:
as a result of illness or injury the member is incapable of performing the material and 
substantial duties of their occupation, and they are not carrying out any other work or 
occupation.
Material and substantial duties are defined as: 
duties that are normally required for the performance of a members occupation and 
cannot reasonably be omitted or modified by their Employer.
So, the focus is very much on whether Mr O was unable to perform the role he was doing 
because of illness. And when making a claim under the group income protection policy, its 
for Mr O to show that he meets the definition of incapacity. 
Im not a medical expert, so Ive relied on the evidence available to me when considering 
whether AGS has unfairly declined Mr Os claim. 
Mr Os claim form dated November 2018 reflects he was unable to work full time hours, as 
per his contract of employment, due to CFS. He explained that he fell asleep often; 
sometimes every three hours. He said his condition had deteriorated and he struggled to 
carry out basic tasks such as housework. He said he felt constantly fatigued and worn out. 
He said he struggled to stand and the most he could walk was 100 yards; he had to then 
stop because his muscles burned and ached.
Ive also seen an occupational health report dated November 2018, so part way through the 
deferred period. It concludes that Mr O was undertaking a three hour shift each working day 
and that Mr O says hes unable to increase the number of hours he can work. In the 
occupational health managers opinion, Mr O was unable to return to his full contractual role 
going forwards.  
Theres not much mention of how CFS was affecting Mr Os functionality in his GP records 
from February 2018 to November 2018, other than in June 2018, where its noted:
fatigue + muscle aches after minor tasks, calfs and legs bad yesterday on walking.
resolve with rest 10 mins - 1 hour.
AGS did contact Mr Os GP in January 2019 for further information. And the GP report it 
received, dated 28 February 2019, reflects that Mr O had reported tiredness and fatigue. 
However, the GP couldnt answer questions about Mr Os functionality and ability to carry out 
certain activities such as walking, sitting, standing and lifting. 
Further, much of the other medical evidence Ive seen, particularly during the deferred 
period, sets out Mr Os symptoms as self-reported by him to various medical professionals. 
The symptoms as reported arent inconsistent; there is mention of Mr O having an 
overwhelming sensation to fall asleep after four hours, experiencing a restless leg and 
having difficulty walking short distances without experiencing pain and fatigue. And I can 
also see that he was referred for multiple scans and to various medical professionals. But it 
doesnt look like he underwent many medical examinations to assess the impact his health 
issues were having on him during the deferred period, in order to corroborate what he was 
saying.  
For example, Mr Os consultant neurologist (the neurologist) comments on Mr Os muscle 
pain in November 2018. The neurologist said that this had been ongoing for two years and 
came on very quickly, if not immediately, during exercise. And that Mr O described pain in 
his arms, legs and back. AGS wrote to the neurologist in January 2019 asking them to comment on several issues, 
including Mr Os future medical prognosis and functionally. The neurologists reply, dated 
February 2019, reflects that Mr O had very troublesome muscle pain but they were unable 
to answer many of the questions posed by AGS and didnt comment on Mr Os functionality. 
As a result, I dont think its unreasonable that AGS asked Mr O to undergo a chronic pain 
ability determination (CPAD) assessment over two days in May 2019. The CPAD 
assessment was undertaken by an experienced osteopath and qualified functional capacity 
evaluator (the evaluator).  
The report that was subsequently produced says the purpose of the assessment was to 
explore Mr Os physical and cognitive abilities in addition to restrictions and limitations. And 
to compare these to the functional requirements of his own occupation, according to the 
various CPAD protocols.
It goes on to say: on the assumption that a person provides reliable and consistent effort 
during the CPAD assessment it is possible, using the detailed protocols contained within the 
assessment, to objectively determine the level of functional ability and therefore fitness for 
work. 
However, the evaluator concluded that Mr O performed with evidence of significant symptom 
exaggeration and poor reliability of effort in the physical and cognitive tests on both days of 
the CPAD. Therefore, they said Mr Os demonstrated level of function cannot be relied upon 
to reflect what he is truly capable of performing, and the CPAD results cannot be used to 
infer any barriers preventing him from returning to his normal role.
Given the contents and conclusions of this report  and in light of the available medical 
evidence during the deferred period - I dont think AGS has unreasonably concluded that the 
medical evidence doesnt support the severe level of restrictions Mr O set out in his claim 
form. So, Im satisfied that its fairly concluded that Mr O wasnt incapacitated, as defined by 
the policy, throughout the deferred period. And Im not persuaded that it has unfairly or 
unreasonably declined Mr Os claim. 
When making this finding Ive taken into account all comments made by Mr O carefully, 
including what he says about the results of the CAPD assessment being all over the place 
because he lives with more than one medical condition and it didnt assess the extent of his 
fatigue. However, Im persuaded that it was fair and reasonable for AGS to rely on the 
conclusions of the evaluator when deciding whether to accept his claim. Particularly given 
there was little to indicate in his medical records during the deferred period, that his 
functionality had been assessed by a medical professional. It is for Mr O to show that he met 
the policy definition of incapacity.
Ive also considered the medical evidence Mr Os provided from after the date on which his 
claim was declined by AGS and that his employment has subsequently been terminated by 
the policyholder on the basis that hes unable to fulfil his duties. However, Im less 
persuaded by the more recent medical evidence as its not from the deferred period and Ive 
placed more weight on what was reported and reflected in the medical records from the time. 
I understand why Mr O has highlighted the reason why he has been dismissed by the 
policyholder. But Im not convinced it automatically follows that because the policyholder 
deemed Mr O to be unable to fulfil his contractual duties, that the claim under the policy 
should succeed.  Its reasonable for his claim to be assessed against the policy terms. And 
for the reasons already set out above, Im satisfied that AGS has fairly applied the definition 
of incapacity and having considered the totality of the medical evidence, it has reasonably 
concluded that Mr O didnt meet that definition. My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Os complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2021.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman