DRN-3180606
The complaint
Mr T complains about the way MCE Insurance Company Limited (MCE) have dealt with his 
motorcycle insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr T obtained an online quote for motorcycle insurance for himself and his partner. He had
some queries about the policy so telephoned MCE. He told them that his partner had a
provisional licence and had not yet taken her compulsory basic training. MCE told Mr T that
this was fine. Mr T then went ahead with the policy and paid a premium of £107.
Mr T didnt receive his policy documents, so rang MCE on 13 April 2021. They had an
incorrect email address for him and so the documents were re-sent. Mr T then telephoned
MCE to say that there was a mistake in the policy as it said his partner had a full driving
licence. MCE said that as Mr Ts partner had not completed the basic training and only had a
provisional licence, they would not insure her. She would not be covered under the policy.
Mr T received a cancellation letter the same day informing him that his policy would be
cancelled in seven days as he had deliberately provided incorrect information.
Mr Ts partner was due to undertake her basic training the following day so Mr T immediately
arranged motorcycle hire so that his partner could do the training. Once she had done the
training MCE agreed to add her on to the policy for an additional premium of £135.27. MCE
say they told Mr T that if he didnt wish to pay this, he could cancel the policy himself. Mr T
says that he felt pressurised into paying the additional premium to avoid his policy being
cancelled by MCE and having this negatively recorded on his insurance history. He also said
that had he known the true cost of the policy in the first place, he would not have taken it out.
Mr T complained to MCE as he felt the service he had received had been poor. He asked for
a refund of his premiums and the cost of his motorcycle hire. MCE upheld his complaint and
offered him £100 compensation and £40 for the motorcycle hire. They said they would not
offer a full refund of the premiums as they had provided insurance and continued to
indemnify Mr T. Mr T wasnt happy with this and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator looked into this matter and upheld Mr Ts complaint. He said that MCEs
offer of compensation reflected the initial mistakes when the policy was first taken out but
didnt properly reflect the conflicting information provided when the policy was cancelled. He
said that MCE should pay an additional £150 for distress and inconvenience.
MCE didnt accept our investigators view and asked for the matter to be considered by an
ombudsman. They said that the compensation was fair and that Mr T was not out of pocket
as they had refunded the hire costs. They said that Mr T was aware of his option to cancel
the policy himself as this was discussed in one of the telephone calls.  
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 29 October 2021. I said:
MCE accept that mistakes were made during their initial telephone call with Mr T. However, 
I dont think their offer of compensation fairly reflects what took place.
Mr T obtained his online quote from a price comparison site. He says that he chose MCE as
they came out on top for price. He was concerned, however, that the online form did not
allow him to enter that his partner had a provisional licence and had not taken her basic
training. He ticked the box saying licence not obtained yet  and rang to check this was
correct. He therefore took what I consider to be reasonable steps to check this information
with MCE. I have listened to his call, and it is clear that Mr T explained his concerns and was
reassured that his application was fine. His premium remained the same, so he proceeded
to pay for the policy.
MCE were later told by Mr T of the mistakes that had been made when setting up the policy.
They initially said that these mistakes were Mr Ts fault, although later accepted that Mr T
had disclosed this information during his initial call with MCE. Im satisfied that MCEs
mistakes led to the policy being set up incorrectly.
MCE then removed Mr Ts partner from the policy as they said they would never have
insured her as she hadnt completed the basic training. After she had completed the training
two days later, they agreed to add her back on as a provisional driving licence holder. They
then recalculated the cost of the policy and charged Mr T an additional premium of £135.27.
MCE say that Mr Ts original quote was on the basis that his partner had a full UK driving
licence, rather than a provisional licence. Had the correct information been provided
originally the premium would have been higher by £135.27, and it was therefore reasonable
for them to charge the additional premium.
I dont think this was fair. Mr T entered into the original policy on the basis of the price
quoted by MCE, and it was this that induced him to accept the policy. He says he would not
have taken out the policy had he known the real cost. He provided the correct information to
MCE, but they did not record it properly. This resulted in the policy being under-priced. In
these circumstances, this service thinks it fair for the business to honour the original price it
quoted and agreed when the consumer took the policy out. This is because the price of
policies change and fluctuate constantly so its unlikely that a business could say what the
exact price would be had the correct information be recorded at the time. I therefore think it
reasonable for the additional premium of £135.27 to be refunded to Mr T.
MCE have offered to cover the cost of the motorcycle hire, and I think this is fair. MCEs
mistake meant that Mr Ts partner was not insured to ride his motorcycle at the time of her
basic training. This cost Mr T £40 for motorcycle hire.
I also have to consider compensation for distress and inconvenience. I know that MCE have
offered £100 compensation for the overall service that they provided, and I need to consider
whether this is fair.
Ive listened to the calls made by Mr T on 13 April 2021 and it is clear that Mr T was upset by
the mistakes that had been made by MCE. I note that it took three calls to rectify his email
address, and that this meant that he did not receive a copy of his policy documents for over
two weeks. MCE say that the policy documents were available on their online portal and Ive
seen a screenshot showing this. However, Mr T says he wasnt aware of this and Ive seen
nothing to suggest that he was. Had he been, I think it unlikely that he would have phoned to
chase up his documents.
I note that after the calls with MCE on 13 April 2021, Mr T had less than a day to organise
the motorcycle hire for his partner. I accept that Mr T will not be out of pocket but having to
organise this at short notice caused inconvenience.Ive read the cancellation letter sent to Mr T on 13 April 2021. He was told that he had
deliberately provided incorrect information and that his policy would be cancelled in seven
days. MCE have said that this was a standard letter, but I think it would have been
reasonable for the letter to include a proper explanation for the cancellation, and to explain
to Mr T what his options were. I accept that Mr T found this letter distressing as it implied
that he had deliberately done something wrong, which was not the case.
Mr T also says that having been told he had deliberately given false information he was
reluctant to use his motorcycle during the complaint process. He says he was worried that if
the complaint went against him, the policy would not be effective. I accept that Mr T was told
on the telephone that his policy covered him to use his motorcycle, but I also understand Mr
Ts concerns. I think if MCE had properly confirmed the position in writing, this would have
gone some way to reassuring Mr T that his policy was effective.
Following the cancellation letter, Mr T had further phone calls with MCE. Although I havent
been sent all these calls Ive listened to calls when Mr T discussed the cancellation and
additional premium. I found the information given to Mr T confusing. He was clearly upset
and I think MCE should have taken the time to explain things more clearly. Mr T was initially
told that he could cancel the policy himself but was later led to believe that cancellation
would have a negative impact on his insurance record. Mr T was keen to avoid this so
agreed to pay the additional premium pf £135.27. As Ive stated above, I dont think this was
fair, but I also think that Mr T was caused additional distress by the confusing and conflicting
information provided.
Mr T spent a lot of time on the telephone trying to sort out his policy. Ive listened to five of
those calls and they total over two hours. Im aware that there were other calls too, and Im
satisfied that this must have been a considerable inconvenience for Mr T.
For the reasons stated above, I intend to require MCE to pay Mr T a total of £200
compensation for distress and inconvenience. I think this is fair. This includes the £100 that
MCE have offered, so if this has already been paid, it should be deducted from the
compensation payment.
Responses to my provisional decision
MCE commented that when Mr T completed his insurance application, he selected the 
option that his partner had a full UK licence. They said that they would not provide cover for 
someone who did not hold a licence.
Mr T thought that the full premium should be refunded because of MCEs poor service and 
the fact that he hadnt been using his motorcycle as he was unsure that his policy would be 
effective. He also provided a copy of a screenshot showing that he ticked the box Licence 
not obtained yet, and photos of his motorcycle.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken on board the additional information provided by both Mr T and MCE, but I havent 
seen anything new that changes my mind. 
There appears to be a disagreement between MCE and Mr T over which box he selected 
when referring to his partners driving licence. However, whichever box he ticked, Mr T telephoned MCE to explain the position and to check he had completed the application 
correctly. He provided the correct information regarding his partners licence during the call, 
so MCE were aware of the true position.
I understand that Mr T feels strongly that he has lost out as he didnt use his new motorcycle 
because of his concern that his policy wasnt effective. However, as Ive explained above, Mr 
T had the benefit of his policy whether he chose to use his motorcycle or not, and I dont 
think it would be fair for the full policy cost to be refunded.
My final decision and reasoning therefore remain the same as in my provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ts complaint and require MCE Insurance Company 
Limited to:
1. refund the sum of £135.27 to Mr T, plus interest at the rate of 8% from the date Mr T
made the payment to the date the sum is refunded to him;
2. pay Mr T the sum of £40 for the motorcycle hire, provided this has not already been
paid, plus interest at the rate of 8% from the date Mr T made the payment to the date
the sum is refunded to him; and
3. pay a total of £200 compensation, less any compensation already paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2021.
 
Elizabeth Middleton
Ombudsman