DRN-1122160
 
The complaint
Mr M complains that Pinnacle Insurance Plc declined his pet insurance claim. My references 
to Pinnacle include its agents.
What happened
Mr M took out pet insurance for his cat though an on-line comparison website. The policy 
started on 4 April 2019. At the end of April 2019  his cat had vet treatment for Cat Fight  
torn conjuctiva and Mr M made a claim.
Pinnacle declined the claim. Mr Ms cats vets notes showed the cat had been treated for 
other cat fighting injuries before the policy started. Pinnacle said Mr M should have told it 
about the previous treatment in response to the information he was asked to give when he 
bought the policy. Had he done so Pinnacle would have added a policy exclusion for cat fight 
injury. Pinnacle added the exclusion, backdated to the start of the policy, and declined the 
claim under the exclusion.
Mr M complained to us. He said he didnt consider cat fighting to be a pre-existing condition, 
the cats fighting injuries in 2018 were minor and he hadnt made a claim on his previous 
insurance. He thought it unfair for pet insurers to ask for the pets medical history only when 
a claim was made as it didnt give consumers certainty about what would be covered.
Mr M wants Pinnacle to pay the claim and for pet policies to be fully underwritten at 
quotation stage, not after a claim.
Ultimately our investigator thought Pinnacle fairly declined the claim. She explained insurers 
generally underwrite pet policies based on consumers answers to questions asked when 
buying the policy. An insurer generally offers cover on the basis of the consumer providing 
correct information.
Mr M disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Were not a regulator and I cant tell insurers to underwrite their policies in a certain way, for 
example to always ask for a pets medical history before giving a quote for a policy. Our 
investigator correctly explained the basis of underwriting for most pet insurance policies. 
I dont uphold this complaint. I have to decide whether Pinnacle fairly and reasonably 
declined Mr Ms claim in his circumstances, and I think it did. Ill explain why.
Theres been correspondence between Mr M, Pinnacle and our investigator about whether 
cat fighting injuries are a pre-existing condition as defined by the policy.But Pinnacle declined the claim because it says that if Mr M had correctly answered the 
questions he was asked when he took out the policy it would have added a specific 
exclusion for cat fight injury. Pinnacle added, backdated and applied the specific exclusion to 
decline the claim. It didnt primarily rely on the pre-existing condition exclusion.
Our approach follows the relevant law, Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012. Very briefly, we generally think its fair for an insurer to add and 
apply exclusions retrospectively if on the sale of the policy: the consumer was asked clear 
questions; the consumer didnt take reasonable care in the answers; the insurer can show 
that had it known the correct information it would have entered into the insurance contract on 
different terms, or not at all.
Mr M bought the policy though a comparison website which asked him Do you need to 
cover any pre-existing medical conditions for (your cat) under this policy?. Mr M has referred 
to that question in saying he couldnt be expected to know he was supposed to tell Pinnacle 
about his cats previous fighting injuries. If that had been the only question about his cats 
health I might well have agreed with Mr M.
But when a consumer selects this policys quote, as Mr M did, he was taken to a  quote 
summary page. Pinnacle has provided the relevant screenshots of what he would have seen 
at the time he took out the policy (which weve sent to Mr M). Assumptions were presented 
to Mr M and he was asked to confirm the assumptions were correct or he could edit them if 
not.
Mr M was asked to confirm if the following was correct:
Your cat has never shown any signs of illness or injury. This includes anything you have 
discussed with your vet or any other professional about (your cats) health or behaviour. 
Even if there was nothing to be concerned about or the issue was resolved quickly.
The information Pinnacle asked him to confirm, or not, is clear and specific and in effect a 
question. Mr M ticked to confirm that information as being correct.
As the vet records show Mr M discussed his cats fighting injuries with the vet in 2016, 2017 
and 2018 I think Mr M should have reasonably known he couldnt confirm the above as 
being correct. I dont think he took reasonable care when he confirmed the above 
information as being correct. Where Mr M ticked to confirm the assumptions there was a 
warning that any inaccurate information he gave may mean a claim isnt paid.
By the assumptions theres an edit button. I think Mr M should have reasonably selected 
that button. If hed done so he would have seen the following question:
Has your cat shown any signs of illness or injury? This includes anything you have 
discussed with your vet or any other professional about your cats health or behaviour. Even 
if there was nothing to be concerned about or the problem was resolved quickly. He was 
given a yes/no choice. 
Mr Ms reasonable response to the question would have been yes. He would then have been 
asked to give details about any injuries or illness his cat had already had which should have 
included his cats previous injuries from fighting.
Pinnacles underwriting guidance says if it had known Mr Ms cat had previous cat fighting 
injuries it would have added a specific exclusion for cat fight injury from the start of the 
policy. Im satisfied that Pinnacle fairly and reasonably added that exclusion and used the 
exclusion to decline the claim.As I think Pinnacle fairly added and relied on the exclusion to decline the claim I dont need 
to decide whether Pinnacle could have also fairly said injuries from cat fighting fell into the 
pre-existing condition exclusion.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10July2020.
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman