DRN-4085150
The complaint
Miss K has complained that HDI Global Specialty SE (HDI) has rejected her claim for the 
cost of treatment for her dog on the ground that his condition was pre-existing at the start of 
Miss Ks policy. Shes also unhappy about the time it took HDI to assess her claim.
What happened
In November 2021, Miss K fostered a dog from Romania. Ill refer to her dog as F. She 
formally adopted him in January 2022.
In July 2022, when F was having his nails cut, the veterinary nurse noticed that F had some 
warts outside his genitals. Miss K says shed been aware of these warts since shed had him 
and they hadnt got any bigger since she first noticed them. F wasnt troubled by them nor 
was he in any pain or discomfort. The nurse recommended that the warts be checked out by 
the vet. 
In early August 2022, a CT scan by specialist vets showed that the warts were a mast cell 
tumour (MCT). It also showed an increase in size of one of Fs lymph nodes. Treatment 
options and potential complications were then discussed. 
On 9 September, Miss K was given an estimate of £2,500 - £3,000 for Fs surgery in addition 
to the £2,000 that shed already incurred to the vets. As F was insured with HDI, Miss K was 
happy to go ahead with the necessary treatment.
Fs MCT was removed on 9 September 2022. This included the removal of inguinal lymph 
nodes. Miss K  has been charged around £6,000 for Fs veterinary treatment  which she 
claimed from HDI.
HDI asked for Fs clinical history from his primary vets, but this wasnt received by HDI until 
24 January 2023 which delayed the assessment of the two claims Miss K submitted. The 
claims were assessed on 25 January 2023.
HDI rejected Miss Ks claims. It stated that Fs medical history confirmed that the MCT had 
been present since Miss K acquired F, which Miss K had confirmed. It referred her to the 
term of her policy which states, under General Exclusions, that it doesnt cover pre-existing 
conditions, defined as:
Any illness or injury or complication directly resulting from an injury or illness, whether 
diagnosed or undiagnosed that has been identified or investigated by a vet or is otherwise 
known to you prior to the start of the insurance or within the first 14 days of the policy for 
illness or 24 hours in the case of injury.
HDI accepts that this makes no reference to signs and/or symptoms but does refer to what 
was known to Miss K prior to the start of her insurance or within the first 14 days thereafter.
As Miss K wasnt happy with HDIs rejection of her claims and the delay in the handling of 
them, she brought her complaint to this service. 
Our investigators view was that although Miss K had been aware of the presence of Fs 
warts before the policy was taken out, she wouldnt have reasonably thought the warts were 
an illness or injury that she would need to claim for in the future. There was nothing recorded 
in the health/medical history section of Fs adoption contract of 17 December 2021, or in Fs 
veterinary history prior to 18 July 2022. No concerns had been expressed about Fs warts by 
any of the vets who had examined F. Her conclusion was that it wasnt fair of HDI to treat Fs 
treatment as arising from a pre-existing condition.
HDI doesnt agree with our investigators view and has asked that the complaint be referred 
to an ombudsman. Its therefore been referred to me for a final decision from this service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding Miss Ks complaint and Ill explain why.
Ive had regard to the exclusion upon which HDI relies, which Ive quoted above. Ive also 
considered what it is reasonable for Miss K to have known.
The warts that Miss K accepts that she was aware of before she took out her policy hadnt 
been identified or investigated by a vet prior to the start of the insurance policy nor was 
there any reason why Miss K wouldve known that they were connected with any illness. The 
charity from whom she had acquired F had said that he was healthy, and her contract states 
that all dogs that they home are fully vet checked and treated for prior diseases before 
travel, although the possibility of latent disorders couldnt be excluded.
Miss K also had the confirmation of a Romanian vet who said that hed examined F a few 
times and no lesions or any morphological modifications in the genital area were seen. 
I consider that had it not been for the veterinary nurse noticing the warts and advising that 
they be looked at by the vet, Miss K wouldnt have felt the need to refer them to a vet as they 
werent getting any bigger or giving any cause for concern and warts wouldnt generally be 
regarded as an illness.
I consider that this supports a lack of awareness on the part of Miss K as to F potentially 
having an underlying illness. And Miss Ks state of knowledge is one of the requirements 
within the definition of a pre-existing condition.  
Im therefore satisfied that Miss K had no reason to believe that F had a pre-existing 
condition, and Fs medical records give no suggestion of one existing before the start of the 
policy or within 14 days thereafter.
Im therefore concluding that HDI has acted unfairly in rejecting Miss Ks claims.
As to the delay in HDIs assessment of Miss Ks claims, I consider that there appears to 
have been a breakdown in communication between HDI, Miss K and the two veterinary 
practices, the result of which was that HDI didnt receive Fs full medical records from his 
primary vet until 24 January 2023. Having received these,  HDI assessed Miss Ks claims 
the following day, declining them.
I therefore dont consider it fair to treat Miss Ks claim as capable of being assessed until 24 
January 2023 when HDI received the full medical records that it needed in order to do so. I  therefore think its fair to treat 24 January 2023 as the date on which Miss K submitted her 
claim for the purposes of an award of interest. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above Im upholding Miss Ks complaint. I require HDI Global 
Specialty SE:
1. to settle Miss Ks claims subject to any other terms and condition of her policy. This 
should be by payment directly to Miss K as she has already paid the vets.
2. to pay interest on the sum so paid at the simple rate of 8% from 24 January 2023 
until payment is made to her.
If HDI Global Specialty SE considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Miss K how much its taken off. It 
should also give Miss K a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one so she can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 July 2023.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman