DRN-3046887
The complaint
Mr F has complained about PRA Group (UK) Limited pursuing him for a debt.
What happened
This complaint is about an overdraft debt which defaulted in 2014, then was sold from the 
original creditor (L) to PRA Group in 2017. At the time, another company  W  was 
managing the debt on PRA Groups behalf, and Mr F was paying W £1 a month.
In June 2018, the payments stopped. In July 2018, W returned the management of the 
account to PRA Group. PRA Group tried texting, calling, and writing to Mr F using the 
contact details they had, but they didnt get a response. In January 2019, PRA Group got a 
county court judgement (CCJ) against him.
PRA Group tried to enforce the judgement, but the bailiff couldnt find Mr F. So in October 
2020, PRA Group carried out an address trace. They found a different address for Mr F and 
wrote to him there.
Mr F got that letter, and explained theyd been writing to the wrong address this whole time  
so he hadnt known theyd been chasing him. He thought hed given them his new address, 
as hed given it to other creditors. He explained hed continued to make repayments to all his 
debts as far as he was aware  including making payments to W for an account originally 
from L. He disputed the balance, as it had only been around £1,500 back in 2013. He was 
also unhappy that PRA Group had got a CCJ, and felt they hadnt made enough efforts to 
get in touch with him beforehand.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. They 
explained we could only consider what PRA Group had done before the CCJ, and we didnt 
have the jurisdiction to tell them to set aside the judgement or adjust the balance. They 
looked at the records of the account and confirmed that Mr F had stopped paying it in 2018, 
and that PRA Group had tried a large number of times to get in touch with him using several 
methods. They couldnt find any evidence that Mr F had given his updated address to W 
before they passed the debt back to PRA Group, nor to PRA Group after that. And the L 
account hed recently been paying via W was a different account, rather than this one.
Mr F reiterated hed given W his new address, as theyd written to it regarding other 
accounts. He pointed out hed paid towards all his other debts, so he questioned why hed 
deliberately leave this one out. He asked for an ombudsman to look at his case afresh, so 
the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I sent Mr F and PRA Group a provisional decision on 16 August 2021, to explain why 
I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
Based on what Ive seen so far, I dont think I can fairly tell PRA Group to do anything further 
 Ill explain why.
As our investigator explained, we are only allowed to consider complaints about regulated 
activities  such as collecting a debt under a credit agreement. But once a business gets a 
county court judgement, its no longer collecting a debt under a credit agreement  the 
agreement effectively merges into the judgement. Instead, it can only attempt to recover the 
money by enforcing the judgement  and enforcing judgements is not a regulated activity. 
Were also generally not able to make decisions about issues that have already been dealt 
with in court.
That means I cant consider whether PRA Group were right to get the CCJ or not, and I dont 
have the power to set aside the CCJ or adjust the balance. I can see that PRA Group have 
given Mr F the contact details for the County Court Business Centre if he wants to dispute 
the CCJ.
With that said, I am able to look at whether PRA Group were trying to collect the right 
balance before they got the CCJ. And from the evidence Ive got, Im satisfied that they 
were. Understandably, Mr F questioned how the overdraft had increased so much since 
2013. Thats because he was still using that L current account for another year after that  it 
didnt default until 2014. And in the meantime, between his spending and Ls fees, the 
balance increased to £3,154.59. Ill send Mr F the bank statements so he can see how the 
balance got to there.
I understand Mr F also disputes some of the fees that L added. But thats about what L did 
before PRA Group owned the account, so I cant hold PRA Group responsible for what 
happened there. I understand L have now offered to refund some of the fees involved.
By the time L sold the debt to PRA Group, Mr F had got the balance down from £3,154.59 to 
£2,917.55. Then L forwarded PRA Group three £1 payments hed made, which brought the 
balance to £2,914.55. Mr F continued to make £1 payments to W, who passed them to PRA 
Group. His last payment was in June 2018, bringing the balance to £2,902.55. PRA Group 
did not add any interest or fees, and this was the same balance they claimed in the CCJ.
After that, there were some fees added for the court proceedings and warrant. But Im not 
able to consider those, as theyre in relation to the court judgement and what happened 
after. If Mr F wants to dispute those, hed need to do so with the county court.
Mr F sent us evidence hed made payments to W regarding a former L account. But Im 
afraid that was a different account, with a different account reference and balance to this 
one. That account was sold to a different company (C), and not PRA Group. As far as I can 
see, Mr Fs payments for this account ended in June 2018. Though of course, if Mr F has 
evidence he made payments towards this PRA Group debt after June 2018, then I would be 
grateful if he could send that in response to this provisional decision before deadline, and Ill 
be happy to reconsider this point. In the meantime, Ill send him the payment history.
So while I appreciate why Mr F was surprised to learn about the balance, Im currently 
satisfied it was correct.In terms of PRA Groups contact with Mr F, I can certainly appreciate it would have been 
frustrating to learn theyd been writing to the wrong address. Ive gone through the records of 
Mr Fs contact with both PRA Group and W, and I cant see that he ever gave them his new 
address for this account. I understand that W have his up-to-date address now, as they write 
to it about other accounts. But I can see that back in 2018, W were writing to his old address, 
as that was the one they had on file. It may be that Mr F updated his details with W some 
time after theyd already passed this account back to PRA Group.
In any case, the address PRA Group wrote to was the address W gave them. So Im 
currently satisfied that PRA Group were writing to the address theyd been told was correct, 
which was also the last known address for this account. And in addition to these letters, PRA 
Group also tried other methods of getting in touch  such as regularly calling Mr F, leaving 
voice messages, and sending him texts. Indeed, I can see they tried to get in touch with him 
quite a number of times over the years. So I think PRA Group made sufficient efforts to 
contact Mr F about this account.
I can completely understand Mr Fs point of view  he was clearly making good efforts to 
keep his other creditors updated and pay his debts. He says he didnt deliberately leave out 
this account, and I dont doubt that. It may be that he forgot about this account, or mixed it 
up with a similar one and thought he was still paying it, or didnt recognise who PRA Group 
were when they were getting in touch, and so on. Sometimes things slip through the cracks. 
But from what Ive seen so far, I think PRA Group were trying to collect the correct balance, 
and I think they made sufficient efforts to contact Mr F.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
13 September 2021. Neither Mr F nor PRA Group sent me anything new to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint in this particular case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman