DRN-2810396
The complaint
Miss Ms complained that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited declined her 
claim on her pet insurance policy for her dogs treatment. 
What happened
Miss M sadly lost one of her two dogs at the end of 2020.  This prompted her to think about 
how she might pay for future care for the other.  So she bought a policy from Red Sands, 
which commenced on 24 December.  The policy covered treatment up to an annual limit of 
£4,000 per condition.  There was an excess of £99 and  due to her dogs age  Miss M also 
had to pay 20% of the cost of any treatment.
At the end of January 2021, Miss Ms dog collapsed when he was being walked.  Miss M 
took him to the vets.  Amongst other things, she told the vet that the dog had been licking 
things and had been drinking a lot since her other dog had passed away about six weeks 
earlier.
The vet ran a number of tests and diagnosed an issue with the dogs kidneys.  They 
submitted a claim for the costs to Red Sands.  Red Sands declined it  and a continuation 
claim - on the basis that the dog had been showing symptoms at the time Miss M bought the 
policy.  So they said the condition was pre-existing. And the policy didnt cover pre-existing 
conditions.
Miss M asked for the claim to be re-assessed.  But Red Sands assessment of the claim 
didnt change.   Miss M complained.  Red Sands looked at her complaint and rejected it.  
Red Sands said that theyd reviewed Miss Ms vets notes, which said that her dog had been 
exhibiting symptoms for about six weeks.  That meant they were apparent when Miss M 
bought her policy.  And so they said the dog had a pre-existing condition, which they defined 
as:
any condition, symptom or sign of a condition occurring or existing in any form and at 
any time prior to the commencement date; or 
any illness, symptom or sign of an illness occurring or existing in any form during the 
first 14 days of the commencement date.
Miss M brought her complaint to us.  She told us her dog was healthy when she bought the 
policy and she had no reason to think there was anything wrong with him.  So she thought 
the cost of his treatment should be covered.  
Our investigator considered the complaint and concluded that Red Sands didnt need to do 
anything differently to resolve it.  He looked at Miss Ms vets notes and saw they included 
notes about the dogs behaviour which dated back six weeks  to before Miss M bought the 
policy.  And he said the notes showed the behaviour was linked to the condition the vet 
diagnosed.  So it was reasonable for Red Sands to treat this as a pre-existing condition and 
decline Miss Ms claim.
Miss M didnt agree with the investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Miss Ms complaint.  I know shell be disappointed by 
this.  Ill explain how Ive reached that conclusion.
My role is to decide whether Red Sands have considered Miss Ms claim fairly, and in line 
with the terms of her policy.  That means Ive looked at whether it was reasonable for Red 
Sands to draw the conclusions they did when they investigated Miss Ms claim - and whether 
theyve applied those fairly in interpreting the policy. 
Ive looked at the vets notes following the dogs collapse.  Theyre dated five weeks after   
Miss M bought her policy.  And they refer to her having noticed her dog had been drinking 
excessively for six weeks before the vets examination, as well as obsessive licking.  
Following tests, the vet noted that the dog had an issue with his kidneys.  Excessive thirst is 
a symptom of the conditions the vet has recorded on their record.  So Im satisfied that    
Miss Ms dog was diagnosed with a condition he was showing symptoms of at the time she 
bought her policy.  
I accept Miss M hadnt had a diagnosis when she bought the policy.  But I think the policy 
wording quoted in the section above is clear about what Red Sands view as a pre-existing 
condition.  And the policy summary is just as clear about cover for pre-existing conditions.  It 
includes, under the heading What is not Covered:
Any claim or costs for or relating to a pre-existing condition(s) or for an accident, injury or 
illness that first showed clinical signs at any time before the commencement date of 
the policy or within 14 days of the commencement date.
I know Miss M feels her dog was healthy until his collapse  although he was missing the 
dog shed lost.  I understand why shed believe his symptoms were brought on by that and 
not by some undiagnosed condition.  
Im not an expert.  I cant decide if Miss Ms vets diagnosis was right.  But they diagnosed an 
issue, which was related to symptoms dating back six weeks. 
Red Sands were entitled to rely on that diagnosis when they considered Miss Ms claim  
and to conclude, based on the timescale the vet recorded, the dogs condition existed when 
she bought her policy.  So it was reasonable for Red Sands to decline cover on that basis.  
For that reason I dont think they need to do anything more to resolve her complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Ms complaint about Red Sands 
Insurance Company (Europe) Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 June 2021.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman