DRN-3186075
The complaint
Ms S complains that PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA accessed her data without her 
permission and didnt provide the service it should have when she raised concerns about 
this. 
What happened
In November 2020, Ms S was unable to log on to her PayPal account. She contacted PayPal 
and was asked if her credit report could be accessed to confirm her personal data. Ms S 
says she didnt give her permission. However, she was then told by her credit report provider 
that her report had been accessed by PayPal four times on 27 November. 
Ms S raised a compliant on 4 December. She says the adviser was unhelpful and didnt 
understand her complaint. She then called PayPal on several other occasions and says she 
didnt receive the service she should have. She then received a response from PayPal but 
says this didnt address her questions or provide any detail or explanation and dismissed her 
complaint about being insulted. She says that while the access to her credit report may not 
affect her credit score this wasnt the issue as she had clearly said she didnt want her credit 
report accessed. 
PayPal issued its final response in May 2021. It said that Ms S permission was requested 
for an authentication attempt to help her log in to her account. It says this would have 
involved a set of personalised questions being asked from her credit file. It says this process 
doesnt affect a customers credit score and that it can only take place with the customers 
permission. It says that Ms S didnt give permission and so the authentication didnt take 
place. It found no record of a request for information from her credit report on 27 November 
2020. 
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He said that PayPal did not access Ms S credit 
report, but it did make contact with a third party that provided security questions for use 
within its authentication. However, it then stopped the process due to permission not being 
given. 
Ms S didnt agree with our investigators view. She said the credit report provider showed 
that her report had been accessed four times. She noted that a third party was listed in the 
notifications but also that PayPal was noted. She said that the process of authentication 
should not have been started as her permission was needed and she didnt provide this. She 
also said that if the process was curtailed when she didnt give permission, why were there 
four notifications not just one. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see why Ms S is upset by the experience she has had when contacting PayPal about 
the information recorded on her credit file. She provided evidence showing that there were 
four access requests referring to PayPal and a third party and she doesnt feel she has been 
given an adequate explanation for this.
PayPal has explained thar Ms S contacted it several times on 27 November 2020 which may 
have resulted in multiple authentications being initiated but confirmed that none of these 
were completed as permission wasnt granted. The system report has Step Up 
Authentication Begin recorded on four occasions on 27 November which correlates to the 
information Ms S saw in her credit report alert. The report then records Step Up not 
completed. Based on this I accept that PayPal didnt access Ms S credit information after 
she didnt provide permission and find it reasonable to accept the explanation that the 
initiation of the process with the third party prior to permission was the reason that there 
were notifications on Ms S credit report. Given this I do not find I can say that PayPal has 
accessed Ms S personal information without her permission and so I do not uphold this part 
of Ms S complaint.
While I can see that this issue has upset Ms S, I can also see that the credit report provider 
was contacted in December 2020 and a request was made to have the notifications of the 
searches removed. This was provided and I understand this information was removed in 
December 2020. Given the nature of the information initially recorded, this will not have had 
an adverse impact on Ms S credit score and as it was then removed in a timely way I find 
this resolves this issue.
PayPal could have provided Ms S with better service while she was trying to understand why 
there were markers on her credit report. She has explained that she had to make several 
calls and she didnt feel that her concerns were being understood and that a staff member 
was rude to her. However, PayPal provided information about the process of authentication 
in its final response letter and it investigated the comment about a staff member being rude. 
It acknowledged that Ms S had received poor service and said action had been taken in 
response to this. In this case I think this is reasonable.
While I can see that this issue has caused Ms S frustration and stress, in this case I do not 
find I can say that PayPal did anything wrong or that its actions caused any material 
detriment to Ms S. Therefore, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman