DRN-2510303
The complaint
Mr D says Morses Club PLC lent to him irresponsibly. He says he was in a debt spiral and 
the loans werent affordable for him. He says Morses shouldnt have lent to him because of 
this. 
What happened
This complaint is about six home collected loans Morses provided to Mr D between 
July 2013 and July 2018. Ive included a table below based on some of the information that 
Morses has sent us. 
loan 
numberstart dateamount 
borrowedterm 
(weeks)end date
1 04/07/2013 £300 50 13/06/2014
2 27/06/2014 £500 50 09/07/2015
3 17/07/2015 £600 50 24/06/2016
4 01/07/2016 £500 52 23/06/2017
5 30/06/2017 £500 52 06/07/2018
6 06/07/2018 £700 52 02/08/2019
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. She thought that Morses was wrong to 
approve any lending from and including loan 3.  
Morses disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. In summary it said that Mr D hadnt 
borrowed for an excessive amount of time and the loan amounts hadnt increased 
significantly. It did greater checks over time and these showed that Mr D could afford the 
lending and there were very few repayment problems. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Morses needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr D 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Morses should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be 
an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case. The industry regulator defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and in particular, the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow 
to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ds complaint in part and have explained why below.
Mr D didnt disagree with our adjudicators opinion about loans 1 and 2. Because of this I 
dont think there is any ongoing disagreement about these loans. So, I wont be making a 
decision about this lending. But they were part of the borrowing relationship Mr D had with 
Morses. So, they are something I will take into account when considering the other loans he 
took.
I havent recreated individual, proportionate affordability checks for loans 3 to 6 because I 
dont think that it is necessary to do so. Ive looked at the overall pattern of Morses lending 
history with Mr D, with a view to seeing if there was a point at which Morses should 
reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so 
Morses should have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Mr Ds case, I think that this point was reached by loan 
3. I say this because:
At this point he had been indebted to Morses for over two years.  
Mr Ds first loan was for £300 and loan 3 was for £600. So, the amount Mr D was 
borrowing had doubled as well as him being indebted to Morses for a significant 
period of time. 
At this point Morses ought to have known that Mr D was likely borrowing to meet an 
ongoing and increasing need. And this indicates his problems may have been 
worsening.  
So, because of these factors, Morses ought to have realised it was more likely than not Mr 
Ds indebtedness was unsustainable. From loan 3 onwards Mr D was provided with a new loan a very short time after he 
settled his previous loan. 
Mr D wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Morses. Loan 6 was 
taken out over five years after Mr Ds first. And it was for a larger amount. Mr D had 
paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to Morses over an 
extended period.
I appreciate that Morses feels that the checks it did were enough to show the lending 
was affordable. But I think the lending pattern itself shows these loans werent 
sustainable. 
I think that Mr D lost out because Morses continued to provide borrowing from loan 3 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ds indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit over an extended period of time.
the length of time over which Mr D borrowed was likely to have had negative 
implications on Mr Ds ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the 
market for these high-cost loans.
So, overall, Im also upholding the complaint about loans 3 to 6 and Morses should put 
things right.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it stopped lending to Mr D from loan 3, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr D may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between him and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mr D in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr D would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morses liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Morses shouldnt have given Mr D loans 3 to 6
A) Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr D towards interest, 
fees and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party where 
applicable, but not including anything it has already refunded.B) Morses should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr D 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr D originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Morses should pay Mr D the total of A plus B.
D) The overall pattern of Mr Ds borrowing for loans 3 to 6 means any information recorded 
about them is adverse, so it should remove these loans entirely from Mr Ds credit file. If 
Morses has sold any of the loans Morses should ask the debt purchaser to do the same.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to deduct tax from this interest. Morses should 
give Mr D a certificate showing how much tax Morses has deducted, if they ask for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I partly uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Morses Club PLC should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 April 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman