DRN-2642343
The complaint
Mr G claims that the installation of replacement windows in his home was carried out to a 
poor standard. Because the contract for the supply and installation of the windows was 
financed by Allium Money Limited, he says that it is equally responsible with the installer for 
putting things right.    
What happened
In July 2019 Mr G entered into an agreement with a company, H, for the supply and 
installation of new windows to his home. He paid for the work by way of a loan from Allium, 
provided under arrangements between it and H. 
Mr G said that there were a number of problems with the installation work. An independent 
inspection was arranged in February 2020. That inspection concluded that there were 
indeed some problems with the work that had been done. That included:
damage to plaster around some windows;
poor application of sealant;
damage to one window frame;
loose trim;
some glazing fitted the wrong way round.
The inspector recommended that remedial work be carried out. That work was, in summary:
remove and re-apply sealant where required;
re-plaster walls where necessary (but not to re-decorate);
attempt to remove chip on window frame;
re-fit the trim on one window;
remove and re-install glass fitted the wrong way round. 
The inspector also noted that Mr G said the windows should have been fitted with child 
safety restrictors and trickle vents. Neither was specified on the contract, however, but he 
noted too that trickle vents should have been included if the original windows had them. It 
was not clear if that was the case, although neighbouring windows did have them. 
Allium agreed to work with H to have the remedial work carried out, but Mr G said some of it 
remained unsatisfactory. He obtained his own report listing matters which he said were 
outstanding. 
When Mr G referred the matter to this service, one of our investigators considered what had 
happened. He noted that Allium had agreed the work had been substandard in some areas 
and that it, as the finance provider, was responsible for that. He considered however that, as 
Allium had agreed to work with H or a different provider to complete the remedial work 
needed, it had done enough to resolve Mr Gs complaint. Allium had also agreed to pay Mr 
G a further £250. Mr G did not agree with the investigators conclusions and asked that an 
ombudsman review the case. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because the supply and installation of the windows was financed by a loan made under 
arrangements that Allium had with H, it is liable for any claim for breach of contract Mr G 
might have against H. H was under a duty to install the windows with reasonable care and 
skill, but the inspection report indicates that it was in breach of that duty in some areas. 
However, even though Allium accepts that it is liable for the defective work, it is not in the 
best position to put things right. That must be done by a qualified contractor  either H or 
someone else. And it does appear to me that Allium has taken the steps that are open to it to 
ensure that happens. For obvious reasons, Mr G needs to be involved in decisions about 
who carries out the work and when. 
To the extent that there is any dispute about the extent of the remedial work needed, I think 
that has been resolved by the February 2020 inspection report. For the avoidance of doubt, I 
agree that decoration following the work was not included in the contract, although I would 
expect plasterwork to be made good. In addition, there is no evidence that child safety 
catches were to be included. As far as trickle vents are concerned, however, the fact that 
neighbouring windows had them fitted indicates to me that they should have been included. 
Any further remedial work should therefore include them, if they can be retro-fitted at a 
reasonable cost and without undue disruption. It may be that it will be appropriate for a 
further independent inspection to be carried out once the work is completed.
It is not really for me, however, to tell the parties exactly how any further remedial work 
should be carried out, by whom or when. My role is to decide how the dispute between Mr G 
and Allium should be resolved; in doing that, I must decide what I consider to be fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. I note that it has agreed that it is responsible for 
ensuring that the installation contract is fulfilled (including meeting any costs) and has 
offered a further £250 to Mr G in compensation. I do not believe I can properly require it to 
do more.      
My final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that I dont require Allium Money Limited to take any 
further steps to resolve Mr Gs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or reject my decision before 13 April 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman