DRN-3260006
The complaint
Miss W complains about her insurer, AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited (AA) for 
delays in handling a claim for damage to her vehicle from an accident. 
In referring to AA, I include its agents and representatives.
What happened
In June 2020, Miss Ws car was involved in a collision with a deer, causing damage to the 
front of her car. Miss W reported the accident to AA, who appointed a garage to assess the 
damage and carry out repairs. Miss W was provided with a courtesy car while her car was 
assessed and repaired. Miss W was unhappy that the garage was rude to her when she 
contacted them to see what was happening with her car.
When Miss Ws car was returned, she noticed scratches to the bonnet caused by the 
accident hadnt been repaired. She also noticed a knocking noise and an issue with an ABS 
sensor (a warning light came on). Miss W contacted AA who said theyd arrange for the 
garage to collect the car the following day, but it wasnt collected for three weeks. When 
checks were made to determine the cause of the knocking noise, Miss W was told that there 
was a problem with the suspension. But AA said they wouldnt pay to fix the problem as they 
didnt think the problem was caused by the accident.
  
Unhappy at the service shed received from AA (and the garage), Miss W first complained to 
this service. The main elements of her complaint were the time taken to repair her car and 
the quality of the repairs (and that the repairs hadnt been carried out fully). She was also 
unhappy that additional faults had occurred and that shed had to pay for them to be fixed. 
She was also unhappy that the courtesy cars shed been provided with had faults and that 
AA and the garage had been rude to her. She wanted AA to apologise for the poor service 
shed received and for them to offer her a reduction on the excess shed had to pay towards 
the cost of the repairs. She also wanted a partial refund (on her premiums) for the time and 
stress the incident had caused her. 
As Miss W had complained to the service first, we asked AA to consider the issues shed 
raised as a complaint to them. In their final response they didnt uphold the complaint. They 
concluded the issues with the ABS sensor and the knocking noise werent a result of the 
accident. They apologised if Miss W felt they (or the garage) had been rude, but they werent 
aware that was the case. On delays, they didnt consider these had been undue, being 
affected by the availability of courtesy cars and having to investigate the additional issues.
Following AAs final response, our investigator considered Miss Ws complaint. He upheld 
the complaint, concluding AA hadnt done enough to put things right. He thought that while 
some of the delays were caused by the additional issues that needed to be investigated, 
there were delays due to AA and the garage. On the courtesy cars issue, he didnt think 
there was sufficient evidence to support the issues raised by Miss W. On the AA and the 
garage being rude to Miss W, from the call recordings available the investigator didnt think 
AA were unprofessional in dealing with Miss W. And without clear evidence, it wasnt 
possible to form a view on the garages behaviour towards Miss W. On whether AA should 
cover the cost of fixing the knocking noise and ABS sensor, the investigator didnt think there 
was enough evidence to contradict AAs view that the issues didnt result from the accident.
In recognition of the delays and that she didnt have a courtesy car for a period, the 
investigator thought AA should pay Miss W £150 in compensation for inconvenience.
AA disagreed with the investigator, and requested an ombudsman review the complaint. 
They said the 2020 national lockdown had affected the motor industry, with garages having 
to reduce staff and prioritise repairing non-driveable and emergency vehicles. This meant 
delays in repairs to other vehicles. They also thought the provision of courtesy cars was 
dependent on availability and only provided when the customers vehicle was in for repair.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to decide whether AA have acted reasonably towards Miss W.
Looking at what happened and her complaint to this service, I think there are four main 
issues to consider. First, the time taken to repair her vehicle, as well as the quality of repairs. 
Second, issues with the courtesy cars. Third, how she was treated by the AA and the 
garage. Fourthly, the additional problems that AA wouldnt cover.
On the first issue, delays in handling the claim and carrying out repairs together with the 
quality of repairs, Ive considered the evidence available together with the timeline of events. 
There were some issues with the time taken for images of the damage to be received. Its 
also clear that after the initial repair, the car had to be returned for chips to the bonnet to be 
fixed (and a replacement windscreen fitted). In thinking about this Ive also taken into 
account AAs comments about the impact of the first national lockdown on garage capacity, 
although the accident and the subsequent repairs occurred towards the end of the first 
lockdown (and when restrictions were subsequently eased). Having raised the other issues 
then its reasonable for those to have been investigated, even though it was concluded that 
they werent accident-related. Overall, I think there was some inconvenience to Miss W, 
although I dont think it was especially significant. Ill return to what I think AA needs to do to 
put things right after Ive considered the other issues in Miss Ws complaint.
On the second issue, problems with courtesy cars, Miss W has told us of specific issues with 
two courtesy cars. Ive not seen any evidence to support what shes told us, but I would have 
expected her to raise any concerns with the garage or AA. The nature of courtesy cars does 
mean that they arent always in what Id call showroom condition and I think its not 
unreasonable to make some allowances for that, particularly (as in this case) Miss Ws car 
wasnt in for repair for what Id consider to be an excessive length of time. In the absence of 
any clear evidence pointing to failings on the part of AA, then Im not persuaded that theres 
any further action required beyond the general apology that AA have made to Miss W for 
any shortcomings in the service shes received.
On the third issue, how she was treated by the AA and the garage, the AA have said that 
they dont believe that theyve been rude or unprofessional in their dealings with Miss W. 
having listened to the recordings available of Miss W with AA, our investigator didnt find 
them to be unprofessional. The absence of any equivalent evidence in respect of Miss Ws 
dealings with the garage makes it difficult to reach a conclusion on that aspect, but Ive 
noted that neither the AA nor the garage believe that theyve been rude. AA have offered an 
apology to Miss W if she feels that shes been treated rudely or unprofessionally, and I think 
thats a fair and reasonable action to take. So, I dont think AA need take any further action.On the fourth issue, the two issues raised by Miss W were a knocking noise from her car and 
a problem with an ABS sensor. Miss W says these should have been fixed by the garage 
and the cost borne by AA. AAs view is that the problems werent a result of the accident and 
therefore not something they should cover. Ive considered both views, together with the 
views of AAs engineers about the nature of the problems and their cause.
 
Im persuaded that neither are likely to have arisen from the accident. I say this because 
looking at the accident report detailing the damage to Miss Ws car, as well as the nature of 
the accident, Im not persuaded that the issues arose from the accident. The collision 
wouldnt have been likely to have caused the issues with the ABS sensor, given its location 
at the rear of the car which wasnt impacted. On the knocking noise, AA have provided 
evidence from an MOT test of the vehicle that indicates heavily worn suspension bushes. Im 
persuaded by the views of AAs engineer that this would have been likely to cause the noise, 
and it was due to wear and tear. Ive concluded that its not something that should be 
covered by AA.
Given my conclusions on the four issues, Ive also considered the issue of compensation for 
the inconvenience caused to Miss W. I think there were some delays due to AA and the 
garage and the car needed to go back in for the bonnet scratches to be dealt with (and the 
other issues investigated). And while I understand the points AA made about the impact of 
the national lockdown and the availability of courtesy cars, I dont think this means they 
shouldnt have to put things right. Ive thought about the circumstances of the case, together 
with my conclusions about the issues in the complaint. I think £150 compensation for 
distress and would be fair and reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision to uphold Miss Ws complaint in part. I 
require AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited to:
Pay £150 to Miss W for distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 April 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman