DRN-4120473
The complaint
Miss S and Mr Y complain that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) unfairly declined their motor 
insurance claim. 
Admiral is the underwriter of this policy i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of its agents. As Admiral has accepted it is accountable for the actions of the agents, 
in my decision, any reference to Admiral includes the actions of the agents. 
What happened
In April 2022, Miss S made a claim under her motor insurance policy with Admiral after her 
car was stolen. Admiral was notified of the loss by Miss Ss partner, Mr Y who was a named 
driver on the policy and the owner of the car.
Mr Y said the car was taken from their driveway in the early hours of the morning. He told 
Admiral they had two keys but couldnt locate the spare key, which they didnt use. He 
thought the key was somewhere in the house. 
Admiral declined the claim. It said the vehicle key Mr Y had supplied was consistent with 
being a spare key. It believed the main key had been used to take the car. Admiral said it 
believed there had been a deliberate attempt to mislead it over the circumstances 
surrounding the incident and it had no option but to repudiate the claim.
Admiral said the policy would remain cancelled and it would cancel or void all other policies 
to which Mr Y was connected within Admirals group.
Miss S and Mr Y complained to Admiral, who agreed to delay cancelling the other policies 
due to the ongoing dispute. In its response to the complaint, Admiral maintained its position 
to decline the claim. So, Miss S and Mr Y asked our service to consider the matter.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. She didnt think Admiral had 
sufficient evidence to conclude that Miss S and Mr Y were attempting to mislead them and 
decline the claim. She recommended that Admiral reconsider the claim in line with the 
remaining terms, remove any cancellation or fraud record if applied and pay them £300 for 
distress and inconvenience.
Admiral disagreed with our investigators outcome. It said it was looking to provide some 
further evidence, but it hasnt done so. So, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I let both parties know that I intended to reach broadly the same conclusions as our 
investigator, but I thought Admiral should settle the claim rather than reconsider it. I set out 
what I intended to direct Admiral to do to put things right and I gave both parties the 
opportunity to send me any further information or comments they wanted me to consider 
before I issued my decision.
Miss S said she was pleased to see this was largely in line with the investigators outcome 
and had nothing further to add. Admiral didnt respond with any further comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Miss S and Mr Ys complaint. Ill explain why.
In declining Miss S and Mr Ys claim, Admiral has referred to two policy conditions. The first 
relates to fraud and the policyholders requirement to answer Admirals questions honestly 
and provide true and accurate information.
The second condition Admiral has referred to is regarding care of the vehicle which says:
You and any other insured person must:
Protect your vehicle from loss or damage
Remove and secure any keys or device that allows access to your vehicle: if it is left 
unoccupied
Its important to explain it isnt for me to decide whether Miss S and Mr Y acted fraudulently 
or failed to take care of their vehicle. Instead, Ive needed to consider if Admirals decision to 
invoke these conditions was reasonable.
Admirals concerns relate to Miss S and Mr Ys inability to provide one of the car keys. 
Admiral has concluded that the missing key was the main key and believes this was used to 
take the car. It says the key they supplied to Admiral was consistent with being a spare 
vehicle key. 
Admiral says it had clarified the wear and tear on the key Miss S and Mr Y provided with its 
expert who said the wear patterns would be significantly more if it had been the main key 
theyd used for the past six years.
It looks like Admiral contacted its key expert to seek this further clarification, after Mr Y 
responded to Admirals repudiation letter. Mr Y had told Admiral that Miss S became the 
main driver of the car in February 2019, after they bought a second car for the household. 
He said the key they sent to Admiral wasnt the key hed been using since 2016. He said 
usage of the car was drastically reduced during the Covid-19 pandemic and MOT 
information suggested there was only around 8,000 miles usage in the last 2.5 years.
However, Admiral appears to have asked its experts opinion on the key being used for 
40,000 miles, rather than the 8,000 miles Mr Y had said. According to Admirals repudiation 
letter, 40,000 was the mileage on the car since Mr Y had taken ownership of it in 2016. The 
experts opinion also seems to be based on the knowledge that this key has supposed to 
have been used for 40,000 of those miles. So, I dont think Admiral properly considered 
what Mr Y had said about the key theyd sent in only becoming the main key for the last few 
years, with the car being used considerably less in that timeframe.
Ive also considered the fraud investigation report Admiral provided, which includes 
statements from Miss S and Mr Y who were interviewed in May 2022.
The fraud investigators opinion was that both Miss S and Mr Y presented evidence in a 
confident manner, displaying good recall, with neither seeming nervous or hesitant. The only 
concern was the missing key, which the investigator said might suggest the theft was key 
aided. However, they also said they believed their type of vehicle was regularly targeted, 
particularly in the area Miss S and Mr Y live in and are often stolen without access to a 
legitimate key.Based on what Ive seen, Im not persuaded it was fair for Admiral to invoke the fraud or care 
of vehicle conditions to decline Miss S and Mr Ys claim. I think Miss S and Mr Y have 
provided a plausible explanation as to why the wear on the key theyd provided was less 
than might be expected for a main key. I dont think Admiral properly considered what theyd 
said when asking for its key experts opinion.  
Keeping in mind what the fraud investigation report said about Mr Y and Miss Ss type of 
vehicle often being stolen without access to a legitimate key, I dont think its reasonable for 
Admiral to conclude that a key must have been used when the vehicle was taken. So, I dont 
think it was fair for Admiral to decline the claim.
In its repudiation letter dated September 2022, Admiral referred to wording in the policy 
booklet regarding passing details to fraud prevention agencies. However, its unclear if 
Admiral has applied fraud markers on any external databases. If Admiral has recorded    
Miss S and Mr Ys claim as fraudulent, false or exaggerated on any internal or external 
databases it should remove those records and confirm it has done so.  
Miss S says this has been a stressful experience for her and Mr Y, who have spent many 
months sending emails to Admiral to try to get things resolved. Concerns about fraud 
markers against their names have added to their emotional distress. So, I think Admiral 
should also pay them £300 for the distress and inconvenience theyve been caused.
Putting things right
Admiral should:
Settle the claim, in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
Add interest to the above at 8% simple per year* calculated from one month after the 
claim was made to the date the settlement is paid.
Remove any records that it may have made on any internal or external databases 
that Miss S and Mr Ys claim was fraudulent, false or exaggerated. It should confirm 
that it has done so.
Pay Miss S and Mr Y £300 for distress and inconvenience.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Admiral to deduct tax from this interest. Admiral should give 
Miss S and Mr Y a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if they ask for one. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Miss S and Mr Ys complaint and direct Admiral 
Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to put things right by doing as Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S and Mr Y to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 July 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman