DRN-2031436
 
The complaint
Mr G and Mr D complain (on behalf of their limited company A) about HSBC UK Bank Plc, 
as they were unable to view or download statements after one of the companys cards was 
lost and cancelled.
What happened
In April 2019 a card holder on As business account lost their card  which was replaced 
without any problem in May. 
In June, while preparing for an approaching VAT return by downloading the card 
transactions from the online banking page, A noticed that the online account wasnt showing 
statements for transactions for the cancelled card. 
Mr D called the bank and was initially told there had been no transactions so there were no 
statements to view. After speaking with a supervisor, the call handler was able to locate the 
statements, and advised Mr D that although he wouldnt be able to download them, they 
could be posted out to him, and he could expect to receive them by 28 June. 
Mr D complained  saying, had A been made aware that the statements would no longer be 
available to download after the card was cancelled, A could have quickly downloaded them 
while they were still accessible online  saving a lot of work and inconvenience.
He said that having to call the bank, and then having to enter the transactions one by one 
into the companys accounting software caused A a lot of inconvenience. He asked to be 
compensated £106.20 (the cost of 3 hours of labour). 
In HSBCs response they said once a card was either lost or stolen, commercial statements 
were no longer visible on business internet banking (BIB). They said they werent able to 
consider the compensation Mr D had requested - as there hadnt been an error. But as a 
gesture of goodwill they said theyd credited As account with £50. 
On 2 July, as the statements hadnt arrived, Mr D went to a local branch with a view to 
collecting the statements owing to the time constraints of the pending VAT submission. 
While there he contacted the relevant department using the banks phone. Mr D said he was 
initially told on the phone that the statements couldnt be sent to the branch, as the request 
would have to come directly from the branch manager. After some debate, and having 
waited for a further 30 minutes, the branch manager produced the statements  saying it 
was to be a one-off. Mr D felt the manager hadnt understood that A wasnt able to access 
the statements online. 
Mr G and Mr D remained unhappy and brought As complaint to us  saying it had yet to 
receive the £50 offered as a gesture of goodwill.  They were also unhappy about having to 
attend the branch to collect the statements when theyd been told they would be posted out.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld for the same reasons as the 
bank  saying the bank hadnt done anything wrong by following its process. But as Mr D 
and Mr G didnt agree with our investigator, the case was given to me to review. 
my provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 20 May 2020. I indicated that I intended 
to uphold the complaint and award A £100 compensation. 
Mr D has confirmed he has received my provisional decision, and noted he didnt have any 
further comments or evidence to add. HSBC bank responded and agreed with my 
provisional decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I still think this complaint should be upheld. 
As above neither party has provided me with any further information to alter the findings 
noted in my provisional decision. Or, to alter what I think is fair and reasonable in light of 
those findings. So, my decision remains the same. 
I can see from information provided by HSBC that if a card is cancelled and replaced, the 
cards transactions disappear from Business Internet Banking (BIB). This is then replaced by 
information generated from the new live card. Any previous statements are only then 
available in PDF format, and these would be sent out on a monthly basis   or could be 
reordered if necessary. 
While I appreciate this may have caused extra work for A, it doesnt mean the bank did 
anything wrong. In the circumstances HSBCs priority was to safeguard As funds, and 
arrange a replacement card without delay. 
I understand Mr Ds frustration that the banks process, in these circumstances doesnt allow 
for businesses who rely on downloading their transactions in a certain format. And that Mr D 
thought A should have been warned that it would no longer be able to download any 
transactions once the card was cancelled. But I cant say HSBC acted unfairly by ensuring 
the process was followed. Im not inclined to say this would be something I could ask HSBC 
to compensate A for. 
Having listened to Mr Ds call to the bank, I can see there was some initial confusion as to 
what could be done in relation to the statements relating to the cancelled card. But the call 
handler - after taking advice  agreed the missing statements, containing the transactions for 
the cancelled card, could be sent out by post, and confirmed the statements would be 
received within 3 to 5 working days. While the call handler offered to send the statements to 
a branch manager for collection, Mr D made it clear the matter was time sensitive  saying it 
would be inconvenient to attend a branch straight away - so the call handler agreed that the 
statements would be posted. 
I understand why Mr D was upset when the statements didnt arrive when expected. Ive 
looked into this further, as I had no reason to doubt Mr D when he said the statements hadnt 
arrived  causing him to attend the branch.
From additional information provided by HSBC, I can see that statements were produced on 
a monthly basis. But Ive not been able to see that the requested statements containing the 
cancelled card information were sent out in addition to this.Mr G and Mr D are also unhappy that A hasnt received the goodwill gesture HSBC said 
theyd paid. And HSBC have said they cant find any evidence that theyve paid this £50. So 
Im inclined to say that it wasnt paid.
In summary, I cant fairly say HSBC did anything wrong by following the process in place to 
safeguard As account. I understand the frustration this caused, and appreciate the extra 
work involved in having to manually input the data from the statements online. But Im not 
persuaded that makes it right for the bank to compensate for this.
But, from the evidence provided by HSBC, I havent been able to confirm the statements 
were sent out as promised after the call on 25 June. That meant A was inconvenienced by 
Mr D having to attend the branch to collect them. Having told the call handler of how time 
sensitive the matter was, I can appreciate the frustration this caused. 
Putting things right
To put things right, I direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to credit As business account with the 
original gesture of goodwill of £50 referred to in their final response letter. And compensate 
A with a further £50 to reflect the inconvenience HSBC caused A by Mr D having to attend 
the branch to collect the statements after being assured they would be posted out  
spending an additional 30 minutes having some difficult conversations to get the outcome he 
needed.
My final decision
For the reasons I have outlined Im partially upholding this complaint. And I direct HSBC 
Bank UK Plc pay A a total of £100 in settlement of the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A and A to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 August 2020.
 
Sarah Watts
Ombudsman