DRN-2866829
The complaint
Mr A has complaint about The One Account mortgage he held with with The Royal Bank of 
Scotland Plc. His complaint can be summarised as:
Mr A feels the operation of the account was never properly explained, and he understood 
if interest repayments were maintained, he had until the end of the term to repay the 
capital borrowed.
He says the letters issued between September 2013 and October 2014 put pressure on 
him, which led to him being forced into selling another property and the mortgaged 
property to pay off the mortgage in December 2019
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file, Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A has said the operation of the account was never properly explained to him. Having 
looked at the information from the time it seems Mr A opted to take this mortgage on a 
non-advised basis; that means RBS didnt have to give him advice about the product. It did 
have to give him enough information so he could make an informed choice, and Im satisfied 
it met those requirements by providing all the literature about the product. If Mr A didnt 
understand any of that he should have sought advice before he entered into the contract. 
I can see RBS spoke to Mr A over the phone in early 2002 and in that call it explained that it 
would only collect the interest due each month, and Mr A needed to leave enough money in 
the account to reduce the balance over the life of the mortgage. Regular review letters were 
issued which set out whether Mr A was ahead or behind plan and how much he needed to 
budget to leave in his account each month to reduce his balance.
Having considered everything Im satisfied RBS did enough to make Mr A aware of how the 
account should operate.
Mr A took out this mortgage in 2001. He opted to take it on a repayment basis, which means 
he should have been leaving enough in the account each month so that the balance would 
reduce. As you have decided to repay your One account borrowing each month over the 
next 25 years your planned balance should reduce every month.
Instead, throughout the life of the account Mr A was frequently up to the facility limit. The 
review in December 2012 showed the outstanding balance was £128,159 against the 
£101,967 it should have been at that point if the mortgage was on track to be repaid in 2026 
(which was the contractual end date). That means Mr A was £26,192 behind plan.
In December 2013 Mr A was £32,245 behind plan; he had an oustanding balance of 
£128,520 against a planned balance of £96,275.
As the situation was worsening RBS contacted Mr A to discuss matters, as it didnt want him 
to find himself at the end of the term with an oustanding debt of over £100,000 and no way 
to repay it.
Whilst Mr A didnt have to repay the debt until the end of the term and could maintain the 
account at the maximum facility limit until then, Im sure Mr A could see how foolhardy it 
would have been for RBS not to warn him of the risks of doing so. Whilst Mr A had a plan to 
repay the debt, many customers do not. So it doesnt seem unreasonable for RBS to send 
out letters reminding customers who opted for the repayment option that their balance 
should be reducing each month and isnt. That way customers arent left in shock at the end 
of the term, with no way to repay the debt other than selling their home.
Mr A has said that receiving separate warning letters from RBS about being behind plan put 
pressure on him which led to him feeling forced to sell another property and pay a lump sum 
of up to £100,000 off the mortgage. He say the letters also led him eventually to sell the 
mortgaged property to redeem the mortgage in full.
Ive considered these points very carefully but Im not persuaded by them. I can see Mr A 
paid just under £95,000 off his mortgage in April 2011, but that couldnt have been because 
he felt pressure due to these particular warning letters as the first one of those wasnt sent to 
him until September 2013. And in fact although he paid off around £95,000 in April 2011, by 
December 2012 hed borrowed the entire amount back and his balance was as it was before 
he made that lump sum reduction. In relation to the sale of his property, the second (and 
final) warning letter in question was sent to Mr A in October 2014. As he didnt sell his 
property until December 2019 it is difficult to see a causal link, or reach a finding that he 
accepted a sale price of less than it was worth due to pressure from RBS.
Whilst I can understand how unwelcome Mr A may have found the contact from RBS 
reminding him he should be reducing his debt level, I think it was well-intentioned and 
reasonable. There was a very real risk that Mr A would still owe a substantial sum at the end 
of the term based on how the account had been running until that point. 
Were not the regulator so it isnt our place to fine or punish a business. We investigate if 
something has gone wrong and, if something has gone wrong, what needs to be done to put 
right any financial loss arising from that. Mr A hasnt proven any financial loss that occured 
directly  and solely  due to the warning letters from RBS in 2013 and 2014, so theres 
nothing for me to order RBS to do to put things right even if I did think it had done something 
wrong.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2021.
 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman