DRN-3929101
The complaint
Mr A complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc declined several on-line transactions on the credit 
card he held, and this caused him considerable inconvenience.
What happened
Mr A attempted an on-line transaction to purchase airline tickets. HSBC sent Mr A him a text 
and he responded to approve the transaction. Mr A then attempted the payment again and it 
successful. The following day, Mr A attempted to pay for a hotel booking on-line, but the 
payment wasnt made because HSBCs fraud detection system had blocked all card not 
present transactions. Mr A called HSBC about the issue and the payments was approved on 
the call, but HSBC omitted to remove the card not present block. Mr A then attempted 
several more transactions with other merchants, but the merchants told him theyd been 
declined. After speaking with HSBC again the card not present block on the card was 
removed and the payments were authorised and confirmed as being made on the call.
Mr A complained to HSBC that hed been experiencing difficulties using his card without 
fraud referrals and was embarrassed about this. HSBC explained its fraud detection system 
had highlighted the payments as being at risk of fraud but apologised that Mr A had to call 
again to get it to remove the block. HSBC credited Mr As account with £50 for the 
inconvenience this had caused. 
Mr A brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service and one of our 
Investigators looked into things. The investigator thought that HSBC had acted in line with 
the terms and conditions of the account when it applied the initial block for security reasons. 
The Investigator thought that Mr A had been inconvenienced more than he should have 
been as he had to call HSBC to tell it the block hadnt been removed as hed been told. The 
Investigator thought the apology and payment of £50 HSBC paid was fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of the complaint. Mr A felt that £50.00 wasnt enough and asked that an 
Ombudsman decides the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr A will be disappointed, but Ive decided that HSBCs apology and 
payment of £50 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I will now 
explain why.
Mr A says he understands and accepts HSBC has a fraud detection system in place and he 
appreciates the security this provide him, but he feels he has had a number of payments 
blocked and this caused him embarrassment and inconvenience. So, Ive looked at whether 
HSBC caused Mr A any further inconvenience that he would reasonably have expected 
when HSBC identified transactions that were potentially fraudulent. 
After HSBC identified the payment to an airline as being potentially fraudulent, this was 
resolved quickly when Mr A responded to a text message and made the payment again. Ive 
seen the credit card activity record for this transaction, and Im satisfied this was resolved 
within a short time scale. I think this level of inconvenience is acceptable when operating a 
credit card account and is something that HSBC make customers aware of in its terms and 
conditions.  
Mr A says he attempted to make a payment for a hotel the next day and it was declined. Ive 
seen the credit card activity report for this transaction, and I cant see that an attempt was 
made to collect a payment by the merchant. It seems more likely than not this is the case as 
the payment request wasnt made until Mr A spoke with HSBC and made the payment on-
line. The time of Mr As call to HSBC about this payment aligns to the time the payment was 
made by Mr A. In the call, which Ive listened to, HSBC confirmed to Mr A that the payment 
hed completed on the call had been successful. So, I dont think HSBC did anything 
significantly wrong in this regard.
Later the same day, Mr A attempted to make another on-line payment using his. The credit 
card activity report for this transaction records the payment was declined because the expiry 
date of the card had been incorrectly keyed. Mr A has provided me with screen shots of the 
card details he stored in his internet browser, and Ive seen these record the correct expiry 
date of the card. The system notes provided by HSBC support that during this call with Mr A, 
it removed any block that may still have remained on his card. So, it seems more likely than 
not HSBC hadnt resolved that Mr As card was still being blocked and Mr A shouldnt have 
needed to make this additional call. 
Mr A was reasonably aware HSBC may seek to verify a payment on his card if it was 
concerned about fraudulent activity. In this case, HSBC resolved the initial decline quickly 
and dealt with the second transaction, for which there is nothing to persuade me the 
merchant attempted to collect, during a telephone call. However, Mr As card still remained 
blocked after the second call, and I think this caused him some additional and unnecessary 
inconvenience. Regardless of this, Im satisfied that the apology and payment of £50 HSBC 
has already made was a fair and reasonable remedy for this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons detailed above I wont be asking HSBC UK Bank Plc to do anything else.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2023.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman