DRN-3993205
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as S, complains that Lloyds Bank Plc failed to pay the agreed 
rate of interest on one of its bank accounts.
Mr L, who is a director of S, brings the complaint on Ss behalf.
What happened
Mr L told us:
S started trading in early 2018, and required a client account. Its directors chose 
Lloyds because it offered to pay interest at Bank of England base rate minus 0.15% 
on client monies.
He accepts that Lloyds did not pay interest on the account when base rate was 0.1%. 
But Bank of England base rate has since increased, and Lloyds is refusing to honour 
the deal that it made.
To resolve the complaint, he would like Lloyds to pay backdated interest at a rate of 
base rate minus 0.15%.
Lloyds told us:
Mr L appears to believe that S has a bespoke arrangement in place with respect to 
the interest rate paid on the account, but that is not the case.
It wrote to S in August 2019 to explain that the interest rate on the account would no 
longer be linked to Bank of England base rate. It wrote again in December 2019 and 
April 2020 to say the interest rate paid on the account would be changing.
Its terms and conditions explain that the interest rate on an account can change.
It has made a commercial decision as to the interest rate it is prepared to pay on Ss 
account, and it does not currently intend to change that rate.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but did not uphold it. Briefly, he said Lloyds 
was entitled to change the rate of interest it paid on Ss client account, and that it had given 
S reasonable notice before it made the change.
Mr L did not accept our investigators conclusions. He said it was obvious that Lloyds had 
agreed a bespoke rate, because it paid that bespoke rate for two years. Lloyds did not 
explain at any point that the bespoke rate could be taken away at any point, and it has only 
recently provided S with a copy of its terms and conditions.
Mr L also said he did not accept that Lloyds no longer had copies of the account opening 
documentation. He provided a copy of an email S received from Lloyds in 2017, which 
confirmed good news about base rate, and said that Lloyds could not agree a deal and 
then unilaterally renege on that deal with one simple letter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, there is very little I can add to what our investigator has already said. I 
accept that the interest rate paid on Ss client account was initially linked to Bank of England 
base rate, but I am satisfied that Lloyds was entitled to make changes to the way it 
determined the interest rate on Ss account. I am also satisfied that Lloyds gave S adequate 
notice of the change, giving S the opportunity to move its account elsewhere if it so wished.
It is unfortunate that Lloyds has not been able to provide me with the account opening 
documentation, but that makes no difference to my decision. Even if Lloyds had originally 
agreed a bespoke rate, I havent seen anything that persuades me that Lloyds ever 
promised S that the interest rate on its client account would always track Bank of England 
base rate. I appreciate that the interest rate on the account did track base rate for some 
time, but that is not the same as a promise that the accounts interest rate would always 
track base rate.
I acknowledge that Mr L does not recall receiving terms and conditions when the account 
was opened, and Lloyds cannot demonstrate that it provided that document. Again, that is 
unfortunate. But it does not mean Lloyds is required to continue calculating interest in the 
same way forever.
I am satisfied that so long as Lloyds gave adequate notice, it was entitled to change the way 
it determined the interest rate payable on Ss account. I know Mr L strongly disagrees, but I 
consider that the letters Lloyds has provided show that it did give notice to S about the 
changes.
Overall, I consider that Lloyds treated S fairly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Lloyds Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2023.
 
Laura Colman
Ombudsman