DRN-3360786
The complaint
Mr E complains that Portal Financial Services LLP gave him unsuitable advice to go into 
income drawdown and to invest in high-risk investments.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on 9 March 2022. I said I was intending to uphold the 
complaint but I had amended the redress recommended by the investigator. Mr E said he 
accepted the decision. The business hasnt responded.
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision as follows:
Since July 1989 Mr E had a Personal Pension Plan (PPP). This pension was a with-profits 
pension scheme and was invested in various funds including the following:
Gilts 18%
Corporate Bond 31%
UK Shares 16%
Alternative Investments 4%
Overseas Shares 16%
Property 12%
Other 3%
In July 2011 Portal reviewed Mr Es existing PPP arrangement. This was with a view to 
advising him on whether switching to another pension plan while receiving a 25% tax-free 
cash lump sum (TFC), would be in his best interests. Following the review, Portals adviser 
(the adviser) produced a suitability report for Mr E. In summary, Mr Es circumstances were 
recorded as follows:
He was 57 years old and was married.
He was employed earning around £450 a week.
He had one pension with a transfer value of £23,709.
He owned his own home which had an outstanding mortgage balance of £123,000.
He had a credit card balance of £2,000.
He expected to retire at age of 65.
Mr Es main objective was to take his TFC entitlement immediately whilst leaving his pension 
funds invested. He wanted the TFC to help fund buying a property abroad where he 
intended to live with his wife. And he just wanted to access his TFC without needing to take 
an immediate income.
The adviser recorded Mr E as having a balanced attitude to risk which he said meant:
Someone with a moderate level of knowledge about financial matters.
Someone with a level of experience of investments including in assets such as 
equities and bonds.
Someone willing to take risks with at least part of their available assets.
Someone who is willing to give up a certain outcome for a gamble provided the 
potential rewards were high enough.
Someone who feels regret when their decisions turn out badly.
The adviser noted that (bold the advisers emphasis) You are aware that by transferring 
your benefits away from the [previous pension providers name] you will be losing the 
Guaranteed Annuity rate (sic) at age 60 or 65. Whilst the adviser noted Mr Es pension 
would be losing his Guaranteed Annuity Rates (GAR) by transferring to a Self Invested 
Personal Pension (SIPP), he (the adviser) recommended that in order to meet his 
objectives he (Mr E) should:
Transfer his existing pension fund to a Portal Financial Personal Pension which 
would be managed by Transact. Mr Es statements with Transact since the transfer 
show that the pension plan he held on this platform was a Self-Invested Personal 
Pension (SIPP) and this is how it will be referred to throughout this decision.
Take the full 25% TFC entitlement.
Leave his residual fund invested until it was required as an income.
The adviser ruled out a number of other options such as a Pension Switch, a Phased 
Income Withdrawal and a Stakeholder Pension. The adviser said this was because Mr E 
wanted to have access to the TFC with no income being drawn at that time. But in relation to 
the Pension Fund Drawdown (Unsecured Income) option, the adviser said he was 
recommending this because: this will release your full Tax-Free Cash and leave the 
residual amount invested, as you have no requirement for an income.
The adviser said Mr E pension funds would be invested as follows:
53% Raithwaites Hypa Fund
10% Hypa Asia Fund
17% Venture Oil International
15% EOS Solar Energy
5% Cash Deposit
The adviser noted the following about what type of investments these were:
The Raithwaites Hypa Fund and Hypa Asia Fund were unregulated collective 
investment schemes (UCIS). The Raithwaites Hypa Fund was a specialist 
investment in a five star hotel development and was designed to yield 8% per 
annum. 
Hypa Asia Fund invested in Off-Plan villas and Hotel Rooms which would be resold 
at higher prices once buildings were completed. The developments were all financed 
by local banks and the fund was designed to run over a three year period and return 
between 50%-100% on the original investment.
Venture Oil International and Solar Energy funds were also specialised investments. 
Venture Oil pre-purchased Oklahoma crude oil. This was supplied on a monthly basis 
to the fund over a seven year period and resold on the open market. And the EOS 
Solar Energy fund invested in a solar power development in Cyprus where the fund 
had contracted to sell electricity at a fixed price over a twenty five year period to the 
Cypriot government. The initial yield was 8% per annum for three years and 10% per 
annum thereafter denominated in Euros. 
The adviser said the promotion and/ or advice on UCISs were restricted under section 238 
of the Financial Services and Markets Act (FSMA) 2000. And that, amongst other things, this was on the grounds they may carry greater risks than regulated collective investment 
schemes, they werent protected under the Financial Services Compensation Scheme and 
they usually require a sophisticated understanding of investments.
The adviser said hed conducted full due diligence on the UCIS products to ensure these 
were suitable recommendation based on Mr Es stated objectives. And he noted Mr E wasnt 
exempt under FSMA in that he wasnt a high net worth individual and/ or a sophisticated 
investor. But the adviser said Mr E was:
a person for whom we as an Independent Advisory Firm qualified to advise on UCIS 
investments have taken reasonable steps to ensure that the investment in the particular 
collective investment scheme(s) is suitable following a full KYC (Know Your Customer 
Investigation) and ATR (Attitude to Risk Assessment), this therefore provides an exemption 
under COBS (Conduct of Business) regulations 4.12.
Mr E accepted the advisers recommendation. A value of £23,709 was transferred from his 
PPP to the recommended SIPP on 23 August 2011 and he withdrew the TFC element of 
£5,927 on 25 August 2011.
In November 2015 Portal sent Mr E an annual pension review for his SIPP. This showed 
that between October 2014 and November 2015 his pension fund had fallen from £16,752 to 
£16,452. As of 5 April 2016, his SIPP annual statement showed Mr Es total portfolio value 
was £16,379. And as of 5 April 2017 it was £14,042. As of 5 April 2018 Mr Es total portfolio 
value had fallen to £509. And by 5 April 2020 the total portfolio was worth £349, with the only 
investment with any value showing as Venture Oil with a nominal value of £0.45p. The 
remaining balance was in cash.
In May 2019, Mr E complained to Portal. He said he never fully understood the 
recommendations that were made to him by its adviser. He added the investments that were 
part of his pension portfolio when he transferred to a SIPP, were too complex for him to 
understand and he didnt believe they were medium to low risk. Mr E said he was relying on 
the advice given to him by Portal and if the recommendation to transfer to the SIPP hadnt 
been made he would not have transferred from his PPP.
Portal rejected Mr Es complaint. It initially said that the matter was out of time. So Mr E 
brought the complaint to our service. One of our investigators reviewed the matter and didnt 
think the complaint had been made too late. And an ombudsman agreed with this view.
When considering the merits of the complaint, our investigator recommended it be upheld. In 
brief, he considered given Mr Es circumstances he was likely to have a cautious attitude to 
risk. And that the unregulated investments he was advised to invest in, werent suitable for 
him when taking into account his attitude to risk and his capacity for loss. Our investigator 
thought the percentage of unregulated investments Mr E was recommended to invest in, 
was unsuitable as it was well above the level recommended by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (the regulator).
Our investigator set out how he thought Portal should put things right. In addition to carrying 
out a loss calculation based on a benchmark of the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total 
Return Index, he said Portal should refund its fees to Mr E and make a payment of £400 for 
the trouble and upset it had caused. 
Portal disagreed. In summary, it said:
Mr E required access to his TFC which he couldnt obtain without going into 
drawdown and this could not be met through his existing arrangements. Under his PPP if he wanted to be able to release his TFC early, this wouldve required him 
taking an income via an annuity.
Mr E wanted to raise funds so he could move abroad and was keen to avoid taking 
out credit to do this.
Portal also disagreed with the investigators proposed redress methodology. It said this was 
unreasonable considering Mr Es attitude to risk. Portal says that Mr E was correctly 
assessed as moderately cautious investor. But the redress methodology proposed by the 
investigator didnt reflect this level of risk because it didnt contain any bond element.
Our investigator conceded that Mr E would have had to transfer to access his TFC without 
having to enter an annuity. But he thought the recommendation was still unsuitable for all the 
other reasons, including the level of investments to be invested in UCISs. He didnt think 
these were suitable for someone in Mr Es situation. He was satisfied the methodology he 
had recommended was a fair reflection of Mr Es attitude to risk. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The reasons for my decision were set out in my provisional decision. As no further evidence 
has been submitted by either party, my findings remain the same. So, my reasons for 
upholding this complaint are as follows:
Our service has already considered the issue of jurisdiction and this has been 
communicated to both parties. I note Portals continued objection to our service considering 
this complaint. But it can be assured that I have considered the issue of jurisdiction and Im 
satisfied the decision previously made on this issue is correct. Therefore, Im satisfied our 
service does have the power to look at this complaint.
The fact find completed by the Portal adviser, states Mr E wanted to use the TFC so he 
could fund buying a property abroad where he was planning on relocating with his wife. The 
suitability report said the only other significant asset Mr E had was his home that he owned, 
financed with a mortgage. But Mr E says this is incorrect because he didnt (and still doesnt) 
own a property with or without a mortgage. He says he lived in rental property with his wife.
Whatever the situation is on Mr Es home ownership, I dont think this affects the decision. 
From what I can see if Mr E wanted to achieve his objective of moving abroad and keeping 
his pension funds invested rather than drawing an immediate income, I think the 
recommendation to transfer away from his previous PPP was a reasonable one to make. 
Even if Portal had made a mistake about the ownership status of Mr Es home, it doesnt 
seem to me that he had many other assets from which to fund his move abroad. So, Mr E 
was largely reliant on the TFC in order to meet this objective.
During the advice process, Portal, having identified Mr Es PPP contained GARs, explained 
that transferring would mean the loss of the GAR. Whilst I would normally question whether 
it was appropriate for the adviser to recommend transferring a PPP which would incur the 
loss of valuable guarantees, I think there were compelling reasons for this transfer to be 
recommended. And indeed Mr Es main complaint isnt that the transfer in itself was 
unsuitable. Rather, he considers the investments he was recommended to transfer into were 
not suitable for him given his experience of such products.
Mr Es previous pension provider has confirmed that if he wanted to access his TFC, which 
he could do at age 55, he wouldve had to take an annuity at the same time. I can see in several places in the suitability report, that Mr E confirmed he didnt want to take an income 
at that point but just wanted to take the TFC benefits. So, on balance, I think the 
recommendation to transfer away to another pension provider to meet his objectives, was a 
suitable one to make. However, looking at what funds were recommended to Mr E, which 
were mostly unregulated investments, I think these were unsuitable for him based on his 
attitude to risk and also his capacity for loss.
As set out above, the recommendation was to invest in a number of unregulated schemes. 
The regulators 2010 UCIS findings said as well as UCIS only being eligible for promotion to 
certain customers which were generally sophisticated, high net worth investors. As an 
example, the regulator said that even when a customer was deemed eligible for the 
promotion of UCIS, suitable advice involved limiting a client's exposure to these investments 
to 3% to 5% of their retirement provision. In Mr Es case, 95% of his SIPP was invested in 
unregulated, specialised products. 
Portals report said only two of Mr Es investments were UCIS products. But both Solar 
Energy and Venture Oil were also very specialised unregulated investments. The former was 
a Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) for a project that sought to use a new technology in 
Cyprus. Similarly, Venture Oil was a highly specialised product investing in barrels of crude 
oil which had a currency risk and exposure to losses if the price of oil fell. The regulator has 
noted about these types of investments in its June 2013 Policy Statement PS13/3 that:
Pooled investments or funds characterised by unusual, speculative or complex assets, 
product structures, investment strategies and/or terms and features. They are units in 
unregulated collective investment schemes (UCIS); securities issued by certain special 
purpose vehicles (SPVs); units in qualified investor schemes (QIS); and traded life policy 
investments (TLPIs).
So, I think the investments recommended to Mr E were only suitable for a more 
sophisticated, experienced investor. Mr Es total asset allocation in unregulated products 
was 95%. I dont think any part of the investments recommended to Mr E were suitable for 
him. And certainly not in the proportion he was recommended to invest.
Mr E was classified as a balanced investor. Ive set out above how Portal defined this type 
of investor. But I cant see any evidence to support that Mr E was as experienced as the 
Portal definition of a balanced investor would suggest. His only investment experience up 
until that point was in his previous PPP which was a traditional with-profits investment, 
investing a large proportion of the funds in gilts and bonds.
I do not consider the risks associated with the recommended unregulated investment 
schemes were consistent with Mr Es attitude to risk. Or that they would have been fully 
understood by him. On grounds of risk alone, I see no reasonable justification for the 
recommendation to invest in these unregulated schemes. As Portal itself said, they were 
illiquid and came with significant risks. In this context, Im not persuaded that the 
recommendation to invest almost all of Mr Es pension fund into these schemes can be 
reasonably justified.
Portals suitability report acknowledged the associated risks and restrictions that applied to 
the promotion of UCIS. And it did say Mr E wasnt a high net worth individual and/ or 
sophisticated investor. But it went on to say its adviser was qualified to advise on UCIS 
investments because of the COBS 4.12 exemption. At the time of the advice COBS 4.12.1 
stated the following:
(1) A firm may communicate an invitation or inducement to participate in an unregulated 
collective investment scheme without breaching the restriction on promotion in section 238 of the Act if the promotion falls within an exemption in the table in (4), as explained further in 
the Notes.
(2) Where the left-hand column in the table in (4) refers to promotion to a category of person, 
this means that the invitation or inducement:
(a) is made only to recipients who the firm has taken reasonable steps to establish are 
persons in that category; or
(b) is directed at recipients in a way that may reasonably be regarded as designed to reduce, 
so far as possible, the risk of participation in the collective investment scheme by persons 
who are not in that category.
Even though a summary of this COBS statement appears in Mr Es suitability report, given 
his level of understanding and experience of investments, I dont think its likely he wouldve 
understood what this exemption meant. I also dont think it was made clear to him why these 
investments werent suitable for most retail investors, and/ or why an exception was being 
applied in his case.
So, despite what Portal says, I consider if Mr E had been correctly advised, I dont think he 
would have invested his pension funds as he did. I do, however, think he still would have 
transferred his PPP to enable him to meet his objectives of accessing his TFC without 
having to enter into an annuity.
In terms of the redress, I note our investigator refunded the initial advice fees separately. But 
I dont think this should have been done. This is because the redress calculations replace 
the actual growth Mr E wouldve achieved with a benchmark that doesn't allow for these 
same fees to be deducted. However, I dont propose making a deduction for these fees for 
two reasons. Firstly, I think its likely that Mr E will now need to seek, and pay for, advice 
about how to invest his lump sum. And secondly, I dont think it would be fair for Portal to 
profit from the unsuitable advice it gave Mr E.
Fair compensation
My aim is that Mr E should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice. I think Mr E would have invested differently.
Its not possible to say precisely what he would have done, but Im satisfied that what Ive set 
out below is fair and reasonable given Mr E's circumstances and objectives when he 
invested.
What must Portal Financial Services LLP do?
To compensate Mr E fairly, Portal Financial Services LLP must:
Compare the performance of Mr E's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. 
If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable. If the 
fair value is greater than the actual value there is a loss and compensation is 
payable.
Portal Financial Services LLP should add interest as set out below.If there is a loss, Portal Financial Services LLP should pay into Mr E's pension plan 
to increase its value by the amount of the compensation and any interest. The 
amount paid should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. 
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance.
If Portal Financial Services LLP is unable to pay the compensation into Mr E's 
pension plan, it should pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay 
into the plan, it would have provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation 
should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have 
been paid. This is an adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it 
isnt a payment of tax to HMRC, so Mr E wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction 
after compensation is paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr E's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age. As set out in my provisional 
decision, I think its reasonable to assume that Mr E was likely to be a basic rate 
taxpayer at the selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%.
Pay Mr E £400 for distress and inconvenience cause to his retirement planning.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Portal Financial Services LLP deducts 
income tax from the interest, it should tell Mr E how much has been taken off. Portal 
Financial Services LLP should give Mr E a tax deduction certificate in respect of interest if 
Mr E asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
Transact 
SIPPStill exists 
but illiquidFor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return 
Index; for the 
other half: 
average rate 
from fixed 
rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days 
of the business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
It may be difficult to find the actual value of the portfolio. This is complicated where an asset 
is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open market) as in this case. Portal 
Financial Services LLP should take ownership of the illiquid assets by paying a commercial 
value acceptable to the pension provider. The amount Portal Financial Services LLP pays 
should be included in the actual value before compensation is calculated.
If Portal Financial Services LLP is unable to purchase the portfolio the actual value should 
be assumed to be nil for the purpose of calculation. Portal Financial Services LLP may require that Mr E provides an undertaking to pay Portal Financial Services LLP any Amount 
he may receive from the investment in the future. That undertaking must allow for any tax 
and charges that would be incurred on drawing the receipt from the pension plan.
Portal Financial Services LLP will need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Portal 
Financial Services LLP should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds 
as published by the Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of 
the previous month. Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually 
compounded basis.
Any withdrawal from the Transact SIPP should be deducted from the fair value calculation 
at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that 
point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill 
accept if Portal Financial Services LLP totals all those payments and deducts that figure at 
the end to determine the fair value instead of deducting periodically.
The Transact SIPP only exists because of illiquid assets. In order for the Transact SIPP to 
be closed and further fees that are charged to be prevented, those investments need to be 
removed. Ive set out above how this might be achieved by Portal Financial Services LLP 
taking over the investment, or this is something that Mr E can discuss with the provider 
directly. But I dont know how long that will take.
Third parties are involved and we dont have the power to tell them what to do. If Portal 
Financial Services LLP is unable to purchase the investment, to provide certainty to all 
parties I think its fair that it pays Mr E an upfront lump sum equivalent to five years worth of 
wrapper fees (calculated using the fee in the previous year to date). This should provide a 
reasonable period for the parties to arrange for the Transact SIPP to be closed.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr E wanted Capital growth with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
I consider Mr E's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared to 
take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Mr E into that position. It does not mean that Mr E 
would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind of 
index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that broadly reflects the sort of return Mr E could have obtained from investments suited 
to his objective and risk attitude.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Portal Financial Services LLP should pay the 
amount calculated as set out above.
Portal Financial Services LLP should provide details of its calculation to Mr E in a clear, 
simple format. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2022.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman