DRN-3030780
complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2003 (later amended in 2007.) Mr and Mrs M say National Westminster Bank Plc 
(NatWest) mis-sold them PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr and Mrs 
Ms circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale complaint. And they said that because NatWest 
told us that the commission for Mr and Mrs Ms PPI was less than 50% of what they paid, 
NatWest didnt need to pay back any of the commission they paid for the PPI. 
Mr and Mrs Ms representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise 
any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ms. I havent set out that detailed 
information here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr and 
Mrs Ms complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive decided NatWest didnt need to tell Mr and 
Mrs M about the commission it received - so NatWest doesnt need to pay back any of the 
commission Mr and Mrs M paid for the PPI. Ive summarised my reasons for each of these 
conclusions below. 
 
In summary, my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint are:
I think NatWest made it clear that Mr and Mrs M didnt have to take out the PPI and they 
chose to take it out. I say this because NatWest has provided some of the paperwork 
from the time of the sale in 2003 (carried out by phone) including Mr and Mrs Ms 
mortgage application. Looking at this I can see section eight of the form asked if Mr and 
Mrs M wanted PPI and there is a Yes printed here. While the form is printed, because 
this was a phone sale the paperwork was sent to Mr and Mrs M after the call. 
So I wouldnt expect this to be handwritten. Ive not seen anything to make me think Mr 
and Mrs M werent asked this question during the call as recorded here.
I can also see that Mr and Mrs M signed a direct debit mandate for the PPI premiums to 
be taken from their bank account. It was indicated here that cover was to be in the sole 
name of Mr M at this stage. Because Mr and Mrs M signed a separate direct debit 
mandate from the mortgage one, I dont think they would have been under the 
impression that they had to have PPI or that it was an integral part of the mortgage 
offering.
I can see that Mr M told NatWest during its investigation of the complaint that he had no 
concerns about the process when Mrs M was added to the policy later on in 2007. So 
taking this into account and my finding that Mr and Mrs M chose to take out PPI originally 
in 2003 in Mr Ms sole name, I think Mr and Mrs M also likely chose to add Mrs M to the 
policy in 2007 without undue pressure.
Mr and Mrs M say they were advised to take out PPI. NatWest says it didnt recommend 
the PPI to Mr and Mrs M. Looking at the evidence from the time of the primary sale in 
2003, I can see one of the documents NatWest has provided recorded the level of 
service it gave Mr and Mrs M as Informed Choice  there were other options to indicate 
if advice was given. 
So taking this into account and the fact that Mr and Mrs M have not expanded on why 
they think they were advised, on balance I dont think advice was given in 2003. And in 
2007 Ive also seen nothing to suggest that NatWest provided advice.
This means NatWest didnt have to check that the PPI was right or suitable for Mr and 
Mrs M. But it did have to give them enough clear and timely information so they could 
decide for themselves if it was right for them.
I dont think the information NatWest gave Mr and Mrs M about the PPI overall was as 
clear as it shouldve been. But Ive found that they chose to take it out - so it looks like 
they wanted this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr and Mrs M 
 for example Mr M was eligible for the cover in 2003 and Mrs M was eligible for the 
cover in 2007. Mr M wasnt affected by the significant exclusions on or limits to the cover, 
such as those for existing medical conditions or unusual employment circumstances. 
And in 2007 I note the policy didnt exclude existing medical conditions  so although 
Mrs M said shed suffered with some conditions in the past, the cover was fundamentally 
wrong for her at this time.
There were also no additional restrictions on cover for mental health or back problems. 
And while Mr and Mrs M have said they were financially stretched, Ive not seen anything 
else which makes me think the policy was unaffordable  so it seems like it would have 
been useful for them if something went wrong. 
Because of this, and as the policy wasnt too dissimilar to what they reasonably thought 
they were buying from the information they were given, I dont think Mr and Mrs M would 
have declined the cover had NatWest done anything more.
Overall, I consider that Mr and Mrs M would have still taken out PPI. The policy was sufficiently close to what its likely they thought they were getting and I think the policy could 
provide a useful benefit in a difficult time, given their circumstances at the time and despite 
their existing provision in the form of sick pay and redundancy pay. And in those 
circumstances, I think that they would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs Ms representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. 
These general points include: a claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly 
applying the regulators rules and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies 
represented poor value because of the number of significant exclusions and limitations of 
cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant NatWest 
should have disclosed the poor value and explained the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions and the impact it had on the chances of making a claim.
But Mr and Mrs Ms representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts 
and circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ms individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Ms particular 
case. But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold the mis-sale element of this complaint. 
This means NatWest doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided NatWest didnt need to disclose the commission it received, so 
NatWest doesnt need to do pay back any of the commission Mr and Mrs M paid. My 
reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Mr and Mrs Ms representative has made a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin1 judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on their complaint.
In summary they have said Mr and Mrs M should get back all the money they paid for the 
policy because: NatWest failed to tell Mr and Mrs M about the high commission and profit-
share rates paid, the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. 
Because they say that meant the policy was poor value, I should find that Mr and Mrs M 
wouldnt have taken out the policy had they known about the level of commission and they 
should receive a refund of all the premiums they paid.
But in this case, NatWest has told us that the commission for Mr and Mrs Ms PPI was less 
than half of what they paid for each premium. Weve looked at how NatWest has worked this 
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipout and based on what weve seen, Im satisfied that the commission in Mr and Mrs Ms case 
was less than half the cost of the PPI.
As thats the case, taking into account:
- the effect of section 140A and B of the Consumer Credit Act;
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin and the conclusion in that case; and
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and 
profit share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy
I dont think NatWest needed to tell Mr and Mrs M about the commission. So it follows that I 
dont think the non-disclosure created an unfair relationship - I dont think NatWest treated 
Mr and Mrs M unfairly. 
This means NatWest doesnt need to pay Mr and Mrs M back any of the commission they 
paid for the PPI. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of Mr and Mrs Ms complaint or make any 
award in favour of them for this part of the complaint.
And because Ive decided that National Westminster Bank Plc didnt need to disclose the 
commission it received, it doesnt need to pay back any of the commission Mr and Mrs M 
paid for the PPI.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 October 2021.
 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman