DRN-1234297
 
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out by Mrs H in 1999, in connection with a 
mortgage. The policy provided cover for Mrs H if she couldnt work because of 
accident, sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mrs H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is 
incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Hs case.
It seems to me that the relevant considerations in this case are materially the same as 
those set out on our website. And the main questions I need to consider are:
If Halifax gave any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the product 
it recommended was suitable for Mrs Hs needs?
Did Halifax give Mrs H the information she needed to decide whether to take out the 
policy?
 
If there was a problem with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider whether Mrs 
H is worse off as a result. That is, would she have done something different  such as not 
taking out the policy  if there hadnt been any problems with the sale?
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Hs case and Ive set out my reasons below. 
Mrs H says she doesn't remember PPI being discussed when she took out her mortgage, 
and she didnt know it had been added to her account. 
The difficulty I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between Mrs H and Halifax 
when the policy was sold. I'm also mindful that these events took place many years ago, and 
that exact recollections of what happened can fade over time.But I note that Mrs H had to complete and sign an application form for the PPI, that was 
separate to her mortgage application. It seems she had to answer a number of questions on 
the PPI application too.
So without anything else to support what Mrs H has told me, it seems likely that Halifax 
discussed the PPI with her during her mortgage application. And I think it's likely that 
Halifax would've made Mrs H aware that the cover was optional, and that she chose to take 
it out. 
Halifax advised Mrs H to take out the policy and it doesnt look like it was unsuitable for 
her based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. I say this because:
Mrs H was eligible for the policy given her circumstances and the PPI terms and 
conditions.
Mrs H says she can't remember whether she was entitled to sick pay from 
her employer if she couldnt work due to sickness or accident. She says she had life 
insurance and critical illness cover, but she hasn't been able to provide any 
paperwork for these benefits. So I don't think I can safely say that the PPI would've 
duplicated any other benefits Mrs H might've been entitled to. Overall, I think Mrs 
H would have had some use for the policy.
Mrs H wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits, 
such as those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical 
conditions. As she could have benefited from the full extent of the cover I think it 
unlikely she needed better advice or information about the policys exclusions and 
limitations.
I can't be sure that the PPI cost was made clear to Mrs H before she agreed to buy it. 
But the policy was competitively priced and had a reasonable benefit. So I think it 
unlikely Mrs H would have made a different decision if better information about the 
cost had been provided.
 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mrs H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But as Ive already said, Mrs H wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or 
limitations and the policy seems to have been affordable. So I think it unlikely Mrs H would 
have made a different decision if better information had been provided  overall, I think 
she would still have taken out the policy. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2020.
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman