The complaint
Ms T complains that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold payment 
protection insurance (PPI) to her alongside a store card in 2003. 
What happened
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be upheld. She didnt think FICL had made it 
clear to Ms T that PPI was optional and she didnt have to take it out if she didnt want it. 
FICL disagreed with that view. It said that although it didnt have any paperwork available 
from the point of sale, it argued that it would have been clear to Ms T that she could have 
refused the PPI if she wanted to. 
As the parties are not in agreement with our adjudicator, the matter has been passed to me 
to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive upheld this complaint. Ill explain why below. 
The first thing for me to determine is how this policy was sold. Ms T says it was sold online, 
whereas FICL says it was sold in store. Looking at what we know these policies, I think its 
more likely the cover was sold in store. Were not aware of circumstances in which FICL 
would have sold PPI online at that time. 
In its response to the complaint, FICL told us that it didnt have the credit agreement that 
was signed by Ms T. That document is important as it can reflect the discussions that took 
place at the time. It would also show whether Ms T had signed to say she wanted a PPI 
policy. 
Ms T took the store card out in 2003. And I would usually expect FICL to be able to show me 
the credit agreement. When it sold PPI to Ms C, it had to make sure it had explicit agreement 
from Ms T to buy PPI. It had to make sure she knew the cover was optional and she didnt 
have to buy it if she didnt want it. 
I appreciate that FICL told us what should have happened at the point of sale. But Ms T said 
that PPI was neither mentioned nor highlighted to her at the relevant time. In the absence of 
DRN-1041855any evidence to the contrary, I accept her evidence. I cant say that FICL obtained her 
explicit consent to take the policy out or that it was clear she could have turned the cover 
down if she didnt want it.  
With that in mind, Ive upheld this complaint and FICL will need to take action to put things 
right. 
Putting things right
FICL should put Ms T in the financial position she would be in now if she hadnt taken out 
PPI.
FICL should find out how much Ms T would have owed when the account was closed
if the PPI policy hadnt been added. So, it should remove the PPI premiums added,
as well as any interest charged on those premiums. It should also remove any
charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  as well as any interest added
to those charges.
FICL should then refund the difference between what Ms T owed when the account
was closed and what she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Ms T made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what she got
for the claim from the amount it owes her.
FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Ms T would have
owed when the account was closed  from when it was closed until she gets the
refund. The interest rate should be 8% a year.
If  when FICL works out what Ms T would have owed each month without PPI  she
paid more than enough to clear her balance, FICL should also pay simple interest on
the extra she paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when she
would have owed FICL something on her store card. The interest rate should be 8%
a year.
FICL should tell Ms T what its done to work out the redress set out above.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must
give Ms T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint about Financial Insurance Company Limited. I require it to comply 
with the above putting things right section. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2019.
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman