DRN-2711051
The complaint
Mr D says IG Index Limited (IG) did as follows:
It opened an inappropriate spread-betting account for him in 2012; despite taking a 
break from the account (and from trading) in 2014 and despite doing so after a total 
trading loss of almost £30,000, it inappropriately encouraged and allowed him to 
return to trading and to reactivate his account in 2016; and it did so without a review 
of his circumstances (or appropriateness) at any time up to suspension of the 
account in 2020. He then made further trading losses of around £50,000. [issue 1]
It unreasonably suspended his account in 2020, leading to losses. [issue 2]
It manipulated its prices to ensure his trades triggered stop loss settings and were 
closed with losses; and in doing so, it forced him to trade without stop loss settings 
(in order to avoid the manipulation), which directly caused additional losses. [issue 3]
It unfairly imposed upon him a requirement to pay dividends on short positions, 
whereas a fair practice would have been to give him and other clients the option over 
whether (or not) to do so. [issue 4]
With regards to the impact COVID-19 had on the markets, IG was unreasonable to 
have allowed clients to continue trading, it should have frozen trading accounts 
instead in order to protect clients from the volatile markets. [issue 5]
Mr D seeks compensation for his losses. IG disputes the complaint.
What happened
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and concluded that it should not be 
upheld. In the main, he said:
Available evidence shows that, at the outset, the account was assessed as 
inappropriate for Mr D, he was issued with warning notice of this and he opted to 
waive the notice and to proceed with the account regardless.
There is no evidence that IG encouraged him to return to trading in 2016. Given 
record of his trading prior to that, IG would not have needed to verify his trading 
experience in 2016. 
In terms of reviewing his circumstances, IGs records show that it enquired into his 
earnings and savings in 2012, 2015, 2016, 2017 and 2018, and that his answers 
conveyed some decrease in earnings over time, but savings never below £30,000. 
That level of savings would not have indicated that his trading losses were 
unaffordable.
It was reasonable for IG to suspend Mr Ds account (and allow only the closure of 
existing positions but not the opening of new positions) in 2020 and in response to 
his complaint and in response to notice of the effect the losses were having on him.
There is no evidence of the stop loss related price manipulation he alleges. 
Furthermore, given that IG hedged their customers bets, it would have made no 
difference to it whether those bets made or lost money.
Mr D was given notice at the outset about spread-betting being inherently high risk 
and it was up to customers to make their own trading decisions, so IG wouldnt be 
expected to freeze clients accounts as he described.
The workings of the dividends payments he refers to were explained in the terms and 
conditions he agreed and there is no evidence the payments were applied incorrectly 
in his case. 
Mr D disagreed with this outcome and findings. He maintained his complaint issues and, in 
the main, he said:
He does not recall any inappropriateness assessment or notice at the outset and 
does not recall waiving such a notice. Furthermore, if IG assessed the account as 
inappropriate for him it should not have allowed him to open it and trade in it; and it 
should have reviewed suitability of the account after he took a break in 2014 and 
resumed in 2016, but it did not.
IG asked for information about his earnings and savings only in 2012 and 2018, so its 
reference to the other years is false. Furthermore, whilst he checked a box to agree 
IGs terms in 2012, those terms (and the many revisions applied to it over the years) 
were never re-presented to him for agreement until 2020, when he was forced to 
agree them under duress  duress, because he was not allowed to access his 
account without agreeing the terms. 
He will find and produce evidence of the price manipulation he alleges.
He was not told about the workings of the dividends payments prior to his trading 
and, to date, he remains unclear about how they work, other than that they unfairly 
deduct payments for short bets; this being unfair because spread-betting does not 
involve actual share dealing so the dividends workings should not be forced upon a 
client.
The investigators consideration of the suspension of his account needs to be 
corrected, in terms of reference to IG reacting to the effect his losses were having on 
him. The correspondence with IG in which he referred to serious and adverse 
personal health and wellbeing effects of his trading/trading losses featured 
exaggerations on his part. He did not face the effects he described, and he stated 
them in order to test IGs customer service and compassion. 
However, it remains the case that IGs suspension of his account on 6 April 2020 was 
done unreasonably, because it continued to charge rolling fees on his open positions 
which depleted his funds and forced him to close those position at losses. His 
inability ability to close a particular Wall Street bet online caused him an increased 
loss because IG insisted on him doing this over the telephone which he was reluctant 
to do, and by the time it was done the price of the bet had moved further against him.
IGs move to prevent clients from betting short during a Wall Street market freefall in 
March 2020 shows that it could and should have done what he suggests in relation to 
COVID-19 and that, contrary to what it says with regards to hedging bets, it does 
have an interest in the outcomes of clients bets.
The investigator addressed Mr Ds main points but was not persuaded to change his view. 
The matter was then referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Issues 1 and 2 (and related matters)The regulators rules on the assessment of appropriateness apply in the context of financial 
products or services that are offered/provided by a regulated firm on a non-advised (or 
execution only) basis. Mr Ds account was a non-advised execution only account. Under the 
regulators Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) rules the task in assessing 
appropriateness is to establish a persons knowledge, experience and understanding of 
risks, in relation to the product(s) or service(s) being offered/provided. It is relevant to note 
that the rules do not require a firm to assess a persons affordability status  affordability 
features in the consideration of suitability in an advised product/service, but it does not 
feature in a non-advised product/service like Mr Ds spread-betting account.
In his case, the account was assessed as inappropriate for him. I note that he disputes 
receiving notice of this in 2012 but, on balance, record of this assessment has been shared 
by IG and explained to us. It carries persuasive weight especially because in the automated 
account opening process Mr D would not have been able to proceed with the account 
opening unless he acknowledged and waived the notice.
The regulators rules allow a person to exercise his/her own discretion in these 
circumstances and allow a firm to do the same. Both can proceed with an inappropriate 
product or service provision so long as a warning of inappropriateness has been properly 
given to the customer and so long as both parties agree. If, despite a warning, a client still 
wishes to proceed with the service or product a firm has discretion to allow the client to do so 
 having regard to the circumstances, and I have not seen evidence of circumstances in 
2012 which conflict with IGs decision to grant Mr D the account. 
COBS 10.4.2 (R) says a firm  is not required to make a new assessment [of 
appropriateness] on the occasion of each separate transaction  by its client. It also says 
that a firm providing clients with a regulated service complies with the rules for assessing 
appropriateness  provided that it makes the necessary appropriateness assessment 
before beginning that service. 
Available evidence is that Mr D resumed, in 2016, trading in the account that he had taken a 
break from in 2014. It does not appear that the account changed or that he had to apply 
afresh, in 2016, for a spread-betting account. The implication is that the same account 
service that began in 2012 is the service that continued up to the suspension in April 2020; 
that the inappropriateness assessment (and notice) that took place in 2012 was applicable 
throughout; and that IG was not obliged to review or re-assess appropriateness thereafter. 
He was told at the outset that the account was inappropriate for him and that notice does not 
appear to have ever been withdrawn or qualified, so he ought reasonably to have been 
mindful of that throughout his use of the account  and especially when his losses prompted 
him to stop trading in 2014.
As stated above, the assessment of Mr Ds affordability status was not an obligation for IG to 
discharge in terms of determining appropriateness, but IG nevertheless appears to have 
kept itself informed of his basic financial circumstances (earnings and savings). I appreciate 
that Mr D disputes evidence in this respect too, but the records that have been shared with 
us do not appear to have been falsified and, on balance, the amounts entered for earnings 
and savings for each of the stated years appear to be amounts that IG were informed about, 
as opposed to amounts that were falsified. 
Under the regulators clients best interest rule (in COBS 2.1.1 (R)) A firm must act honestly, 
fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client. It is not 
uncommon for this rule to be cited by complainants in cases where they argue that a firm 
should have stopped a trading account service where it was clear that trading losses were 
causing an affordability problem. I have considered this in Mr Ds case. As the investigator noted, information about Mr Ds savings through the relevant years would 
not have indicated an unaffordability problem for him and there is no evidence that he ever 
complained about such a problem until 2020. With regards to the circumstances he 
presented in 2020, Mr D concedes that he exaggerated the effect of his trading losses and 
that none of what he presented was true, nevertheless evidence shows that IG reacted 
correctly to what he presented by suspending further trading in the account  in order to 
avoid any further accumulation of losses.
I disagree with Mr Ds criticism of the manner in which the suspension was done. The reason 
he faced rolling charges was because he chose to keep the relevant positions open. I can 
understand that he might have done so in order to make a profit from them, but the salient 
point is that the risk of making a loss(es) from them existed for as long as they remained 
open. I do not consider such a motive to be reasonable justification, in the context of a 
trading account with which an affordability problem had been alleged. With regards to the 
Wall Street position he mentioned, it appears that it was his reluctance to telephone IG and 
his decision to delay that call that resulted in him closing the position after the unfavourable 
price movement. I do not consider that IG can reasonably be blamed for that.
Issue 3
As the investigator said, no evidence of the price manipulation alleged by Mr D has been 
presented. Mr D said he would find and produce such evidence, but that does not appear to 
have been done. I have not seen evidence of any stop loss settings being wrongly applied to 
his bets or evidence of inaccurate prices applied to his bets. I do not accept his claim that 
the alleged manipulation forced him to trade without the protection of stop loss settings and 
to incur more losses. First, I repeat, the allegation has not been established. Second, he was 
responsible for his own trading decisions, including any decision to trade without stop loss 
settings and that responsibility was not shared with IG. It also seems somewhat unlikely that 
he would have continued to trade at all if he believed the prices were being manipulated.
Issue 4
The terms for the account set out, in a dedicated sub-section, the working of the dividends 
related adjustments for bets. The April 2011 version of the terms, which would have been 
what Mr D agreed in 2012 (or at least reflective of what he agreed) in order to open the 
account, has been shared with us and it presents this clearly. I consider that his agreement 
of those terms indicates his awareness of and agreement with the system by which the 
dividend adjustments were applied, and I have not seen evidence that IG applied them in 
any way other than as stated in the terms. It is also noteworthy that he traded since 2012, so 
it appears unlikely that the adjustments, in practice, would have been new to him in 2016 
when he resumed trading or between 2018 and 2020 during which he made his complaints. 
Issue 5
This service is not the industry regulator, so our remit does not extend to prescribing what 
firms should or should not do within their operations or, in terms of this issue, what firms 
should have done in 2020 during the COVID-19 outbreak. Mr D made his own trading 
decisions and was responsible for doing so. If he considered that the outbreak had made 
markets and market prices too volatile and unreliable for him, it would have been his 
responsibility  not IGs  to make the decision to suspend or stop his trading.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Ds complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2021.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman