DRN-2303472
The complaint
Ms A and Mr E have complained that Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) has declined their 
claim. 
What happened
Ms A and Mr E bought a single trip travel insurance policy, underwritten by URV. They 
booked flights from Birmingham to Frankfurt and Frankfurt to Istanbul. Their flight from 
Frankfurt to Istanbul was delayed and rescheduled. Mr E made a claim for costs as a result 
of the delays. But URV said this wasnt covered under the terms and conditions of the policy 
and so, declined his claim. Unhappy, Mr E brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think URV had done anything wrong. Mr 
E disagreed and asked what the benefit of the insurance was if the delay wasnt covered
And so the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant industry rules say an insurer must handle claims promptly and fairly and 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
The policy covers delays in the following circumstances:
We will pay £50 for trip disruption allowance per 12 hours up to a maximum of £150 in total 
if the departure of your international flight, international train or sailing is delayed on your 
outbound journey for more than 12 hours from its scheduled departure time from your 
international departure point.
International departure point is defined as:
The airport, international rail terminal or port from which you departed from the UK
As it was the flight from Frankfurt (and not Birmingham) which was delayed, this isnt 
covered under the terms of the policy.
Mr E has questioned the benefit of the insurance policy. An insurance policy doesnt need to 
cover every eventuality and an insurer can decide what it chooses to cover. In this case, 
delays are only covered in a specific scenario as set out above. For that reason, I dont think 
URV has done anything wrong. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A and Mr E to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 July 2021.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman