DRN-2630558
The complaint
Mrs O complains British Gas Insurance Limited failed to attend her home emergency within
a reasonable time and mis-sold her home emergency insurance policy. Shes also unhappy
with the service she got when she phoned British Gas for the emergency call-out.
What happened
Mrs O took out a home emergency insurance policy online with British Gas in December 
2018 and renewed the policy in December 2019.
On 5 January 2020, Mrs O and her husband woke up to find they and their family had no hot
water. They contacted British Gas to arrange an emergency call-out. British Gas told them
the earliest available appointment in their area was 8 January. Mrs O didnt think this was a
reasonable timeframe. And she says British Gass telephone advisers were unhelpful and
rude. So Mrs O cancelled the policy and complained to British Gas.
British Gas accepted Mrs O was asked to wait longer than it wouldve hoped for to get an
appointment. But it said it had to prioritise more vulnerable households at busy times. British
Gas offered Mrs O £50 in compensation for its delay in getting her an appointment. And it
apologised for the way in which it had handled Mr and Mrs Os calls.
Unhappy with this outcome, Mrs O brought her complaint to us. She said the timescale she
was offered for an appointment wasnt reasonable. And she said shed seen no
documentation from British Gas to say more vulnerable households would be prioritised, so
she says she was mis-sold the cover. She would like all her premiums refunded, plus
interest and compensation for hurt feelings and severe inconvenience.
In my provisional decision of 18 January 2021, I explained why I intended to uphold part of 
Mrs Os complaint. In response, Mrs O has said she has nothing to add, while British Gas 
disagrees with my findings.
Mrs Os complaint has now come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold part of Mrs Os complaint for the reasons I gave in 
my provisional decision.
In my provisional decision, I said Id look at Mrs Os complaint in three parts, as follows:
Appointment time
For this part of Mrs Os complaint, Ive looked at her home emergency insurance policy. This
says British Gas will carry out any visits Mrs O is entitled to within a reasonable time. The
policy doesnt say what reasonable means.
When British Gas responded to Mrs Os complaint it said its dispatch team has to prioritise
engineers workload on a daily basis. It said the highest priority is given to retired people or
those with a serious illness who have no heating or hot water, people just out of hospital,
and households who have babies under six months old.
But British Gas also accepted Mrs O didnt get the level of service it expects to offer its
customers. And because of this delayed appointment time, it offered Mrs O £50 in
compensation.
I think it was right of British Gas to accept the appointment it offered Mrs O didnt give her
the level of service it (or she) expected under her home emergency insurance policy. But,
based on what Ive seen so far, I dont think its offer of £50 compensation for this delay is fair
and reasonable.
I accept from what British Gas says it was under pressure at the time with call-outs from
what it describes as higher priority emergencies in Mrs Os area. But the fact remains that
Mrs O and her family  which she says included two young children  would most likely have
been without hot water for around three days in the middle of winter if Mrs O had waited for
British Gas to fix her hot water problem. Its clear this was a distressing and inconvenient
situation for Mrs O. She was clearly upset that her emergency wasnt being treated as shed
expected. And so its my current intention to uphold Mrs Os complaint on this point and
award her an additional £50 in compensation (on top of the compensation of £50 I believe
British Gas has already paid her) for the distress and inconvenience its delay in getting her
an appointment caused her.
Call handling
Mrs O says when she contacted British Gas to arrange a call-out, its telephone advisers
were extremely unhelpful and rude. She says one of them ended a call when her husband
asked to speak to a manager.
When British Gas responded to Mrs Os complaint about this, it said this had been passed to
the relevant team leaders to give feedback. And British Gas said it was sorry for the way
these calls were handled.
Our investigator asked British Gas for its call recordings but it says theyd been archived.
This is unfortunate  and obviously means we cant hear how British Gas handled its calls
with Mr and Mrs O. But it seems clear from British Gass response to Mrs Os complaint that
it accepts it did something wrong here. And, in the circumstances Mrs O has described and
British Gas has accepted, I dont think British Gass apology alone is fair and reasonable. So
its my current intention to uphold Mrs Os complaint on this point and award her £50 in
compensation for the distress British Gass acknowledged poor call handling has caused
her.
But, before I finish on this point, I should also say that not making call recordings available to
us isnt something we can punish British Gas for, as Mrs O suggests we should. Thats not
our role  its something only the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) can look at.
SaleMrs O says she was mis-sold her policies. She makes the specific point she was never told
only families with babies under six months old would get priority  which, as Ive mentioned,
is something British Gas referred to as being a reason for the delay in giving Mrs O an
appointment.
When Mrs O bought her home emergency cover, British Gas was under a duty to give her
enough clear information about the policys main terms and conditions for her to be able to
make an informed choice about whether or not she wanted to go ahead and buy it.
Mrs O bought the policy online in December 2018 (and renewed it in December 2019). 
British Gas has given us a screen shot from 2018 showing Mrs O couldve clicked a link to
look at the policy terms and conditions if shed wanted to before she applied for the policy.
British Gas also says policy documents wouldve been posted to Mrs O with her welcome
letter in 2018 and her renewal letter in 2019 (although Mrs O says she didnt get them). And
Mrs O also had the right to cancel the policy within 14 days without penalty if she changed
her mind about it.
As Ive already said, the policy says British Gas will carry out visits a customer is entitled to
within a reasonable time. It doesnt give specific time-frames for responding to call-outs. For
operational reasons I can understand that, especially at busy times, British Gas prioritises its
response based on its assessment of the vulnerability of the customers requesting
emergency call-outs. But this isnt a term of the policy and theres nothing in the policy to
say, for example, that only families with babies under six months old are entitled to
emergency cover.
I understand that Mrs Os experience of trying to claim on her home emergency cover  and
not having her expectations met  has led her to conclude that she was mis-sold the cover.
But from the evidence Ive seen so far, theres nothing to suggest she was misled at the time
she bought it. It follows that I dont uphold Mrs Os complaint on this point.
Mrs O has said she doesnt have anything to add to my provisional decision but is still 
disappointed with how British Gas has treated her. 
British Gas says it doesnt guarantee to get an engineer out within a certain timescale. It 
thinks three days for an engineer to attend Mrs Os call-out was reasonable. So it doesnt 
think Mrs O should get any further compensation. 
But British Gas has already paid Mrs O £50 because it accepts it didnt give her the level of 
service it expected. And in my provisional decision I explained why I thought additional 
compensation of £50 was fair and reasonable for the distress and inconvenience this had 
caused Mrs O.
On its calls with Mrs O, British Gas says it would apologise if any customer felt it had done 
something wrong, even if it hadnt. It says theres no evidence the calls werent handled 
correctly. So, again, it doesnt think it should pay Mrs O further compensation. 
As I said in my provisional decision, its unfortunate British Gas hasnt been able to give us 
the call recordings. It means British Gas cant show me it didnt do anything wrong. And   
Mrs O has said from the start she was treated rudely. In these circumstances, I dont think 
an award of £50 in compensation for British Gas call handling is unfair or unreasonable. 
In conclusion, British Gas comments dont change my provisional findings, which now form 
part of this final decision. 
Putting things rightI direct British Gas to put things right for Mrs O by paying her compensation of £100. This 
comprises an additional £50 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience its delay in 
getting her an emergency appointment caused her and £50 in compensation for the distress 
its call handling caused her.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mrs Os complaint in part and direct British Gas
Insurance Limited to put things right as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2021.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman