DRN-2079830
The complaint
This complaint is about Ms S mortgage with Preferred Mortgages Limited. Ms S agreed a 
reduced payment arrangement with Preferred in November 2017, but says she wasnt told it 
would adversely affect her credit rating. Had she been made aware, Ms S says shed 
wouldnt have gone ahead with the reduced payments.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in the 
round.
I should also explain that its for me to decide if I have enough information, or whether I need 
to contact either party directly, in order to decide the complaint fairly. Here, I have everything 
I need to reach my decision without pursuing any further enquiries with either party.
This complaint is simpler than its been made to look. Ive listened to a recording of the 
phone call in November 2017 when Preferred agreed to let Ms S make reduced payments 
During that call, Preferreds call handler set out the details of the reduced payments it would 
be accepting; she then said: Due to the account being in arrears, it will reflect on your credit 
file, and will appear for up to six years.
This was about three minutes into what was quite a long call, but the handler repeated the 
message about credit file reporting during the summary of the agreement towards the end of 
the call.
If there was any doubt about how much of that message Ms S assimilated during the 
conversation, I note that the information was then repeated in writing when Preferred wrote 
to Ms S to confirm the agreement. I reproduce the relevant passage below:
Every month we may give details of your account to the credit reference agencies, which 
may include when an arrangement to pay has been agreed with you. If you do not make 
repayments on your mortgage your credit rating may be affected in a negative way.
If your property is repossessed information will be updated at the credit reference agencies 
to show that your mortgage account has defaulted. This may seriously impact your ability to 
obtain credit in the future. The information will stay on your credit file for six years.
Its reasonable to conclude from this that when Ms S agreed to go ahead with the reduced 
payment arrangement, she was on notice that it would be reported on her credit file, and had 
been informed of how it might potentially affect her going forward. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint or make 
any order or award against Preferred Mortgages Limited. My final decision concludes this 
services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further 
consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2020.
 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman