DRN-3368870
The complaint
Miss Js complaint is that HSBC UK Bank Plc gave her an overdraft facility on her account 
that she did not want or agree to.
What happened
In early September 2021 Miss J made two payments from her account which took it around 
£6 overdrawn. Miss J was unhappy that her account had been allowed to go overdrawn and 
contacted HSBC to complain. 
In her initial conversation with HSBC, Miss J was given some confusing information, the 
person she spoke too doesnt appear to have understood exactly what had happened. She 
did confirm that there was no arranged overdraft on Miss Js account, but she wasnt able to 
explain why Miss Js account had been allowed to go overdrawn. Miss J remained unhappy, 
so her complaint was escalated. 
Ultimately, HSBC explained that Miss Js account had at one time had a nil-marker on it 
which meant that she was not able to go into an unarranged overdraft. This nil-marker was 
an internal marker, and had been removed following a review of Miss Js account. This is 
why Miss J had been able to go overdrawn. HSBC agreed to put this marker back on 
Miss Js account, and confirmed that she had incurred no overdraft charges for going 
overdrawn. HSBC did also explain though that it was Miss Js responsibility to monitor her 
account to make sure she wasnt spending more than she had.
Miss J remained unhappy, so she referred her complaint to us. One of our adjudicators 
looked at Miss Js complaint, but she didnt think that HSBC had acted inappropriately, so 
Miss J asked for her complaint to be passed to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked at everything both sides have said and provided, Im satisfied that HSBC has 
acted appropriately and so I wont be asking it to do anything more. 
I appreciate that Miss J doesnt want the bank to allow her to go into an overdrawn position, 
but it is her responsibility to manage her account. And as HSBC has explained, the nil-
marker is an internal marker it uses and so there was no requirement for HSBC to tell Miss J 
that it was being taken off her account. In any case, as soon as HSBC was made aware of 
Miss Js concerns it offered to put the nil-marker back on her account. 
And Miss J has incurred no charges or overdraft interest for going overdrawn, so while I 
appreciate that she was unhappy to be overdrawn and had to find funds to repay that 
overdrawn balance, the balance was made up of money that she had spent and therefore 
had seen the benefit of. So I wouldnt expect HSBC to cover that overdrawn balance, it was 
Miss Js responsibility to repay it and I can see she did so within a day or so.
Lastly, Ive listened to the conversations that Miss J had with HSBC and Im satisfied that 
she was treated fairly and respectfully by the staff she spoke with. I dont think they were 
rude to her or otherwise acted inappropriately in how they dealt with her concerns.
I know this will be very disappointing for Miss J, but with all this in mind I dont think I can 
fairly say that HSBC has done anything wrong here, and so I wont be upholding her 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2022.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman