DRN-3576475
The complaint
Mr Bs representative has complained, on his behalf, that due to errors made by Alliance 
Trust Savings Limited (ATS), there was a delay in investing cash held in Mr Bs Self Invested 
Personal Pension (SIPP).
What happened
Mr B intended to invest some of his SIPP funds into the Scottish Mortgage Trust (SMT), and, 
following a request from his independent financial adviser (IFA)  also his representative in 
this matter - to the SIPP administrator on 27 April 2020, the administrator informed the IFA 
that Mr B would need to complete an Embark (a part of ATS) account registration form so 
that the investment into that particular asset could complete.
The account was opened on 6 May 2020 and Embark issued a welcome pack to the SIPP 
administrator and the trustees. However, no welcome pack was issued to the IFA. Around 
£29,000 was received into the Embark account on 11 May 2020 and was then held in cash.
On 20 July 2020, the SIPP administrator contacted the IFA to say that it had noticed that the 
funds held in the Embark account were still in cash, which led to the IFA emailing Embark to 
access the online login details for Mr B on 20 July 2020. Unfortunately, that email was 
quarantined and, due to an internal IT issue, Embark was unaware that it had received this.
The SIPP administrator then contacted Embark on 21 August 2020 requesting that the IFA 
be set up with online access, and this was completed on 28 August 2020. At this point, it 
was established that the funds which should have been invested in SMT remained in cash. 
This was corrected on 7 September 2020.
In the meantime, Mr Bs IFA had complained to Embark on his behalf on 27 August 2020, 
and in responding to that complaint, Embark accepted that it was at fault both for not 
sending a welcome pack to the IFA in May 2020 and also for not picking up the email sent 
by the IFA in July 2020.
Embark undertook a loss calculation to determine whether Mr B had been financially 
disadvantaged by not having invested earlier, but it considered that the notional earlier 
investment date should have been 20 July 2020, the date of the IFAs email. This 
demonstrated no loss, however, and the outcome was communicated to Mr B.
Mr B was dissatisfied with this, however, and so referred his complaint to this service. Mr B 
(and his IFA) are of the view that the notional investment date should have been the date at 
which he or the IFA would have received the welcome pack. He also said that hed been 
unaware that he or the IFA would need to contract Embark again after the initial investment 
instruction had been given in May 2020.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint, but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said that, although an investment enquiry was emailed to the SIPP 
administrator on 1 May 2020, the evidence didnt support the position that an investment 
instruction had been submitted to Embark. It couldnt, therefore, reasonably have executed 
the transaction.
He said that he would have expected Embark to issue the IFA with the welcome pack, but he 
didnt think that, in the absence of this, the IFA should have assumed that the transaction 
had occurred.
The investigator thought that it would have been a reasonable course of action for the IFA to 
have verified, after a period of two weeks, that the account had been established and that Mr 
B had been invested in the SMT as intended. But this contact didnt happen for over two 
months.
The investigator appreciated that neither the IFA nor Mr B had used Embarks services 
before, but he thought that this would have made it all the more important for it to be verified 
that the investment had occurred. He also noted that the application form completed on 24 
April 2020 said that the dealing rights for the account would be held by the adviser. But no 
dealing instruction was submitted to Embark until contact was later made in July 2020.
Embark should have sent the welcome pack to the IFA, the investigator further said, but this 
wouldnt have contained any detail about whether the SMT investment had been made. And 
so he didnt think that this error had had a significant impact on the case.
As such, the investigator considered that the calculation undertaken by Embark, reflecting its 
failure to pick up the email sent in July 2020, was fair given the circumstances.
Mr Bs representative disagreed, however, referring to its response on a linked complaint 
against the SIPP administrator. In that response, it said that it hadnt received emails from 
the SIPP administrator dated 4 and 7 May 2020. The significance of these, and the latter in 
particular, was that the administrator had informed the IFA that the requested trade would 
need to be placed directly with Embark by the owner of the dealing rights. Although not 
referred to by the investigator in the course of this complaint, its nevertheless a relevant 
consideration for this complaint also, which Ill address further below.
There had been no mention of these emails, the representative said, during any further 
correspondence it had with the SIPP administrator, and these werent referenced by the 
SIPP administrator when it first responded to the linked complaint.
Both Embark and the SIPP administrator had blamed each other for the error, and the latter 
had been adamant that the former had dealing rights for Mr Bs account, the representative 
said.
It remained firmly of the view that, had the welcome pack been received, this would at the 
very least have prompted some questions. It had seen a copy of the pack and it contained 
information on how to make a trade, and it was confirmed to the SIPP administrator and 
trustees that the money had been received into the account. But it received no contract note 
to say that the funds were sitting in cash. As far as the representative was concerned, the 
money would be invested by the SIPP administrator in the same way as it had invested a 
further £90,000 sent to it by Mr B.
It further queried as to why it had been given the dealing rights for the account, as alluded to 
in the email from the SIPP administrator dated 7 May 2020, if it hadnt received the welcome 
pack containing the login details. There was a clear link between the failure to send the 
welcome pack to the IFA and the delays then incurred, it said.
The representative said that it had no idea that it needed to set up an online account to 
trade, despite several conversations with the SIPP administrator about the process.As agreement hasnt been reached on the matter, its been referred to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached broadly the same conclusions as the investigator and for 
similar reasons. On the basis that Embark has accepted the error of not picking up the email 
in July 2020, I think the crux of the matter specifically concerning Embark is whether receipt 
of the welcome pack by the IFA in May 2020 would have made a difference to the outcome.
Ive thought carefully about this, but the available evidence doesnt persuade me that it 
would necessarily have made a difference here. I do acknowledge the point made by the 
representative that the receipt of the welcome pack would have prompted questions, but I 
also need to think about what those questions might have been. For example, the IFA 
seemed to assume that, on the basis of its email to the SIPP administrator enquiring about 
the process for investing in the SMT, this was all that needed to happen.
If it held that view, and even disregarding the email from the SIPP administrator on 7 May 
2020 which said that the account had been established and that the person with the dealing 
rights would not be able to place the trade  which I note the IFA has said it didnt receive, 
then its unclear to me as to why the receipt of the welcome pack would have altered that 
position.
The welcome pack may have referred to making trades, but if the IFA assumed that the 
initial trade had already been made, I dont think this would have seemed out of the ordinary 
and might quite reasonably have been thought to refer to future trades.
The IFA has said that its seen the welcome pack, but hasnt said that it indicated that the 
funds received into the account were sitting in cash. Ive also looked at the pack, and cant 
see any details relating to how the funds were held. Its a straightforward introduction to the 
account, with details of how to log in to the account. Had it instead made it clear as to how 
the pension funds were invested, I think I might be more sympathetic to the position that the 
representatives put forward. But that isnt the position here.
I accept that it might also be arguable that being provided with the login details for the 
account might have prompted the IFA to log in and view the account. But Im also mindful 
that this kind of check could have been undertaken at any point, by other means, between 
the beginning of May and the email of July 2020. And so, working on the IFAs own 
assumption that the investment had taken place, I dont think its more likely than not that 
receipt of the welcome pack would have prompted it to have logged into the account to 
check before it made further enquiries in July 2020.  
Overall, therefore, whilst I acknowledge (as does the business itself) that Embark made 
mistakes in not sending the IFA the welcome pack and not picking up the later email in July 
2020, for the reasons given I dont think that sending the welcome pack would have changed 
the outcome, and I think the steps its taken to rectify the problem with the email are fair and 
reasonable. As such, my position is that the complaint shouldnt be upheld. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 1 August 2022.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman