DRN-2588847
The complaint
 Mr S complains that Tesco Underwriting Limited unfairly declined his claim for storm 
damage to his roof and the subsequent internal damage to his property. 
What happened
Our investigator felt the complaint should be upheld in part. She said she was satisfied there 
were storm conditions around the time damage occurred to Mr Ss roof. And this damage 
was consistent with that caused by a storm. But she wasnt satisfied the storm conditions 
were the main cause of the damage, due to moss on Mr Ss roof and it missing some 
pointing. So, she felt Tesco hadnt treated Mr S unfairly by declining that part of his claim.  
The investigator said Tesco had provided two quotes for the cost of repairing the internal 
damage to Mr Ss property. She felt Tesco hadnt provided enough information to show the 
repairs would only cost it £3,436 (excluding VAT) to repair. She felt the higher quote of 
£4,642.45 (excluding VAT) was more reasonable. So, Tesco should pay that to Mr S. She 
added that although Tesco couldve communicated more clearly with Mr S during the claim, 
she didnt think it had treated him unfairly. 
Tesco said it agreed with the investigator. 
Mr S disagreed in relation to the storm damage and asked for an Ombudsmans review. He 
said the storm was particularly aggressive and violent and had caused a lot of damage 
across the country and in his local area. He didnt think his roof was in a poor state of repair 
which was confirmed by a builder, who said it was likely the damage was caused by the 
storm and that the roof was in a good watertight condition. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I know Mr S feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a 
disappointment to him, so Ill explain why.
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is 
the right outcome. 
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, I have to make my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is more likely than not to 
have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances. 
Damage to Mr Ss roof
At this service we ask three questions when assessing insurance claims for storm damage: 
1. is it agreed that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is 
said to have happened? 
2. is the damage claimed for consistent with what we generally see as storm 
damage? 
3. were storm conditions the main cause of the damage or were there other factors 
that meant the damage might have happened anyway?
Mr Ss policy says he wont be covered for storm damage if the loss or damage doesnt arise 
from one identifiable incident which directly and immediately caused the loss or damage. 
 
Both parties accept there were storm conditions, and that the damage claimed for is 
consistent with what this service generally sees for storm damage. However, there is a 
dispute over whether the pointing on Mr Ss roof is missing directly and immediately by the 
storm or whether it has been displaced due to wear and tear. 
I note Mr S has said his roof was in an excellent state and should be replaced by Tesco. So, 
Ive considered the photos both he and Tesco have provided along with the report by 
Tescos surveyor and Mr Ss builder.  Having done so, Ive found the report by Tescos 
surveyor to be more persuasive. He said the pointing on the roof is missing due to general 
wear and tear. And from the photos Ive seen Ive noted the roof has a lot of moss on it 
which has likely caused damage over time. 
I note Mr Ss builder has said the roof was water tight before the storm. I believe its more 
likely  on balance  that it was the missing pointing that caused the water to enter Mr Ss 
property and this was caused by it becoming loose due to wear and tear. The missing 
pointing seems to be only a small section of the roof. But Mr S and his builder feel the whole 
roof needs to be replaced. If Mr Ss roof was water tight and the water entered where the 
missing pointing was, then Im not sure why the whole roof now needs to be replaced. So, I 
havent found that evidence to be very persuasive here. 
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied Tesco has fairly declined the claim in relation to 
Mr Ss roof. 
Internal damage
Mr Ss terms and conditions allow Tesco to repair the damage or to offer a cash settlement 
at the price it wouldve cost Tesco to carry out the repairs. Mr S says he has been quoted 
between £4,000 to £5,000 to repair the damage. Ive reviewed the two quotes provided by 
Tesco for the internal damage. Having done so, I agree with the investigator that Tesco 
should make a payment to Mr S for the second quote (£4,642.45). This looks like a more 
reasonable price for the works that need to be carried out and is closer to what Mr S says he 
has been quoted. 
Customer service
Mr S says he had a call from Tesco asking if hed like a £750 cash settlement or for the roof 
to be repaired. And that he was told the damage to his roof would be covered by Tescos 
surveyor. Ive reviewed the call history and call notes provided by Tesco. These show Mr S was told 
wear and tear wouldnt be covered when he first made the claim. And there are no call notes 
of him being told the claim would be covered. Im not satisfied Tesco would call Mr S to tell 
him he could either accept a £750 offer or it would repair his roof when that wouldnt match 
up with what Mr Ss terms and conditions say.
In relation to what the surveyor may have said to Mr S, I agree with the investigator that 
there may have been a miscommunication when discussing whether scaffolding was 
necessary to review the damage. So, Im not satisfied Mr S has been treated unfairly here. 
Putting things right
Tesco should make a payment to Mr S of £4,642.45 towards the cost of the internal damage. 
I make no further award against Tesco. 
 
My final decision
 My final decision is that this complaint should be upheld in part. 
Tesco Underwriting Limited must pay Mr S £4,642.45. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2021.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman