DRN-3620878
The complaint
Miss C is unhappy because Starling Bank Limited (Starling) did not reimburse the money 
she transferred to a fraudster.
What happened
Miss C says that she met someone Ill refer to as M on a dating website. M said he was in 
the army and was deployed abroad but was in fact a scammer. M also said he had a son in 
the UK who was being looked after by a nanny as his wife had died. Miss C and M started 
chatting on a messaging app from early October 2020 and a relationship developed. 
M told Miss C he was due to be home before Christmas. On 18 October 2020 M told Miss C 
he was worried about his logging business which was based abroad (but not where he was 
based). He explained that until he left the army in around a year a friend was looking after 
the business while he was on a tour but a machine used in the forest had broken and he 
needed a new one for £12,200 or to rent one for £2,700. The problem was that M couldnt do 
anything while he was deployed. M provided Miss C with a document that showed he was 
due an inheritance which he would deal with when he returned to the UK (as he was 
required to sign papers). Miss C agreed to try to help M and on 19 October offered to try to 
get a loan.
Miss C was unable to get a loan but offered to get funds to rent a machine. These funds 
were sent via a friend from another account on 21 October 2020 and do not form part of this 
complaint against Starling. On 25 October M said the rented machine didnt do the job and 
he needed to buy a new machine. After discussing various possible ways of getting the 
funds and trying to get loans herself Miss C borrowed £5,000 from her mum and on the 
advice of M paid this to Ms nanny in the UK who he said would deal with it. By various 
means Miss C gave M the full cost of a new machine but the only payment from Starling was 
£5,000. 
Miss C and M made plans to see each other when he returned to the UK and Miss C bought 
gifts for Ms son for Christmas. But M said he was unable to return because others had 
coronavirus and he had to quarantine. 
In late December 2020 M continued to discuss concerns about his business then in early 
January M said he had a problem with his commander who had raised an allegation against 
him. M told Miss C that as a result he had to pay a total fine of £12,200 or face military jail for 
nine months. Miss C applied for a loan (not with Starling) and as soon as the funds came in, 
she transferred them to Ms nanny. She transferred the balance of the fine, a further £200, 
from her Starling account.  
I have set out in the table below the payments Miss C made to M as part of the scam.
Date Amount Notes
11/11/20 £5,000 Borrowed from mum
18/11/20 £120
15/01/21 £12,000 Loan funds
18/01/21 £200
TOTAL £17,320
Miss C and M continued to communicate regularly and discuss plans for when M returned. 
But his return was delayed for numerous reasons including further coronavirus testing, new 
troops not being ready to be deployed and obtaining all the paperwork required to return. 
The scam was uncovered when Miss Cs friend became suspicious and went to the police 
who confirmed Miss C was the victim of a romance scam. Miss C contacted Starling to 
report the scam on 27 March 2021 but on the advice of the police continued to communicate 
with M. 
Starling investigated Miss Cs claim but said the receiving bank confirmed that no funds 
remained. Starling wouldnt provide a refund because it said it provided effective warnings 
when the payments were made, and Miss C didnt meet the standard required of her to 
receive a refund. In particular, Miss C hadnt completed any checks to confirm M was who 
he said he was, made payments soon after she met M and before the relationship and trust 
had developed, didnt do enough to check the payment reasons were legitimate and paid 
someone M said was his nanny with no proof this was the case. Starling also felt that Miss C 
wasnt vulnerable to this type of scam. 
Miss Cs representative says she was vulnerable at the time the scam happened. This was 
because of traumatic events from her childhood, the fact she was going through a divorce 
from a controlling husband and had a medical condition that meant she could suffer from 
brain fog which could render her unable to make informed decisions.
Miss Cs representative also says that she had a reasonable basis for believing M was who 
he said he was. In summary, this was because she met him on a legitimate dating website 
that said it offered security and vetting; communicated on a known messaging app and saw 
numerous photographs of M; M built trust over several months and demonstrated shared 
interests and Miss C thought she and M were in love and had a genuine future together. 
Also, had Starling intervened and discussed the first payment with Miss C the scam would 
have been uncovered and her loss prevented. In the circumstances, Miss C would like 
Starling to refund her loss in full. She has referred to the devastating effect the scam has 
had on her. 
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered this complaint didnt recommend Miss Cs complaint be 
upheld. She recognised that various factors affected Miss C at the time but didnt feel they 
made her unable to protect herself from the scam. For various reasons, the investigator 
didnt think that Miss C showed the level of care expected of her to receive a refund. And 
whilst the investigator thought that Starling didnt provide an effective warning in respect of 
the £5,000 and £12,000 payments as it should have (or intervene in any other way), she still 
didnt recommend a partial refund of these payments. This was because she felt that Miss C 
would have proceeded to make the payments even if an effective warning had been given or 
if Starling had called her.
Miss C, through her representative, didnt accept the investigators findings. In summary, she 
said:
- She was vulnerable to this type of scam because of life events. Miss Cs 
representative explained she had left a controlling marriage and that other factors in 
Miss Cs life meant she wanted to be loved and was more vulnerable to this type of 
scam. The response to the investigators view discussed the BSI Code and said that 
the code recognises that such life events can lead to vulnerability. 
- When explaining why Miss C didnt have a reasonable basis for believing she was 
paying a legitimate person the investigator referred to the fact her friends told her M 
was being disingenuous. In fact, her friends were joking and when Miss C checked points M gave sophisticated responses. When Miss C found out that M was a 
scammer, she stopped making payments so if Starling had intervened it could have 
broken the spell. But a pop-up warning wouldnt have been enough, and Starling 
should have called Miss C and discussed the unusual and out of character payments 
which would have uncovered the scam. The other points the investigator made in 
respect of Miss Cs reasonable basis for belief were also incorrect. For example, 
members of the military do not have access to mobile phones so wouldnt have 
access to online banking. 
- Starling has now changed its security process so that it provides on screen warnings 
when payments are made. 
- Miss C referred to the huge impact of the scam on her financially and emotionally. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im extremely sorry to learn about what happened to Miss C. Its clear she has been the 
victim of a cruel and calculated scam that caused her to lose a very large sum of money. 
The starting point for my considerations is that, under the Payment Services Regulations 
2017 and the terms of his account, Miss C is liable for transactions shes carried out herself. 
But Starling are signatories to the CRM Code and also have a longstanding obligation to be 
on the lookout for unusual and out of character transactions which might indicate their 
customer is at risk of financial harm from fraud.
Was Miss C vulnerable as defined in the CRM Code 
Ive thought very carefully about whether Miss C met the CRM Code definition of vulnerable 
at the time she made the payments. Whilst I have a lot of sympathy for Miss C, Ive decided 
that she wasnt vulnerable as set out in the CRM Code. 
The CRM Code says that someone is vulnerable  and so should receive a full refund of the 
amount lost in an APP scam if, it would not be reasonable to expect that Customer to have 
protected themselves, at the time of becoming victim of an APP scam, against that particular 
APP scam, to the extent of the impact they suffered.
Miss Cs representative has provided evidence of a diagnosis of a medical condition and 
generalised comments about the effect the condition can have, rather than how the condition 
specifically impacted Miss C, and has also referred to divorce proceedings and significant 
events from Miss Cs childhood. Having considered the content of Miss Cs messages with 
M, I consider that although these factors may have played a role in what happened, I dont 
think that any one of them, alone or in combination, meant Miss C was unable to protect 
herself from the scam she fell victim to.  
The content of Miss Cs messages with M persuade me that she recognised the risks 
involved in sending money to M and that she was capable of protecting herself from harm. 
Miss C consistently showed an awareness of the risk and even discussed with M the 
possibility she was being scammed. For example, when M first discussed problems with his 
business Miss C noted that others would think she was mad for meeting someone online 
and sending money. Before she sent any funds to M, Miss C also referred to friends 
questioning if M really was who he said he was and the fact shed never met him. She made 
various suggestions as to how M could prove to her friends he was who he said, including 
getting his solicitors number so they could call. Its also clear that Miss C didnt disclose to 
friends and family that she was sending funds to M and instead let them believe she needed 
money for her divorce which suggests she knew what they might say. Throughout Miss Cs chat with M she offers possible solutions to him so that he can keep his 
business running including getting a loan himself, his nanny or the friend who was running 
his business getting a loan, releasing his inheritance and getting finance. Miss C was also 
able to apply for multiple loans herself. I consider all this shows Miss C was able to think 
clearly and wasnt vulnerable as set out in the CRM Code. 
The CRM Code
Theres no dispute that Miss C was tricked into making the payments. But this isnt enough 
for her to receive a full refund of the money under the CRM Code. The Code places a level 
of care on Miss C too. 
Under the CRM Code, a bank may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish 
that*: 
 The customer ignored what the CRM Code refers to as an Effective Warning by failing to 
take appropriate action in response to such an effective warning
 The customer made payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that: the 
payee was the person the Customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for genuine 
goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate
 The customer has been grossly negligent 
*There are further exceptions that do not apply to this case. 
Did Miss C have a reasonable basis for belief when she made the payments?
Taking into account all of the circumstances of this case, including the characteristics of Miss 
C and the complexity of the scam, I think the concerns Starling has raised about the 
legitimacy of the transactions Miss C made are enough to support its position that she failed 
to meet her requisite level of care under the CRM Code for the payments she made. Whilst I 
understand Miss C thought she was in a relationship with M, I dont think she had a 
reasonable basis for believing he was the person he held himself out to be. In reaching this 
conclusion I have taken into account the following:
- Miss C had only communicated with M for a short period of time when he raised 
concerns about his business abroad and his need for funds. So Miss C placed a lot 
of trust in someone she hadnt met and didnt know well through the messages 
exchanged. I dont consider it was reasonable to place this level of trust in M.
- Miss C didnt find out anything about Ms logging business before making a £5,000 
payment to help with it and she didnt question how M managed to run such a 
business whilst serving in the army. And M told Miss C he couldnt use a mobile 
phone and could only send messages, but he managed to run a business abroad. I 
think these should have been red flags to Miss C. 
- M asked Miss C to make the payments to his nanny in the UK who was looking after 
his son. There was nothing in the messages Miss C exchanged with M to understand 
why the nanny was able to deal with Ms financial affairs in his absence.
- The fine M said he had to pay following an incident with a senior officer wasnt 
plausible and ought reasonably to have led to concern and scrutiny. M didnt provide 
any evidence and Miss C took what he said at face value. A brief search indicates 
that a fine of up to 28 days pay can be imposed so a fine of £12,200 was excessive.
- Its implausible that someone in the army would be unable to access any banking 
facilities for months and so be unable to manage their financial affairs. 
- Miss C offered M numerous solutions to his financial and banking issues. On each 
occasion there was a reason why M couldnt solve the problem in the manner Miss C 
suggested. For example, when she discussed the possibility of obtaining finance to buy the machine M said it didnt work that way abroad and when Miss C suggested 
either his friend helping with his business or Ms nanny got a loan M said they were 
unable to do so. I consider these facts should have raised alarm bells for Miss C. 
- It appears that at some stages Miss C herself and those close to her had concerns 
about the legitimacy of M, but she did nothing to assuage those doubts. As I 
mentioned above, Miss C admitted people would think her mad to pay money to 
someone she hadnt met before and referred to how to persuade others M was 
legitimate before she made the first payment. Miss C told M she suggested that 
those she sought to borrow money from ring Ms solicitor to confirm he was who he 
claimed to be. M gave an evasive answer that hed be home soon, and Miss C didnt 
take it any further. Miss C also asked for the name of the machinery company and 
suggested that she would call and look into finance. M didnt answer but said it was 
the cheapest place. 
- Some of Miss Cs friends told her they thought she was being scammed but she 
didnt do anything to be satisfied they were wrong. In late December Miss C told M 
she was devastated because a friend had suggested M was a fraudster and wasnt 
coming back to the UK. In March 2021 Miss C again told M a friend said she was 
being scammed. M didnt try to reassure Miss C. Given Miss Cs reaction to a friends 
suggestion M wasnt being honest with Miss C, I cant see that the friend was joking 
as suggested by her representative. And Im not persuaded M gave sophisticated 
answers when Miss C raised concerns or even tried to persuade Miss C that her 
friends were wrong.  
Overall, Im not satisfied Miss C met the standards required of her under the CRM Code to 
receive a full refund. 
Did Starling provide Miss C with an effective warning/warnings?
The CRM Code sets out standards for firms  that is, what firms are expected to do to 
protect customers from the risk of fraud and scams. Where those standards are not met, the 
firm may be expected to compensate its customer. One of those requirements is that, where 
the firm has (or should have) identified that its customer is at risk from a scam, it should 
provide that customer with an Effective Warning, within the meaning of the CRM Code.
Miss Cs representative says Starling didnt provide any warnings. But Ive seen evidence 
that shows that when Miss C made the £5,000 and £12,000 payments, she was provided 
with a friends and family warning that said,
How well do you know the person you are about to send money to? Have you ever met 
them? Sometimes fraudsters will befriend you and ask you for money.
The warning goes on to discuss scams involving the impersonation of friends and family and 
safe account scams, so the rest of the wording wouldnt have been relevant to Miss C. 
Miss C was provided with a different warning when she set M up as a new payee which 
simply asked, Could the payee be part of a scam? and referred to its website if in doubt. 
I dont consider the warnings provided to Miss C were effective. The friends and family 
warning is not specific to romance scams and doesnt bring to life the common features of 
these scams. And the warning doesnt mention the consequences of going ahead with the 
payment  which is a requirement under the CRM Code. The new payee warning also isnt 
effective.
But the CRM Code also says that in considering the reasons not to reimburse a customer a 
firm should consider whether an effective warning would have had a material impact on 
preventing the APP scam that took place. In this case, Im not persuaded that an alternative 
warning that was effective under the CRM Code would have made a difference in preventing the scam. Miss Cs representative even made this point in her submission to this service 
when she said that the payments should have been blocked. 
I dont think an effective warning would have made a difference because Miss C was aware 
of the possibility of being scammed, had been warned by a friend and even after reporting 
the scam to Starling and the police thought that it might not be one. So I dont think a screen 
warning during the payment journey would have had a material impact in preventing the 
scam. 
Should Starling have done anything more to protect Miss C?
As Ive mentioned above, Starling should have been on the lookout for unusual and out of 
character transactions. I dont consider the £5,000 payment (or subsequent payment of 
£120) were out of character given Miss Cs previous account and payment history. Having 
considered Miss Cs bank statements in the period before the scam I can see that she made 
a faster payment of just over £14,000 to an existing payee on 2 September 2020 and that 
she also made a card payment later that month for nearly £10,000. In the circumstances, I 
dont consider that a payment of £5,000 ought reasonably to have caused Starling to have 
any concerns that she was at risk of being scammed.
By the time Miss C made the £12,000 payment to M his nanny was an established payee. 
The payment wasnt made in quick succession (two months had passed since the previous 
payments) and Miss C had transferred a greater sum a few months before. So Im still not 
persuaded the payment was so unusual that Starling ought to have called her to discuss it. 
The only unusual feature of the payment was the fact that Miss C got a loan for £12,000 and 
immediately transferred it out of her account. I dont consider this fact alone meant that 
Starling had an obligation to call Miss C to discuss the payment though. 
Even if the payment was unusual and out of character and Starling had asked Miss C 
questions about it, Im not persuaded shed have heeded scam warnings and taken 
additional steps or not made the payment. Before Miss C made the £12,000 payment a 
friend had told her (in December 2020) that she thought M was a fraudster and wasnt 
coming back to the UK. Miss C said she was devastated and told M that she trusted him. 
She didnt take any action to check M was who he claimed to be though. And even after 
Miss C had reported the scam to Starling, she still said she thought everything might be 
legitimate. So I dont believe the available evidence suggests that Miss C would likely have 
taken additional steps before making the payment. Im also uncertain if Miss C would have 
told Starling the truth given that she let her mum think the £5,000 loan from her related to her 
divorce. 
Overall, whilst Im saddened by what has happened to Miss C and to hear of the 
consequences of the scammers actions, I cant reasonably ask Starling to refund her losses. 
I realise this will be extremely disappointing to Miss C.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 November 2022.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman