DRN-3637646
The complaint
Miss J complains Nationwide Building Society registered a default on her credit file in 
relation to an overdraft. 
Miss J is represented by Mrs J but as its Miss Js complaint Ive referred to her only in my 
decision. 
What happened
Miss J was working abroad between February 2018 and February 2019. When she returned 
home, she discovered Nationwide had registered a default on her credit file in relation to an 
overdraft. 
Miss J complained to Nationwide. Nationwide said theyd written to Miss J a number of times 
to ask her to bring her account within its limit but they hadnt heard from her, so theyd 
closed the account and registered a default. Theyd reported this action, in line with their 
obligations to report account conduct, to the credit reference agencies.
Miss J wasnt happy with Nationwides response. So she referred her complaint to this 
service.
One of our investigators considered what had happened. She said, in summary, Nationwide 
had tried to contact Miss J about the account but that as the account was not repaid, 
Nationwide were entitled to close it and register a default in relation to the overdrawn 
balance. 
Miss J wasnt happy with this, she said shed visited Nationwide to let them know shed be 
abroad, she couldnt access her account online while abroad and had she known she 
needed to pay something she wouldve done so. 
As Miss J didnt agree, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that Miss J was working abroad between February 2018 and February 
2019. 
Miss J says before she left, she and her mother attended the branch to notify them that 
Miss J would be working abroad during this period and to ask for correspondence to be sent 
to her by email. Nationwide says they have no record of this branch visit and in any event, 
they wouldnt have been able to send Miss J all the correspondence about her account by 
email anyway  as it isnt secure. 
So although theres a dispute about whether a branch visit took place, I dont think this 
changes the overall position Miss J is now in. I say this because Nationwide would never 
have been able to send the correspondence about the overdrawn account to Miss J by 
email. 
Under the terms and conditions of Miss Js account, the overdraft was repayable on demand 
 which meant Nationwide could ask Miss J to repay part, or all of it, at any time.
 
In addition to considering the agreement Miss J had with the bank, Ive also considered 
whether it was fair and reasonable in these particular circumstances for Nationwide to take 
the actions that they did. 
By the time the account was closed, it had been consistently overdrawn since before 
February 2018  when Miss J left for her job overseas. I can see from the statements that it 
wasnt in regular use. 
In October 2018, the account exceeded its overdraft limit. Nationwide wrote to Miss J on 10 
October 2018 to ask her to bring the account within its overdraft limit. They wrote again to 
Miss J on 23 October 2018 because they hadnt heard from her. 
A further letter was sent to Miss J on 3 November 2018. This letter explained that if 
Nationwide didnt hear from Miss J, this may affect her use of the account and they may 
register a default on her credit file. 
Nationwide wrote again to Miss J on 16 November 2018 asking her to make a payment to 
the account or get in touch with them. And then on 6 December 2018 they issued a default 
notice to Miss J. This explained Miss J would need to repay the full overdrawn balance of the 
account by 27 December 2018, otherwise they would register a default. 
I can see two payments were made into the account on 24 December 2018 by a third party. 
But this didnt repay the full overdrawn balance. So Nationwide wrote to Miss J again on 18 
January 2019, to explain Miss J needed to make a payment or get in touch with them within 
seven days, otherwise they would refer the account to a debt collection agency. And the 
default was registered the same day. 
All of these letters were issued to Miss Js registered address. As Miss J was working 
abroad, she wasnt there to receive them and she says she had trouble accessing her 
account online because she was out of the country. But Nationwides obligation was to write 
to Miss J at the correct address which Im satisfied theyve done. 
Miss J says she didnt know her account was overdrawn as she didnt have access to it and 
she says the debt was incurred accidentally. As Ive said, the account was already 
overdrawn before Miss J left for her job. And I can see Miss J made a debit card payment in 
May 2018 in the country she was living in from this account. In June 2018 she also 
transferred £190 out of this account to what appears to be another account in her name  
which took the balance of this account to the exact amount of her overdraft limit. So she 
appears to have been aware of the balance of the account at this time. 
Miss J has made the point that her account was only overdrawn by about £140 when the 
default was registered. But I dont think this makes a difference to the overall outcome of her 
complaint. Miss Js agreement with Nationwide was that she could borrow up to £250, in the 
form of an overdraft on her current account. Miss J exceeded that agreement so Nationwide 
asked her to repay the whole overdrawn balance  meaning she no longer had an 
authorised overdraft.  But Miss J didnt repay this in the timeframe Nationwide set out. So I 
think it wasnt unreasonable for Nationwide to take the action they did. Having considered everything Im satisfied that Nationwide have treated Miss J fairly. So Im 
not going to order them to remove the default as Miss J asks. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Miss Js complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2022.
 
Eleanor Rippengale
Ombudsman