DRN-1968653
The complaint
Mr N is unhappy that Nationwide Building Society transferred his account to a debt collection 
agency in error.
What happened
Mr N was in arrears with his Nationwide credit card and had a repayment arrangement in 
place which had expired. In November 2018 Mr N renewed the repayment arrangement and 
agreed to pay Nationwide £125 a month for 55 months by standing order.
But Nationwide made an error when setting up the standing order, and the payments didnt 
go through. In January 2019 Nationwide wrote to Mr N and told him that, because payments 
werent being made, his account could be transferred to a debt collection agency. And, in 
February 2019, because Mr N hadnt paid anything, Nationwide transferred the account.
Mr N wasnt happy to deal with the debt collection agency and made payments to 
Nationwide instead. In October 2019 Nationwide recalled the account from the debt 
collection agency.
Mr N complained that Nationwide made an error when setting up his standing order and 
transferred his account to the debt collection agency as a result. Hes also unhappy that the 
debt collection agency kept contacting him to make payments. Nationwide said theyd made 
a mistake and paid Mr N £50 by way of an apology. But Mr N didnt think this was acceptable 
and has brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator said it wasnt disputed that Nationwide didnt set up the standing order 
correctly. But he felt that Mr N shouldve noticed that the payments werent coming out of his 
bank account. So he felt Nationwide had acted reasonably by telling Mr N they would 
transfer his account to a debt collection agency if payments werent being made, and then 
doing so when no payments were made. The investigator also thought it was reasonable for 
the debt collection agency to contact Mr N to set up a payment plan, and they wouldve 
stopped chasing him had he done so. 
So the investigator said that, given the circumstances, the offer of compensation made by 
Nationwide for their initial error was reasonable. And he didnt think they needed to do 
anything more.
Mr N didnt agree with the investigator. Hes said that Nationwide took eight months to take 
back the account from the debt collection agency, which caused him prolonged uncertainty, 
discomfort and inconvenience. And he feels the error exposed me to numerous worrisome 
telephone calls and letters from their debt collectors. And Mr N thinks that we have refused 
to listen to what hes said, instead giving preferential treatment to Nationwide by only relying 
on what theyve said and the evidence theyve provided.
Mr N has also said that Nationwide offered him £50 compensation for the transfer to the debt 
collection agency, and a further £75 when they made a mistake when crediting an in-branch 
payment to his credit card. Mr N doesnt think the £50 was sufficient in the circumstances, so 
hes asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly Id like to explain the role of the Financial Ombudsman Service. Were an independent 
complaint handling body. Were not here to defend the financial services industry. But were 
also not here to act as a consumer champion. We investigate complaints brought to us and 
decide what is a fair and reasonable outcome based on the evidence weve seen. Having 
reviewed the evidence, I agree with the investigators findings on this complaint for broadly 
the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont believe 
its affected what I think is the right outcome.
The basic facts of this case arent in dispute. When Mr N renewed his payment arrangement 
in November 2018, Nationwide didnt set up the standing order correctly. Because of this the 
payments for November 2018, December 2018 and January 2019 werent paid.
I agree with the investigator that, if Mr N was expecting payments to come out of his 
account, and this didnt happen, this is something he shouldve noticed  hed have more 
money in his account than hed expected. And Ive seen that Nationwide wrote to Mr N on 28 
December 2018, telling him that payments hadnt been made. They asked him to contact 
them about this, but I cant see that Mr N did.
Ive also seen that Nationwide wrote to Mr N again on 10 January 2019. This letter was a 
final request for Mr N to pay the outstanding arrears under the new payment arrangement. 
Nationwide gave Mr N various payment method options, including providing him with the 
correct standing order details. They also asked Mr N to get in touch with them if he was 
struggling to make payments. 
This letter also said that Nationwide would refer Mr Ns account to a debt collection agency if 
he didnt contact them or make payment within seven days. Again I havent seen anything to 
show me that Mr N contacted Nationwide or paid any of the missing payments under the 
new payment arrangement. So I think Nationwide acted reasonably by transferring the 
account to the debt collection agency on 8 February 2019.
Mr H has said he found the correspondence from the debt collection agency annoying and 
disturbing, and he didnt agree with the figures they were quoting. So he says that he paid 
Nationwide directly and told the debt collection agency that he saw no reason for their 
involvement. While I appreciate how Mr N felt, as Ive said I thought Nationwide acted 
reasonably in the circumstances. And the debt collection agency were entitled to contact him 
for payment. Nationwide didnt have to accept the payments after the account had been 
transferred, but they did. And they also didnt have to recall the account from the debt 
collection agency.
Nationwide clearly made a error in setting up the standing order. But Mr N would reasonably 
have known this, and he had plenty of opportunity to respond to Nationwides contacts about 
this. Nationwide were clear in what would happen if he didnt contact them, and they didnt 
do anything they didnt say they would do. So I agree that the £50 compensation theyve 
offered was reasonable. And I wont be asking them to do anything more.Mr N has also commented on the service hes received from the debt collection agency. My 
decision is considering the service provided by Nationwide only. Because of this, I wont 
comment on the service provided by the debt collection agency. And Ive seen that the 
investigator has advised Mr N he needs to raise a separate complaint with the debt 
collection agency about the service hes received from them.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mr Ns complaint about Nationwide Building 
Society. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2020.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman