DRN-2242166
The complaint
Miss L complained about a number of loans she took out through a company called 
Provident Personal Credit Limited, trading at the time as Satsuma Loans. Miss L says she 
was lent to irresponsibly and the loans caused her financial problems.
To keep things simple, Ill refer mainly to Satsuma throughout this decision.
What happened
We now know that Miss L took out 3 loans from Satsuma between May 2018 and March 
2019. I enclosed a summary of her borrowing, based on the information provided to us: 
 
Loan Amount Taken Out Repaid Type of Loan Highest 
Monthly 
Repayment
1 £800 02/05/2018 29/09/2018 Instalment £253
2 £1,000 14/03/2019 Outstanding Instalment £316
One of our adjudicators looked into the complaint and said they didnt think it should be 
upheld. Ive been asked to make an ombudsmans final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. Ive followed this 
approach when thinking about Miss Ls complaint.
Satsuma needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Miss L could repay the loans she was given in a sustainable manner. These checks ought to 
have taken into account a range of different factors, such as the amounts being lent, the total 
repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. However, certain factors might point to the fact that 
Satsuma should have fairly and reasonably done more to establish that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income)
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Satsuma told us it carried out certain affordability and credit checks before agreeing to lend 
to Miss L and took account of what she herself said her income and expenditure was. I think 
the checks which Satsuma most likely carried out would have been quite basic ones. 
Overall, they would have revealed some, but certainly not all, of her overall financial profile. 
However, bearing in mind what Ive said above, about the length of the lending relationship, I 
think these checks would have been proportionate for the two loans in question. Satsuma 
says that based on what was revealed by its checking procedure, the information showed 
that Miss L would be able to make the loan repayments she was committing to on each 
occasion. I also note that Miss L declared her income in each case to be £1,875 and £2,600 
respectively and given what shed also said about her outgoings, I think Satsuma would 
have concluded that, on the whole, both the loans were sustainable for her. 
Ive looked very carefully over everything Miss L has said in response to our adjudicators 
view that neither loan complaint should be upheld. She implies, in particular, that for loan 
number 2, Satsuma already had information that shows her outgoings exceeded what she 
was earning. However, Im afraid this isnt what Miss L set out on her application when she 
applied and I think Satsuma - it being early in its lending relationship with Miss L - was 
entitled to factor in what shed said about her financial situation.
Im very sorry to disappoint Miss L. I accept its possible she may already have been 
experiencing financial problems elsewhere, but in short, I think the checks carried out in this 
case were proportionate and Satsuma was entitled to rely on what it found, together with 
what it had been told by Miss L herself. 
Im afraid there isnt enough evidence to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint in respect of either loan. I dont 
direct Provident Personal Credit Limited to pay Miss L any compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2020.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman