DRN-2452260
The complaint
Mr G complains that Lloyds Bank PLC wrongly set up his business account as a partnership 
account and then blocked it after his sister, who was a signatory to the account, passed 
away.
What happened
Mr had a business account with Lloyds, which was set up under a trading name. The bank 
says the account was opened in or about 1959, and so its own records  and in particular 
those relating to the account opening  are limited. They do show however that Mr Gs sister 
was a signatory to the account.
In May 2017 Mr Gs sister passed away. He continued to use the account, but his sisters 
estate contacted Lloyds saying that she was entitled to money held in it. The bank blocked 
the account and stopped a cheque that Mr G had drawn on it.
Lloyds said that the estate had claimed that the account was a partnership account. Its usual 
practice on the death of a partner was to place a block on the account. Mr G on the other 
hand said that his sister hadnt been a partner in the business; she was merely a third-party 
signatory with no beneficial interest in either the business or in the bank account.
Mr G referred the matter to this service, where one of our investigators considered what had 
happened. Initially, he thought it more likely than not that the account was a partnership 
account and that Mr Gs sister had been a partner. He thought the bank was therefore right 
to block the account until any dispute over the funds held in it had been resolved. He also 
said that the bank had been within its rights to continue to charge a monthly fee, even 
though the account was blocked.
Later, however, he expressed a slightly different view  namely that this service ought to 
exercise its discretion not to consider the complaint at all, because to do so might seriously 
impair its effective operation. That was because there might be another complainant eligible 
to bring the complaint  namely, the estate of Mr Gs sister.
Mr G didnt accept the investigators conclusions and asked that an ombudsman review the 
case.
I did that and issued a provisional decision. I said first of all that I didnt believe that this was 
a case that I should dismiss without considering the merits. The investigator had taken the 
view that the estate might be an eligible complainant, since Mr Gs sister had been named 
on the account and the estate had claimed an interest in it. He thought that was a reason to 
dismiss the complaint, since the estate was not a party to it.
I took the view, however, that only Mr G could bring this complaint  that is, the complaint 
that the account should not have been set up as a partnership account. To the extent that 
the estate had a view about how the account was set up, it was likely to be the opposite  
namely that the account should have been set up as a partnership account. 
I therefore went on to consider how the complaint might be resolved. I wrote:
Those representing Mr G say that his sister wasnt a partner in the business; she was a 
signatory only so that she could help if, for example, Mr G were incapacitated. She had no 
beneficial interest in funds held on the account. They have asked the bank to provide 
evidence that Mr Gs sister was a partner in the business and was therefore entitled to funds 
in the account. Those representing the estate say that she had been a partner and that the 
account was correctly set up to reflect that.
In my view, however, the key point for me to decide isnt whether Mr Gs sister was a partner 
in the business, or even whether she was a joint account holder or third-party signatory to 
the account. The crucial question for me to answer is: given the estate claims an interest in 
the money in the account, did Lloyds act fairly? That doesnt depend on whether Mr Gs 
sister was a partner in the business or how the account was set up, although they may be 
factors to take into account. That depends primarily on the arrangements between Mr G and 
his sister. She could, for example, have been a partner in the business but with no, or a very 
small, financial interest. Even if Mr Gs sister had been a joint account holder, who was 
entitled to funds in the account and in what share was a matter between the account 
holders; and it was for them to decide what would happen on the death of one account 
holder.
In most cases, money in a joint account passes to the surviving account holder on the death 
of the other account holder. Theres also an assumption that, if the account is closed, for 
example, each is entitled to half of the proceeds of the account. These are, however, only 
assumptions and parties may agree something different.
There is, as Ive explained, limited documentation in this case about how the account was 
set up and how and why Mr Gs sister was added as a signatory. Both happened many 
years ago. But whether the estates claims are valid is not, in my view, determined by those 
matters but by the business arrangements made between Mr G and his sister. Its not for me 
or the bank to decide whether the estate is entitled to any funds from the account. Thats a 
matter for Mr G and the estate to resolve between them.
Where theres a dispute between joint account holders, this service generally takes the view 
that its good practice for a bank to block the account while that dispute is resolved; that 
maintains the position for the benefit of all parties. I note of course that Mr G doesnt accept 
that his sister was an account holder, but she was a signatory and her estate claims she was 
an account holder. What is clear is that Mr G and the estate are not in agreement about who 
is entitled to the money in the account. For that reason, I believe the bank acted fairly and 
reasonably until that issue could be resolved.
In response to my provisional decision Mr Gs solicitors asserted that the account had been 
wrongly set up and that Mr G had always been a sole trader. His accounts showed that, and 
his sister had only been named on the account as a third party. She had never used the 
account; the activity on it was consistent only with it being Mr Gs sole account. 
Mr Gs solicitors also said that, if there was a dispute about entitlement to funds in the 
account, that was only because Lloyds had set the account up wrongly. Had it been set up 
correctly  or had proper records been kept  there would have been no issue about 
ownership of funds in it. 
For its part, Lloyds said that it believed the account was a partnership account and that, 
since one of the partners had passed away, the remaining partner, Mr G, was entitled to the 
funds in the account. He simply needed to complete the necessary formalities. I therefore asked the investigator to check whether Mr G or his solicitors had received 
confirmation from the estates solicitors that the estate was no longer claiming an interest in 
the account, as Lloyds seemed to suggest. Mr Gs solicitors responded to say that they had 
heard nothing from the estates solicitors since July 2019. Mr Gs solicitors had written then, 
disputing that the estate had any claim on the funds in the account.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This is a rather unusual position. Mr Gs complaint is that he is entitled to the money in the 
account and that Lloyds should therefore release it to him. Lloyds appears willing to do so, 
subject to certain administrative issues being resolved. None of those issues is likely to be 
particularly onerous for Mr G. It seems to me therefore that the parties ought to be able to 
resolve this matter between themselves. Lloyds simply needs to contact Mr G to explain its 
current position. 
Be that as it may, Ive considered whether in all the circumstances I should make an award 
requiring Lloyds to do anything. As I explained in my provisional decision, the key issue for 
me to decide is not whether Mr Gs sister was a partner in the business, whether she was a 
joint account holder or even whether she had a beneficial interest in the business account. 
What I need to consider is whether Lloyds acted fairly when faced with a claim from the 
estates solicitors that their client might be entitled to money in the account. I explained this 
services general approach in my provisional decision  that its usually good practice to 
place a block on the account while the position is resolved. 
Although the bank has indicated its willingness to release funds to Mr G, I note that the 
estates position hasnt changed since December 2018  when it asked the bank to block the 
account. In other words, the underlying issue here is really still between Mr G and the estate; 
in my view they are best placed to resolve it.  
I remain of the view therefore that this matter can only be fully resolved when Mr Gs 
apparent dispute with the estate is resolved. If the bank wishes to release funds to Mr G 
without confirmation that the estate has withdrawn its own claim, it can of course do so. I 
dont believe however that I can fairly make an award requiring it to do that. Such an award 
might prejudice the outcome of any dispute Mr G has with the estate or of any dispute the 
estate might have with Lloyds.  
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I dont require Lloyds Bank PLC to do anything 
more to resolve Mr Gs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr G to accept or reject my decision before 18 January 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman