DRN-3337605
The complaint
Mr P complains that Zurich Assurance Ltd recommended he invest his investment bond in a 
fund that was too high risk for his risk profile. 
What happened
In 2001, Mr P met with an adviser from a business that has since been acquired by Zurich. 
The fact-find from the time recorded that Mr P held a mixture of shares, a stocks and shares 
Individual Savings Account (ISA) and funds in a deposit account. He was 54 years old and 
was a company director in a family business with earnings of £30,000 a year and a net 
disposable income of £500 a month. The fact-find and recommendation letter from the time 
both record Mr P had a balanced attitude to investment risk. Mr P invested £15,000 into the 
investment bond and this was placed into the Life Managed Fund. Mr P surrendered the 
investment bond in 2006.
Mr P, represented by a Claims Management Company (CMC), complained to Zurich in 2021 
that the fund recommended at the time was too high a risk and wasnt suitable for a 
customer of his age and lack of investment experience.
Zurich didnt uphold the complaint. It said the Life Managed Fund was suitable for Mr P and 
his balanced attitude to investment risk. Mr P didnt agree, and the CMC brought his 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. One of our Investigators looked into things 
and thought that Mr P hadnt been advised to invest too much, and that in the circumstances 
the risk assessment of balanced was fair and seemed to fit his objectives. The Investigator 
thought the Life Managed Fund was appropriate given Mr Ps existing holdings and 
investment experience. 
Mr P asked that an Ombudsman decides the complaint and its been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr P will be disappointed, but for very much the same reasons as the 
Investigator Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ps complaint. I will now explain why.
At the time of the investment it was recorded that Mr P could invest £15,000 for growth for at 
least five years. This left him with £22,000 in cash savings, which was approximately one 
years net income. Mr P also held a stocks and share ISA and shares in a family business 
and other shares estimated to have a combined value of £250,000. Mr Ps stated retirement 
age was 60 and his business was contributing £7,000 a year into a pension plan for his 
benefit. Mr P had one dependent child and a spouse.
Taking into account Mr Ps circumstances at the time, Im satisfied the recommendation to 
invest £15,000 into an investment bond wasnt unreasonable. Mr P had a reasonable 
amount of cash available for emergencies, plus £500 a month available income to fall back 
on if required. Mr P said it was unlikely his financial position would change. Mr P was sent a 
recommendation letter by Zurich confirming why it had recommended the investment bond 
and Mr P had time to reconsider the investment.
Having decided that it wasnt unreasonable for Zurich to have recommended the investment 
of £15,000 into an investment bond, I must also consider whether the fund it recommended 
was suitable for Mr P. This is really the crux of Mr Ps complaint.
The fact-find records Mr P had a balanced attitude to investment risk. The definition of 
balanced risk is referred to within the recommendation letter Zurich sent to Mr P. It says, 
This means you wish to invest in balanced funds which are designed to produce good long 
term returns through a relatively broad spread of investments in the UK and overseas. This 
balanced approach to risk and reward may nevertheless result in some volatility in the short 
term. Im persuaded that its more likely than not Zurich explained to Mr P what it 
considered to be a balanced risk profile.
Ive seen a copy of the fund factsheet for the Life Managed Fund from the time Mr P 
invested. It explains the fund objective is, to provide excellent prospects or long-term growth 
while limiting the risks associated with pure equity funds. It accordingly offers a balanced 
investment portfolio, spread across a wide range, including shares, properties, fixed-interest 
securities and cash, both in the UK and globally. Im satisfied he fund factsheet shows that 
the holdings within the fund were a reasonable match for the fund description and are 
generally reflective of the balanced attitude to risk description in the recommendation letter. 
Mr P, and the CMC representing him, suggest that Mr P was an inexperienced investor and 
the fund was too high risk because it held a high proportion of equities, some of which were 
overseas. However, I consider it would be unreasonable for me to conclude Mr P was an 
inexperienced investor. Mr P held shares in a family business and in other companies, and 
he held a stocks and shares ISA. To be clear, Im not suggesting Mr P was a professional 
investor, but I do consider the investments he already held made it more likely than not he 
would have understood risks and general asset mix of the fund he was investing into.
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ps complaint against Zurich Assurance Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2022.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman