DRN-1728840
The complaint
Mrs T complains that an early settlement figure provided by PSA Finance UK Limited was 
incorrect. 
What happened
Mrs T entered into a conditional sale agreement with PSA which she has now settled, but 
she believes that the business overcharged her. She says it wasnt made clear to her when 
she entered into the agreement that she had to pay an extra 58 days interest over and 
above what she thought she would be paying to settle the agreement.
Mrs T also thinks that PSA has calculated the interest incorrectly.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said The Consumer Credit (Early 
Settlement) Regulations 2004 set out the rules for calculation of the settlement figure and 
there was no evidence to suggest that PSA had calculated things incorrectly. 
Mrs T didnt agree with the outcome. She said there was nothing in the finance agreement 
about an extra 58 days interest if she settled early. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry that Mrs T feels that shes been misled and that this resulted in her paying 
additional interest. I know it will disappoint Mrs T but I agree with the investigators view. Ill 
explain why.
Ive no reason to think that the settlement calculation carried out by PSA is incorrect. Its my 
understanding that Mrs T isnt challenging the calculation itself, but rather the fact that shed 
been charged an additional 58 days interest.
Ive looked at the finance agreement. This states at the top that it is regulated by The 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA 1974). The CCA 1974 covers several areas of consumer 
credit including the content and form of credit agreements and the procedures relating to 
default, termination and early settlement. 
In relation to early settlement, the CCA 1974 says that settlement figures must be calculated 
using the rules set out in the Consumer Credit (Early Settlement) Regulations 2004. It says 
that the settlement date is 28 days after receipt of the settlement request. It goes on to allow 
the creditor to defer the settlement date by 30 days. So this explains the 58 days Mrs T is 
unhappy about.
The regulations arent explicitly referred to in the finance agreement and I understand Mrs 
Ts concerns about this. But theres a balance to be struck between defining and explaining 
every term of a contract and keeping a contract to a reasonable length.
Ive thought about whether Mrs T wouldve done anything differently if shed been aware of 
the early settlement provisions. Mrs T has said that she didnt need finance and only took it 
out because there were benefits in doing so. The additional figure which Mrs T is disputing is 
a small proportion of the overall credit. On balance, and given the benefits Mrs T gained by 
taking out the finance, I dont think the additional sum would have been sufficient to 
persuade her not to proceed with  the finance  agreement. And if Mrs T hadnt settled the 
agreement early, she wouldve paid significantly more interest. So I cant say shes been 
financially disadvantaged by the situation and overall, I dont think PSA needs to do anything 
further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im unable to uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2020.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman