DRN-3994893
The complaint
A limited company, which Ill refer to as E, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc unfairly 
refused its application under the Governments Recovery Loan Scheme (RLS) . E also 
complains that HSBC acted unfairly in relation to an earlier Coronavirus Business 
Interruption Loan (CBIL), in particular by requiring Es director to give a guarantee. 
E is represented in this complaint by its director, Ms S. 
What happened
E operated in a sector that was forced to close down by the pandemic. In June 2020, it took 
out a CBIL for £1m to see it through what it estimated would be a six month period of 
restrictions. This was later topped up by a further £375,000 in June 2021. 
In late 2021, with pandemic restrictions still in place, E applied for a £250,000 recovery loan 
(RL). HSBC declined Es application. E appealed, but the bank didnt change its decision. 
In February 2022, E began creditors voluntary winding up proceedings. 
Ms S complained to the bank that its actions had forced E out of business. HSBC didnt 
uphold the complaint as they didnt think they had done anything wrong. 
Ms S asked our service to look into the matter. She said she was seeking compensation of 
£500,000 to compensate for the loss of a business that was viable pre-COVID. She asked 
us to consider the following points:
The rejection of the RLS application was unfair treatment of a long-standing 
customer and in breach of Governmental guidelines.
The banks reasoning for turning E down was unreasonable, citing sector volatility.
Government guidelines said that businesses were entitled to borrow 25% of their last 
filed turnover on CBILs, which amounted to £1.8m. But HSBC had only let E borrow 
£1.375m. 
70% of the recovery loan was guaranteed by the Government, limiting the banks 
exposure to only £75,000. 
HSBC had insisted on a guarantee for the CBILs when they already had an 80% 
Government guarantee. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened but didnt recommend upholding the 
complaint. He didnt think the bank had breached any guidelines and pointed out that banks 
were entitled to carry out credit reviews for both CBIL and RLS applications. 
Ms S asked for an ombudsman to consider the matter again. She said many of the rules 
were clearly ambiguous and this open to interpretation.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator, for essentially the 
same reasons. I realise this will be a disappointment to Ms S, but Im afraid I dont have a 
great deal to add to what our investigator said. 
Theres no dispute that both the CBIL scheme and the RLS were designed to provide 
financial support to smaller businesses that were suffering cashflow problems as a result of 
the pandemic. Banks were put under some pressure to make these loans available swiftly 
and without onerous levels of information requirements. But in the case of both the schemes 
mentioned above, banks were also left with considerable discretion over lending criteria and 
over such decisions as whether to require personal guarantees from directors. 
I havent seen any evidence that HSBC breached any guidelines by declining Es RL. Nor do 
I consider the bank behaved unfairly by doing so. 
As Ive said, the Government scheme left lending decisions to the banks and although there 
was a 70% Government guarantee, banks were not supposed to rely on this when making 
credit decisions but rather to look for viable propositions. Banks are also expected to lend 
responsibly and HSBC had in my view legitimate concerns about Es debt levels, which I 
understand also included a CBIL with another lender. Servicing this amount of debt would 
have been difficult even if previous levels of profitability had resumed. And ongoing 
disruption in its business sector meant they were also not convinced that Es order book 
would all materialise. 
Turning to the CBILs, I dont think the Government set a maximum percentage of turnover 
for this particular scheme, But even if Im wrong about that, it would have been a maximum 
and it was again at the discretion of the lender how much they thought it was appropriate to 
lend. So I dont think it was unreasonable of HSBC not to lend as much as E would have 
liked.  
Ms S thinks HSBC acted in bad faith by requiring personal guarantees for the CBILs. But this 
was permitted by the scheme rules and the bank only asked for a guarantee of 10% of the 
amount borrowed. I dont think it was unfair of the bank to set this as a criteria, even if some 
other banks chose not to do so. I know Ms S has spoken of feeling placed under duress, but 
the evidence shows that she took legal advice from a lawyer of her choosing and the 
guarantees were signed on his premises. So I think the bank took reasonable steps to 
ensure that she made an informed decision. 
In summary, I agree with Ms S that the rules governing the granting of CBILs and RLs were 
left open to interpretation by lenders. But I dont think that HSBC interpreted them unfairly or 
made unreasonable decisions in this case. I think the bank had legitimate concerns about 
the ability of E to service the levels of debt Ms S wanted. 
I dont doubt that Ms S has been through an extremely stressful time, with lasting 
repercussions for her and her family. But I consider the cause of that stress to have been the 
pandemic itself rather than any unfair action on the part of HSBC. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2023.
 
Louise Bardell
Ombudsman