The complaint
Mr P complains (through his son) that British Gas Insurance Limited is responsible for poor 
service in connection with a home emergency insurance policy.
What happened
Where I refer to British Gas I refer to the insurance company of that name and I include 
other companies and individuals insofar as I hold that insurance company responsible for 
their actions.
In mid- November 2018 Mr P took out British Gas policies on two properties. He cancelled 
one of them but the other continued.
A year later in November 2019, Mr Ps son complained that British Gas had taken £510.00 
for another years cover.
British Gas refunded the £510.00 and cancelled the policy. In February 2020 Mr Ps son 
complained that British Gas hadnt responded to his complaint. 
On 20 February 2020 British Gas sent a final response letter. Unhappy with that response, 
Mr P brought his complaint to us later that month.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that 
British Gas had returned the money without delay. He said we couldnt investigate how 
British Gas handled the complaint and the service provided over that time. 
Mr P and his son disagreed with the investigators opinion. Mr Ps son asked for an 
ombudsman to review the complaint. He says, in summary, that:
He is his fathers carer. He dealt with the sales call (on load speaker so his father
could hear). British Gas mis-sold the policy. At the point of sale British Gas didnt tell
them it was an annual automatic renewal policy. Theres absolutely no way they
wouldve agreed to this.
The policy wasnt received in the post.
This wasnt the only letter that wasnt received from British Gas.
His father is terminally ill and during this entire process he was undergoing very
intense treatment.
The unexpected deduction of a large amount of money caused his father extreme
distress.
He had to go through a lengthy conversation with someone from the retention team
who wanted to try and haggle the price before cancelling the policy.
DRN-1964564British Gas misleadingly made it appear that it had listened to the call. It later 
admitted that the call would no longer be held on file.
We should recommend a letter of apology from British Gas.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy terms included the following:
Renewals
Well write to you at least 25 days before your agreement is due for renewal. If you pay by 
Direct Debit well keep renewing your agreement automatically, until you ask us to stop.
Mr P paid by direct debit. So the policy terms provided that the policy would automatically 
renew. 
British Gas says it didnt keep the recording of the sales call. But I find it likely that it worked 
to a procedure that included a mention of automatic renewal.
In any event British Gas wrote two welcome letters dated 15 November 2018. Each of them 
confirmed that there would be automatic renewal. Each of them contains the direct debit 
guarantee. 
I find it likely that British Gas posted these letters. I'm satisfied that was enough - even if Mr 
P didnt receive them for some reason such as a problem with the post.
Ive seen a copy of a renewal letter dated 9 October 2019. That was more than a month 
before the renewal date. So I find that it was in line with the policy term quoted above.
I find it likely that British Gas posted that letter. I'm satisfied that was enough - even if Mr P 
didnt receive it for some reason such as a problem with the post.
After Mr Ps son complained, British Gas refunded the £510.00 and cancelled the policy. I 
accept his statement that British Gas tried to keep Mr P as a customer by offering a better 
price. 
Im satisfied that British Gas had renewed the policy in line with its terms and fairly. But in 
any event it acted promptly to cancel and refund. So I dont find it fair and reasonable to 
direct it to pay compensation for Mr Ps distress.
British Gas didnt return calls or communicate with Mr Ps son as well as it shouldve done. 
Its final response included the following:
During the call information is provided including payments and the direct debit guarantee.
That sounded as though it had a call recording  which it said it hadnt. But I consider that 
British Gas was describing its telephone sales procedure. 
In any event I cant say that British Gas shouldve handled the complaint differently.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct British Gas Insurance Limited to do anything further in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2020.
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman