DRN-3792763
The complaint
Miss K complains she was mis-sold an investment bond by Basset Gold Limited (BG Ltd) 
an appointed representative of Gallium Fund Solutions Limited (Gallium) because it carried 
high risk and the information relating to it was misleading.
Miss K is using a representative to bring the complaint. For ease Ill refer to all actions 
as being those of Miss K. 
Background
The B&G Plc Bond
Miss K invested in a B&G Plc Three- year fixed monthly income IFISA Bond. Sales of this 
bond were dealt with by Bassett Gold Limited (BG Ltd), a separate business from Basset & 
Gold Plc (B&G plc), the issuer of the bond. BG Ltd arranged applications for investments in 
the bond, through a website it operated. And it was responsible for advertising/marketing the 
bond. Potential investors were also able to call BG Ltd, to discuss the bond.
B&G Plc and BG Ltd were both appointed representatives of Gallium. B&G Plc and BG Ltd 
were appointed representatives of Gallium from 17 February 2017 to 28 February 2018.
Miss Ks investment in the bond
Miss K visited BG Ltd website in May 2017 after searching online for savings products. She 
says at the time of application she was working part time and had all her savings in a current 
account. She had no previous investment experience and invested close to 90% of her total 
savings in the bond. Miss K says she completed the application online and £20,000 was 
invested in the bond.
When Miss K referred her complaint to us, we asked for copies of any call recordings BG Ltd 
held. We were provided with copies of some call recordings, but we have not been provided 
with relevant recordings of any conversations Miss K had with BG Ltd before or during the 
bond application. As such, Ive not referred to them in my decision.
On 8 January 2019, B&G Finance Limited (which by that point had taken on the role of BG 
Ltd), sent an email to all investors then holding B&G Plc bonds. This referred to the fact that 
nearly all the money invested in B&G Plc bonds had been lent to one short term and pay day 
lender, called Uncle Buck. Following action by the FCA, Uncle Buck went into administration 
in March 2020 - and B&G Plc went into administration shortly afterwards. As a result, Miss K 
has not had her invested capital returned to her.
The application process
Miss K says she applied for the bond online in May 2017. A separate spreadsheet we 
received from the administrators on behalf of BG Ltd confirmed it received and accepted 
Miss Ks application form on 31 May 2017.
Having reviewed the available evidence, I think it is most likely that Miss K initially completed 
an online application. While there appears to be evidence that Miss Ks representative had 
some telephone contact with BG Ltd, from what Ive seen I think she would have still been 
required to apply online first. So, Ive examined the online application process to help me 
reach my decision.
I have seen screen prints of each stage of the online application process. These show the 
application journey that Miss K underwent. This consisted of two stages, designed to meet 
the rules restricting who the bond could be promoted to and on how to test whether the 
investment was appropriate for the potential investor. The first was certification, where Miss 
K was categorised as everyday investor. The second was the appropriateness test. 
Galliums response to Miss Ks complaint
Gallium did not uphold Miss Ks complaint. It said Miss K had been given sufficient 
information and risk warnings about the investment. It then made further submissions, once 
Miss Ks complaint was referred to us. I have considered the submissions in full. I have also 
considered what Gallium described as its position statement, which sets out general 
information on the background to complaints about B&G Plc bonds.
Our Investigators view
One of our Investigators considered Miss Ks complaint and concluded it should be upheld. 
They said, in summary:
The application process  both in terms of the certification of Miss K as a restricted 
investor and the assessment of the appropriateness of the bond for her - was 
misleading and didnt gather sufficient information to comply with the FCAs rules.
Overall, BG Ltd, on Galliums behalf, didnt comply with its regulatory obligations. 
Had it done so, Miss K wouldnt have decided to invest or BG Ltd should have 
concluded that it shouldnt allow Miss K to invest. For these reasons, both 
cumulatively and individually, it was fair to uphold the complaint and for Gallium to 
compensate Miss K for the loss she has suffered.
Galliums response to the view
Gallium did not accept the Investigators view. It said, in summary: 
Regardless of label, Miss K was required to confirm that she met the requirements of 
a restricted investor and confirmed that she did. It is not fair or reasonable to 
conclude that the use of the word everyday contributed to Miss K giving an incorrect 
declaration, and it was reasonable for it to rely on the declaration. 
The appropriateness test answers, and these confirmations were sufficient for 
Gallium to satisfy itself that prospective investors had sufficient knowledge and 
experience of the bonds to understand the risks those bonds involved, as per the 
relevant rules.
It was reasonable for Gallium to rely on the outcome of this test.
Miss K made the investment on the understanding it had risk associated with it and 
did not choose to surrender it when receiving the email in 2019 which warned of the 
concentration risk. So, she would have proceeded with the investment regardless. My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am satisfied it is appropriate for me to consider all of the acts carried out by BG Ltd, on 
behalf of Gallium, in relation to the sale of the bond. 
In considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, I have 
taken into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the relevant time.
The Principles for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs Handbook are a general 
statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system (PRIN 
1.1.2G). I think Principles 6 (Customers interests) and 7 (Communications with clients) are 
relevant here. 
Principle 7 overlaps with COBS 4.2.1R (1) (A firm must ensure that a communication or a 
financial promotion is fair, clear and not misleading), which I also consider to be relevant 
here. 
As mentioned, the bond was non-readily realisable and therefore there were rules restricting 
who it could be promoted to and how to test whether the investment was appropriate for the 
potential investor. These rules were set out in COBS 4.7 and COBS 10.1, 10.2 and 10.3. I 
have considered the relevant rules in full. 
I note Gallium has referred to the FCAs policy statement PS14/4, and to question and 
answer sessions with the FCAs Head of Investment Policy and UKCFA. I have considered 
these too.
Having considered all the available evidence and arguments I have reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator, for the same reasons. In summary:
BG Ltd, acting on Galliums behalf, misled Miss K into certifying herself as belonging 
in a category to which she did not belong (a restricted investor) by changing the 
term used in the rules to everyday investor and describing the category as being 
one anyone could fall into. This was not treating Miss K fairly or acting in her best 
interests. Had BG Ltd followed the rules and not misled Miss K, it is unlikely she 
would have certified herself as being a restricted investor.
The appropriateness test carried out by BG Ltd, on behalf of Gallium, did not meet 
the requirements of the rules. And, had it done so, it would have been apparent the 
bond was not an appropriate investment for Miss K. In the circumstances Miss K 
would either not have proceeded or, acting fairly and reasonably, BG Ltd should have 
concluded it should not promote the bond to Miss K.
For these reasons  individually and cumulatively  my decision is that Miss Ks complaint 
should be upheld. I am also satisfied Miss K would either not have proceeded to make the 
investment or would not have been able to proceed, had Gallium acted fairly and reasonably 
to meet its regulatory obligations. And so, I am satisfied it is fair to ask Gallium to 
compensate Miss K for her loss.
Fair compensationIn assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put 
Miss K as close to the position she would probably now be in if she had not invested in the 
bond.
I take the view that Miss K would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely 
what she would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out below is 
fair and reasonable given Miss K's circumstances and objectives when she invested.
What must Gallium do?
To compensate Miss K fairly, Gallium must:
Compare the performance of Miss K's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investments. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Gallium should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
It is also clear that Miss K has been caused some distress and inconvenience by the 
loss of her investment. Given her circumstances, this is all most her entire savings, 
which Miss K cannot afford to lose, nor is it money she is able to replace. I do not 
believe Miss K foresaw such a drastic loss and I recognise the considerable worry 
she will have felt when B&G Plc failed. I consider a payment of £350 is fair 
compensation for the upset caused.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Investment 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
B&G Plc 
BondStill exists 
but illiquidAverage rate 
from fixed 
rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days 
of the business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual Value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
If at the end date the investment is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open 
market), it may be difficult to work out what the actual value is. In such a case the actual 
value should be assumed to be zero. This is provided Miss K agrees to Gallium taking 
ownership of the investment, if it wishes to. If it is not possible for Gallium to take 
ownership, then it may request an undertaking from Miss K that she repays to Gallium any 
amount she may receive from the investment in future.
Fair valueThis is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Gallium 
should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the 
Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous 
month. Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Any withdrawal, income or other distributions paid out of the investments should be 
deducted from the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to 
accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular 
payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if Gallium totals all those payments and 
deducts that figure at the end to determine the fair value instead of deducting periodically. If 
any distributions or income were automatically paid out into a portfolio and left uninvested, 
they must be deducted at the end to determine the fair value, and not periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
Miss K wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risking any of her capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure given Miss K's 
circumstances and objectives. It does not mean that Miss K would have invested only 
in a fixed rate bond. It is the sort of investment return a consumer could have 
obtained with little risk to their capital.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Gallium Fund Solutions Limited should pay the 
amount calculated as set out above.
Gallium Fund Solutions Limited should provide details of its calculation to Miss K in a clear, 
simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 March 2023. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman