DRN-1116449
 
The complaint
Mr N complains about the service he received from Bank of Scotland plc during his re-
mortgage application. 
What happened
Mr Ns re-mortgage application completed in May 2019. He complains that Bank of Scotland 
collected the wrong amounts for his June 2019 and July 2019 mortgage payments. 
Mr N requested an indemnity claim for the two payments and complains that his mortgage 
balance increased as a result. He was concerned he may incur additional interest because 
of Bank of Scotlands error.  
Mr N complains Bank of Scotland also incorrectly sent him conflicting letters about the failed 
direct debits.
Mr N is dissatisfied with Bank of Scotlands service over the years and its complaint 
handling. He wants to exit his Bank of Scotland mortgage without any Early Repayment 
Charge (ERC). 
Bank of Scotland upheld Mr Ns complaint and offered £200 compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience caused by the service provided. It refused to waive the ERC. Mr N 
declined Bank of Scotlands offer and brought his complaint to our service.  
An investigator looked into things and felt Bank of Scotlands resolution was fair. Mr N 
disagreed. Because an agreement has not been reached, the case has been passed to me 
to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, and whilst I appreciate 
my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr N, I think our investigator has reached a 
fair outcome. Ill explain why.
In his complaint to us, Mr N mentions the ongoing service hes received from Bank of 
Scotland over the years. We have explained to Mr N that we can only consider the events 
that took place in 2019. This is because he didnt bring his complaints about the earlier 
events to our service within six months from the date of Bank of Scotlands final response 
letters.  The complaint Mr N raised with Bank of Scotland in July 2019 was specifically about 
his experience in the recent months and this is what Bank of Scotland has given us consent 
to consider. Whilst I can't comment on the earlier events as part of my decision, I do 
understand why the combination of events has exacerbated matters. The key facts about this complaint aren't in dispute. Bank of Scotland has admitted it got 
things wrong. So, the only issue I have to decide is whether the things it has done to put 
things right, including the amount of compensation its offered, is fair and reasonable.
I think its right that Bank of Scotland should compensate Mr N for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by incorrectly processing his re-mortgage application and the overall 
service provided. However, I also think its important to explain that, as a service, our awards 
are designed to compensate consumers - not punish organisations.
We look at the impact any mistakes have had on the consumer concerned and give careful 
consideration to a consumers individual circumstances, in determining whether any award 
for distress and inconvenience is warranted.
Bank of Scotland acknowledged that the completion letter sent to Mr N in May 2019 
confirmed his new monthly payments would be £2,577.01. The letter also stated that any 
overpayment or underpayment arrangements in place would be automatically cancelled. 
This didnt happen so payments of £3,020.36 were incorrectly debited from Mr Ns account 
in June 2019 and July 2019.
When Mr N contacted Bank of Scotland in July 2019, this was immediately rectified, and his 
contractual payments reverted to the correct amount from August 2019. Mr N successfully 
requested an indemnity claim for the two incorrect payments, without incurring any bank 
charges.
Mr N made a lump sum payment to cover the correct monthly payments due. Bank of 
Scotland has confirmed that it adjusted his account accordingly to ensure he wasnt charged 
any additional interest as a result. It also confirmed no adverse information was recorded on 
his credit file.
I can see from what has been said by Mr N that this inconvenienced him. But I think Bank of 
Scotland recognised its mistake and quickly took steps to reduce the impact of its actions, as 
soon as the situation was brought to its attention. And, Im satisfied the steps taken put Mr N 
back into the position he would have been in had the error not been made.
Ive also listened to the call Mr N made to Bank of Scotland when raising his complaint. I 
agree a better level of service could have been provided. I say this because the call took 
longer than it needed, due to ongoing periods of silence on Bank of Scotlands part. It took 
some time for the advisor to transfer the call to a team leader and I can appreciate the 
overall frustration Mr N experienced. 
Bank of Scotland did recognise that it could have provided a better level of service and 
explained the confusion regarded the automated mailing. It offered Mr N £200 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused. I think this is fair. I say this because the settlement 
amount reasonably reflects the circumstances. Because Mr N has not lost out financially as 
a result of Bank of Scotlands error, I wont be asking it to do anything more. 
I appreciate Mr N doesnt feel our organisation has shown empathy towards his 
circumstances or that the offer reflects the level of service hes received from Bank of 
Scotland over years. As explained above, Im unable to comment on the impact of any 
earlier events. Mr Ns request for an ERC waiver is not proportionate to his experience in 
2019. So, I wont be telling Bank of Scotland to agree this. 
My final decisionBank of Scotland has already made an offer to pay £200 to settle the complaint and I think 
this offer is fair in all the circumstances. So, my decision is that Bank of Scotland should pay 
Mr N £200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 June 2020.
Arazu Eid
Ombudsman