DRN-3679380
The complaint
Mr R complains that TSB Bank plc (TSB) made an entry about him on the CIFAS database 
in connection with a joint mortgage application.
What happened
Mr R applied for a mortgage with TSB around September 2017, using a broker. He applied 
for the mortgage with another person that isnt a party to this complaint. TSB declined the 
application and left a marker on the CIFAS database. The CIFAS database is a cross-
industry fraud prevention database which allows financial services providers to share 
relevant information, subject to safeguards.
Mr R complained to TSB about the marker in 2021.
TSB said it has limited records about the application due to the passage of time since 2017. 
But it didnt think it had done anything wrong, and that it wasnt prepared to remove the 
marker. Its records say that when Mr R applied for the mortgage he said he was working for 
a business Ill refer to as H, earning an annual income of more than £97,000. TSB had 
some questions regarding the information it had been given, so it asked Mr R for more 
information. However, TSB had concerns about the information provided, and it wasnt able 
to verify Mr Rs income using its standard underwriting checks. So it put the marker on the 
CIFAS database.
After Mr R had complained to TSB he sent it a copy of a letter (dated May 2020) from his 
accountant. That letter said that a company Mr R had worked for (Ill refer to that company 
as H1) had filed information incorrectly with HMRC. 
The letter went on to say that the payslips and P60 that Mr R received from H1 didnt match 
up payments made into his bank account. However, by the time the mistakes had become 
clear, the company had ceased trading and the owner had disappeared so the matter had 
remained unresolved.
Mr R also provided a letter from HMRC dated November 2020. That said Mr R had received 
£106,705 from another company (that Ill refer to as H2) in the 2017-2018 tax year. It 
showed Mr R earned a much smaller income from H2 in the previous tax year.
TSB considered the information it had been provided with but declined to remove the 
marker. It asked for information about Mr Rs employed income from 2012 onwards and 
evidence from HMRC regarding H1 failing to report information correctly to HMRC. It 
appears that Mr R didnt send TSB all that information. 
After Mr R complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service our investigator considered all 
the information that had been provided to her and TSB. That included Mr Rs self-
assessment tax records from the 2013-14 tax year onwards and P60 documents. She 
thought TSB had reasonable grounds to suspect it had received false information in 
connection with the 2017 mortgage application. So she didnt recommend that TSB removed 
the marker. 
Mr R remained unhappy and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so it 
has been passed to me to decide. More information was provided to our investigator after 
she sent Mr R her view on his complaint.
Its clear from Mr Rs recent correspondence that he feels that he has been unfairly 
penalised for mistakes his employer(s) made  mistakes he says he isnt responsible for. 
In August 2022 our investigator was sent an letter by someone that said they were Mr Rs 
previous employer  Ill refer to that person as Mr A. In that letter Mr A said the payslips and 
P60s provided to Mr R were incorrect and were filed with HMRC incorrectly. Mr A said that 
was his fault  not Mr Rs. The letter was stamped by a company with a similar sounding 
name to H1. Its clear from the letter, and from what Mr R told us, that Mr A sent that letter 
after Mr R said he would take legal action against Mr A.
Mr R has also provided the Financial Ombudsman Service with a copy of a letter from 
HMRC dated July 2022. That letter says that Mr Rs pay and tax details changed twice in 
recent years because it hadnt been given accurate information. HMRC said that it initially 
contacted Mr Rs employer, but it still got inconsistent information. So it went on to update its 
records with information Mr R sent it. 
Our investigator sent TSB a copy of the January 2022 HMRC letter, but TSB was still 
unwilling to remove the marker. She also remained of the view that TSB hadnt made a 
mistake when it put the marker on the CIFAS database. She said that Mr R had worked for a 
number of different businesses with similar sounding names from the 2013-14 tax year 
onwards. However, Mr Rs HMRC records didnt match the tax documents Mr R has 
provided us with. She thought it was unusual that multiple limited companies with different 
directors all failed to accurately report his income and tax/national insurance contributions to 
HMRC. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive come to the same conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain why.
When Mr R applied for the mortgage in 2017 TSB considered the information and evidence it 
received in connection with mortgage application and carried out underwriting checks to try 
to confirm the accuracy of what it was told and to decide whether it wanted to lend. I think its 
worth saying here that there was no obligation on TSB to lend money to Mr R. It wasnt 
obliged to give reasons for refusing to do so either. 
The standard of proof for putting a marker on the CIFAS database is that there must be 
clear, relevant and rigorous evidence of fraud, such that TSB could confidently report the 
matter to the police or other authorities (whether or not it has actually done so). 
The standard required is therefore one of reasonable suspicion, not proof. But there must be 
evidence of fraud. There are various fraud offences, but a common feature is acting 
dishonestly for financial gain.
Having weighed up all the evidence and arguments here very carefully, I can understand 
why TSB had concerns about the information it had been given in connection with the 
application. I can see that when TSB first considered the mortgage application it had 
concerns, so it went on to carry out a further investigation. It asked Mr R for payslips, bank 
statements and P60 documents, and considered those documents too. TSB still had concerns and wasnt able to verify the information Mr R had declared about his income. So it 
applied the marker on the CIFAS database. 
Ive looked at the information that was available to TSB around the time of the mortgage 
application and can understand why TSB acted as it did. Amongst other concerns, TSB 
wasnt able to verify the information Mr R had declared about his income. It could also see 
that Mr R had said that he worked for H since the end of 2012. However, correspondence 
from HMRC showed he worked for H2 from the beginning of 2017. TSB also noted that the 
director of H2 shared the same surname as Mr R, possibly indicating that he was a member 
of Mr Rs family. 
In the circumstances, I dont think TSBs concerns were unreasonable. So, I cant say it 
made a mistake when it recorded the markers on the CIFAS database. 
The next question I need to consider is whether TSB should remove the marker now given 
the new information that has been provided since the marker was recorded in 2017. There 
seems to be no dispute now that TSB was sent incorrect information in connection with the 
2017 mortgage application. Mr R accepts he made a mistake in his mortgage application 
when he said that he worked for H since 2012. But he said that was human error, not fraud. 
Mr Rs position is that he wasnt responsible for the incorrect information in the mortgage 
application. He says his employers made mistakes with the documents it sent him (P60 
documents and payslips). He doesnt think its fair that he should be penalised for that.
I appreciate what Mr R has said and provided in this complaint. However, Im not persuaded 
that Mr Rs employers were solely responsible for the incorrect information in the 2017 
mortgage application. I appreciate that Mr R has provided the Financial Ombudsman Service 
with a copy of a letter from HMRC dated July 2022 that says that Mr Rs pay and tax details 
changed twice in recent years because it hadnt been given accurate information by Mr Rs 
employer. However, Im also conscious that Mr Rs updated HMRC records dont match the 
tax documents he provided to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
The information in the 6 January 2022 HMRC letter setting out where Mr R worked in the 
2012/2013 to 2017-2018 tax years differs to the information in Mr Rs self-assessment forms 
that he sent to our investigator. 
There are also inconsistencies between the amount of money HMRC understands Mr R 
earned in the tax years stated above (as set out in HMRC documentation dated January 
2022 and August 2021) and the amount of money Mr R said he earned in his self-
assessment forms. 
I can see that the salary Mr R declared to TSB at the time of application differs to the amount 
shown on the P60 he has provided for the 2017-18 tax year. 
Taking all these factors into account I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for me to 
require TSB to remove the marker from the CIFAS database. I say that because I think that 
TSB had reasonable grounds to suspect it had received false information in connection with 
the 2017 mortgage application, and Im not persuaded that Mr Rs employer(s) were solely 
responsible for the incorrect information.
For completeness I will say here that Im conscious that Mr R has said that hes waiting for 
HMRC to send him another letter about his tax position. Its not clear to me what Mr R thinks 
such a letter will say, or how long it will take HMRC to send such a letter. Im conscious that 
Mr R has had a number of years to get his tax records in order - more than two years have 
gone by since Mr Rs accountant wrote a letter in May 2020 to say that incorrect information 
had been filed with HMRC. So I dont think it would be fair for me to delay making my decision any longer.
For completeness I will also say that Ive considered the letter Mr A sent our investigator in 
August 2022. The Companies House records show that the company that had stamped the 
letter was dissolved a number of years before Mr Rs 2017 mortgage application. Another 
person (not Mr A) is listed on Companies House Records as being the director of that 
company. So the letter doesnt make me think that Mr A was solely responsible for the 
incorrect information in the 2017 mortgage application.
conclusion
I appreciate what Mr R has told us that the impact of the marker on him and his strength of 
feeling about this matter. However, I dont think TSB acted unreasonably in recording an 
entry about him on the CIFAS database. Nor do I think it would be fair and reasonable for 
me to require TSB to remove the markers now.
I recognise that this decision is likely be disappointing for Mr R. But based on what Ive seen, 
it wouldnt be appropriate for me to require TSB to do anything to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2022.
 
Laura Forster
Ombudsman