DRN-3861153
The complaint
Mr O has complained that Secure Trust Bank Plc, trading as Moneyway (Secure Trust) is 
registering incorrect information on his credit record.
What happened
Mr O acquired a used car in August 2019 using a hire purchase agreement with Secure 
Trust. He borrowed just over £13,000 over 56 months, at a monthly cost of £397.34. He kept 
up payments until September 2020, but because of the effects of the covid pandemic  Mr O 
is self-employed, and he lost work - together with his wife becoming ill, his finances suffered. 
From September 2020 to February 2021, Secure Trust allowed a payment holiday on the 
account because of the pandemic.
In January 2021, Mr O contacted Secure Trust to ask about handing the car back under 
voluntary termination of the hire-purchase agreement. In February 2021 he formally 
requested voluntary termination and asked for the car to be collected. The car was sold at 
auction in March 2021. Mr O hadnt by then paid half the amount payable under the 
agreement, so he still owed Secure Trust just over £6,600. Because of Mr Os financial 
situation, Secure Trust agreed that he could pay £63 each month for 6 months, with the 
amount reviewed after that. (Mr O said he made the payments as agreed, and that he is now 
able to pay £130 each month.)
A few months later, Mr O contacted Secure Trust again, saying that he had made the agreed 
payments on time, but it had recorded the payments on his credit file as being missed. 
Secure Trust said it had correctly recorded information on his credit file and that the effect of 
the voluntary termination on his credit history had been explained to hm at the time.
Mr O was unhappy with this  he thought his credit record should show that he was meeting 
the agreed monthly payments. So he brought this complaint to this service.
Our investigator looked into Mr Os complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. Mr O 
disagreed and asked that it be referred to an ombudsman for review.
I issued a provisional decision in November 2022, in which I explained that I was minded to 
uphold Mr Os complaint. Mr O didnt send in any further information in response. Secure 
Trust responded to say that it accepted my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Os complaint. Ill explain why.
I set out my findings in my provisional decision as follows:
Ive carefully considered all of the evidence provided by both parties. Secure Trust sent in 
copies of email exchanges with Mr O, its contact notes, a list of transactions and the hire 
purchase agreement. Mr O sent in a copy of his credit file from one of the main credit 
reference agencies (CRAs) and copies of bank statements showing payments made under 
the arrangement with Secure Trust.
The sequence of events is not in dispute  the central issue here is what information is being 
recorded on Mr Os credit file. I can see from the copy Mr O sent in that from March 2021 
onwards, payments are shown as being six months in arrears.
In summary, Secure Trust said that, following the voluntary termination of the hire purchase 
agreement, Mr O is not making the contractual monthly payment of £397.34 to repay the 
remaining balance, so it is correctly reporting the account as being in arrears. And it said it 
made Mr O aware of the effect on his credit record. But Mr O thought his credit record 
should show that he was meeting the agreed monthly payments.
Ive considered what the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) says about what should 
be reported. The ICO issued a document called Principles for the Reporting of Arrears, 
Arrangements and Defaults at Credit Reference Agencies. I consider it reasonable to rely 
on this, as, when determining a complaint, one of the factors Im required to take into 
account is good industry practice. In my view, these principles constitute good industry 
practice in this area.
Principle three of this document says If you offer or make a reduced payment, how it is 
reported (to the CRAs) will depend on whether it is agreed with the lender.
Under this heading, the document goes on to say:
If, due to financial difficulty, your lender agrees a reduced or revised payment with you, this 
will be reflected on your credit file. How revised or reduced payments are shown on your 
credit file will depend on whether it is a temporary or permanent change to the agreement. 
The account may or may not be in arrears at the time of the change.
Looking at Mr Os situation, he has agreed a monthly payment with Secure Trust because of 
his financial circumstances, and it seems this has increased over time. The information 
provided by Secure Trust shows that the first six months payments were made as agreed, 
and Mr O says he has continued to make payments in line with updated arrangements.
The Principles document states that The record must show that the account is the subject of 
special terms. But theres nothing in the copy of Mr Os credit file to show that this is the 
case. Of course I dont have copies of the information held on Mr O by the other CRAs, but it 
seems likely that Secure Trust is reporting the same information to all of the CRAs.
Secure Trust said that Mr O is not meeting the contractual monthly payments, so it is fair that 
his credit history should reflect that. But as the agreement was voluntarily terminated, the 
contractual monthly payment ceased upon termination. So there isnt a contractual basis for 
Secure Trust to be entitled to the original monthly payment and therefore it isnt accurate for 
it to report that Mr O isnt making the contractual monthly repayments.
However, an amount is still due, and Secure Trust can reasonably record that. Secure Trust 
is required to accurately report Mr Os payment status to the CRAs, and I consider it fair that 
it should report the agreed payments and whether Mr O is keeping to those payments.
I said in my provisional decision that I proposed to uphold Mr Os complaint for the reasons I 
had explained. As Mr O didnt send in any more information, and Secure Trust has accepted my provisional decision, I have no reason to change my conclusions and therefore I uphold 
this complaint.
Putting things right
Secure Trust should report to the Credit Reference Agencies the monthly payments it 
agreed with Mr O from March 2021 and whether he has met those monthly payments.
My final decision
For the reasons stated above I have decided to uphold Mr Os complaint. Secure Trust Bank 
Plc should correct Mr Os credit record as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 January 2023.
 
Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman