DRN-3142709
The complaint
Mr J has complained that Lendable Ltd was irresponsible in lending to him.
What happened
In May 2019 Mr J took out a loan with Lendable for £2,950. He said the loan was to 
consolidate his debts. The loan was taken out over 18 months with an APR of 31.14% and 
his monthly repayments were £201.73 making the total repayable £3,585.59. The loan was 
repaid in October 2020.
Mr J complained that Lendable hadnt properly checked he could afford the loan.
Lendable looked into his complaint and didnt uphold it. It said the checks had been properly 
carried out and it thought the loan was sustainable. Mr J referred his complaint to us. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Js complaint. As Mr J disagreed, the complaint has been 
passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Taking into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, I think the 
overarching questions I need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint are:
Did Lendable complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr J 
would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr J would have been able to do so?
Did Lendable act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required Lendable to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Js ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focussed  so Lendable had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that the business had to 
ensure that making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Mr J undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That means he should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment he had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and 
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on his financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Lendable to simply think about the likelihood of it getting 
its money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr J. Checks also 
had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Js complaint.
Lendable said it had been told by Mr J that he earned £2,265 net a month. It verified that 
using a standard industry tool, which looks to see whether the disclosed income is consistent 
with the turnover of the consumers bank accounts. The check came back showing it was. 
Lendable also carried out a credit search. That showed Mr J owed £10,498 in total spread 
across two unsecured loans, one hire purchase account, two credit cards and the overdraft 
facility on his current account. The search didnt show any recent new credit or defaults. 
However in terms of expenditure I havent seen any evidence which shows Lendable 
gathered information or considered the usual living expenses (other than credit 
commitments) Mr J might have needed to pay with his income of £2,265 a month. By that I 
mean, I cant see any questions were asked, or information gathered, on things like Mr Js 
rent, utility bills or monthly travel costs. Or that Lendable looked to check Mr J would be left 
with sufficient funds after all of his commitments, including this potential loan repayment, for 
any unexpected expenses. So in the absence of this information, I cant see how Lendable 
could have been satisfied Mr J would be able to repay the loan sustainably.
In the light of this I next need to consider whether reasonable and proportionate checks 
would have shown the loan could be repaid sustainably. With this in mind, Ive looked at 
what I think proportionate checks would likely have shown. I appreciate that different checks 
show different things, and proportionate checks might not have extended to Lendable 
looking at bank statements. But, in the absence of anything else, Ive reviewed these to get 
an idea of what Lendable would probably have discovered if it had asked Mr J some 
questions about his expenditure. 
The bank statements for the two months before Mr J took out the loan show he was 
spending just over a tenth of his salary on gambling transactions. However there was no 
indication of him borrowing in order to gamble. Also there were no returned payments and his account was in credit. If Lendable had seen these statements, I dont think they should 
reasonably have alerted it to the risk that Mr J would struggle to repay the loan sustainably 
as he seemed to be managing his finances relatively satisfactorily. So Im not persuaded 
that Lendable acted unfairly in lending to Mr J.
Ive also thought about whether Lendable acted unfairly in some other way and I havent 
seen any evidence that it did.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding Mr Js complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2022.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman