DRN-3556624
The complaint
Ms D complains that Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund money lost when she fell victim to an
investment scam.
What happened
Where the particulars of the complaint are well known to both parties, I wont detail them
again here. Rather, Ill focus on setting out the key reasons for my decision. I hope Ms D and
Lloyds wont take this as a discourtesy; its just a reflection of the informal nature of our
service.
In short, Ms D was convinced into entering into an online investment venture which has
since come to light as a scam. In late 2018/ early 2019, Ms D was under the impression that
this outfit would set up an investment account which she could operate to make a profit on
the financial markets. In the end, Ms D parted with around £23,000 which she ultimately lost.
To facilitate the scam, on each occasion Ms D was persuaded by the scammers to send
what she thought was an investment payment to a legitimate firm in the first instance. These
genuine businesses were used to enable money to leave Ms Ds Lloyds account and then be
directed to accounts controlled by the scammers.
When Ms D realised her money had in fact been stolen, she complained that Lloyds ought to
have done more to protect her. Lloyds disagreed, citing that Ms D had recently lost money to
a separate scam before, and that it could not reasonably be expected to have taken further
measures to keep her account safe.
When Ms D asked our service to consider the matter, our investigator upheld the case. She
concluded that Lloyds shouldve stepped in on account of the payments being unusual. And,
had it done so, the scam probably wouldve been averted. Our investigator also thought that,
considering the role Ms D had to play in her financial loss, she should bear a deduction from
the refund amount on account of contributory negligence.
Lloyds does not agree. It does not accept that it ought to be liable for any of the lost
payments. Because Lloyds is not in agreement, the case has been escalated to me to
decide.
Provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this case on 16 June 2022. I have copied the findings 
section of this decision below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know my proposed decision will be disappointing for Ms D. This is a finely balanced 
case and Id like to assure her that Ive duly considered everything thats been 
provided. But based on the evidence Ive seen so far, Im not persuaded that Lloyds 
ought to refund the contested transactions. Ill explain why.
Its common ground that the disputed payments were authorised by Ms D for the 
purposes of the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs). In summary, Lloyds 
has a responsibility to monitor accounts and payments made to, amongst other 
things, prevent fraud and scams. And the bank needs to have systems in place to 
look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might indicate its consumers are 
at risk of fraud.
So, in the individual circumstances of this case, Ive considered whether Lloyds 
should have deemed these payments as being so unusual or uncharacteristic that it 
ought to have given the bank sufficient grounds for suspecting fraud.
When looking at Ms Ds recent account activity, in particular the twelve months or so 
leading up to the payments in question, I am not persuaded the transactions were 
significantly out of character to the degree that it would be reasonable for Lloyds 
fraud prevention measures to have been triggered. Its evident there were regular 
card payments from Ms Ds account, with comparable transaction values to those 
that she made towards the scam in the early months of 2019. The majority of the 
disputed transactions equate to a thousand pounds or less. These payment values 
are not at all dissimilar to what Ms D would typically spend using this Lloyds account. 
In fact, Ms D frequently had this kind of expenditure.
Even the largest of the disputed transactions, with a value of £10,000, was not 
necessarily remarkable when considered against payments made out of Ms Ds 
account in December 2018  less than six months prior. Indeed, at this point in late 
2018, Ms D paid out £18,000 in one single transaction; amounting to nearly double 
that of the highest solitary transaction amount lost to this scam.
Whats more, this £10,000 payment was also not for a distinctive amount when 
looked at against the backdrop of what Ms D paid in. Ms D tended to replenish the 
account with deposits that covered payments out (as is the nature of a current 
account). Shortly before this largest of the payments in question, Ms D transferred 
£10,000 into her Lloyds account. Therefore, theres a reasonable argument that, from 
Lloyds perspective, this was simply a planned payment which was made possible by 
credits that Ms D had arranged in advance.
I have to bear in mind that, while the PSRs are designed to protect consumers, they 
are also in place to ensure that banks provide services without undue delay. So, 
there is a balance to be struck between bankers identifying payments that could 
potentially be fraudulent, and minimising disruption to legitimate payments. I dont 
consider that any of the payments being challenged here  when considered in the 
context of the previous account movements, both in and out of the account  were 
irregular enough to have attracted suspicion.
In addition to checking what its own internal systems ought to have told Lloyds, Ive 
paid particular attention to the external organisations that publish official warnings 
about merchants that operate in the UK and abroad. Having done so, I dont think the 
bank could have known that the payment was being sent to a scammer. This is 
because the payees on the transaction statements were legitimate  it was only once 
the payments left these genuine intermediaries that Ms Ds money was effectively 
lost.Besides, while banks such as Lloyds do have a duty to protect customers against the 
risk of financial loss as the result of fraud and scams, when simply executing 
authorised payments, they do not have to give investment advice. And ultimately,   
Ms D paid legitimate merchants as part of an investment venture with the intention of 
making a profit (albeit, I recognise this was under the guise of a sophisticated scam 
set up by the fraudsters).
Still, for completeness, I have thought about what an intervention from Lloyds 
wouldve likely uncovered. In situations like these, where evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory, I need to decide a complaint on what I think is more 
likely than not to have happened in light of all the available evidence and the wider 
surrounding circumstances.
Accordingly, I cannot ignore that Ms D had been convinced to enter into a supposed
investment venture before and had been duped into parting with vast sums of her 
money. In many ways, theres a rebuttable presumption that Ms D ought reasonably 
to have foreseen the risk of harm here, having suffered a financial loss at the hands 
of a scam only a matter of months prior. As I understand it, the previous scam she 
fell victim to was of a similar nature to that of this fraudulent outfit.
To that end, I am minded to say that Ms D must have appreciated the risk she was 
taking. Especially, when considering that she had only just managed to claim back 
(through legal proceedings) part of what she had lost before.
Even if I were to give the benefit of any doubt and worked on the basis that Lloyds 
ought to have intervened at some point during this sequence of payments, I could 
only require it to give a refund to Ms D if I was satisfied that the bank stepping in 
wouldve prevented her loss. This is otherwise known as causation. Causation is a 
critical factor in this (and every) case, whether it be fraud being debated or otherwise. 
This established legal principle is usually determined by the but for test  through a 
lens of common sense.
With this in mind, and as a matter of general impression, Ive placed emphasis on the 
fact that Ms D  despite being aware of the risks of investment scams and having 
experienced similar sales tactics before  was happy to send considerable amounts 
of money out of her account once more, with the same goal of achieving a profit on 
her capital. I therefore have to assume that she was utterly persuaded that she was 
safe in paying out these sums and committed to going ahead. Moreover, this notion 
appears to have been reinforced when she received money back from the scammers 
(described to her as dividends on her investment) part way through this series of 
payments.
All of this casts serious doubts on causation. I must follow the evidence and, 
ultimately, Ms D has not persuasively proven her case having been given a fair 
chance to do so. Notwithstanding the argument of whether Lloyds ought to have 
intervened with these payments, even if I were to find that Lloyds ought to have taken 
different/further steps, its not enough that a respondent failed to act fairly or 
reasonably; its wrongful acts or omissions must be the proximate (i.e. dominant and 
effective) cause of losses of a type that were reasonably foreseeable to the 
wrongdoer at the time of the breach. And under these circumstances, I am not 
currently satisfied that this was the case here  Im not convinced Ms Ds loss would 
have been prevented but for Lloyds acting differently.In conclusion, I have a great deal of sympathy with Ms D being the victim of what 
was clearly a cruel scam. But it would only be fair for me to direct Lloyds to refund 
the loss if I thought the bank was responsible  and Im not persuaded of this. 
Everything considered, my proposed conclusion to this case is that I cannot fairly and 
reasonably hold Lloyds liable in these circumstances. It follows that I do not intend to 
necessitate that the bank take any further action, nor reimburse any of Ms Ds 
financial loss.
My provisional decision
For the reasons given above, Im minded not to uphold this complaint.
Responses to the provisional decision
Lloyds accepted my provisional findings and has nothing further to add. 
Ms D does not accept. In summary, she maintains that Lloyds failed in its duties to identify 
the risk of harm from fraud that these disputed transactions exhibited. And had it intervened 
effectively in line with its obligations, the scam wouldve been prevented as Ms D would not 
have proceeded with the payments. In other words, had the bank upheld what it needed to, 
she wouldve heeded the warning and saved her financial loss. 
Moreover, Ms D drew out what she sees as inaccuracies in my provisional decision. Most 
notably, that she didnt make the payments with the intention of them being invested. Rather, 
she used this supposed venture to try and recover money she had previously lost to a 
different scam (one that does not fall part of this complaint).
Now that both parties have responded, the case has been returned to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank Ms D for her submissions following my provisional decision. After careful 
consideration, I remain of the view that Lloyds cannot fairly or reasonably be held liable for 
the financial loss she unfortunately incurred. 
Firstly, I can assure Ms D that much of what she put forward already fell part of my initial 
review. I believe I gave adequate explanation for why I was not persuaded that Lloyds ought 
to have done more when these particular payments were being instructed by Ms D  and I 
stand by my initial judgment. All in all, I cannot safely conclude that Lloyds ought to have 
stepped in on account of unusual or uncharacteristic activity as theres a lack of compelling 
evidence to support that point of view. 
Nevertheless, for completeness, Ill comment directly on a point that Ms D made regarding 
the largest of the debated transactions  that being the £10,000 payment. Ms D seems to 
have correctly cited that the comparable payment I had referenced (the earlier £18,000 
transaction back in late 2018) was a transfer she made from this Lloyds account to another 
held in her name. From this particular part of her submission, I take it that she believes the 
two payments cannot reasonably be compared  one was an international card payment, 
and the other a relocation of money between the same owners accounts. Be that as it may, I still must take into account the relevant law, regulation and what I 
consider to be good practice when reaching my outcome. As I explained in my provisional 
decision, the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs) make it clear that customers are 
liable for payments theyve authorised, rather than the bank. Similarly, the legal starting 
position (as supported by case law that Ms D herself has referenced) is that a bank is 
expected to process payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in 
accordance with the PSRs and the terms and conditions of the customers account. 
As far as I am reasonably aware, nowhere within these obligations does it stipulate that an 
internal transfer diminishes the responsibilities that Lloyds has. Nor, does it state that Lloyds 
ought to ignore payments made between a consumers accounts when constructing a 
pattern of habitual activity to rely upon. 
On the contrary, my interpretation of the relevant legislation  plus various principles of good 
practice  leads me to believe that the overall history of the account, (i.e. all account 
movements) can and should be considered when a bank builds a picture of a consumers 
typical account activity. Its without question that looking at all of the activity on the account 
provides a more informed position for a bank in the context of transaction monitoring. 
Consequently, I am not satisfied that the fact that a previous transfer between Ms Ds own 
accounts makes a material difference to this case. 
Apart from looking at the steps Lloyds ought to have taken, Ive also described the critical 
factor in this case; whether the consequential reaction from Ms D would more likely than not 
have been to refrain from making the payments. I continue to be of the opinion that, on 
balance, Ms D would not have been swayed away from her plan to make these payments  
and Ms D hasnt provided any compelling material in addition to that of what I had already 
considered on this point. 
I therefore will only add that the specific piece of law that Ms D has referred to (the 
Quincecare duty, deriving from the case Barclays Bank plc v Quincecare Ltd (1992) 4 All 
ER 363) doesnt automatically extend to a duty on banks to protect customers from the 
consequences of their own actions (as confirmed by more recent, accepted case law). 
As a final point, I also have to bear in mind that Ms D has altered her version of things since 
bringing the matter to our service. Initially, Ms D made it clear (including within her complaint 
form submission) that she opted to trade investment capital using what she believed was 
some sort of account  that was her aspiration when deciding to go ahead with these 
payments. This is corroborated by the variety of different pieces of information she brought 
forward when presenting her case, such as screen shots of this account in action. 
Yet, subsequent to my provisional decision, Ms D instead put forward that these payments 
were only made in an attempt to recover money from a previous scam. So, there was no aim 
to make a profit  only to employ a company to recuperate money already lost. Indeed, Ms D 
presented that she was unaware of the very existence of this so-called trading wallet. 
Naturally, the preceding evidence conflicts with this claim and demonstrates that Ms D hasnt 
been entirely consistent with what happened.  
As well as this, there are other parts to Ms Ds recollections that appear at odds with the 
factual evidence. For example, after my provisional decision, Ms D unequivocally stated that 
at no point did she receive a return on the recovery service she thought she was paying for. 
Meanwhile, her account statements demonstrate that she received two payments amounting 
to around £1,800 back from what shes previously portrayed as the same outfit that stole her 
money. As a matter of fact, the second of these credits came a week or so after she had 
already raised the disputed payments with Lloyds. All things considered, for me to accept Ms Ds side of things and uphold the complaint, I 
would need to place considerable evidential weight on her testimony. But in fairness, her 
statement is slightly vague and self-contradictory regarding what are critical elements to a 
case of this kind. I therefore cannot safely conclude that an intervention from Lloyds (even if 
one was warranted) wouldve made a material difference here.
This is not, however, the same as dismissing Ms Ds statement  and I hope Ms D can 
appreciate that it would not be reasonable, nor fair of me to uphold this complaint based 
solely on her testimony if on balance the evidence suggests otherwise.
My final decision
For the reasons given above and before, my final decision is that I do not uphold this 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2022.
 
Matthew Belcher
Ombudsman