DRN-3493809
The complaint
Mr B and Mrs S have complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold them 
several packaged bank accounts over several years.
Barclays charged Mr B and Mrs S monthly fees for the packaged accounts and provided
several potential benefits in return. Mr B and Mrs S think that Barclays should refund them
the fees they paid and add interest. 
What happened
Mr B and Mrs S have been customers of Barclays for a long time. Barclays has looked at its 
records for them and has told us that: 
in 1985, they opened a fee-free account,
in May 1996, it sold them an Additions packaged account, which replaced their fee-
free account and for which it charged a fee,
in July 2004, it sold them an Additions Plus packaged account, which replaced their 
Additions account and for which it charged a higher fee,
in January 2017, it switched them to a fee-free account, but added two packages of 
additional benefits called a Tech Pack and a Travel Pack, for which it charged fees, 
in March 2018, they cancelled the Travel Pack,
in May 2019, it sold them another Travel Pack,
in October 2020, they cancelled the Travel Pack again. 
I think Barclays records are probably reliable and I have taken this account history to be 
accurate. 
One of our adjudicators has already looked into Mr B and Mrs Ss complaint and didnt think 
that Barclays had mis-sold them either of the packaged accounts or the Travel and Tech 
Packs. Mr B and Mrs S didnt agree with the adjudicators findings and asked for an 
ombudsman to review their case. So, it has come to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website,
and Ive used this approach to help me to decide what to do about Mr B and Mrs Ss case.
Ive looked into everything that Mr B and Mrs S and Barclays have told us or sent us about
the complaint, and Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
Although Mr B and Mrs Ss account history involved several changes, they have only made 
one main complaint point. They have told us that Barclays didnt tell them about the benefits 
the accounts provided and so they never made full use of them. Theyve explained that this 
particularly applied to some of the early changes and that later on their friends told them 
about the benefits. In essence, theyve said that Barclays didnt make them aware of all the 
benefits, and that they only took (the accounts) out for the extra fee-free overdraft and 
possible better mortgage. 
Barclays could have sold the Additions and Additions Plus accounts to Mr B and Mrs S in 
either of two ways. It could have done so without giving personal advice on an information-
only (or non-advised) basis. Or, it could have done so as an advised (or recommended) sale. 
Whichever approach it used for Mr B and Mrs S, I would have expected it to give them a 
choice and to tell them clearly and fairly about the costs and benefits of the accounts. And in 
an advised sale, I would also have expected it to check that they had a potential need for the 
benefits which the accounts could provide. 
Barclays has told us that for both the Additions and Additions Plus accounts, it acted on an 
information-only basis. This has been its usual practice for quite some time and I havent 
seen sufficiently compelling evidence for me to think it changed its procedures for Mr B and 
Mrs S. So, I have considered these parts of their complaint to be about information-only 
sales. 
Despite the similarity of Mr B and Mrs Ss complaint across these two accounts, as there 
were several years between the relevant sales, I have considered them separately. 
The situation and circumstances for the Tech and Travel Packs were significantly different, 
so I have also considered them separately. 
The way Barclays sold the Additions account to Mr B and Mrs S (May 1996)
As 1996 was such a long time ago, there is very little first-hand evidence about what 
happened. However, by then, Mr B and Mrs S had held a fee-free account for many years, 
so they obviously knew such accounts existed. And I havent seen anything to make me 
think that Barclays said they couldnt keep that account, so Im satisfied that it allowed them 
a choice 
At that time, one of the main benefits of the Additions account was that Barclays usually 
charged customers with such accounts lower fees and interest for overdrafts than it applied 
to customers with fee-free accounts. In some cases, depending on how people used their 
account, they could save more in overdraft charges than they paid in monthly fees. Given Mr 
B and Mrs Ss comments about needing an overdraft, I think they probably bought the 
account because of this potential benefit. 
At that time, the other potential benefits included use of a Will-writing service and a legal 
helpline and purchase protection insurance for some products bought through the account. 
Both Mr B and Mrs S and Barclays have told us that Barclays sold them the Additions 
account during a meeting at one of its branches. It seems highly likely to me that Barclays 
would have told them about these other benefits during the meeting. After all, it was trying to 
sell them the Additions account and it was in its own interest to tell them what they could 
gain by buying it. I accept that Mr B and Mrs S may not have used these other benefits, but 
that doesnt mean that Barclays did anything wrong.The account did not offer better mortgages than Barclays fee-free accounts. This type of 
benefit has not been a significant feature of the Additions (or Additions Plus) account, 
although it has been a benefit of some other packaged accounts on the market at various 
times. I doubt Barclays would have said otherwise as it had no reason to do so. 
Im also satisfied that Barclays told Mr B and Mrs S about the fees for the Additions account 
as I dont think it would have been credible for it to present the benefits as free of charge. I 
dont think Barclays mis-sold the Additions account to Mr B and Mrs S. 
From time-to-time Barclays changed the benefits of the Additions account quite a bit. I find it 
extremely likely that Barclays informed Mr B and Mrs S about these changes, particularly 
when it added new benefits. For example, in 2002, it added use of a car breakdown service 
to the benefits and I have seen an example leaflet it sent to its customers at the time. The 
leaflet pointed out that the car breakdown service was new and said, Additions has teamed 
up with (organisation name) to ensure that your vehicle is covered for roadside 
emergencies..... I fully accept that Mr B and Mrs S may not remember this leaflet, or any 
similar communication Barclays may have sent, but I dont think Barclays failed to make 
them aware of the benefits of the Additions account. 
The way Barclays sold the Additions Plus account to Mr B and Mrs S (July 2004)
Again, both parties have told us that Barclays sold this account to Mr B and Mrs S during a 
meeting in one of its branches. And for similar reason as for the Additions account, Im 
satisfied that it gave them a choice. 
In July 2004, the Additions Plus account provided many of the same benefits as the 
Additions account and also offered travel insurance and a more comprehensive car 
breakdown service. Again, I think its highly likely that Barclays told Mr B and Mrs S about 
these benefits during the meeting. I understand that they drove and travelled abroad from 
time-to-time, so I can see why they may have found the account potentially attractive. 
I understand that Mr B and Mrs S may have medical conditions which could have limited 
some aspects of the cover available to him from the travel insurance. But in an information-
only sale, providing Barclays told Mr B and Mrs S about any such limits, this was something 
for them to consider for themselves. I have seen a copy of a brochure about the Additions 
Plus account called a Welcome Pack which Barclays probably gave to Mr B and Mrs S at 
the time and discussed during the meeting. In a section about the travel insurance the 
brochure said that people with a medical condition must declare it to a helpline before 
travel. So, I think Barclays probably met its obligation to Mr B and Mrs S to tell them about 
possible limits on the travel insurance.
For similar reasons as with the Additions account, Im satisfied that Barclays probably told 
them about the monthly fees. So, I dont think Barclays mis-sold the Additions Plus account 
to Mr B and Mrs S. 
The way Barclays switched Mr B and Mrs S to a fee-free account but added Tech and Travel 
Packs (January 2017)
This change took place in a significantly different way to how Barclays sold Mr B and Mrs S 
the Additions or Additions Plus accounts.
During the period from 2015 to 2017, Barclays took a commercial decision to change the 
range of current accounts it offered. As a result, it withdrew the Additions Plus account from 
its customers. It was allowed to make this change, but I would have expected it to treat its customers fairly by giving them notice, telling them what it was planning and providing them 
with reasonable choices. 
Barclays has said it did this for Mr B and Mrs S. To support its case, it has sent us copies of 
two letters it says it sent to them during late 2016 and early 2017.
The first letter told Mr B and Mrs S that Barclays intended to switch them to a Barclays Bank 
Account with added Tech Pack and Travel Pack. It told them how much the two packs would 
cost and what benefits  they would provide. It explained that it was planning to add these 
packs as they would provide similar benefits to the Additions Plus account. It included a 
comparison of these benefits. It described how Mr B and Mrs S could opt out of the packs 
either by visiting one of Barclays branches or by calling a particular phone number.
Barclays says it sent the second letter to Mr B and Mrs S around three months after the first. 
This letter told Mr B and Mrs S that Barclays had changed their account and that it would 
start to charge them the new fees. It also told them they could remove the packs from their 
account at any time and so have a fee-free account.
Im satisfied that Barclays sent these letters to Mr B and Mrs S and so it seems to me that it 
treated them fairly when it switched them to a fee-free account but added Tech and Travel 
Packs. 
The way Barclays sold the Travel Pack to Mr B and Mrs S (May 2019)
Mr B and Mrs S have said very little about how Barclays came to sell them the Travel Pack 
in May 2019. However, Barclays has described what it did in some detail. It has told us that it 
sold the pack over the phone and advised Mr B and Mrs S to buy it. Im satisfied that this 
was approach it used and that it gave Mr B and Mrs S a choice, told them about the benefits 
(and relevant limitations) and told them about the monthly fee. 
At that time, the benefits of the Travel Pack included worldwide travel insurance and use of a 
car breakdown service. From what I understand about Mr B and Mrs Ss circumstances, I 
think these benefits may well have been of potential use to them. So, I think it was 
reasonable for Barclays to advise them to buy the Travel Pack. I dont think there was mis-
selling. 
My final decision 
For the reasons I have set out above, I am not upholding Mr B and Mrs Ss complaint about
Barclays Bank UK PLC. I am not going to tell it to give them any money back
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 July 2022.  
Steve Townsley
Ombudsman