DRN-2920237
The complaint
Mr H complained that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him payment protection insurance (PPI)
when he took out a personal loan in 1997. 
To be clear, Mr H took out quite a few similar loans with PPI attached to them around the 
time period in question. Lloyds upheld some complaints and not others. This decision is 
about the loan number 3004, a loan of £700 with a single premium PPI policy at the of 
£134.26.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision (summary attached) about this case in June 2021, setting out 
why I thought the complaint should be upheld.  And I asked both parties to provide any 
further submissions or information to me within one month. The provisional decision should 
be read in conjunction with this  which is now my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It seems neither of the parties wants to send in any new information or arguments. So 
theres no reason for me to change the findings I set out previously. Im upholding this 
complaint for the reasons Ive comprehensively explained in the provisional decision.
Putting things right
Mr H borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, so his loan was bigger than it should have been and
he accordingly paid more each month. So, he will need to get back the extra he paid. Lloyds
should:
Work out and pay Mr H the difference between what he paid each month on the loan 
and what he would have paid each month without PPI.
Add simple interest to the extra amount Mr H paid each month from when he paid it 
until he gets it back. The rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr H made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Lloyds can take off what he got 
for the claim from the amount it owes.
If Mr H repaid the loan and PPI early. Lloyds can subtract any refund he received for 
the early cancellation of the policy from the money it owes him.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds to take off tax from this interest. Lloyds must give Mr H a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
  
My final decision
I uphold Mr Hs complaint and require Lloyds Bank PLC to pay the compensation as outlined 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2021.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman