DRN-3828743
The complaint
A charity, which Ill refer to as W, complains about HSBC UK Bank Plc closing its accounts.
Mr P, a trustee of W, brings the complaint on W's behalf. 
W has been represented in bringing its complaint, but I refer to all comments and 
submissions received from Ws representative as being from W.
What happened
W banked with HSBC. In a letter dated 19 October 2021, HSBC notified W of its intention to 
close Ws accounts. It said this would happen on 4 January 2022. However, W says it didnt 
receive this letter until some considerable time after 19 October.
W says that, when it did become aware of HSBCs intention, it tried to establish alternative 
banking arrangements but, as the deadline approached, it hadnt managed to get alternative 
accounts in place. Therefore, on 4 January 2022, it phoned HSBC to ask for the account 
closures to be delayed. W says that HSBC told it that the accounts were not being closed 
but put under review. However, on 10 January 2022, HSBC wrote to W to say that it had 
closed Ws accounts. 
W complained. It said that HSBCs actions had caused it considerable inconvenience, cost 
and reputational damage. It said that most of its income came by direct debit from donors, 
which had been lost, and some of its donors had complained. W also said that it had 
struggled to open an account with another bank, which it put down to HSBCs actions.
HSBC said that it had done nothing wrong. It said that, according to the terms and conditions 
of Ws accounts, it was permitted to close Ws accounts with two months notice, which it had 
done. It said it was not obliged to share its reasons. 
Not content with this response, W brought its complaint to our service. Our investigator 
looked into what had happened and found that HSBC was entitled to close Ws accounts 
and had given W sufficient notice. Therefore, she said that HSBC hadnt done anything 
wrong.
W didnt agree so asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge the inconvenience HSBCs actions will have caused W but, just as W was 
free to stop banking with HSBC, so HSBC was free to stop providing banking services to W. 
This is a commercial decision which HSBC was free to take  subject to ending that 
relationship in a reasonable way and in line with the terms and conditions of the accounts. 
Ive checked the terms and conditions of Ws accounts with HSBC and noted that they say: 
We may close an account or withdraw any service by giving you at least two months 
notice. As this is a commercial decision for HSBC, no explanation is required.
Ive therefore considered whether HSBC provided W with sufficient notice of its intention to 
close Ws accounts.
HSBCs first letter to notify W of its intention to close Ws accounts was dated 19 October 
2021. However, W says that it didnt receive this letter until some considerable time later, 
which gave it less than two months in which to make other banking arrangements. Ive 
checked the address to which this letter was sent and confirmed that it was sent to Ws 
registered address, which is also the address W provided to us. While I dont dispute that 
there was a delay in W receiving this letter, possibly due to postal delays in the context of 
the Covid pandemic, I cannot hold the bank responsible for this. From the letter and its 
internal notes, Im satisfied that on 19 October 2021 HSBC issued notice to close Ws 
accounts. Moreover, while I appreciate that W may have found it difficult to open accounts 
elsewhere, I believe two months was a reasonable period for HSBC to provide W to make 
alternative arrangements.
W has said that, in a call on 4 January 2022, it was assured by HSBC that it was not closing 
Ws accounts and that the accounts were only under review. So I asked HSBC for a 
recording of this call. HSBC identified an inbound call which W made to HSBC on this day, 
late in the afternoon. The call started with HSBCs general business banking team and was 
then put through to someone who could explain what was happening with the review of Ws 
accounts. I have listened to both parts of this call. In the first part, W expressed its 
frustrations at HSBCs actions and sought to speak to someone about HSBCs plans to close 
its accounts. It also raised a complaint about HSBCs actions. In the second part of the call, 
HSBC said:
The review of Ws account was still open
There were no current blocks on Ws account and the account had not been closed
The date for closing Ws account had been moved back as they needed more time
The team would be in contact with W if there is anything else they needed from W
There was nothing else W needed to provide at that time
It is apparent that this call resulted in some misunderstanding. W took from the call that the 
review of its accounts was still ongoing, and HSBC would be in contact again before its 
accounts were closed. However, I do not believe that is quite what HSBC said. Rather, 
HSBC said that its review hadnt yet completed and it would be in contact again if it required 
any further information from W. It provided assurance to W that Ws accounts were still 
operational at that time and had not been closed, but it did not say that there would be 
further communication before it took such action. 
I think this misunderstanding was unfortunate, and it would have been helpful if HSBC had 
been clearer in saying that it still intended to close Ws accounts but had not yet done so. 
However, I do not believe HSBC provided any inaccurate information, and therefore I dont 
think I can say that it did anything wrong.
Overall, while I have sympathy for the situation in which W found itself, having lost income, 
incurred additional costs and suffered some significant inconvenience from being without 
suitable banking arrangements, I do not think I can say that HSBC did anything wrong. 
HSBC acted within its rights to close Ws accounts, and I have found that the way in which it 
undertook this action was reasonable.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask W to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2023.
 
Andy Wright
Ombudsman