DRN-3783154
The complaint
Mr C complains about how Admiral Insurance Company Limited handled his claim on his car 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr C had car insurance with Admiral. In March 2022 he had an accident in a basement 
carpark and made a claim. When he made the claim he told Admiral that there was CCTV 
available of him driving around the time of the accident.
However Admiral didnt request the CCTV until around three months after the claim, and at 
this stage were unable to obtain it. Admiral were also unable to obtain an admission of 
liability from the third party which meant it couldnt conclude the claim was a non-fault claim. 
This left Mr C having to either pay for the repairs himself or risk losing his no claims bonus 
and paying a high excess. 
Mr C was unhappy with this. He said that if the CCTV had been requested when hed made 
the claim, then Admiral would have been able to prove liability and register a non-fault claim. 
He said because it didnt, he was now having to take further action against the third party 
and potentially pay for the repairs to his vehicle himself. 
Admiral upheld his complaint and agreed that the CCTV should have bee requested at an 
earlier stage. It offered £80 compensation to make up for this. However it said theres no 
guarantee that if it had requested the CCTV that it would have proven liability of the claim so 
it didnt offer anything further. 
Mr C didnt think this was enough to make up for the error and brought his complaint to this 
service.
Our investigator considered the issues but didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She 
thought £80 was enough to make up for the error Admiral had made by not requesting the 
CCTV earlier. Mr C didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is no dispute here that Admiral got something wrong. Mr C told it about the CCTV 
when he first made the claim, and Admiral should have requested this at this time. Its 
accepted this was an error and offered £80 compensation. I need to decide if this is enough 
to put things right in the circumstances.
When considering the level of compensation that a business should award, I have to 
consider the impact its actions have had on its customer. Here Mr C says that because of 
the error he has been unable to prove that the third party was liable for the accident. And if 
Admiral had requested it sooner, he says he would have been able to prove this and 
proceed with a claim without jeopardising his no claims bonus. 
Ive considered this and I dont agree this is the case. If Admiral had requested the CCTV, as 
it should have, there is no guarantee it would have been able to obtain it. And if it had been 
able to obtain it there is no guarantee that it would show that Mr C wasnt liable for the 
accident. From the call notes Admiral has provided I can see that when Mr C made the claim 
and informed Admiral about the CCTV, he said that the CCTV wouldnt show the accident 
but would show that he was driving on the correct side of the road before it happened. From 
this, it seems unlikely that even if Admiral had been able to obtain the CCTV it would have 
any impact on the proof of liability for the claim, as it wouldnt have shown the accident itself. 
But even if the CCTV did show the accident, it still cant be guaranteed that this would prove 
liability. Wed only ask a business to pay compensation to make up for something that would 
have happened had it not been for its error. And here there isnt enough evidence to say the 
liability would be proven if the CCTV had been requested. So I dont think it would be fair to 
ask Admiral to pay the claim related costs just because of this error.
However I agree it would have been distressing for Mr C to find out that Admiral had taken 
so long to request the CCTV and that as a result it was unable to obtain it. And Mr C has had 
to ask it to request the CCTV a number of times which would have been inconvenient. £80 
compensation is in line with what I would have directed Admiral to pay Mr C if it hadnt 
offered any compensation. So I think thats enough to apologise for the distress and 
inconvenience it has caused. For that reason I conclude Admiral has done enough to put 
things right following its error, so I wont ask it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint..
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2022.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman