DRN-4174877
The complaint
G complains Covea Insurance plc unreasonably declined its claim under its commercial 
property insurance policy.
Where I refer to Covea, I include their claims handlers.
What happened
In around March 2021 G took out commercial property insurance with Covea for a property 
they let.
In late 2021, G made a claim for accidental damage allegedly caused by contractors 
engaged by Gs tenants who had since moved out of the property. Covea said the damage 
hadnt been caused accidentally but considered whether other parts of the policy might 
apply. They said since nothing belonging to G had been removed, there was no cover under 
the theft section of the policy and a policy exclusion applied in any event. And they said the 
damage, allegedly caused by the tenants contractors, hadnt been caused by malicious 
persons so there was no cover under that part of the policy either.
G disputed Coveas conclusion and complained. Covea didnt uphold the complaint, so G 
brought it to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Our investigator didnt think Covea had 
declined the claim unreasonably based on the evidence G had provided at that time. So, he 
didnt uphold the complaint and it was closed.
G submitted further evidence in support of their claim. Covea failed to respond, and we 
considered a new complaint. Our investigator thought the reports G had provided suggested 
the damage had been caused maliciously. And he said Covea should consider the claim on 
that basis subject to the other terms and conditions of the policy.
Covea apologised for the delay in considering the new evidence and responding to Gs 
concerns. But they didnt change their minds about declining the complaint. Our investigator 
felt Covea had declined the claim for cover under the Malicious Persons cover 
unreasonably given the new evidence G had submitted. Covea disagreed. And they said 
they could decline the claim anyway since G had failed to report the damage to the police 
immediately, which was in breach of the policy conditions.
Our investigator didnt think it was fair for Covea to rely on that condition to reject the claim 
unless they could show theyd previously requested evidence of G reporting the incident to 
the police. G subsequently provided evidence they had notified the police at the time.
Since Covea didnt agree with our investigators view, and the dispute hadnt been resolved, 
Gs complaint was passed to me to decide. I recently issued a provisional decision, an 
extract of which follows:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We expect insurers to consider claims fairly and promptly and not to decline claims 
unreasonably. Ive considered Gs complaint against that background. The starting point is 
the terms and conditions of the policy.
G had all risks cover with Covea that included property damage caused by, amongst other 
things, malicious persons.
Under section 1 Property Damage the policy said:
We will indemnify You in respect of Damage to the Property Insured occurring 
during the Period of Insurance at the Premises and caused by each of The Perils 
insured as they appear in the Schedule subject to the terms exclusions and 
conditions of the policy. 
The Perils included damage caused by:
6. Malicious Persons or vandals not acting on behalf of or in connection with any 
political organisation excluding Damage
(a) resulting from cessation of work or due to confiscation requisition or destruction 
by order of the government or any public authority
(b) caused by Theft
(c) when the Premises are Vacant or Unoccupied 
(d) caused by a tenant their family or guests occupying the Building or portion of 
any Building for residential purposes.
In declining the claim Covea have said, in summary:
malicious damage is normally understood to happen when someone wants to cause 
harm or act in a threatening way;
there was no evidence of that in the available images - they suggested works were 
going on to alter or rectify the property ready for the end of the tenancy;
they disagreed with the findings in the reports submitted by G that damage had been 
caused maliciously - the damage was either faulty workmanship or negligence on the 
part of the tenants contractors, neither of which was covered under the policy; and 
if the damage had been caused in the way the reports described, G should have 
reported it to the police in line with the policy conditions.
The policy doesnt define malicious damage. Generally, we consider damage to be malicious 
if the person causing damage intended to do harm. Ive considered the available evidence 
with that in mind.
1. Loss adjusters report October 2021
This was prepared shortly after the damage was discovered at the end of September 2021.It 
describes the condition of the property as poor and refers to extensive wear and tear. It 
notes wall and floor coverings had been removed and electrical fittings had been cut out 
rather than safely removed. And it refers to damaged joists, which had affected the structural integrity of the floor above. It concluded the damage was neither accidental nor deliberate. It 
said it couldnt be malicious damage since the contractors had been engaged by the tenant. 
And it said there was no evidence of theft. So, the policy didnt respond.
2. Gs expert report November 2021
I understand this report was prepared by an experienced senior surveyor employed by a firm 
that is independent of G, although Im not aware of the surveyors qualifications.
The report sets out examples of damage - including holes punched into cladding causing 
water ingress and cutting out of electrical cables from cable runs inside the floor  which it 
concludes could only have been caused with malicious intent.
3. Gs expert report June 2022
I understand this report was prepared by the contractor working on repairs to the property 
appointed by G in December 2021.
It mentions similar damage to the November 2021 report. And it concludes the damage was 
malicious damage with no care.
From what theyve said, Im satisfied Covea considered all the available evidence in coming 
to their decision on cover.
The November 2021 report is perhaps the only report that is independent given the 
commercial connections between Covea and the loss adjusters on the one hand and G and 
its contractors on the other. It might be appropriate to put more weight on it because of that. I 
note the report concludes the examples of damage it mentions could only have been caused 
deliberately. But its reasonable to think there could be an alternative explanation  
carelessness  given the other reports and the overall circumstances.
The loss adjusters thought the damage was caused through carelessness. Despite using the 
word malicious, the June 2022 report effectively said that too. Theres no other evidence 
Im aware of that the contractors or Gs tenants intended to cause damage and what their 
motivation might have been. Theres no clear information about the full extent of the 
damage. And G originally claimed for accidental damage.
The onus is on G to provide evidence to support its claim. In my view, the weight of evidence 
currently supports the view damage was more likely the result of carelessness rather than 
caused on purpose. And, without more, I think the decision Covea came to was fair. In the 
circumstances, I dont intend to interfere with it.
For completeness, Ive considered whether it would have been reasonable for Covea to rely 
on the policy condition about notifying the police if the policy responded to Gs claim.
The policy claims conditions set out under the heading 1. Actions by You:
It is a condition precedent to Our liability that You shall on the happening of any 
incident which could result in a claim under this policy (c) give immediate 
notification to the police in respect of Damage caused by malicious persons theft or 
vandalism.
G recalls reporting the damage to the police at the time of the incident. Theyve provided 
evidence which supports the incident was reported, including a crime reference number. The 
loss adjusters report, prepared following an inspection of the property a couple of weeks after G notified Covea of the claim, notes the incident hadnt been reported to the police at 
the time. So, its possible there was a delay. That would fit with G originally claiming for 
accidental damage, and its later decision to pursue a claim for malicious damage instead. 
Whatever the position, I think it would be unfair for Covea to rely on a breach of the 
condition, if one existed, at this late stage. They ought reasonably to have set out in full their 
reasons for declining the claim at the outset to give G the chance to address them and take 
action.
Covea explained their delay in considering the reports G submitted following its first 
complaint was due to an oversight. Id expect Covea to have considered the new evidence 
more promptly. But even if they had, they would still not have accepted the claim and G 
would have complained about that. Coveas consideration of the reports and response to this 
complaint have effectively happened at the same time. So, there hasnt been a substantive 
delay or impact on G. In the circumstances, I think Coveas apology is enough to put things 
right.
Bearing everything in mind, I dont intend to uphold Gs complaint.
Developments
G hasnt commented on my provisional decision. Covea felt Id considered all the points 
fairly and were happy with my outcome.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Since neither party has made any substantive comments on my provisional decision that I 
need to consider, I see no reason to change my outcome. For the reasons I set out in my 
provisional decision, I dont uphold Gs complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2023.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman