DRN-2805848
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited declined a claim under his home 
insurance policy for accidental damage to an electric fire. 
What happened
Mr L says he contacted Admiral to see whether he was covered as his electric fire had 
stopped working. He says he was told in order to claim hed only need to provide an invoice 
for the replacement or repair.
Mr L had the heater unit in the fire replaced and sent the invoice to Admiral. It said his policy 
didnt cover items that had failed due to mechanical or electrical breakdown. It also said 
there was no evidence that the heater unit had failed as a result of a one-off insurable event.
Mr L wasnt happy that his claim had been declined. He also complained that hed originally 
been led to believe his claim would be covered. Admiral didnt change its decision about the 
claim. With regard to the misleading information hed been given, it asked him for details of 
the date of his call and the number hed rung. It apologised for the delay in responding to 
him and offered him £50 compensation for that.
Mr L brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold it. He thought 
Admiral had treated Mr L fairly in declining the claim and had made a fair offer of 
compensation for the way it had handled the claim. 
As Mr L didnt agree, the matter has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As part of his home insurance policy Mr L has home emergency cover and cover for 
accidental damage to contents. Home emergency cover is provided by a different insurer. So 
as part of this complaint I cant look at whether Mr Ls claim should have been covered under 
that part of the policy. The policy also gives different telephone numbers for home 
emergency claims. So I cant be sure that Mr L spoke to anyone from Admiral when he first 
enquired about cover. Without any evidence that Admiral led him to believe his claim would 
be covered, Im unable to uphold this part of the complaint.
So far as Mr Ls accidental damage cover is concerned, there are three exclusions that are 
relevant. There are general exclusions in the policy for loss or damage caused by 
mechanical breakdown. Theres also an exclusion for:
Any loss or damage caused by faulty design, plan, specification, materials or 
workmanship..
Theres a specific exclusion to accidental damage cover for contents for loss or damage due 
to electronic or electrical breakdown.
The invoice that Mr L had from his repairer said:
Heater unit replaced, default part no signs of wear or tear.
This suggests to me that the heater unit part was either faulty or had suffered mechanical or 
electrical breakdown. In any event one of the above exclusions applies. So I dont think 
Admiral treated Mr L unfairly in declining his claim.
Mr L says if hed known this, he would have asked his repairer to investigate the fault rather 
than repair it. I dont doubt that this is the case. But in view of the above exclusions I think it 
very unlikely that his claim would have been covered and so Im not persuaded hes been 
prejudiced by this.
I can see that it would have been frustrating for Mr L that he didnt get the same advice from 
everyone he spoke to and was referred to different departments. But I can also see that 
Admiral declined his claim promptly. In the circumstances I think the compensation of £50 
offered by Admiral for its poor service is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2021.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman