DRN-1641294
The complaint
 Mr A complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC rejected his claim under Section 75 Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 in respect of repairs to his car.
What happened
 In early May Mr A took his car for a service and MOT to a main dealer I will call L. The car 
failed its MOT. The car was taken back and was kept for several days while L replaced the 
pre catalytic converter lambda sensor carried out a reset and did work on the exhaust and 
brakes. The car passed its MOT on 14 May. The total cost of the work was £1,264.18. of 
which £231.98 was for the sensor. Mr A paid £1,100 of this cost using his credit card.
Shortly after this an engine management engine light came on and the car was taken back 
to L which diagnosed the fault as being due to a Vanos sensor and it provided an estimate 
for the work of £1,473.25. This sum included an engine oil service and exhaust adjustment. 
Mr A took the car to another garage I will call B for a second garage for a second opinion. B 
identified the faults as being due to both the exhaust, the Vanos sensor and the oxygen 
sensor. The diagnostic cost £40.80.
Mr A made a claim under section 75 for Barclays didnt consider the claim to be valid but 
paid £30 compensation for any distress he may have suffered as a result of a poorly handled 
phone call. Mr A brought his complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators. It was unclear whether the sensor which was mentioned in Bs diagnostic was 
the one repaired by L, but after Mr A provided evidence to show that they were the same our 
investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She suggested Barclays pay for the 
cost of the work done on the sensor by L of £193.32.
Mr A didnt agree. He said the sum offered didnt include VAT. Out investigator agreed that 
this should be added. He also said he had to get a second opinion and no costs had been 
awarded. He said that L had not exhibited reasonable care and skills in a number of areas 
including giving a wrong quote, ordering the wrong part and getting the diagnosis wrong.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have every sympathy with Mr A, but while I consider I should uphold his compliant, I dont 
believe I can award him the sum he is seeking. I will explain why. 
This complaint has been submitted as a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974. Section 75 offers protection to customers who use certain types of credit to make 
purchases of goods or services. Under section 75 the consumer has an equal right to claim 
against the provider of the credit or the retailer providing the goods or services, if there has 
been a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the suppliers part.
For section 75 to apply, the law effectively says that there has to be a:
Debtor-creditor-supplier chain to an agreement and
A clear breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier in the chain.
Mr A paid for the work done by L in mid-May as detailed in the invoice dated 14 May. 
Barclays liability is limited to the work done in mid-May. It is not responsible for the wider 
service issues raised by Mr A such as the short delay due to the wrong part being ordered or 
an incorrect quote being given. It is liable for any breach of the contract between Mr A and L. 
In short, the contract was to carry out the relevant repairs in a competent manner.  
As Mr A has pointed out the other issues with the brakes are not part of his complaint. 
However, he has suggested that Barclays pay him £2,118.23 Which I presume is the 14 May 
invoice plus the later quote less the cost relating to the brakes. Subsequently he has 
suggested he should be awarded consequential costs, though he has not set out what he is 
seeking.
It is not clear precisely what happened with the first repair, but it seems not to have 
remedied the problem. The subsequent quote suggests that more major repairs would be 
required to remedy the problem. As the work done on the sensor didnt fix the problem then I 
agree with our investigator that the cost be refunded. I have seen nothing to say that the 
initial work caused any damage or that the cost of the further work done to fix the faults was 
increased as a result. 
It would seem that there was more fundamental problem which was more expensive to fix 
and had this been diagnosed initially Mr A would have had to pay this sum. As such, I do not 
see why Barclays can be held responsible for a cost that Mr A would have had to incur 
regardless of what L did in its repair in May.
I note the car has passed its MOT in 2020 and I assume Mr A had the necessary work done 
prior to this. He has not told this service what work was carried out or by whom. However, I 
dont consider Barclays can be held liable for those costs. As far as consequential costs are 
concerned the only sum Mr A has evidenced is the diagnostic from B at £40.80. I consider it 
fair that this be covered by Barclays.  I do not believe it need pay any more.
Putting things right
 Barclays should cover the costs of the failed repair and the diagnostic.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay the 
cost of the failed repairs of £231.98 and £40.80 for the diagnostic. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman