DRN-3894366
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain through their representative that Lloyds Bank PLC trading as 
Scottish Widows Bank did not give them the full offset of their mortgage interest and 
restricted it to one part of the mortgage only. Mr and Mrs D say that as result they paid 
£10,000 more in interest than they should have. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs D took a mortgage out with Scottish Widows which was arranged through a 
broker. The mortgage was to be an offset mortgage and Mr and Mrs D through their broker 
submitted an application for that based on borrowing of about £1,200,000. The assumed 
valuation of the property was £2,000,000 but in August the property was down valued to 
£1,600,000. The application was submitted on the basis that the mortgage was to be 
interest-only together with an application for the offset be applied to the interest on that.  But 
after the down valuation in August, Scottish Widows required that only part of the mortgage 
was to be interest-only, for about £800,000, and the other part, for about £400,000 was on a 
capital and interest repayment basis. This was agreed in an email exchange between 
Scottish Widows and the broker and reflected in the mortgage offer dated 24 August 2020 
and that was acceptable to Mr and Mrs D. The funds for the mortgage were released on 15 
September 2020.  
But because the mortgage was composed of two parts, although the same rate of interest 
applied to both parts, Scottish Widows policy was to only apply the offset to one part. In the 
product brochure entitled A Guide to Offsetting at page 5 there is a Q&A section which 
contains a question relevant to this:
Q. If my mortgage is made up of more than one rate or repayment method, can I offset 
against my total mortgage balance?
A. No. You can only offset against one rate/repayment method  at application stage youll 
need to choose which one.  
Scottish Widows then applied the offset to the interest-only part although it didnt invite Mr 
and Mrs D or their broker to choose which part was to benefit as suggested in the booklet. 
Mr and Mrs D complained about the offset being applied to only one part of the mortgage, 
but they would have had difficulty exiting the mortgage as there was an early repayment 
charge applicable. That issue was resolved In May 2021 when the two accounts were 
merged, and Mr and Mrs D benefited from the offset over the total balance of the mortgage 
from that point. But the problem for Mr and Mrs D was that they lost the benefit of the offset 
interest that they believed they should have got from September 2020 until May 2021.
Our investigators view
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. She felt that the 
bank had made the conditions of the mortgage reasonably clear and as this sale was 
conducted through a broker, it was the responsibility of the broker to explain the conditions 
to Mr and Mrs D.
Mr and Mrs D disagreed saying in summary that the condition of having one repayment type 
able to offset is hugely onerous and should be made clearer in the documentation and not 
hidden away as a question and answer in a 24-page booklet.
My Provisional Decision
I considered this complaint and as my view differed from that of our investigator I issued a 
Provisional Decision which I set out below:
Mr and Mrs D took out this mortgage through a broker. Scottish Widows would have had 
little if any contact with Mr and Mrs D. Scottish Widows could offer a mortgage and, on 
certain products, the option of applying for an Offset Saver Account allowing the customer to 
offset their savings against the mortgage balance. The mortgage offer gives a general 
explanation to how this works and refers the customer to the product brochure for further 
details of how the offset facility works. 
There appears to be two steps to applying for an offset mortgage. Mr and Mrs D through 
their broker apply for the mortgage and the broker submits an online form called Additional 
Mortgage Loan Details asking for the offset benefit to be applied to the mortgage. In this 
case the broker initially applied for a mortgage of about £1,200,000 all on an on interest-only 
basis and submitted the Additional Mortgage Loan Details form online asking for offset to be 
applied to that interest-only mortgage. If the mortgage application was successful the offset 
would have been applied to all the mortgage.
But there was a problem with the valuation which meant that Scottish Widows wouldnt do all 
the mortgage on interest-only but, there had to be two parts, some £800,000 on interest-only 
and £400,000 on capital repayment. This had implications for the existing application for the 
offset benefit as, according to Scottish Widows policy, if the mortgage was composed of two 
parts only one part could benefit from the offset. Its Scottish Widows position, as stated 
above, that the broker should have been aware of this if they had read the product brochure.
 Its fair to say that the broker proceeded on the assumption that the change to the 
composition of the mortgage hadnt affected the application for the offset benefit to apply to 
all the mortgage. Scottish Widows didnt tell the broker that the change in the accounts had 
affected its existing application to have the offset benefit applied to the whole borrowing.
From Scottish Widows point of view it had told the broker what would happen and fulfilled its 
duty by providing sales information, that if read, would have alerted the borrower as to what 
would happen if the mortgage  was composed of more than one account. I understand the 
broker to be making the point that Scottish Widows in fact didnt give Mr and Mrs D the 
opportunity to choose which account would benefit, as the Q&A at page 5 of the product 
brochure suggests, with Scottish Widows choosing, without reference to the broker, the 
interest-only account as the one to gain the benefit of the offset. The broker says that this 
deprived Mr and Mrs D of the choice but also would have alerted them to the issue of the 
two accounts and that the offset benefit would apply to only one.
I raised this issue with Scottish Widows which responded as follows:
The Broker has a Business Development Manager (BDM) assigned to him, and the BDM
would be the point of contact if the Broker has any queries regarding any part of the
Mortgage application, process or Offer. We do not contact the Brokers when an
application is received as the keying process asks the Broker to select which part of the
Mortgage the customer wishes to offset, so any queries regarding this matter should
have been raised at this point. We have no record of this matter being queried at any
point in the application process. See attachments. You can see from the application, theBroker has keyed that the £800,000 has been selected to receive Offset benefit.
Scottish Widows supplied me with a screenshot headed Additional Mortgage Loan Details- 
All Applicants which I supplied to the broker for comments. That is an application for offset 
where one account is ticked  the interest only account for £800,000 whereas the capital and 
interest account for £401,499 is unticked. At the bottom there is a further tick where the 
broker confirms his client had read and accepted the Offset Saver Terms and Conditions.
Mr and Mrs Ds broker said that it didnt submit this document as presented to me. Ive 
followed this up with Scottish Widows to understand what happened. My understanding is 
that when the broker submitted the original application, this form - Additional Mortgage Loan 
Details was also submitted requesting the offset facility to be applied to all the borrowing 
which was interest-only at that stage. Following the down valuation in August, Scottish 
Widows told the broker it couldnt do it all on interest-only, but the borrowing needed to be 
split between interest-only and capital repayment. In August the broker on behalf of the 
clients accepted that. 
But Scottish Widows didnt tell the broker that the original application for the offset benefit to 
be applied to all the mortgage had to be revised and the broker wasnt asked which part of 
the mortgage Mr and Mrs D wanted to benefit from the offset. The broker wasnt asked to 
submit another Additional Mortgage Loan Details form detailing the two accounts and 
choosing which one as to benefit. Scottish Widows appears to have internally amended the 
original form without reference to the broker and presented it to us as if submitted by the 
broker. This purports to show the broker being made aware that Mr and Mrs D could choose 
to apply the offset benefit to one or other of the repayment mechanisms and the broker 
choosing the interest-only part to benefit. 
I found the Additional Mortgage Loan Details form and the original explanation given to me 
by Scottish Widows to be misleading suggesting that the broker had the opportunity to 
consider this form and to have chosen the interest only part to benefit from the offset. But 
this form appears to have been amended in August without the brokers knowledge.
What effect does this have on the complaint? Its Scottish Widows case that the broker 
should have known from reading the mortgage brochure booklet that if the mortgage was 
made up of more than one repayment method that the offset benefit applied to only one of 
those parts. But at the time Mr and Mrs D originally applied they were only applying for one 
payment method and completed and submitted the Additional Mortgage Loan details form on 
that basis. 
The application changed in August after a down valuation and after an exchange of emails 
between the broker and Scottish Widows. Scottish Widows didnt alert Mr and Mrs D to the 
fact that offset benefit which the broker had asked Scottish Widows to apply to all the 
mortgage, in the original Additional Mortgage Loan details document, would now only apply 
to one part of the mortgage. It seems to me that in these emails that it would have been 
reasonable to Scottish Widows to alert the broker to that significant change. That also could 
have been achieved had Scottish Widows, as it says it would do in the Product brochure, 
asked Mr and Mrs D to choose which repayment method they wanted to benefit from the 
offset. Scottish Widows failed to do this and failed reasonably to alert Mr and Mrs D that the 
offset benefit would not now apply to the whole mortgage. It also seems the me that the 
broker had only ever applied for the whole of the mortgage to be interest only  on the 
original form. That application remained outstanding in August when Scottish Widows simply 
amended the form without alerting the broker that it was doing so as if the broker had 
resubmitted a new form to meet the new situation. I consider that to be unfair. 
I believe that Scottish Widows had ample opportunity to alert the broker to the fact that the new application meant that Mr and Mrs D could no longer enjoy the benefit of the offset on 
all the accounts but by not doing so, misled the broker to understand that nothing had 
changed since the original application in respect of the offset. The process envisages the 
broker submitting a form  the Additional Mortgage Loan Details form  to allow the broker to 
request to which account the offset benefit applied. In this case the broker submitted a form 
based on there being only one account but when this changed the broker should have been 
asked or prompted either to submit a new Additional Mortgage Loan Details form reflecting 
the new situation or to agree to amend the original form. Neither of these reasonable steps 
was taken by Scottish Widows but Scottish Widows amended the original form as if 
submitted by the broker but without its knowledge or authority.
My intention is to uphold this complaint. As Mr and Mrs D were deprived of the offset benefit 
which they had been led to believe was available to them, Scottish Widows should, as 
compensation, rework the mortgage as if the offset benefit had been applied to all parts of 
their mortgage from September 2020 until date of settlement. Scottish Widows should make 
sure the mortgage balance is the same as it would have been had the offset benefit been 
applied in that way from September 2020. In addition, for their distress and inconvenience, 
Scottish Widows should pay Mr and Mrs D £500. 
I set the above out as my Provisional Decision and invited submissions from Mr and Mrs D 
and from Scottish Widows. I received a further submission from Scottish Widows but not 
from Mr and Mrs D. Scottish Widows had revised its view of this complaint and I set this out 
below
Our Position:
The Broker submitted the original application in a way which meant the whole of the 
mortgage balance would benefit from offsetting
Based on the lower valuation, we explained to the Broker that we would not offer the 
whole of the balance to be repaid on an Interest Only basis, however, we could offer 
on a part IO and part capital repayment (C&R) basis
As it was agreed the customers would proceed on the part IO and part C&R 
repayment basis, the Bank proceeded to amend the application accordingly
The Bank made the changes to the application:
I want to clarify that once a Broker submits their original application, any changes to 
that application are made by the Bank
The Broker doesnt have the access or facility to amend the original application. Im 
sorry if it was ever intimated in any way that the Broker amended the application as 
this is clearly not the case
The Bank accept full responsibility for the changes made to the application
The system will automatically select the IO part of the mortgage to offset when any 
changes are made, as the IO part will benefit the most from offsetting
I agree we should not have proceeded at this stage without discussing the offsetting 
with the Broker
Missed opportunityYou quite rightly pointed out that it is the customer who should make the decision on 
which part of the mortgage they wish to offset against 
I agree we should have contacted the Broker in respect of the change to the 
mortgage being split into two parts to ensure they were aware of the implications of 
the change and to find out which part the Broker / customer would like to offset 
against
This wouldve given the Broker / Customers the necessary information to make an 
informed choice on how they wished to proceed at this point
Taking everything into consideration we agree to reconcile the account as suggested and 
make the payment of £500.00 for the upset and disappointment caused.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I welcome Scottish Widows further investigation and that it was able to come to a conclusion 
agreeing with my Provisional Decision. Scottish Widows did ask me to review a part of my 
decision as it says that it did not deliberately mis-lead the customer or the broker. I refer to 
the broker being misled and myself being misled a number of times in my Provisional 
Decision. For my own part, I said that during my investigation that  a document - the 
Additional Mortgage Loan details document with a tick for a partial offset - was presented to 
me with an explanation that it had been altered by the broker which it had not. This was 
misleading and required further investigation before I could conclude that the broker hadnt 
altered the document. But, I accept that it wasnt deliberate but more likely through a 
misunderstanding of how the process worked.
I also said that  Scottish Widows had ample opportunity to alert the broker to the fact that 
the new application meant that Mr and Mrs D could no longer enjoy the benefit of the offset 
on all the accounts but by not doing so, misled the broker to understand that nothing had 
changed since the original application in respect of the offset. Again, I dont say its 
deliberate but a result of a process which Scottish Widows confirmed was inadequate that 
led the broker to understand that the offset benefit would be applied to the whole mortgage 
as originally envisaged. So, I dont accept that my Provisional Decision contains any 
inaccuracy that requires amendment. 
In the light of the acceptance of my Provisional Decision by Scottish Widows and my further 
review of the evidence I believe that my Provisional Decision represents a fair outcome to 
this complaint and I will be upholding this complaint on the terms set out in that decision.
Putting things right
I require Lloyds Bank PLC trading as Scottish Widows Bank to rework the mortgage as if the 
offset benefit had been applied to all parts of Mr and Mrs Ds mortgage from September 
2020 until date of settlement. Scottish Widows Bank should make sure the mortgage 
balance is the same as it would have been had the offset benefit been applied in that way 
from September 2020.  I also require Scottish Widows to pay Mr and Mrs D £500.My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require Lloyds Bank PLC trading as Scottish 
Widows Bank to pay compensation as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 February 2023.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman