DRN-3967559
The complaint
Mrs C complains that she was mis-sold a car that she acquired via a hire purchase 
agreement with MotoNovo Finance Limited.
What happened
In October 2021 Mrs C attended a car dealership and made enquiries about a used car she 
had seen advertised. Mrs C says that while discussing the car with the salesperson she 
noticed that it was described as white on the V5 but that the car was actually now another 
colour. She says she asked the salesperson about this, and they informed he (after having 
made their own enquiries) that the car had been re-sprayed at a cost of £3,500 by the 
previous owner.
Mrs C decided to purchase the car and paid a deposit of £29,000 and entered into a three-
year hire purchase agreement with MotoNovo for the remainder.
Mrs C says that in around May 2022 she noticed that the topcoat of the car was peeling off 
revealing the white colour underneath, meaning that it had been wrapped rather than re-
sprayed. She complained to the dealership who at first said to bring the car in for an 
inspection, but then subsequently said that the salesperson no longer worked there and that 
they could not assist her due to the length of time she had had the car. 
Mrs C complained to MotoNovo who did not uphold her complaint. MotoNovo said the 
dealership had confirmed they had told Mrs C the car was wrapped and that this would also 
have been clear to an untrained eye. MotoNovo said it didnt know what had been said at the 
point of sale, but it thought she had been aware the car had been wrapped and not re-
sprayed.
Mrs C was unhappy at MotoNovos response and complained to this service. She said she 
wouldnt have acquired the car if she had known it had been wrapped. Mrs C explained that 
she was aware that if a car has been wrapped that it needs to be handwashed which would 
be a challenge for her. She also said she had other concerns such as whether a wrap would 
devalue the car.
Our investigator upheld Mrs C s complaint. He said he thought Mrs C had given a clear and 
credible account of what she had been told about the car being re-sprayed rather than 
wrapped. He said he thought the car had been mis-sold to Mrs C and she wouldnt have 
purchased it had she known about the wrap.
Our investigator said it would be fair for the agreement to be cancelled and the car returned. 
He said Mrs C should be reimbursed her deposit plus interest. However, as Mrs C had been 
able to make use of the car, our investigator said he didnt think it would be fair to ask 
MotoNovo to reimburse the monthly payments she had made under the agreement.
Mrs C agreed with the view of our investigator, but MotoNovo disagreed. It said there wasnt 
any evidence Mrs C either had or hadnt been told the car had been wrapped and it had 
been sold as seen. MotoNovo said that if Mrs C could provide evidence which suggested 
shed been told the car had been re-sprayed it would look to support her claim.
As the parties were unable to reach an agreement the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered the relevant law and regulations and good industry practice. And when 
evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory then I reach my decision about the 
merits of this complaint on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is 
most likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances. 
Mrs C says the car was mis-sold to her because she was told the cars change of colour was 
due to a re-spray when this wasnt the case. She says had she known the car had actually 
been wrapped in order to achieve the alteration in colour she wouldnt have purchased it. 
She said she was aware that when a cars bodywork has been wrapped then it cant be 
pressure washed or put through a car wash so needed to be hand washed instead to make 
sure it lasted, and this wasnt something she would be able to do easily.
For me to consider that the car had been mis-sold then I would need to be satisfied that a 
misrepresentation has occurred. That is there was evidence a false statement of fact had 
been made and that it was this false statement which had induced the consumer to enter 
into the agreement. MotoNovo says there isnt any evidence of a false statement being 
made and although I dont know what was said between Mrs C and the salesperson, I 
disagree theres no evidence for me to consider about a possible misrepresentation. This is 
because I can take into account what Mrs C says she was told when she was discussing 
acquiring the car with the salesperson. What I need to do is decide what I think is the most 
likely thing to have happened at this pre-sale talk.
Here, I think its more likely than not there would have been a discussion about the cars 
colour. Looking at the service records provided to Mrs C, its clear the car was described as 
being white in colour and this was very different to the cars colour at the point of supply. Mrs 
C says the V5 also described the car as its original colour. I think its reasonable to expect 
Mrs C to have made enquiries about this. Ive seen that the dealership told MotoNovo that 
they told Mrs C the car had been wrapped and that this should also have been clear when 
the car was inspected by her.
Im unclear why it would have been obvious the car had been wrapped to someone with little 
or no experience of how a wrapped car would look. As I understand it, there were no issues 
with the quality of the wrap at the point of sale. It was only later when the wrap started to 
peel that Mrs C says she became aware the car hadnt been re-sprayed. I dont think I can 
reasonably say Mrs C should have been aware the car hadnt been re-sprayed by looking at 
it when she first acquired it.
I also think Mrs C has been clear about why she wouldnt have wanted a car that had been 
wrapped, in particular the issues about having to clean the car by hand. She is also 
concerned that wrapping could have an impact on the value of the car. So, I dont think if Mrs 
C had known the car had been wrapped, she would have bought it.
I think here, Mrs C has provided a credible account of what was said to her by the 
salesperson in regard to the car having been the subject of a respray. I also think its more 
likely than not that Mrs C relied on that statement when deciding to acquire the car. So, I think the car was mis-sold to Mrs C by the dealership and that MotoNovo is now responsible 
for putting that right. Im upholding Mrs Cs complaint.
Ive seen Mrs C has raised some issues with the cars electrics and the findings of the 
garage that undertook a recent MOT. I havent dealt with those in this complaint as Mrs C 
would need to make a complaint first to MotoNovo to allow it to investigate, though I can 
appreciate why Mrs C may have lost confidence in the dealership.
As there has been a misrepresentation about the car then Mrs C should be put back in the 
position she would have been had that not been made. That means that the hire purchase 
agreement should be cancelled, the car returned, and her deposit reimbursed.
Ive seen that although the wrap is now peeling off Mrs C has been able to make use of the 
car and I think its fair that she pays for that so I wouldnt ask that any of the monthly 
payments made under the agreement are reimbursed.
Putting things right
Im asking MotoNovo to do the following:
Arrange for the car to be collected at no cost to Mrs C.
Cancel the hire purchase agreement with nothing further to pay.
Reimburse Mrs Cs deposit of £29,000 together with interest at the yearly rate of 8% 
simple from the date of payment until the date of settlement.
Remove any adverse information concerning this agreement from Mrs Cs credit file 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im upholding Mrs Cs complaint. Im asking MotoNovo 
Financial Limited to do the following:
Arrange for the car to be collected at no cost to Mrs C.
Cancel the hire purchase agreement with nothing further to pay.
Reimburse Mrs Cs deposit of £29,000 together with interest at the yearly rate of 8% 
simple from the date of payment until the date of settlement.
Remove any adverse information concerning this agreement from Mrs Cs credit file 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2023.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman