DRN-2899978
The complaint
Mr H complains, via his representative, about the handling of his subsidence claim by his 
home insurer, Soteria Insurance Limited under his home insurance policy.
What happened
In 2012 Mr H made a claim for subsidence damage to his home following a structural 
engineers report. He said he wanted to do the repairs but Soterias predecessor insurer 
obtained its own structural engineers report and rectification works took place. 
In July 2020 Mr H noticed more movement in his home and subsequently a light fell from an 
upstairs ceiling exposing the wiring. Soteria agreed to further monitoring to be reviewed after 
six months. Mr H wanted Soteria to complete previous repairs and sort the electrics as he 
said his own electrician told him this was needed. Soteria want to cash settle Mr Hs claim.
Mr H complained to Soteria that it unreasonably refused to deal with the electrics and the 
continuation of the works from 2012. He said he cant project manage the repairs and so he 
didnt want a cash settlement. He said Soterias loss adjuster hasnt responded to his emails 
and a further site visit hadnt been arranged as requested.
Soteria responded in November 2020 that its contractors wouldnt return to Mr Hs home as 
they couldnt meet his expectations. It said its loss adjusters would compile a schedule of 
work and assess the fallen light and he should then obtain estimates to finish the work which 
Soteria would pay. Soteria paid Mr H £250 compensation for the poor service hed received. 
Mr Hs representative referred his complaint to us saying Mr H has lived in an unfinished 
property and isnt in a position to have the electrics and repairs completed. And said Mr H 
has had the stress of living in an unfinished property for years, which has affected his health. 
A further visit to Mr Hs home by Soterias loss adjuster took place in April 2021. They said 
the monitoring showed that there was no further movement of the property. But they had 
included all aspects of work where there is any doubt about the relationship to the original 
movement of the property and offered around £10,000 + VAT for the work. The loss adjuster 
said the cash settlement included an amount for Mr H to pay for the supervision of the work.  
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. The investigator said the policy 
allowed Soteria to cash settle a claim and given the problems with previous repairs it was 
fair to do so and would allow Mr H to fix his light. The investigator said Soterias 
compensation for the poor service Mr H received was fair.  
 
Mr Hs representative disagreed, saying she understood it was agreed at the meeting Mr H 
had with the loss adjuster that Mr H couldnt be expected to manage the repairs. She said he 
has a letter from an estate agent that the property is unsaleable with the movement problem. 
She said Mr H thinks the amount of the cash settlement is far below what it will cost to put 
the property right. The representative requested an ombudsman review the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H has made a number of complaints about Soteria and its predecessor insurer 
concerning his subsidence claim and the repairs. An ombudsman at our service has decided 
Mr Hs previous complaint. And so, I will only review the present complaint and not historical 
issues.
I can see Mr Hs reluctance to accept a cash settlement for his claim. However, the policy 
allows Soteria to do this.
Loss of Damage and Accident Damage
1. We will settle a claim for loss of or damage to property by payment or, at our option, by 
repair or replacement on the following basis, subject to any relevant monetary limit specified 
in this Section.
2. We will settle other claims by payment of the costs incurred, subject to any relevant 
monetary limit specified in this Section.
Since the relationship between Mr H and Soterias two previous contractors broke down 
during repair works I dont think its unreasonable for Soteria to decline to send further 
contractors to Mr Hs home. The claim has been ongoing for years and needs to be 
resolved. I think Soteria has put forward practical proposals to achieve this and I think its use 
of the policy term allowing it to make a cash settlement of the claim is both fair and 
reasonable.
From the loss adjusters report, it would appear that most of the remaining work on Mr Hs 
home is minor. Since an amount has been included within the proposed cash settlement for 
Mr H to pay for the repairs to be professionally supervised I think he should be able to 
proceed on that basis. Mr Hs representative has said the amount of the settlement isnt 
enough to do the work. 
Mr Hs representatives comment about the amount of the settlement hasnt been supported 
by any expert evidence and not brought as a complaint to Soteria and so its not something I 
have considered here. I would recommend that Mr H obtains professional evidence about 
the cost of the repairs to his home if he wishes to challenge Soteria about this.
If it hasnt already, Soteria should forward a copy of its loss adjusters report to Mr H which 
includes details of its offer to cash settle his claim. I understand that Mr H needs to meet 
Soterias request to put in an estimate for the installation of his kitchen. Soteria has said it 
will pay for this.
I can understand Mr Hs frustration about the poor communication and service from Soterias 
agents and a cancelled visit from its engineer. I think these problems have been properly 
acknowledged by Soteria and I think the £250 compensation it has paid Mr H is fair in the 
circumstances. 
Given that the monitoring of Mr Hs home carried out on Soterias behalf has shown there is 
no further movement, I cant see any relevance in his letter from an estate agent about the 
saleability of his home. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given above it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2021.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman