DRN-2291285
The complaint
Mr P complains that Standard Life Assurance Limited (Standard Life) requested a full 
transfer of his Self -Invested Pension Plan (SIPP) in error, which resulted in a large portion 
of his SIPP being disinvested. He is unhappy that this wasnt rectified so those assets 
remained disinvested for several months.
What happened
In November 2018 Mr P made a request to Hargreaves Lansdown (Hargreaves) for £20,000 
of uninvested cash in his SIPP to be transferred to Standard Life.
Hargreaves responded and explained that the new provider (Standard Life) would need to 
contact Hargreaves and request the transfer.
Mr P contacted Standard Life to request a transfer and, in error, asked for a full transfer of 
his plan. He then contacted Standard Life again to explain he only wanted part of his plan  
the £20,000 uninvested cash- to be transferred.
Standard Life didnt take proper note of the contact from Mr P and requested a transfer of his 
full pension plan. His pension pot was worth around £390,000.
On 21 November 2018 the request for a full transfer was received by Hargreaves, via Origo- 
an automated system.
On 4 December 2018 Hargreaves processed the transfer request and sent a letter to Mr P 
informing him the transfer was taking place.
Between 4 and 6 December 2018 Hargreaves sold Mr Ps investments in preparation for the 
transfer of the whole of his plan. But the transfer was not completed at that time because 
Hargreaves was awaiting the tax relief on an investment made by Mr P in October 2018, 
which was due around 21 December 2018.
On 21 December 2018 Mr P contacted Hargreaves pension helpdesk. He explained he had 
requested a partial transfer from his plan, but he had received a letter that suggested his 
account was being closed. Hargreaves explained this was because Standard Life had 
requested a full transfer. So, it said he would need to ask Standard Life to re-request the 
transfer through Origo.
Mr P contacted Standard Life. The full transfer was stopped, and Standard Life requested a 
partial transfer of £20,000 instead.
On 8 January 2019 £20,000 was transferred from Mr Ps SIPP to the new Standard Life 
plan. The rest of his SIPP remained uninvested, in cash.
On 1 February 2019 Mr P logged into his online account to make a contribution to his SIPP 
and he then used that contribution to make an investment.
In February 2019 Hargreaves issued an investment report to Mr P detailing the sales and 
transactions for his SIPP.
In April 2019 Mr P realised the assets in his plan were being held in cash and he contacted 
Hargreaves on 23 April 2019 to ask why that was the case.
In early May 2019 Mr P complained to Standard Life. Mr P also complained to Hargreaves.
On 9 May 2019 Standard Life wrote to Hargreaves and confirmed it had requested a full 
transfer on 21 November 2018. It said when it became aware this was an error, it had sent a 
request for a partial transfer on 21 December 2018.
Standard Life issued a final response in September 2019. It said that Mr P had initially 
incorrectly requested a full transfer of his plan, but he had then contacted Standard Life to 
explain he only wanted a partial transfer of £20,000. Standard Life accepted it hadnt 
followed his revised instructions and apologised to Mr P. It said Hargreaves hadnt 
transferred the full amount as it was aware of the error and Standard Life had re-requested a 
transfer of £20,000. The transfer had taken place in January 2019 and the delay in 
transferring that amount had not resulted in any loss.
Standard Life said it couldnt be held responsible for any loss as a result of the assets being 
disinvested, because Hargreaves had been aware immediately after it had disinvested the 
assets that the transfer was wrong. And Standard Life said Hargreaves should have 
reinvested these investments after the transfer of £20,000 was made. It also said Mr P 
should contact Hargreaves and ask it to complete a price comparison to check Mr P had not 
lost out as a result of the disinvestment.
Standard Life apologised for the trouble and upset caused by its error and paid Mr P £150.
Mr P reinvested his pension plan when he transferred it in around October 2019.
Mr P referred his complaint against Standard Life to our service. Our investigator considered 
his complaint and initially thought it should be upheld. She thought that Standard Life had 
some responsibility for the disinvestment. Because it was its mistake that had led to the sale 
of his assets, and it hadnt then followed up on that mistake.
So, she said Standard Life and Hargreaves should each pay for half of any loss incurred and 
this should be assessed by comparing the value of those disinvested funds with the value of 
his previous investments from early December 2018 to April 2019. After that, she said Mr P 
may have changed his holdings but was not given the opportunity to buy or sell funds until 
his SIPP was transferred away. So, a comparison should be carried out between the cash 
value and a benchmark and again half of any loss should be paid by Standard Life.
The investigator noted that there had been disagreement between the two businesses as to 
who was responsible for the losses and the costs of reinvestment, which hadnt helped 
matters and she thought that had left Mr P in a difficult position with regards to reinvestment. 
She noted Mr P hadnt reinvested the money until October 2019.
Standard Life disagreed and said it had no way of knowing that the assets in his plan had 
been sold and disinvested. It said it couldnt have indefinite liability for those investments 
remaining disinvested.
The investigator reviewed further documentation provided by Mr P and Hargreaves in 
relation to the emails and contract notes Hargreaves had provided to Mr P. She noted Mr P 
had an online SIPP which meant it was his responsibility to monitor his own investments.The investigator considered that as Mr P had received a letter from Hargreaves which 
referred to the closure of his account and the sales emails, he should have been aware that 
the assets had been sold. So, she didnt think Standard Life could be held responsible for 
the losses caused by disinvestment beyond the initial period up until 21 December 2018.
Mr P disagreed and asked for his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman for review.
He pointed out he hadnt given instructions to sell these investments and the transfer error 
had been made by Standard Life. Mr P also said he had thought the emails were marketing 
emails and it wasnt clear from those emails that sales had taken place. He said he hadnt 
opened them and so hadnt seen their content referring to contract notes.
Mr P said he hadnt looked at his account to check as he didnt have any reason to think the 
assets in his plan had been sold. He also said the letter regarding the transfer and account 
closure was ambiguous. 
I considered Mr Ps complaint and issued a provisional decision where I concluded that, as 
Standard Life had been responsible for the initial error, it should compensate Mr P for the 
losses up until 21 December 2018 
I also concluded that all three parties had some responsibility for what occurred after the 
initial error with the transfer. So, I said that Standard Life should pay a third of any losses 
from 22 December 2018 to 30 April 2019. 
Mr P acknowledged and accepted my provisional decision. Standard Life acknowledged my 
provisional decision and made no further representations. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ps SIPP (provided by Hargreaves) is a type of pension plan where the plan holder 
decides which investments they want to make and manages their own plan. The provider 
doesnt provide the plan holder with advice or recommendations. Instead it carries out the 
instructions of the plan holder and administers their plan.
Mr P was intending to transfer £20,000 of his SIPP, which was in cash, to a new plan with 
Standard Life. His first instruction to Standard Life was to transfer the whole plan. But Mr P 
then contacted Standard Life to explain there had been an error and he only wanted a partial 
transfer. Standard Life took note of Mr Ps instruction but regrettably it still requested a full 
transfer from Hargreaves.
Hargreaves received the transfer instruction from Standard Life via an automated system. 
And although it had previously been approached by Mr P asking for a partial transfer, I dont 
think it had any reason to question that request. Because the plan holder, Mr P, was entitled 
to transfer his plan. And when his SIPP provider received a request from the new provider it 
was entitled to assume, in the absence of any other information, that the new provider was 
acting on the instructions of Mr P.
In early December 2018 Hargreaves sold Mr Ps investments in preparation for the transfer. I 
dont think it was acting incorrectly as this was a standard part of the process.It then wrote to Mr P on 4 December 2018 confirming a transfer was taking place. The letter 
stated that there was an account closure fee. It also said to contact Hargreaves if Mr P had 
changed his mind about the transfer. But it warned that it wouldnt be possible to cancel any 
sales transactions that had already taken place, if he had requested the transfer as cash.
So, I think it was clear from the tone and contents of that letter that Mr P was making a 
transfer and as a result, closing his account. I note the letter also referenced sales 
transactions and said any sales transactions that had taken place couldnt be cancelled.    
This letter prompted Mr P to contact Hargreaves on 21 December 2018. I have seen a note 
of that discussion. Mr P questioned why the letter referred to a closure fee. He explained he 
didnt want to close his account  he wanted a partial transfer of £20,000. And it seems from 
Standard Lifes records that Mr P contacted Standard Life at that time and asked it to re-
request the transfer - which it did.
Mr P has pointed out that Hargreaves representative didnt inform him that his investments 
had been sold in order to effect the transfer. And if the representative had explained this, 
then I think things would have been much clearer. But I also have to consider how Mr Ps 
investments came to be disinvested in the first place.
I think it is clear that Standard Life made the initial mistake in requesting the full transfer. 
And, I note it has accepted responsibility for losses up until 21 December 2018. But 
Standard Life has also said it had no way of knowing that the assets from Mr Ps SIPP had 
been disinvested, so it cant be held responsible for any losses after that date. 
The transfer request was received by Hargreaves on 21 November 2018 and the new 
request from Standard Life for a partial transfer wasnt issued until a month later. The 
transfer hadnt already taken place by then, because Hargreaves was waiting for tax relief on 
an investment made by Mr P in October 2018. I think if the transfer had gone through before 
the error had been spotted, then Standard Life would have been responsible for putting 
things back to the correct position  with all of the pension funds, excluding the £20,000 
which should have been transferred, being reinvested in Mr Ps SIPP with Hargreaves.
Standard Life has said it didnt know about the disinvestment, but I consider it would 
reasonably have known how the transfer process works with investments being sold in order 
to transfer to cash. It also knew that a month had passed since it made the full transfer 
request. 
Standard Life also knew how much money was involved in the first erroneous transfer 
request. I think it wouldve been unlikely that the amount of money held in Mr Ps SIPP 
wouldve all been held in cash.
I also think it would have been likely that any assets wouldve been sold by Hargreaves by 
that time, even though the actual transfer hadnt taken place. And I think that is something 
that Standard Life could have reasonably anticipated in the circumstances.
Ultimately Standard Life made the mistake, so I think it had a responsibility to follow up on 
that mistake and help to rectify it. It could have contacted Hargreaves and simply asked what 
the position was, and whether any assets had been sold. And if it had done that, it could 
then have arranged with Hargreaves for the assets to be reinvested at an early stage, with 
any resulting loss being minimised.
So, I do think Standard Life bears some responsibility for the assets remaining disinvested.But just because I consider Standard Life has some responsibility, it doesnt mean that it 
should be responsible for all of the losses which might have been incurred here.
I also take into account that the provider of Mr Ps SIPP was aware of the disinvestment and 
didnt contact Mr P or Standard Life.
In addition, while I do sympathise with Mr P, as Standard Life didnt follow his updated 
instructions which led to a full transfer being requested in error and the assets in his plan 
being disinvested, I must also consider whether Mr P shouldve acted differently to mitigate 
any loss to his pension pot.
Mr P had an online SIPP, so there was an onus on him to monitor and manage his own 
account. Mr P received several emails from the provider that referred to different investment 
assets and had a specific reference number. Mr P said he thought they were marketing 
emails, so he didnt open them. Mr P has provided a screen shot of the emails and 
Hargreaves has provided a template of the contents of those emails.
I think there were some quite specific details included in the email subject line which would 
have suggested they related to Mr Ps account specifically. And if Mr P had looked at the 
content of the emails, he would have seen the following information:
Thank you for placing your dealing instructions for XXX (name of investment).
A contract note for the deal is now available on our website.
Please check the contract note carefully and if you think any of the details are incorrect
please contact us immediately
They then went on to explain how to locate the contract note via his online account.
So, I think those emails did raise an issue about what was happening with his SIPP and I 
think, as a result, it was reasonable on balance to expect Mr P to then check his account 
especially given what he later knew about the mistake which had been made by Standard 
Life in requesting the full transfer.
If Mr P hadnt requested any transfer at all, or had reason to believe that his transfer 
instructions had been properly carried out, then I dont think it would have been reasonable 
to have expected him to frequently check his account to see whether his investments were 
all still there. Because, he wouldnt have had any expectation of them all being sold  as he 
hadnt given that instruction.
But the background to this is that Mr P had made a transfer request and he knew there 
initially had been an error with that request. In addition, Mr P had received several emails 
from Hargreaves referencing specific investments and informing him that sales had taken 
place (albeit I appreciate that he didnt open those emails). And a letter which indicated his 
account was in the process of being closed. So, I think at that point there was enough 
information to cause him to question what was happening with his plan and investigate this 
further, by accessing his online account. And as I have said this type of plan is designed with 
the intention that plan holders will monitor their accounts.
I also note that Mr P did access his online account in February to make an investment  so 
there was no issue preventing him from checking his investments. He could have done so at 
that time, or earlier in December when this issue first came to light.Hargreaves also issued an investment report at around that time which detailed all the 
transactions in February 2019. So, I consider there was an additional opportunity to have 
been made aware of what had occurred.
Overall, I think there was sufficient information to have alerted Mr P to a potential issue. So, 
while I do appreciate he didnt cause the initial error, I do think he could have mitigated any 
loss if he had responded differently.
Summary
So, my view is that all parties involved should reasonably share some  but differing degrees 
of - responsibility for any losses incurred. And my view as to how this should be apportioned 
to Standard Life is as follows.
I consider the responsibility for any initial losses on the disinvested funds until 21 December 
2018 and any fees involved with reinvesting, should be borne by Standard Life because it 
made the initial mistake. And I note Standard Life has already agreed to pay any losses up 
to that date.
In addition, as I have said above, I think there was a responsibility on Standard Life, given 
the circumstances, to follow up on its mistake and try to help to rectify it.
Its not straightforward to determine how much of the resulting loss - from 22 December to 
when Mr P became unequivocally aware that his funds were held in cash - should be 
attributed to Standard Life. As Ive said above, I think some responsibility should lie 
elsewhere, and probably in equal proportions for that particular period. So, I think that a fair 
and reasonable resolution here would be to apportion to Standard Life a third of any losses 
incurred by being disinvested from 22 December 2018 until the end of April 2019.
I appreciate that the assets in Mr Ps SIPP remained disinvested beyond that time, to around 
October 2019. But I dont think any losses beyond 30 April 2019 are the responsibility of 
Standard Life. This is because I think that once Mr P was aware of the disinvestment, he 
should have instructed Hargreaves to reinvest the money, even if he couldnt purchase as 
many units in those funds with the cash in his SIPP. This would have been reasonable 
mitigation of any further losses.
I can see the situation wasnt helped by the two businesses disagreeing as to who should be 
responsible for any losses. But ultimately it would have been clear to Mr P that a large 
proportion of his pension plan was sitting in cash rather than being invested. And it seems 
clear that wasnt what he wanted. So, I think he could reasonably have instructed 
Hargreaves to repurchase the relevant funds with the cash available.
Putting things rightIn addition to compensating Mr P for any losses incurred up to 21 December 2018, Standard 
Life should pay Mr P one third of any losses due to the disinvestment of Mr Ps SIPP from 22 
December 2018 to 30 April 2019. It should liaise with Hargreaves to calculate the value of 
the SIPP, had the original types of investments (other than those amounting to the £20,000 
which should have been transferred) remained in whatever the proportion would have 
existed after Mr Ps intended partial transfer using the cash value produced by their earlier 
disinvestment. And it should ensure that it augments the SIPP by one third of any resulting 
loss amount.
The compensation amount should, if possible, be paid into Mr Ps SIPP. The payment 
should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. The compensation 
shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or 
allowance.
With the assistance of Hargreaves, Standard Life should be able to effect this payment 
directly into the SIPP. But if a payment into the SIPP isnt possible or has protection or 
allowance implications, it should be paid directly to Mr P as a lump sum after making a 
notional reduction to allow for future income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
If Mr P hasnt yet taken any tax-free cash from his plan, 25% of the loss would be tax-free 
and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in retirement  
presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional reduction of 15% overall from the loss 
adequately reflects this.
Trouble and upset
I consider Mr P would have been caused trouble and upset when he found out that a 
mistake had been made with his transfer request and later on, when he became aware the 
investments in his SIPP had remained disinvested for several months.
Standard Life has apologised to Mr P for its original error and paid him £150 for the trouble 
and upset caused. I note it paid compensation at an early stage but, as I have said, I think it 
caused further trouble and upset because it didnt follow up on its mistake. So, I think 
Standard Life should pay Mr P a further £100 for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that Mr Ps complaint against Standard Life Assurance Limited is upheld 
in part and it should pay compensation as I have outlined.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2021.
 
Julia Chittenden
Ombudsman