DRN-3989142
Complaint
Mr C is unhappy that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) recorded a fraud 
prevention marker against him. 
Background
In January 2019, Mr Cs account received a payment of £5,303.50 from a third-party. The 
funds were transferred to a third-parties, spent in retail transactions and withdrawn from a 
cash machines. Shortly afterwards, NatWest received a notification from the bank which sent 
the payments stating that the payer of the funds had reported being a victim of fraud. 
NatWest reviewed Mr Cs account, decided to close it and also record a fraud prevention 
marker against Mr C.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Cs concerns. She didnt think that NatWest had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr C unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr C disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker that NatWest has filed is intended to record that theres been a misuse of 
facility  relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a 
marker, it isnt required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr C is guilty of fraud or a 
financial crime, but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or 
concern. The relevant guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous
What this means in practice is that NatWest must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
entered Mr Cs account, whether they were retained or merely passed through. Secondly, 
NatWest also needs to have strong evidence to show that Mr C was deliberately dishonest in 
receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate payment. This 
can include Mr C allowing someone else to use his account in order to receive an illegitimate 
payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was unwitting; there 
should be enough evidence to show complicity. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention. 
In order to determine Mr Cs complaint, I need to decide whether I think NatWest had 
enough evidence to show fraudulent funds entered Mr Cs account and that his actions 
suggest he was complicit in this. And having considered everything, I find that NatWest has 
done this here. Id like to explain why in a little more detail. 
Mr C said that a random some of money, which he knew nothing about, entered his account 
and was then spent rapidly. Mr C also confirmed that he hadnt provided his details to 
anyone and his bank card as well as his online credentials were with him the whole time.
Ive thought about what Mr C has said. But Im afraid that Mr Cs version of events simply 
isnt supported by the rest of the available evidence. I say this because some of the 
fraudulent funds were transferred to a payee Mr C had paid before. Furthermore, as Mr C 
says he was in possession of his card at all times I dont see how a third-party would have 
been able to withdraw funds from cash machines or make debit card purchases without     
Mr Cs co-operation. 
I realise Mr C says that his online banking and card must have been hacked. But Ive not 
been provided with any credible evidence to corroborate this having been the case. Equally, 
as Mr C says he saw the funds enter his account, I cant see why he didnt report what had 
happened given the funds exited his account over a few days.
So overall and having considered everything, Im satisfied that NatWest did have sufficient 
evidence to show that fraudulent funds entered Mr Cs account. And NatWest was also 
reasonably entitled to conclude that it was more likely than not Mr C was complicit in this. As 
this is the case, I dont think that it was unfair for NatWest to record a fraud prevention 
marker in the circumstances that it did and Im not upholding this complaint. 
I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr C  especially in light of the ongoing impact 
hes said the fraud marker is having on him. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my 
decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to. Furthermore, Mr C 
might find that hes able to open an account with another bank as long as he applies for a 
Basic Bank Account, rather than a full Current Account or any such equivalent. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman