DRN-3753926
The complaint
Miss D complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) closed her account 
in error without receiving 65 days notice. She says the £750 compensation for the poor 
service she received was not enough. 
What happened
Miss D had an account with Halifax. Over the past year Miss D received a number of odd 
letters purporting to be from Halifax asking that she visit a branch to discuss if she had 
overseas bank accounts. Miss D didnt visit Halifax as she viewed the letters as generic and 
didnt have bank accounts overseas. Halifax confirmed that it didnt have any record of these 
letters.
Following a review of Miss Ds account Halifax made a decision to close her account and 
provided her with 65 days notice in its letter dated 14 January 2022. Miss Ds account was 
due to close in May 2022. Miss D did not receive this letter until 24 March 2022.
In the meantime Miss D received a letter dated 14 February 2022 asking she make contact 
with a staff member at a branch of Halifax. On 19 February Miss D spoke with the staff 
member and discussed concerns she had in relation to her account and a detailed 
discussion of the operation of the account took place. The staff member confirmed that she 
didnt have any concerns about Miss Ds account.
Following this Miss D received the account closure letter. Miss D and her sister and nephew 
visited a branch of Halifax to find out why it was closing her account. She says she was told 
by a staff member that he couldnt help her the decision to close her account was made and 
that is that. Miss D says she asked for support, advice and her legal rights regarding her 
personal data but was refused help. Miss D says the staff member kept looking towards her 
nephew in annoyance. Her nephew who has special needs was distressed by the situation 
and was making vocalisations. 
Miss D says she left and returned later asking to speak to a manager. She says she was told 
different names and spoken to by different people and then the same staff member she saw 
previously approached her and said I told you yesterday theres nothing I can do for you. 
She says she was further interrogated by another staff member who stood over her while 
she was talking to another member of staff. She asked him to leave and not listen to her 
private conversation with other staff members. Miss D says she was told the staff member 
they were there to protect the staff member. The conflict escalated where Miss D says the 
staff were negative, unhelpful and unresponsive and was continually given conflicting 
information about her account. Miss D says she left the branch as it was evident this was not 
a positive interaction and she wasnt going to get the professional behaviour that she 
expected.
Halifax internal notes suggest that Miss D was unhappy about Halifax staff not being able to 
give a reason for closing her account and left. That Miss D returned and had decided to 
close her account down before the closing date and that Miss D and her sister wanted to 
record the staff who insisted they couldnt and made them aware if they didnt stop recording 
they would be asked to leave. The notes suggest the staff member felt intimidated, was 
called names and was shouted at by Miss D and her sister. The conflict escalated and both 
Miss D and her sister were asked to leave.
Miss D complained to Halifax about the service she had received and that it closed her 
account without giving the required notice. Halifax initially decided that it hadnt made an 
error and it was entitled to close Miss Ds account in line with the terms and conditions of the 
account. Regarding the service Miss D received in branch it apologised that Miss D wasnt 
happy but on the evidence didnt think that the staff had acted inappropriately.
However, on further review Halifax decided to uphold Miss Ds complaint and decided the 
decision to close Miss Ds account was incorrect. And although Miss D no longer wishes to 
bank with Halifax it confirmed it had removed any internal restrictions that wouldve 
prevented her from banking with it in the future. Halifax accepted that Miss D couldve 
received better service when she visited a Halifax branch and have feed this back to its staff 
and awarded Miss D £750 compensation.
Miss D was dis-satisfied with this and brought her complaint to this service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Miss Ds concerns and reached the conclusion that 
Halifax was entitled to close Miss Ds account and was under no obligation to continue 
offering an account to a customer if it didnt want to. They thought the £750 compensation 
Halifax paid Miss D for the service she received was fair and didnt recommend Halifax do 
anything more.
Miss D disagreed. She doesnt think Halifax admitting it made an error and paying £750 
compensation is enough and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I hope that Miss D wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed her complaint in the 
way that I have. Ours is an informal dispute resolution service, and Ive concentrated on 
what I consider to be the crux of the complaint. Our rules allow me to do that. 
It might help for me to start by explaining that where a business accepts (or we decide) it did 
something wrong, wed expect the business to put the consumer in the position they would 
be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. And we may award modest compensation. 
The crux of Miss Ds complaint is that Halifax incorrectly closed her account without giving 
her the required 65 days notice. She is also unhappy with the service she received in 
branch.
As our adjudicator has already explained a general rule Halifax isnt obliged to continue 
offering an account to a customer if it doesnt want to. Halifax has already agreed that its 
decision to close Miss Ds account was incorrect and that should Miss D wish to open 
another account there are no restrictions in place that would prevent her banking with it in 
the future. So I dont consider I need to made a finding here and as Halifax has confirmed it 
would open an account with Miss D in the future which I consider puts her in the position she 
wouldve been in had the wrong not taken place. 
I understand Miss D would like to know the reason Halifax took the decision to close her 
account but again as has already been explained Halifax isnt obliged to offer a reason. Nevertheless, Halifax has confirmed that the account closure wasnt linked to fraud or 
identity theft.
So the only thing I think is left to consider is whether the £750 compensation paid to Miss D 
is fair for the service she received when her account was closed. 
In the background Ive given a summary of both Miss D and Halifaxs version of events of 
what happened when Miss D visited Halifaxs branch regarding the closure of her account. 
Obviously, this is a case of what Halifax says verses Miss Ds recollection of events and I 
cant say for sure what happened. 
But what I think is clear from both sides is that the branch visit did not go well and conflict 
escalated between Halfiax staff members and Miss D and her sister. Communications broke 
down which resulted in Miss D leaving very unhappily and distressed.
Halifax has already paid Miss D £750 in recognition of the error it made in closing her 
account and the service she received. Miss D doesnt think this is enough. I accept that the 
whole situation left Miss D feeling distressed and insulted. But from the evidence Ive been 
given I think it is likely that the conflict came from both sides and I havent seen enough to 
persuade me that compensation above the £750 paid by Halifax is warranted. 
So on that basis I think what Halifax has already done is a fair and reasonable way to settle 
Miss Ds complaint and Im not going to ask it to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I think what Bank of Scotland plc has already done is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances and I do not think it needs to do anything more for Miss D. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 January 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman