DRN-2522971
The complaint
Mr W complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) unfairly put a default notice 
on his credit file. He would like it removed.
.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the view reached by our investigator for the following reasons:-
Mr W has sent us details of how another company dealt with a default notice 
however in this complaint I can only consider Nationwides actions. 
Businesses dont have to register defaults as soon as a consumer enters a debt 
management plan (dmp). The sooner a default is registered the sooner it expires  but 
time to pay off outstanding debts to avoid defaults can be helpful. Mr W was making  
reasonable monthly repayments of approximately 2/3 of his minimum required 
payment, so I dont think it was unreasonable for Nationwide not to apply a default as 
soon as he entered a dmp in case his financial situation improved. 
Nationwide has accepted it didnt update Mr Ws address details when it should have. 
It has offered Mr W £100 compensation. As Mr W has told us he isnt seeking any 
financial redress I will leave it to him to decide if he wishes to take this or not. 
Nationwide sent the  default notice to  the correct address so Mr W should have got 
this. Mr W has recently told us he did have access to correspondence at his previous 
address. If so, I dont see why he wouldnt have received all of Nationwides 
correspondence. But even if this were not the case, Ive seen correspondence from 
Mr W to Nationwide in March 2016 acknowledging he had received correspondence 
about the  default.. Unfortunately the default had already been applied by this time. 
But I am satisfied Mr W was aware of it.
Mr W has told us he has suffered financially as a result of the default Nationwide 
registered. He hasnt given us any evidence of this. But if he has had problems this 
might be for any number of reasons not just because of Nationwides actions.
I dont think I can reasonably ask Nationwide to either remove the default or to 
change the date it was registered to when Mr W entered his dmp. Its important that 
credit files accurately reflect account history. As Mr W didnt meet the minimum 
payments, I dont think Nationwide were wrong to apply a default and I dont think it 
was unreasonable to allow some time on  a dmp prior to issuing the default
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2021.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman