DRN-3118212
The complaint
Mr M says the advice given to him by Mantle & Partners Limited (Mantle) to transfer his two 
Executive Pension Plans (EPPs) into a personal pension with Legal & General (L&G) was 
unsuitable. Hes says this meant he lost important features from his pension arrangements 
and has suffered financial detriment as a result. 
Mr M has also brought a complaint on behalf of the estate of his late wife. Although it raises 
similar issues and he and his wife received advice about their pensions together, that case is 
being dealt with separately.
What happened
Mr M set-up a company pension scheme 1992 with the help of his financial adviser. Mr M 
was an employee and owner of his business and both he and his wife were trustees of the 
company pension scheme.
In June 2006, Mr Ms financial adviser passed away. He and his wife became clients of 
Mantle in September 2006. It conducted a financial review of their circumstances and 
outlook in August 2007. Some months later they sought advice about their pension 
arrangements and in April 2008 Mantle produced a financial planning report. 
Mr M had two EPPs - one with L&G which was established in 1992 and another with Scottish 
Equitable which was set-up in 2005. He also had a personal pension plan with Scottish 
Equitable. 
An EPP brought different, and often greater, tax advantages to the consumer and their 
employer prior to April 2006. For example, if the employer made contributions it saved 
corporation tax on the amount it contributed. And there was the potential to obtain tax-free 
cash (TFC) in excess of 25% of the pension pot. EPPs now operate under broadly the same 
rules as personal pensions.
At the time of the advice the total transfer value of Mr Ms pensions was recorded as around 
£201,000. His planned retirement age was 65. Mantle recommended he should transfer his 
EPPs into a new plan with L&G. It advised him this would meet his objective to rationalise 
his pension arrangements, reduce the fees applied to his pot, give him access to a wider 
range of funds and provide the prospect of stronger investment growth.
Mr M accepted Mantles recommendations and theres documentation showing these were 
given effect shortly afterwards. For example, Ive seen forms signed on behalf of the 
trustees of the L&G EPP in May 2008 surrendering the policy and instructing that proceeds 
be paid into the new personal pension.
Sadly, Mrs M passed away in early 2019. Mr M says that shortly after this on reviewing their 
financial affairs, the disadvantages of having transferred their funds out of their EPPs 
became apparent. He says Mantle failed to make these clear in 2008 when advising him and 
his wife. 
For example, Mr M was surprised to find the trust had been closed  which he says he never 
agreed to. He says this meant he was unable to keep his wifes benefits within the trust after 
she passed away. Instead these had to be paid out as a cash lump-sum. After further 
investigation, Mr M also discovered he couldnt invest in commercial property with his L&G 
pension. He recalls this being one of the reasons he set up his EPP in the first place. 
Mr M says hes lost out financially by following Mantles advice. He feels hes surrendered 
significant flexibilities and benefits that were part of his EPPs. 
As his journey with this Service has evolved Mr M has elaborated on his complaint. For 
example, hes raised the loss of potential enhanced tax-free cash (TFC) entitlement with his 
former plans. Hes also said subsequent to its advice in 2008, Mantle shouldve 
recommended he and his wife put in place more up to date and appropriate pension 
arrangements, such as a Self-invested Personal Pension (SIPP). And hes said it neither 
conducted nor offered a review of his arrangements since 2016.
Mantle says its advice in 2008 was suitable. It says Mr M isnt worse off as a result of that 
advice. It said Mr and Mrs Ms EPPs never had the facility to invest in commercial property. And 
it says that the way in which Mrs Ms benefits became available on her passing wouldve been 
similar under her EPPs compared to her personal pension. 
Mantle noted that it hadnt been asked to provide Mr and Mrs M with advice about the possibility 
of investing in commercial property, including their own business premise. It noted the risk 
assessment process it had been through with them and said on this basis and given their 
capacity for loss, it wouldnt have recommended such a proposal anyway. 
Mantel says that while vehicles such as SIPPs and SSASs can provide important flexibilities, 
they also tend to be more costly and have increased administrative overheads compared with 
personal pensions. So, unless theyd been about to make use of such flexibilities, it wouldnt 
have been sensible to establish such a facility in 2008. 
The investigator didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. While he couldnt find evidence Mantle had 
properly set out the wider pros and cons for the closure of his EPPs in 2008, nor could he find 
evidence of any financial detriment caused.
Mr M disagreed. He reiterated some of the arguments hed already made. Here are some 
extracts from his last response to the Investigator:
I still feel that the dissolving of the [trust] without our knowledge and therefore without our 
agreement and the subsequent loss of the Executive Pensions was not properly explained 
and neither was the effect of the transfer into the new L&G schemes the aim [being] to 
provide greater flexibility and [choice] of investment strategiesWe thought the transfer into 
the new pension arrangements would still have been within the [trust] So, we did not fully 
realisewhat we were giving up. 
the lack of advice and pension reviews that might have modernised what we now know 
as old and outdated plans and arrangements could have been modified and updated to suit 
our current expectations and risk strategyAt the very least I would be expecting some 
compensation for this lack of appropriate information and a general lack of careI would 
suggest that a suitable remedy would be a return to me of those fees that were paid to 
[Mantel] over the years for their incomplete and inadequate advice and guidance.
Mr Ms complaint has been passed to me for review and final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My decision will only deal with matters relevant to the complaint Mr M brought to this Service 
in October 2019. This will cover most of the concerns hes raised. But I wont be dealing with 
some of the arguments hes made later in his journey with us, for example in relation to his 
assertion about a lack of a financial review from 2016. Thats because he needs give Mantel 
an opportunity to respond to his concerns before this Service can get involved.
The events complained about happened over a decade ago. Memories can and do fade. 
And it can be difficult to exclude the benefit of hindsight. Wheres theres conflicting 
information about the events complained about and gaps in what we know, my role is to 
weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, whats most 
likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive reviewed various available documents important to my consideration, for example the 
record of the financial review conducted between Mr M, his wife and Mantel in August 2007. 
And the suitability report it produced for them dated 21 April 2008.
The suitability report provides an analysis of each of the pensions held by Mr and Mrs M in 
2008. Theres also a recommendations section. While I agree that the wording used by 
Mantel in some areas couldve been clearer, taken together I think its more likely than not 
that at the time Mr M wouldve understood the advice he was receiving was to rationalise his 
arrangements by closing his EPPs and moving his funds into a personal pension plan.
My conclusion here is strengthened when I think about the terms in which the suitability 
report captured Mr and Mrs Ms objectives for their pension planning: 
You have asked [Mantle] to carry out a review to ascertain if your current [pension] plans
are suitable for you. Ideally you would like to consolidate your arrangements into one plan
for ease of administration and planning
 
However, I agree with the Investigator when he found Mantle didnt do enough to explain to 
Mr and Mrs M the full consequences of transferring their EPP benefits to a personal pension 
plan. For example, Ive no reason to doubt Mr M when he says he didnt realise this meant 
the trust in his firms name, necessary for establishing an EPP, had been closed. And theres 
no evidence showing they were made aware of wider arguments for keeping or closing such 
an arrangement.
Mr M has said hes lost out in several ways as a result of the closure of his EPPs and the 
trust they were held in. He says he wouldnt have proceeded with Mantels recommendations 
in 2008 had he been aware of the implications. So, Ive examined the main arguments hes 
made. 
Because the advantages of an EPP have eroded over time, we do see consumers who have 
switched to cheaper and / or simpler alternatives. But wed expect an adviser to consider the 
benefits offered by an existing EPP before recommending someone should transfer. Thats 
because EPPs sometimes had protected TFC and g uarantees associated with annuities, 
which would be lost on transfer.So, this was my starting point. One of the points Mr M raised with us later in his complaint 
journey concerned the impact of the move from his EPPs to a personal pension plan on his 
TFC entitlement. His current financial adviser said:
What Mantles should have doneas part of the advice to transfer away from the scheme, 
was try to calculate what level of tax free cash you might have been entitled to if you 
retained that scheme versus the standard 25% under any new schemePutting aside for 
the moment the ability to use the scheme for the purchase of a commercial property, [the 
Ombudsman] should be understanding of the fact that under EPP rules, tax free cash was 
not necessarily restricted to 25% of the fund value. 
Ive thought about Mr Ms position. And Ive reviewed the suitability report Mantel prepared 
for him. The impact of the transfer from his EPPs to a personal pension on his TFC 
entitlement was set out in the report. For his larger L&G EPP, Mantel concluded there was 
no impact because he wasnt entitled to more than 25% of the then existing value. 
Scottish Widows had calculated that for his second EPP his entitlement equated to 26% of 
the then fund value. So, in theory hed have lost a small TFC provision as a result of transfer. 
But Mantel expected the impact of fund growth (which it expected to exceed inflation) would 
mean that by retirement, this protected TFC would be less than 26%. 
I think the matter of TFC was set out reasonably clearly in Mantels report for Mr and Mrs M. 
I think its more likely than not Mr M was aware of any potential small trade-off at the time 
and he accepted the recommendation to proceed in knowledge of such.
I note Mr Ms recent observation about advice he received about not purchasing an annuity 
with the death benefits from his wifes pension, because n the current climate they didnt 
make financial sense. Nevertheless, with regard to the transfer undertaken between his 
EPPs and the L&G personal pension, for completeness I can confirm Ive not seen anything 
which indicates his EPPs benefitted from guarantees associated with an annuity.
In bringing his complaint, Mr M told us:
As I recall one of the reasons for setting up the original company pension trust fund was to 
be able to invest in commercial property.
Mr M says that when the opportunity arose in March 2019 to purchase the freehold of the 
shop which houses his business, he found he could no longer go down that route. He had to 
take out a mortgage in order to purchase the freehold of his shop. He says if the EPPs had 
been in place, he couldve utilised the pension funds and therefore saved money.
I accept Mr Ms recollection from 1992 about one of the reasons for establishing his 
company pension scheme was to invest in commercial property. I note that for over a quarter 
of a century there doesnt appear to have been an exploration of that facility. 
More specifically, I can't see there was any mention of Mr Ms desire to invest in commercial 
property in the 2007 fact-find Mantel undertook, nor during the 2008 advice process, which 
was focussed on his pension arrangements. And I wouldn't have expected Mantle to have 
discussed such a proposition with him based on the objectives stated and the information 
available. If property investment was a goal at the time, I wouldve expected it to have been 
included in the report.
In any event, it seems had Mr M remained in his EPPs and later sought to have invested his 
funds in commercial property, hes likely to have been disappointed. I say this because the Investigator found the providers of those plans had indicated it hadnt been a feature of his 
EPPs to invest in commercial property. 
So, Mr M would more likely than not have needed to convert his EPPs into a vehicle such as 
a SIPP or small self-administered scheme (SASS), in order to be able to proceed with any 
investment/loan arrangement in connection with his business premises (subject of course to 
the relevant regulations, entitlements and conditions).
In the absence of any evidence to the contrary, I cant agree Mr M has suffered the financial 
detriment here that he says is Mantels responsibility, flowing from its advice in 2008 to 
transfer his EPP benefits into a personal pension.
Mr M is also unhappy his late wifes benefits had to be paid out to him in cash, rather than 
remaining in a trust as an asset, which he thinks wouldve been the case had their EPPs 
remained in place. He says this has had a financial impact because rather than being added 
to his own EPP, the death benefits have been paid out and have lost their tax-free status. Mr 
M is also concerned about the impact on his own death benefits as a result of the transfer.
ReAssure - on behalf of L&G  has confirmed that death benefits from an individuals EPP 
fund have to be distributed, for example to the named beneficiary to be taken as a lump sum 
or an annuity. Ive not seen anything which makes me think it was otherwise for Scottish 
Equitable. I note Mr M was informed the death benefits he was to receive would normally be 
available tax-free. And he chose to take a lump sum. He had a choice about how to use the 
money. 
Ive not seen any evidence which demonstrates Mr Ms options for taking death benefits 
were diminished as a result of Mantels advice in 2008. It follows that Ive not found any 
financial detriment. 
More recently Mr M has raised an argument that his EPPs wouldve outperformed the L&G 
personal pension he was transferred to, over the same period. He also feels the ongoing 
fees paid to Mantle were unjustified and the cost of dissolving the trust was unnecessary.
As Ive noted, the suitability report which detailed Mantles recommendation to Mr and Mrs
M listed their objectives. A risk assessment was also carried out and they were classified as 
having a balanced appetite. This was said to mean:
You are prepared to accept a risk to get potential returns above inflation over the long-term, 
but you want to limit the amount of your money in more risky investments. Balanced 
portfolios invest in a mix of UK and worldwide company shares, typically 50%, and non-
equity investments. Investments in shares through balanced portfolios is a way of benefitting 
from the performance of many different kinds of companies.
Mantel notes that using pension funds to invest in a commercial property carries significant 
risk and this wouldve been especially the case had Mr M decided to put the funds into his 
own business. It says such a proposal was beyond Mr and Mrs Ms risk appetite and their 
capacity for loss. It says it wouldnt have recommended such a move, but that in any event 
the matter of such investments were never raised in the advice process in 2008.
Mantle recommended Mr M transfer to a lower priced L&G personal pension and invest in an 
asset mix which reflected his appetite for risk. Aside from the established lack of information 
it provided concerning any relevant wider implications of transferring his EPP benefits, 
Mantle did outline important pros and cons of staying with their original arrangements and 
switching to a single personal pension, and in the context of their stated objectives.Mr and Mrs M signed to agree they had received Mantels advice along with the relevant 
cost information before proceeding with its recommendations. The suitability report included 
comparative growth projections; and relevant information about the costs associated with 
switching to the new pension.
Im therefore satisfied Mantle provided Mr and Mrs M with all the necessary information for 
them to make an informed decision about the future of their pensions. And that its 
recommendations were broadly suitable. 
Had Mantel provided more information about the wider pros and cons of retaining Mr M and 
Mrs Ms EPPs, I think its more likely than not they still wouldve proceeded with the transfer. I 
say this because the benefits such as lower costs, simpler administration and wider fund 
choice wouldve seemed reasonable prospects at the time. And having established that little 
was lost through the transfer, I cant see why they wouldve taken a different decision.
The passing of Mr Ms wife was clearly a major change in his circumstances. Inevitably, this 
caused him to review his financial situation. I dont know what financial advice he sought at 
this time. There wouldve been a range of options for how he could best manage his assets 
and estate, including the death benefits from his wifes pension and his own pension 
provision. 
The events of 2019, which were obviously unforeseeable in 2008, triggered the need for Mr 
M to reappraise his financial arrangements. But Ive not found a clear and direct line of 
evidence which shows the advice hes complained about from 2008 was unsuitable or has 
caused him financial detriment. So, it wouldnt be reasonable for me to require Mantel to do 
anything further
My final decision
For the reasons Ive already set out, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2021. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman