DRN-4476272
The complaint
Mr W is represented by his solicitors. He and his solicitors say Hargreaves Lansdown Asset 
Management Limited (HL) failed, between December 2021 and January 2022, to safeguard 
his pension and Stocks and Shares Individual Savings Account (ISA) assets, to warn him 
about fraud and to protect his assets from the Authorised Push Payment (APP) fraud that 
they were subjected to at the time  leading to a total financial loss of almost £900,000. 
HL sympathises with Mr Ws situation and his financial loss, but it disputes the complaint and 
says it discharged its safeguarding and fraud prevention obligations in his case.
What happened
Mr Ws household was subjected to an APP fraud campaign between December 2021 and 
January 2022, and he was the second victim of the fraud. His wife was targeted first. His 
solicitors submissions and chronology of events include (and begin with) the facts of the 
fraud she was subjected to. The events concerning her case have been addressed 
separately in her complaints, but the background to Mr Ws case that arises from those 
events can be summarised as follows:
Between 2 and 15 December 2021 Mr Ws wife and her assets were targeted for the 
same APP fraud, from the same fraudsters, that was subsequently applied to him.
During this period, she received repeated and persistent contacts and 
communications from the fraudsters purporting to be from the regulator. They gained 
her confidence and convinced her that access to her financial assets had been 
compromised, that the assets were being subjected to fraud, that the matter was 
under regulatory investigation (overseen by them), that she needed to keep this 
information to herself, that she could not disclose the matter to the account providers 
for her financial assets because their staff could be implicated in the fraud, and that 
she needed to follow their [the fraudsters] guidance and cooperate with their 
investigation in order to safeguard her assets. 
She was then manipulated and coached into taking steps that resulted in her 
withdrawing cash holdings from her investment accounts, liquidating investments 
within those accounts and withdrawing the proceeds, moving all the withdrawals into 
her nominated bank account and then transferring all the withdrawals from her bank 
account into a crypto currency wallet controlled by the fraudsters. At this point, and 
thereafter, the fraud was concluded. She lost all the transferred funds. 
The fraudsters then targeted Mr W from 16 December 2021 onwards, and up to 21 January 
2022. During this period, they used the same approach and method as they had applied to 
his wife. Withdrawals were made from his HL accounts (on 17, 20 and 22 December 2021, 
and on 7 January 2022) into his nominated bank account, and they were eventually 
transferred into the crypto currency wallet controlled by the fraudsters. The present case is 
about his losses in the HL accounts. He incurred losses elsewhere, as part of the same APP 
fraud campaign, which are subject to a separate complaint.
Mr W and his wife had been assured by the fraudsters that the conclusion of the [false] 
regulatory investigation and the return of their funds will happen by February 2022. Nothing 
happened in that month, or since. His solicitors mainly say that HL failed to give him effective 
warnings about fraud during his liquidation and withdrawal activities; failed to properly query 
the withdrawals, given how unusual they were; failed to detect and warn about the risk of 
exposure to fraud in his activities and to block the transactions within them; and failed to 
detect the suspicious activities in the accounts at the time (including increased account log-
ins), which were outside the norm for him.
One of our investigators concluded that Mr Ws complaint should not be upheld, because, 
overall and in the circumstances as they were, HL could not reasonably have done more 
than it did. He mainly said:
Regulatory standards set out in the Senior Management Arrangements, Systems and 
Controls (SYSC) section of the regulators Handbook require firms to have, maintain 
and apply effective and proportionate policies, procedures, systems and controls to 
counter the risks of being used to further financial crimes (including fraud). This, 
alongside the regulatory principle requiring firms to uphold their customers interests 
and treat them fairly, defines HLs role in the case.
HL provided an execution only service for the accounts. Nevertheless, the facts show 
that it complied with its internal policy on spotting suspicious transactions. By having 
the policy and complying with it, it met the SYSC requirements. 
Withdrawals of the scale made by Mr W were not uncommon for someone at 
retirement age as he was/is. In addition, they were made to the nominated bank 
account (held with a regulated UK bank) for the HL accounts. Neither the withdrawals 
nor their destination would have raised HLs suspicion. 
HL conducted a telephone risk questionnaire with Mr W on 20 December; evidence 
shows that it made him aware of the potential risks and tax implications of the 
withdrawals and that he confirmed to HL he had taken advice from a regulated 
financial adviser; on 23 December HL sent him correspondence and guidance 
information about taking lump sums from his pension, which included warnings about 
investment scams and an invitation (and link) to visit HLs Security page for further 
information; and telephone recording evidence of the calls between the parties shows 
that Mr W behaved calmly and did not conduct himself in a manner that would have 
given HL cause to be suspicious.
He was subjected to a cruel and sophisticated fraud in which he was extensively 
coached by the fraudsters, and was convinced he could not trust his account 
providers. It is unlikely that any intervention from HL would have made a difference to 
the outcome. He had even been coached to refer to the withdrawals being intended 
for a property purchase, in the event that his account providers questioned him about 
their purpose.
Mr Ws solicitors say HL should have been alerted by the unusually higher number of 
account log-ins by him at the time. Given his liquidation of the accounts, this would 
not have been unusual. 
His solicitors have also mentioned personal circumstances at the time that made him 
vulnerable, but HL was not informed about these circumstances until after the fraud 
event/period, so it could not reasonably have been expected to take extra 
precautions specifically in that respect. Mr W and his solicitors disagree with this outcome. They say the investigators view fails to 
take fully into account the sophisticated nature of the fraud he was subjected to; that HL 
ought reasonably to have queried and blocked what amounted to extremely irregular 
transactions (complete liquidation of the HL accounts), regardless of the withdrawal 
destination being the nominated bank account; that he was led to believe the fraudsters 
were from the regulator and that his cooperation with them would protect his assets; that the 
withdrawals contrasted with his normal account use and profile; that, contrary to the 
investigators finding, it is impossible to know whether (or not) Mr W would have referred to a 
property purchase if questioned about the purpose of his withdrawals; and that it is entirely 
likely that effective warnings from HL would have resulted in him realising he was being 
defrauded. 
The investigator was not persuaded to change his view, and the matter was referred to an 
Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusion as the investigators. I do not uphold 
Mr Ws complaint.
I should declare that I issued the decisions in his wifes complaints about her losses in the 
same APP fraud campaign. As stated above, the facts of his case share the same 
background as his wifes, and the same approach taken by the fraudsters towards her was 
subsequently applied to him. Therefore, there is significant common ground between his and 
his wifes cases. I did not uphold her complaints, and that resulted from broadly the same 
grounds on which I have concluded that Mr Ws complaint against HL is not upheld.
The fact that Mr W was, and remains, the victim of a sophisticated and deplorable APP fraud 
campaign is not disputed in this case. HL and the investigator have expressed their empathy 
in this respect, and I do the same. I understand the emphasis that his solicitors have placed 
on the fact that he was subjected to such a fraud. However, my task is to determine his 
allegation that there were failings by HL in the matter which facilitated the fraud. For the 
reasons given below, I do not find there were such failings.
There is not, and there should not be, doubt over the regulatory obligations HL was expected 
to discharge during the events in this case. Those obligations are clear in the relevant SYSC 
provisions and regulatory principles that the investigator quoted and referenced. HL would 
also have been aware of information to firms from the regulator over time about their 
responsibilities to have (in their operations) and apply measures for fraud prevention and the 
avoidance of fraud facilitation. For these reasons, HL had a duty to safeguard Mr Ws assets, 
to protect them from the risk of fraud and to inform him on how to do the same. 
His solicitors say HL failed to discharge this duty, so the main issues to determine are what 
HL did; whether (or not) that discharged its regulatory obligations; and whether (or not), it 
ought reasonably to have done more. 
HLs involvement in the matter began when Mr Ws wife, who was defrauded first, used its 
online platform to liquidate assets in her HL accounts. However, the campaign had begun 
earlier.  
HL had/has nothing to do with the fraud campaign in the background, beginning in early December 2021, during which the fraudsters maintained contact with Mr W and his wife, and 
manipulated them into facilitating the fraud against themselves. It is a fact that HL was 
uninformed, and that it remained unaware, of this background during the liquidation and 
withdrawal events that followed. It first learnt about this background, from Mr Ws wife, in 
February 2022, around a month after the fraud campaign had concluded. It is therefore 
important to consider the events of which HL was aware, and in which it was involved. They 
were essentially the asset liquidation and withdrawal activities/events within Mr Ws HL 
accounts.
It is accepted that HL (including its online account operations) enabled the liquidation and 
withdrawal activities in the accounts. Without knowledge of the fraudsters involvement, it 
had no reason not to enable these activities. The accounts belonged to Mr W, he was 
entitled to manage them however he wished, and HL provided an execution only service so 
it had no role to play in managing the accounts or the activities within them. 
The asset liquidations in the HL ISA and pension accounts would not have triggered any 
meaningful safeguarding or asset protection concern. From HLs viewpoint, and without 
knowledge of the background, any record on its system about the liquidations would have 
indicated no more than investment, and/or a personal, decisions to liquidate by Mr W. 
Therefore, the liquidations would not have raised any suspicion. They happen commonly in 
these types of accounts, for different reasons. There is no basis to find that HL should have 
done more to query the reason for the liquidations. It neither advised nor managed the 
accounts. 
As stated in the previous section, cash and liquidated proceeds in the HL accounts were 
moved out of those accounts and into Mr Ws nominated bank account, they were then 
eventually transferred into the fraudsters crypto currency wallet. The initial movement of his 
[cash] assets out of the HL accounts certainly triggered HLs safeguarding and asset 
protection responsibilities, because that movement was to a destination outside its remit so it 
was obliged to ensure the movement was safe. 
The withdrawals from the HL accounts were directed to the UK bank account that had been 
nominated (and verified) for such purpose. This provided its own layer of protection, by 
ensuring money taken out of the HL accounts that belonged to Mr W was paid into the 
verified UK bank account that also belonged to, and was nominated, by him. In other words, 
nothing about the destination of the withdrawals was, and would have been, suspicious or 
unsafe to HL. 
From the ISA, £90,000 was withdrawn on 17 December 2021, £99,999 was withdrawn on 20 
January 2021, and two withdrawals totalling £134,990 happened on 22 December 2021. 
Having liquidated his pension assets on 18 December 2021, on 20 December 2021 Mr W 
asked HL for an Uncrystallised Funds Pension Lump Sum (UFPLS) payment from his 
pension. His completed UFPLS application was received by HL on 29 December 2021, and 
on 7 January 2022 it remitted the net liquidation proceeds from the pension account 
(£570,350) to his nominated bank account. 
The withdrawals required more diligence from HL in terms of protecting Mr Ws assets, but 
this expectation should be balanced with his entitlement, as an account holder, to make 
withdrawals from his HL accounts without undue delay, interruption, or hindrance from HL  
especially as they were execution only accounts.
HLs terms of service required it to apply additional checks for withdrawals over £99,999. 
There is evidence from 20 December 2021 that it sought to apply such checks in Mr Ws ISA 
withdrawals. He called HL on this date attempting to enable single withdrawals from the ISA 
above this level. Telephone call recording evidence shows that HL applied its policy of requiring a written instruction for such a withdrawal, and that it informed him of this 
requirement. HL did not receive the written instruction and followed up on the matter, it then 
learnt from him that he had decided withdrawals at the threshold were sufficient. 
No single withdrawal from the ISA breached the £99,999 withdrawal threshold, but it is clear 
that three of them were close to the threshold, and that they could have been viewed as 
designed to avoid crossing it. There is also provision within HLs terms prompting it to look 
into repeated withdrawals below the threshold. Therefore, I have considered if the three 
noted withdrawals should have raised HLs suspicions. 
On balance, I am not persuaded that they should have. In hindsight, they can be considered 
with the knowledge of the background fraud that we are now aware of. However, at the time 
HL did not have such knowledge. From its viewpoint they were online withdrawals, spaced 
out over six days, from an ISA by its owner to his nominated and verified UK bank account. 
Furthermore, HL had heard from Mr W during the withdrawals  during its conversations with 
him about withdrawing above the threshold  so it knew the withdrawals were genuinely 
being made by him. The three withdrawals did not constitute sufficient repetition, in its view, 
to prompt further safeguarding enquiries. In the above context, I am not persuaded that it did 
anything wrong in this respect.
With regards to withdrawal of the net liquidation proceeds from the pension, there was more 
intervention by HL and additional enquiries, which happened over the telephone and in 
writing. 
There was another telephone conversation between the parties on 20 December 2021, in 
which Mr W enquired into withdrawing the pension liquidation proceeds. A risk questionnaire 
was applied by HL for this purpose. Evidence of the questionnaire shows his responses. 
Based on those responses, HL established, amongst other things, that he was making his 
own decision about the withdrawal; he was in receipt of advice from Pension Wise and from 
his own regulated financial adviser; he understood the risks to his pension and retirement 
arrangements in making the withdrawal; he understood the investment and tax implications 
of the withdrawal; and he was aware of and understood the risk of exposure to investment 
scams especially for those who had withdrawn capital from their pension.
On 23 December HL sent Mr W a message setting out the steps he needed to take for the 
UFPLS application and the matters he should consider in doing so. 
Relevant to his complaint, the message said  Its a good idea to familiarise yourself with 
the sort of scams around at the moment. Visit our Security Centre for more information and 
learn how you can stay safe by clicking here. The underlined links destination included an 
information page about APP fraud. This page essentially described exactly what Mr W and 
his wife were being subjected to at the time. It said customers should be wary of common 
signs of such fraud, including fraudsters pretending to be from trusted organisations like the 
regulator; fraudsters telling them their assets are at risk and that they need to be moved into 
a safe place; and fraudsters telling them to give false reasons to their bank or other financial 
institution in order to make withdrawals. The page also described how APP fraud had 
increased significantly in 2021.
The UFPLS form was also linked to the message and it had an attached guide which 
included notice about tax implications and warning about scams targeting people at 
retirement (and signs to look out for).
HL did enough between 20 and 23 December 2021 to raise enquiries and to give warnings 
that gave Mr W multiple opportunities to share what was happening in the background. Had 
he done that, HL would undoubtedly have protected his assets from the fraudsters, from the point of his disclosure onwards, and that would have saved most, if not all, of his losses. He 
did not disclose the background to HL and, unfortunately for him, there was nothing in his 
interactions with HL that could reasonably have triggered its suspicion. This is not intended 
as a criticism of Mr W. I have already acknowledged that he was subjected to a deplorable 
manipulation of his trust and confidence by the fraudsters, in which they abused and 
misused both. He sincerely believed them and believed he was safeguarding his assets 
through his cooperation with them and through the withdrawals. These were the reasons he 
did not disclose any of the background to HL.
However, the complaint he and his solicitors have submitted seeks to make HL responsible 
for his financial loss, so the point above should be made. On balance, grounds for such 
responsibility do not exist. Without being told about what was happening in the background 
and in the absence of anything suspicious in the liquidations and withdrawals, I do not 
consider that HL ought reasonably to have done more than it did. It was mindful of its 
regulatory obligation to protect Mr Ws assets from fraud and to avoid facilitating fraud. It 
discharged that obligation, and the evidence summarised above shows this. It had a policy 
and practices for this purpose and it applied them. Nothing arose during their application to 
give it cause to query further or to block the withdrawals. Indeed, taking such actions without 
good reason to do so could have amounted to unreasonable conduct.
I have considered the specific matter of vulnerability presented in Mr Ws case. The details 
are of a personal nature and they do not need to be set out in this decision. Available 
evidence confirms that HL was unaware of, and uninformed about, it until around March 
2022, months after the events of December 2021 and January 2022. Therefore, this factor 
could not reasonably have been expected to influence its approach.
Overall, on balance and based on all the reasoned grounds above, I find that HL cannot 
reasonably be held responsible for Mr Ws losses.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 January 2024.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman