DRN-4028113
The complaint
Mrs G complains that Next Retail Limited (Next) has unfairly recorded adverse information 
on her credit file. 
What happened
Mrs G holds a NextPay account with Next. She says that due to postal problems caused by 
the Covid-19 pandemic she didnt receive her account statements and, as a result, her 
payments were made late. She says the late payments markers subsequently recorded on 
her credit file have impacted her ability to borrow money from another lender. She 
complained to Next as she felt it hadnt taken into account the wider impact of the pandemic 
when recording the adverse information on her credit file.
Next says a statement issued to Mrs G in August 2020 explained that a payment of £5 was 
due by 18 October 2020. But when the payment wasnt received, the account fell into arrears 
on 25 November 2020 when the next statement was issued. It says a similar situation 
occurred on two further occasions in 2021 and 2022. 
Next added that on each occasion Mrs Gs payment was late it sent email reminders to the 
email address it held for Mrs G. Next acknowledged that Mrs G did subsequently make 
some payments, but it explained that the payments were received after the due date, so it 
maintained that the information it had recorded on Mrs Gs credit file was an accurate 
reflection on how the account had been managed. And it didnt agree to remove the 
information it had recorded. But it did send Mrs G a £10 gift card by way of an apology as 
Mrs G didnt receive a promised call back from a manager. 
Mrs G didnt accept this outcome and she referred to complaint to this service. She 
reiterated that she felt that Next hadnt taken the situation around the pandemic into 
consideration and she said that important mail should been sent via a signed for postal 
service. She added that her email address had changed but she was unable to update it. 
And when she asked Next to help update the email address it wouldnt help her.   
One of our investigators looked into Mrs Gs complaint but he didnt uphold it. Mrs G didnt 
accept the investigators outcome. In summary  she said, that Next had not updated her 
email address when she asked it to and that Next should be reprimanded for its mistakes. 
She also said she wasnt responsible for postal delays due to the pandemic.
As agreement couldnt be reached, Mrs Gs complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should explain at this point that its not our role to punish businesses  we are not the 
regulator. Our role is to look at the evidence provided by both parties and decide if a 
business has done something wrong. If it has, we ask the business to put the consumer 
back in the position they would have been had the error not occurred. We also consider 
whether an award for any distress and inconvenience caused by an error is warranted. 
  
So, to uphold Mrs Gs complaint Id need to be satisfied that Next had done something 
wrong. And having considered the evidence provided by both parties, I dont think it did. I 
appreciate Mrs G will be disappointed, as having late payment markers on her credit file can 
impact on future borrowing, so Ill explain why.
Mrs G hasnt disputed that some monthly payments due to her Next account have been paid 
late. But she says this was a result of non-receipt of her statements due to the covid 
pandemic impacting Royal Mail deliveries. 
I accept that the pandemic did impact the Royal Mail. I also accept that Mrs G isnt 
responsible for those problems. But when reaching a decision, I also have to bear in mind 
that Next wasnt responsible for the problems caused by the pandemic either. So, Ive 
thought carefully about what else Next provided to make Mrs G aware of what she needed to 
pay and by what date. 
Ive seen that Next also sent email correspondence to Mrs G when payments werent 
received on time. I appreciate Mrs G says the email address Next held for her was no longer 
active. But I agree with the investigator that it was for Mrs G to keep Next updated with the 
correct email address. Ive noted what Mrs G has said about Next not helping her update her 
email address. But Ive not seen anything to suggest that Mrs G contacted Next about 
changing her email address prior to raising her complaint. So, Im not persuaded that Next 
did anything wrong when it sent emails to the email address it held for Mrs G. 
In any event, even if Mrs G didnt receive her statements and emails, Im persuaded Mrs G 
could have accessed information about her account online. NextPay accounts are online 
accounts and, as the investigator explained, the online account summary confirms what 
payments are due. And from what Ive seen Mrs G had access to her account online as her 
statements show that she was actively using her account when the payments were due. So, 
Im persuaded that Next provided Mrs G with enough alternative ways of accessing 
information about her account for her to know when payments were due.  
Lenders have a regulatory obligation to report accurate information to the credit reference 
agencies (CRA). As Mrs G didnt make some payments on time, Im satisfied that Next 
hasnt made a mistake when this information was reported to the CRA. So, I wont be asking 
it to remove the information it recorded on her credit file.
Next has accepted that a promised manager call back wasnt made. It sent Mrs G a £10 gift 
card by way of an apology. I think this is a suitable compensation for this mistake as non-
receipt of a call back hasnt prevented Mrs G from pursuing her complaint. 
 
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2023.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman