DRN-4460893
The complaint
Mr M complains that Nationwide Building Societys (Nationwide) payment system has a 
technical flaw with payments not being processed and paid on the dates requested. 
What happened
Mr M said he encountered two problems with payments; they are often not sent on the day 
selected, (sometimes processed up to three working days later), and with regard to post-
dated transactions, he has to select view/cancel payments a day or two later to see that the 
payment has been set up as they seem to disappear a day or two before they are due to go. 
Mr M said that in order to avoid late credit card fees he has had to make second payments, 
which on occasions has been the first to leave his account, followed by the original payment. 
He said this issue seems to be unique to Nationwide and he has provided examples of this.
Nationwide said that one of the payments cant be seen using the account function. But Mr 
M thought this was incorrect and set up a nominal payment to show that it could be seen, 
and Nationwides agent accepted this. Mr M said Nationwide only gave a partial explanation, 
which doesnt account for his experience and its explanations have been contradictory. 
Mr M complained to Nationwide about the difficulties hes been caused. Nationwide said that 
payment instructions after 10pm hours are processed the next day. But Mr M said hes seen 
instances where the payment has gone through three working days later. And so he doesnt 
accept Nationwides explanation. 
Nationwide said that a credit card payment to which Mr M referred was instructed after 10pm 
and was paid the next working day. It said this could be clearer but is explained in its terms 
and conditions. Nationwide said the following day it wasnt shown as a forthcoming payment 
as this was the day of payment and it would be too late to cancel it. Mr M didnt realise this 
and sent a duplicate payment. Nationwide apologised for advising him to make the payment 
again and paid him £60 compensation.  
Mr M wasnt satisfied with this response and referred his complaint to our service. Our 
investigator didnt recommend that it be upheld. She said Nationwide had carried out further 
extensive investigation of a number of Mr Ms payment transactions, and provided robust IT 
evidence the payments he requested have been correctly processed.
The investigator said there was no definitive reason for the delay in the payment leaving Mr 
Ms account, but online payments rely on the processing time of the sending and receiving 
bank. She said she hadnt found Nationwide systems have been at fault for the payment 
delays.
Mr M disagreed with the investigator and requested an ombudsman review his complaint. He 
said Nationwides payment logs show that payments have been processed successfully, but 
dont explain the delay. He said he may take the matter up with the PRA as something is 
awry with Nationwides systems.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mr Ms frustration at the delay and uncertainty in his forward payments. He thinks 
that Nationwide has repeatedly delayed the processing of his payments and says that he 
hasnt encountered any such problems with other organisations.
Mr M gave examples of where he was left in doubt that he has made payments, causing him 
to make a further payment, then having to arrange refunds. He said theres nothing on 
Nationwides website about how this limitation occurs and how customers should be mindful 
of it. He has asked Nationwide to fix the issue. 
Our service looks into complaints where there has been some detriment or loss to a 
consumer and sees if the business has made a mistake or provided poor service and says 
what we think should happen to put things right. I have looked at Nationwides terms and 
conditions to see if it has acted accordingly and to see if it has treated Mr M fairly. 
Nationwides terms and conditions state You can schedule payments to go out immediately 
or on a future date. If you want a payment to leave your account the next day, it must be set 
up by 10pm the working day before. If you set it up after 10pm, your payment will be sent the 
next working day. 
Nationwide has undertaken an extensive investigation of Mr Ms concerns. Ive looked at the 
results of this and made cross checks against Mr Ms bank statements. The evidence shows 
the payments were either made by Mr M on the day, or arranged after 10pm. Nationwide 
states that the payments are sent automatically, without having to be keyed in and if the 
receiving bank is holding up these payments this is not something it could prevent. 
I havent seen an example of a payment that waited three working days to be processed as 
a consequence of Nationwides payment processing system. The evidence Ive seen shows 
that the payments Mr M requested have been correctly processed in accordance with 
Nationwides terms and conditions. Mr M confirms this, saying Nationwides logs appear to 
show that the payments have been processed appropriately and in a timely manner. 
However, his complaint remains that this has not been his experience as Nationwide in each 
instance hasnt been able to explain why the payment hasnt left his account. 
Nationwide and our investigator have speculated that the delay that sometimes follows from 
the payment instruction to it being received may be due to the recipient banks processing 
time. Mr M said that he hasnt encountered any similar problem with other banking 
organisations. I would say to Mr M that over the last few years we have received complaints 
of a similar nature about most other major payment providers and their systems.
So far as the investigation of the cause of any delay relating to Mr Ms online payments, I 
dont think Nationwide, and consequently our service, is going to get to a definitive answer. 
Im sorry that this provides Mr M with an unsatisfactory response to his complaint, and I 
sympathise with him for the inconvenience he has faced, but I dont think its possible for me 
to provide anything further. It is open to Mr M to raise this as an issue to the Financial 
Conduct Authority, although it wont consider individual complaints, or the Payment Systems 
Regulator.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2024.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman