DRN-2312070
The complaint
This complaint is about an alleged mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
Miss M took out PPI with a Currys hire purchase agreement in 2001. The credit facility was 
provided by a high street bank, but the company now responsible is called AXA France 
IARD. Ill therefore refer mainly to AXA throughout this final decision.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision (PD) about this case in September 2020 saying it was my 
intention to not uphold the complaint. I gave the parties a month to think about what Id said, 
and I asked them to provide any other information or evidence to me by 29 October 2020 if 
they wanted to.
Neither party has provided such information and so having reviewed the case again, Im not 
going to change my view. Im not upholding the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my PD, I explained comprehensively why I was not intending to uphold Miss Ms 
complaint. Its useful to read that PD in conjunction with this Final Decision. 
However, broadly speaking, I explained that there had been a section on the agreement 
which Miss M signed which invited her to either sign her name - or leave blank - an option 
box to have PPI cover. Miss M signed at this point and also signed elsewhere to agree to the 
hire purchase. I therefore think that she agreed to the PPI when she applied for her credit 
and she would have known it was optional, not compulsory. Because I also think she would 
have had access to the terms and conditions, as I previously explained, I think she 
consented to the cover when she signed at this point. I think shed have been equally free to 
not have asked for the PPI because the section said: ONLY SIGN IF YOU WANT COVER.
As I also explained before, AXA provided a non-advised sale. This means it needed only to 
provide enough clear information for Miss M to decide for herself whether she wanted the 
PPI. The cost of the PPI was printed out on the agreement she signed, together with the cost 
of the equipment she was buying. The interest shed be incurring over the term she was also 
set out on the agreement. I think these aspects would all have been verbally discussed with 
Miss M and the agreement then printed out for her to check and sign. The monthly amounts 
for the PPI and the rest of the costs were directly next to this area of the form. On balance, I 
think this was clear enough.
Miss M was eligible for the cover and not caught by any of the major exclusions we tend to 
see in some of these policies. And if shed become unable to work or lost her job, the PPI 
would have paid her monthly repayment until she returned to work or until all the balance 
was returned to zero. I obviously cant say why Miss M decided to select this cover when she 
applied for the credit, but I think the PPI policy was something that would have been of use 
to her. 
As Ive previously explained in the PD, for me to uphold Miss Ms complaint, Id need to think 
it was more likely that she wasnt given an option or there were other serious flaws in the 
way the policy was sold. I simply dont have that evidence. Instead, what Ive seen makes 
me think Miss M specifically selected the PPI and had access nearby to the information she 
needed about the policy and its rules. And I dont think theres evidence that any better  or 
more  information wouldve changed how Miss M acted. I therefore cant safely say this 
policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint and I dont direct AXA France IARD to pay any compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 December 2020.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman