DRN-1623580
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that TSB Bank plc didnt properly complete their change of address, 
and this allowed a fraudster to use Mr Ws identity to obtain credit products. 
Mr and Mrs Ws complaint has been brought by their representatives.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W moved home in 2016, and went to a TSB branch to change their address on 
their accounts. They were told their address would also be changed on the insurance 
policies they had taken out through TSB.
In 2018, Mr and Mrs W received letters from a number of different credit providers to say that 
they had received information which suggested that someone may have used Mr and Mrs 
Ws personal details to impersonate them to obtain credit. Mr and Mrs W found that a 
number of credit products had been taken out in Mr Ws name.
Mr and Mrs Ws representatives complained to TSB and said it hadn't properly updated their 
address, which meant that documents containing their personal information had been sent to 
their previous address, and this had allowed someone to impersonate Mr Ws identity. 
But TSB said that it had correctly changed Mr and Mrs Ws address in 2016 to their new 
address, and that theyd been sent account correspondence there. 
Mr and Mrs W didn't agree and felt that TSB had delayed in responding to their complaint.
One of our investigators looked into the matter but didnt think Mr and Mrs Ws complaint 
should be upheld. She said there wasnt enough information to show that Mr and Mrs Ws 
personal details had been misused because of TSBs actions. She acknowledged that TSB 
had issued its final response outside of the eight-week time limits, but said that businesses 
may not be able to respond with that time, and complaints could then be brought to our 
service. She said that TSB had issued its final response letter giving its thoughts on the 
complaint, so hadnt reopened the complaint. 
Mr and Mrs Ws representatives didnt accept the investigators findings. They said that 
TSB's final response letter said that Mr and Mrs Ws address hadnt been updated until 
February 2018, and provided a letter from the insurer which had been sent to their old 
address in 2017. Mr and Mrs W recalled being told by TSB that all of their accounts, 
including insurance taken through TSB or with its help, would be updated to show their new 
address. They didnt think Mr and Mrs W had been given an opportunity to respond to the 
TSB's final response letter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Ive been sorry to hear of the details of what Mr and Mrs W have been through to find out 
credit products had been taken out or applied for in Mr Ws name by someone impersonating 
him. I can understand that this will not only have been worrying and upsetting, but that it is 
also something that has had an impact upon his credit file. I can see that information about 
this matter has been recorded with the fraud prevention agency.
And I can understand why Mr and Mrs Ws representatives have referred to TSBs final 
response letter, where it said its records show that Mr and Mrs Ws address details were 
updated in February 2018 which was two years after theyd moved.
But the account records I've seen show that Mr and Mrs Ws address was updated by the 
branch in January 2016, not 2018. This is also the date shown on the contact notes for Mr 
and Mrs W. And I can see copies of letters relating to their joint account from May 2016 
which were sent to their correct address. Im not certain why the dates of February 2018 
were used in the final response letter. Its possible that this may have been a mistake or 
typing error, or that this information related to other products Mr and Mrs W had either 
applied for or taken out since. I say this because all the other information indicates their 
address was changed on their current account and savings account in January 2016.
TSB has changed its computer systems since Mr and Mrs W moved in 2016, and there now 
isnt any information to show what was discussed or agreed about the TSB branch letting Mr 
and Mrs Ws insurer know of their change of address. But, even though TSB acts as an 
introducer for that insurer, the insurer's own systems wouldve needed to be updated with 
the new address. TSB may well have told the insurer Mr and Mrs Ws new address details, 
but that doesnt mean that it will necessarily have had access to the specific personal 
information held by that insurer when it is a separate business.
And although I can see from the insurers letters provided that the address hadnt been 
changed in 2017, I dont think this was specifically the fault of TSB, or that it should be 
responsible for the details the insurer held for Mr and Mrs W. 
I also dont think it could be concluded with any certainty that it was these letters that led to 
Mr and Mrs Ws identity being impersonated. Although I can't be certain of what information 
the insurer may have sent to Mr and Mrs W while it had the incorrect address for them, the 
letters they've provided don't give more specific or personal information about them other 
than their names and address.
TSB's notes also indicate that Mrs W said they'd called the insurance company around 18 
months before they made their complaint and realised it had the wrong address. This 
wouldve been towards the end of 2017, when it seems that in was during 2018 that the 
relevant credit products were applied for.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs W feel that TSB delayed in dealing with their complaint, and 
that they didnt receive its final response letter within eight weeks. But I dont think theyve 
been disadvantaged by this, as they had the opportunity to refer their complaint to our 
service after that eight-week period, even though they hadnt received a response. And I can 
see that TSB did respond to Mr and Mrs Ws representatives letter that was sent after the 
final response, enclosing a copy of it.
I do understand how difficult this situation has been for both Mr and Mrs W, and the impact it 
will have had on them. But I dont think TSB should be held at fault for this. 
My final decision
My decision is that I don't uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 May 2020.
Cathy Bovan
Ombudsman