DRN-1628731
 
The complaint
Ms N has raised a number of complaints about how AXA PPP Healthcare Limited 
has handled her claim. As there's some overlap between the complaints and the impact 
they've had on Ms N these have been considered together. The complaints I'm considering 
are:-
Ms N's complaint about the way AXA responded to her complaints and their 
refusal to address each complaint point separately.
Ms N's complaint that AXA failed to advise her they no longer needed 
specific medical evidence she'd been asked to obtain.
Ms N's complaint about the length of time AXA took to respond to her emails and 
her belief that her confidentiality with her surgeon was compromised.
Ms N's complaint about the service AXA has provided her during the claims 
process and her belief that they failed to request additional information from her 
specialists.
 
What happened
Complaint about AXA not addressing Ms N's complaint points separately
Ms N asked AXA to fund surgery that had been recommended by her treating 
consultant. She raised a number of complaints with AXA about how she'd been treated 
during the claims process and asked them to provide a separate response to each 
complaint, which they initially refused to do. When Ms N complained to them AXA 
apologised and issued separate letters in respect of each complaint.
Complaint about AXA failing to advise Ms N they no longer needed further medical evidence
On 1 April 2019 AXA told Ms N that further medical evidence was required before a 
decision could be made about funding her surgery. Ms N was promised that she'd be kept 
updated about her claim. On 3 April 2019 she was advised that her claim had been declined, 
when she still thought AXA were obtaining further medical evidence.
After Ms N had been told AXA needed further medical evidence the case was reviewed by 
a manager, who felt they had enough evidence to reach a decision on the funding of 
her surgery. AXA then declined the claim. AXA say the manager who arrived at this 
decision intended to call Ms N to explain her decision. But before she had the opportunity to 
do this the case handler spoke to Ms N, on 3 April 2019, advising her of their decision.
Complaint about the length of time AXA took to respond to Ms N's emails and that 
theycompromised the confidentiality between her and her surgeon
After AXA declined Ms N's claim her consultant contacted them asking them to 
reconsider their decision. AXA's Chief Medical Officer contacted the consultant asking for 
further information about why the surgery was being recommended and supporting clinical evidence. Ms N is unhappy that this was done without her consent and believes AXA 
compromised her confidentiality with her surgeon.
AXA don't accept there was any breach of confidentiality, as they contacted Ms N's 
surgeon in response to information she'd provided to them, and they needed further 
clarification of the medical information the surgeon had provided. AXA accept that Ms N 
indicated on her claim form she wanted to see any medical information from her GP or 
specialist, before it was sent to them. But they say it's the responsibility of the GP or 
specialist to ensure the request is complied with.
Ms N also complained to AXA about the time it took them to reply to some of her emails. 
AXA didn't uphold Ms N's complaint as they said the email she complained about had been 
acknowledged on the day she sent it, and a full response was provided two days later, once 
they'd had the opportunity to look into all the points she'd raised.
Complaint about the level of service AXA provided to Ms N during the claims process 
and her belief that they failed to request additional information from her consultant
Ms N is unhappy about the level of service AXA provided during the claims process. 
She submitted her claim on 16 March 2019 and was told at the beginning of April that her 
claim had been declined. At the end of March 2019 AXA received information from one of 
her consultants which suggested the recommended surgery was preventative. Ms N feels 
that AXA should have requested additional information from her other specialists before 
making their decision, as she believes this would have confirmed her surgery was covered 
by her policy.
AXA have said that by early April they believed they had enough information to reach 
a decision about Ms N's claim. While they agreed to review their decision on the basis 
of further medical evidence, they say this was only agreed due to the sensitivity of 
the situation.
Ms N didn't accept AXA's response to her complaints and complained to our service. 
Our investigator considered all of Ms N's complaints and felt that overall the service 
AXA provided her fell below the standard we would expect.
He felt their initial failure to provide individual responses to each of her complaint 
points, would have caused her trouble and upset, and because of her concerns about 
sharing sensitive personal information, requesting separate responses was reasonable. He 
felt AXA should have appreciated this when the request was first made. So AXA should pay 
some compensation for the trouble and upset Ms N had suffered.
Our investigator didn't think an immediate response to all Ms N's emails was practical, 
and he didn't think there'd been any unnecessary delay in replying to her.
AXA contacted Ms N's consultant several times during April 2019 our investigator 
was satisfied all the correspondence related to Ms N's proposed treatment, and that AXA 
acted reasonably in requesting this and there'd been no breach of confidentiality.
But Ms N had asked to see any medical information AXA received from her consultants, 
and he said AXA hadn't always honoured this request. So he felt she should 
receive compensation for the trouble and upset this had caused.
Our investigator felt that before declining Ms N's claim AXA should have requested 
the further information which they asked for after her consultant contacted them. While he 
didn't feel this would have changed their decision, our investigator felt AXA declined the claim prematurely without having all the relevant information. And given the nature of the 
treatment
Ms N was seeking approval for, he felt if AXA could have provided her with a 
clearer understanding of the reasons why her claim was being declined, and they would 
have been able to show her that all the medical evidence had been considered.
In isolation our investigator felt it unlikely that any of the issues raised by Ms N would 
have had a significant impact. But due to the multiple issues Ms N had experienced 
he recommended AXA pay £400 compensation for the overall trouble and upset 
she'd experienced.
AXA didn't accept our investigators opinion. They said the following: -
They did initially send Ms N a single final response letter to a number of 
complaints.  But following a conversation about this, separate letters and an apology 
were issued the same day, so they don't think any compensation is appropriate.
They told Ms N on 1 April 2019 that they needed further information about her 
claim  and would keep her updated. The decision was then made to decline the claim 
on the basis of the information already available and Ms N was advised of this on 3 
April 2019. AXA say they'd kept Ms N updated, and provided an apology, so 
no compensation is appropriate.
They accept that on her claim form Ms N indicated she wanted to see any 
medical information before it was sent to them. But they say it was the responsibility 
of her GP or specialist to comply with this request. So they don't believe they should 
pay any compensation.
They had enough information on 3 April 2019 to decline Ms N's claim and didn't 
want to prolong the claim process for her, when the information they had showed 
her treatment wasn't covered by her policy. Ms N asked them to review their 
decision with further medical evidence which they did, but this didn't change their 
position. And while they felt they didn't need further information they agreed to obtain 
it due to the sensitivity of the situation. So they don't believe they acted 
inappropriately or that any compensation is due to Ms N.
Ms N didn't accept our investigator's opinion either. She felt that AXA weren't sorry for 
the way they'd treated her and the £400 he'd recommended they pay wasn't enough 
to compensate her for the trouble and upset they'd caused.
I issued my provisional decision on 24 February 2020. In it I said :-
I need to consider whether AXA have acted reasonably throughout Ms N's claim, and if
they've provided the level of service we would expect. I think there were some occasions
when the service AXA provided fell below the level we would expect. But I don't agree that
they did something wrong in all the complaints Ms N has raised.
I think it should have been clear to AXA how strongly Ms N felt about disclosing sensitive
personal information when she didn't need to. A separate response to each of her
complaints was a reasonable request, so I don't think an apology is sufficient. Even
though when Ms N complained, AXA did issue separate letters very quickly, I think
she should receive some compensation for the trouble and upset AXA's actions have
caused.
AXA accept they told Ms N they needed further information before a decision was made
about her surgery. There were only two days between Ms N being told AXA needed more
information and her being told her claim was declined. I think it was reasonable for AXA toreview her case as they did, as given the date of her proposed surgery she needed to have
a decision urgently.
But I don't think AXA explained clearly to Ms N why they'd changed their minds so quickly
and now felt they had enough evidence to reach a decision. Ms N was always going to be
unhappy about AXA's decision to decline her claim, but had their decision been explained
fully I think the trouble and upset she experienced would have been less. So I don't think the
apology AXA provided to Ms N is sufficient compensation.
AXA were considering whether Ms N's claim was covered under the terms and conditions of
her policy. They'd received medical evidence which said the recommended surgery
was 'preventative', which meant it wasn't covered. And once they'd made this decision I
wouldn't expect them to go ahead and obtain the further medical evidence Ms N had been
told they required. And I don't agree with Ms N's view that they should have contacted all of
her treating consultants to ensure they agreed with the opinion AXA relied upon.
 After AXA made their decision to decline Ms N's claim her consultant contacted them 
asking them to review their decision. Having received further information from the consultant 
I think it was reasonable for them to go back to her and seek further clarification of her 
comments. When Ms N made her claim she gave AXA authority to carry out reasonable 
enquiries to validate the claim, and this is what they were doing.
Ms N had indicated on her consent form that she wanted to see any medical evidence
before it was sent to AXA. But it's for the GP or consultant to ensure this request is 
complied with. I can see that on a number of occasions Ms N contacted AXA, asking for 
copies of medical evidence they'd relied on, and it seems this wasn't provided, when it 
should have been.
I think AXA could have treated Ms N with more sensitivity when she was told that her claim
was being declined. They knew how strongly she felt about having the surgery her
consultant had recommended. She'd been told they needed further medical evidence and
then, a few days later without a proper explanation, she was told they had enough evidence
and her claim was declined. I think the manager who reviewed the case and made the
decision, should have ensured she contacted Ms N and explained her reasoning. Ms N was
never going to be happy with AXA's decision, but she would have understood how it was
arrived at.
I'm persuaded that there were occasions through Ms N's claim when AXA didn't provide her
with the level of service we'd expect. But I think that Ms N's expectations about how quickly
AXA should respond to her were at times unreasonable. If I was considering an individual
complaint then I might have said an apology from AXA was enough. And as I've explained 
I don't think AXA did something wrong in all the complaints Ms N has raised. But on balance 
I feel that Ms N has suffered trouble and upset for which she should be compensated.
So my provisional decision was that I upheld Ms N's complaint and said that to put things 
right AXA should pay her £250 for the trouble and upset she's suffered.
AXA have indicated that they accept my provisional decision.
Ms N has said that she accepts the broad conclusion of my provisional decision, but doesn't 
understand why I've reduced the amount of compensation so significantly. She believes that 
the £400 suggested by our investigator should stand, as she sees no reason for the 
reduction. She also feels that I should take into consideration that this is one of many 
complaints she's made against AXA that have been upheld. And she says that £400 falls far 
short of the practical cost to her due to loss of earnings.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Ms N is disappointed that I've awarded a lower level of compensation than 
our investigator suggested. But although I accept that the level of service she received from 
AXA, at times fell below the level we'd expect, I don't think they did anything wrong in all the 
complaints she's raised. And I think her expectations about how quickly they should respond 
to her were at times unreasonable. 
The compensation I awarded took into account where I thought AXA could have dealt with 
things better for Ms N. Every case is dealt with on its individual merits, so I can't take into 
account any other complaints Ms N may have made against AXA, or their outcome. The 
compensation I awarded is in respect of trouble and upset Ms N has suffered, for the things I 
think AXA got wrong, and while I've considered what she's said I think £250 is fair and 
reasonable compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold Ms N's complaint against AXA PPP Healthcare Limited and to put things right they 
should pay her £250 for the trouble and upset she's suffered. 
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2020.
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman