DRN-2523987
The complaint
Mr S complains that British Gas Services Limited (British Gas) didnt cancel his home 
emergency insurance following his request. This led to them taking further premiums. Mr S 
wants British Gas to refund the premiums taken.  
What happened
Mr S says that, in January 2017, he phoned British Gas to cancel his HomeCare policy. He 
says, during a boiler service around that time, the British Gas engineer explained that parts 
were no longer available for his boiler. The engineer also said that, being over 20 years old, 
the boiler was unreliable and inefficient. Mr S says he arranged for a new boiler to be 
installed in January 2017 and this came with a five year guarantee. Mr S says, since then he 
has paid another company £48 per year for an annual service.
In January 2020, Mr S received a renewal letter from British Gas so he called them and 
explained he had cancelled the plan in 2017. Mr S says this was when he was told the plan 
hadnt been cancelled and British Gas had been taking monthly payments for the policy.
  
Mr S complained to British Gas and said their records will show British Gas have had no 
involvement with his new boiler since it was installed. He said their records would also 
confirm the conversation they had at the time. Mr S said, neither he or his partner had 
noticed that British Gas were still taking payment from their account after the cancellation. 
He said this only came to light when he received the renewal notice in 2020. British Gas 
responded and said they had no record of Mr S calling them in January 2017. They said they 
had sent several letters to Mr S every year about his HomeCare policy and had been taking 
monthly payments by direct debit which wouldve appeared on his bank statements. They 
said following Mr Ss call in January 2020, they had cancelled his policy and refunded 
£31.35. British Gas said they wouldnt be refunding any further premiums.   
   
Our investigator looked into things for Mr S. She felt British Gas hadnt acted unfairly. Mr S 
disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr S will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
My starting point is Mr Ss HomeCare policy document which sets out the terms and 
conditions. The policy allows Mr S to cancel the agreement by phone or in writing. 
Mr S says he cancelled the policy by phone on 9 January 2017. I can see British Gas have 
checked their systems but they dont have a record of a call for this date. This is a date over 
four years ago so its only fair that I consider dates around this time as well. Ive looked at 
the contact history  which goes up to October 2018 - and there is no record of any call in 
January 2017 or any beyond that. 
I can see our investigator has asked Mr S for any evidence from his own phone provider to 
show that a call was made on 9 January 2017 but we havent received any information which 
supports Mr Ss account. Our investigator also asked Mr S for details of his phone numbers 
in January 2017 so British Gas could carry out a search using these numbers. I can see 
British Gas carried out a search but they didnt have any record of calls being made using 
these phone numbers. So, taking this into account, I cant see any evidence which shows Mr 
S made a call to British Gas in January 2017 to cancel his policy.
     
Mr S says, following the cancellation, he didnt receive any letters from British Gas until the 
renewal in January 2020. So, Ive looked into whether there is any evidence which wouldve 
highlighted that Mr Ss policy was still active. I can see letters were sent by British Gas to Mr 
S in September 2017, December 2018 and January 2019 asking him to contact them to 
arrange an annual service. The letters say Your service comes as part of your HomeCare 
agreement and its due. I can see British Gas also sent postcards which say they have 
written to Mr S recently about arranging a service but not heard anything back. 
In addition to this, I can see British Gas sent a renewal letter in January 2018 and in January 
2019. These letters gave Mr S a renewal price and let him know when his policy would be 
running out. The letters said Because you pay by Direct Debit, itll automatically renew, 
unless you tell us you dont want it to.. The letters also said You should also check that the 
level of cover youve got with us is still right for you, and let us know if things have changed 
e.g. youve had a new boiler installed.
I can see the letters and postcards were all addressed correctly and had the same address 
as the renewal letter which Mr S received in January 2020. There might well be occasions 
where post may become lost but I think its unlikely to be the case that all of the letters and 
postcards went missing. So, I think the letters and postcards were sent and, I believe its 
more likely than not, at least some if not all, were received. I think the information in the 
letters and postcards suggest the policy wasnt cancelled in 2017. And, the renewal letters 
do make it clear that Mr Ss policy is still in place and will be renewed unless he contacts 
British Gas to cancel it.  
      
In summary, I dont think British Gas have acted unfairly or unreasonably in continuing the 
policy and taking monthly payments. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 February 2021.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman