DRN-3590105
The complaint
Mr F and Mrs C complain that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) have failed to refund over £70,000 
they lost as part of an investment scam. 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
It isnt in dispute that Mr F and Mrs C authorised the disputed payments they made to 
Brainhub and Coinbase from their Lloyds debit card and online account (where their 
funds were subsequently transferred on to the scammer 7online from their crypto 
wallet). The payments were requested by them using their legitimate security 
credentials provided by Lloyds, and the starting position is that banks ought to follow 
the instructions given by their customers in order for legitimate payments to be made 
as instructed.
However, Ive considered whether Lloyds should have done more to prevent Mr F 
and Mrs C from falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a 
bank should reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a 
particular transfer and offered a scam warning. For example, if it was particularly out 
of character.
The first payment Mr F and Mrs C made from their debit card for £197.99 would not 
have appeared particularly out of character given it was for a relatively small amount. 
However, it isnt in dispute that the faster payment of £2,000 they attempted on 
21 July 2020 was unusual given that it did trigger the banks fraud prevention 
systems and was automatically blocked pending further enquiry. Accordingly, its just 
a question of whether the bank went far enough in all the circumstances with that 
intervention.
Lloyds called Mr F on 21 July 2020 and warned him that there is a high risk of fraud 
and scams connected with cryptocurrency investments. It told him that 7online were 
not regulated, and that Gordon Ramsay does not endorse cryptocurrency investment 
opportunities, and that this sort of endorsement is a hallmark of a scam. It explained 
how crypto-investment scams typically work and said that the returns Mr F was being 
promised were unrealistic. The agent from Lloyds said he confidently believed that 
the opportunity he was being offered was not genuine and asked him to carry out 
further checks into the company before proceeding, and he agreed not to make the 
payment. If Mr F had carried out further checks as Lloyds had advised, he would 
have likely come across the FCA warning that had been published about 7online on 
13 July 2020, which stated that the broker was an unauthorised firm. 
However, despite the warnings given by the bank and the warning published by the 
FCA, Mr F proceeded to make a payment of £2,500 to Coinbase from his online 
banking (which was subsequently transferred on to the scammer from there), and 
continued to make further payments to Coinbase over the next five months. 
Having considered the questions Lloyds asked during their intervention  as well as 
the strong warnings it gave that this was a scam  Im not persuaded there was 
anything further the bank could have done to have prevented Mr F and Mrs C from 
making the payments. It had concerns gave clear warnings that it thought Mr F was 
falling victim to a scam. Lloyds also advised him to seek further advice from a 
financial advisor before investing any more of his money, but it does not appear that 
he sought any such advice or heeded any of warnings raised by the bank.
So, in these circumstances, I dont consider it would be fair and reasonable to hold 
Lloyds liable for Mr F and Mrs Cs loss, because it seems more likely than not that 
they would have always made the payment to the scammers, notwithstanding any 
intervention made by the bank.
Ive also thought about whether Lloyds could have done more to recover the funds 
after Mr F and Mrs C reported the fraud, as in some circumstances, debit card 
payments can be recovered via the bank raising a chargeback dispute. However, in 
these circumstances, Mr F and Mrs C used their debit card to pay Brainhub for an 
online course, providing training and education on investments. When Lloyds spoke 
to Mr F on 21 July 2020, he said he had been receiving the online training, where he 
had then been put in touch with 7online. 
So, it seems very doubtful that Mr F and Mrs C would have been able to make a 
successful chargeback claim for their card payment in these circumstances because 
the company they paid had effectively provided the services as intended (i.e. the 
purchase of online investment training). Therefore, I do not think Lloyds were under 
any obligation to raise a chargeback claim for Mr F and Mrs C.
In terms of the faster payments made by Mr F and Mrs C, Lloyds are also under no 
obligation to refund the money under the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) 
Code either, as the Code does not apply to payments which the payer has effectively 
made to themselves (which would have been the case here given the payment was 
made to their own crypto wallet with Coinbase before being moved on to the 
scammer). As such, the bank was also unable to recover any of the funds paid to 
Coinbase as the money had already been transferred to the scammer from the crypto 
account.
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Mr F and Mrs C, and Im sorry to 
hear he they have been the victim of a cruel scam. However, Im not persuaded that Lloyds 
can fairly or reasonably be held liable for their loss in these circumstances, as it intervened 
and gave a reasonable warning as would be expected in these circumstances, and Im not 
persuaded it could have done anything more to have prevented the scam. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 November 2022.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman