DRN-4436132
The complaint
S complains that Lloyds was unable to recover a payment that was made in error. 
What happened
S carried out an account switching process to move its business bank account to Lloyds. But 
because of errors by Lloyds, the account switch wasnt processed correctly. As a result, 
Mr S, S director, had to input payment details for existing payees. 
On 24 April 2023, a payment was set up on Lloyds online banking facility for £5,000 to pay a 
known supplier. Mr S has explained that whilst he used the right sort code, the account 
number was wrong by one digit due to a typing error. When the payment was instructed, 
Lloyds online system returned a message to say it couldnt check the details provided. 
Lloyds has explained this was likely due to the receiving bank not being party to the 
Confirmation of Payee process it uses for payments. 
Mr S approved the payment and it was processed by Lloyds. But on 27 April 2023 Mr S 
contacted Lloyds to explain the wrong account number had been used and asked it to 
recover the £5,000 payment. Lloyds agent advised it would recover S funds and that the 
payment should be refunded within 21 days. Lloyds says Mr S shouldve been advised it 
would attempt to recover S funds on a best endeavours basis but that its agents failed to 
do so. 
On 29 April 2023 Lloyds contacted the receiving bank and raised a recall request advising 
the payment had been made in error due to a mistake with the account number used. But 
the receiving bank later responded to say it had contacted the recipient about the payment 
and hadnt received a response or permission to return the funds to Lloyds. 
Despite being advised that Lloyds would refund the payment in within 21 days when the 
issue was reported, it later confirmed it hadnt been possible to reclaim S funds. As a result, 
no refund of the missing £5,000 was made. 
On S behalf, Mr S complained to Lloyds and it issued a final response on 28 June 2023. 
Lloyds apologised its agents had given misleading information and told Mr S the funds would 
be returned within 21 days. Lloyds explained its agents shouldve told Mr S it would attempt 
to recover S funds on a best endeavours basis and that the refund wasnt guaranteed. 
Lloyds also said Mr S set up the payment and provided the account number it used which 
meant it wasnt responsible for the mistake. Lloyds didnt agree to refund the lost funds. 
An investigator at this service looked at S complaint. The investigator agreed Lloyds had 
provided incorrect information when Mr S reported the issue but thought it had made 
reasonable attempts to recover the funds. The investigator added that Lloyds Confirmation 
of Payee check had returned an error message prompting Mr S to confirm whether he 
wanted to proceed with the payment or not. The investigator wasnt persuaded Lloyds was 
responsible for the keying error that led to the wrong account number being used and didnt 
ask it to reimburse S loss. 
On S behalf, Mr S asked to appeal and said he had shown Lloyds systems to be unreliable. 
Mr S also said hed asked Lloyds for the recipients name but it hadnt been supplied. As Mr 
S asked to appeal S complaint, its been passed to me to make a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to assure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under.
Im aware that S has another complaint about the way the business account switching 
process was handled by Lloyds. Im not going to comment on those issues in this decision 
as theyre the subject of another complaint. But Mr S has explained that if the account 
switching process had been handled correctly by Lloyds he wouldnt have been required to 
enter the payment details manually as theyd have been pulled through from S previous 
banking provider. I take Mr S point and accept he needed to enter the account details 
manually when setting up the payee. But Im satisfied the process was in line with how new 
payments are set up and is in line with Lloyds normal approach. Whilst Im aware Lloyds 
made mistakes with the account switching process, Im not persuaded that in itself is 
sufficient to uphold S case. 
Ive looked at the payment instruction that was set up on 24 April 2023. All parties agree that 
a typing error led to the wrong account number being used. Lloyds has explained that it has 
a Confirmation of Payee process in place to check the destination account matches the 
details provided. But Lloyds has explained that the Confirmation of Payee check returned an 
error message as it hadnt been possible to verify the account details provided. Lloyds says 
its systems provided a warning that the details provided didnt match and that it may not be 
able to retrieve funds sent if the payment went to the wrong account. The payment was 
approved by Mr S and made in line with the instructions he gave. So Im satisfied the 
payment was made in line with Mr S instructions. Im very sorry to disappoint Mr S but I 
havent been persuaded that Lloyds made a mistake or acted unfairly by processing the 
payment in line with the instructions it received. 
Lloyds has explained its agents shouldve told Mr S it would attempt to recover S funds on a 
best endeavours basis but that there was no guarantee a refund would be made. I can 
understand why Mr S feels somewhat misled and accept Lloyds agents made a mistake. 
But Im satisfied Lloyds corrected its position when it confirmed the outcome of its recall 
request and when responding to S complaint. In my view, the apology Lloyds gave in its 
final response is reasonable in the circumstances. 
In response to the investigator Mr S explained hed asked Lloyds for the beneficiarys details. 
I can see that Lloyds requested this information from the receiving bank but wasnt given it 
for data protection reasons. Lloyds sent S a letter on 6 November 2023 and gave the name 
of the receiving bank and a reference number. Lloyds explained Mr S could write to the 
receiving bank on S behalf to try and move the matter forward. Im satisfied that was 
reasonable and in line with what wed expect to see. Im very sorry to disappoint Mr S as I can see how strongly he feels in this matter. But Im 
satisfied that Lloyds dealt with the recall request correctly and responded to S complaint 
fairly. As a result, Im not telling Lloyds to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold S complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman