DRN-3171610
The complaint
Mr K complains that Computershare Investor Services Plc didnt contact him about a 
subscription rights issue related to some shares he owns. 
What happened
Mr K has shares in a company I will call Company I.
After speaking to a friend around September 2020 Mr K says he became aware of a capital 
raising exercise where shareholders in Company I had pre-emptive subscription rights. He 
contacted Computershare but they said he was too late and had missed the deadline for any 
subscription rights, so he wasnt able to take up any options.
Mr K complained saying he hadnt received any communication from Computershare about
his subscription rights. Computershare looked into things and said they had emailed Mr K
twice about the issue earlier in September 2020. And because the emails werent returned
as undeliverable, they deemed they had been delivered.
Remaining unhappy as his shareholding had been diluted, Mr K brought his complaint to our 
service. One of our investigators looked into what happened and after considering the
evidence they were persuaded the emails were sent. Mr K disagreed so the complaint has
come to me for a decision. There was some debate about whether this service could 
consider Mr Ks complaint however Im satisfied this is something we can look at. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K has provided a lot of information about his complaint and its clear how strongly he 
feels about what happened. I want to assure Mr K that Ive read and considered everything 
hes submitted even if I dont mention it in detail. Ive summarised the complaint which 
reflects the informal nature of our service.  
Mr K says he didnt receive any emails about the subscription rights for Company I, however 
Computershare says they were sent. I think its important to say that my decision is about 
whether Im persuaded Computershare sent the emails, and not whether Mr K received 
them. This is an important distinction.  
When things such as a subscription rights offer happen its the role of businesses like 
Computershare to let shareholders know. Id expect businesses to do this in the method the 
shareholder has chosen to hear from them. Here Computershare have confirmed that Mr K 
chose to hear from them about his shareholdings by email. 
Computershare have provided information from their systems about the emails they say 
were sent to Mr K. This shows that two emails were sent on 14 September 2020 to the email 
address Mr K had registered with them. 
Having looked at this information Im persuaded, on balance, that the emails were sent. The 
information shows Mr Ks email address and the two shareholdings to which they relate. 
I cant say why Mr K didnt receive the emails, however my role is to see if I think 
Computershare fulfilled their obligations in sending the emails; and Im satisfied they have. 
 
Having carefully considered everything Im persuaded that Computershare sent the emails to 
Mr K. Thats not to say that Mr K hasnt been affected by what happened; he clearly has 
because he wasnt able to take up the subscription rights offer, and his shares have been 
diluted. But I think Computershare fulfilled their obligations, so I wont be asking them to take 
any further action. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2021. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman