DRN-3396569
The complaint
Mr D says ReAssure Limited has been underpaying his pension since 2007 because what 
he receives doesnt cover the deduction being made to his additional state pension for the 
period he was contracted out of making contributions to it.
What happened
Mr D was a member of an occupational pension scheme which was bought out by Guardian 
Assurance Plc. That firm later merged with ReAssure Limited. His personal pension plan had 
a Guaranteed Minimum Pension (GMP) - the minimum amount ReAssure had to pay him at 
retirement. This was required by law covering employees who were contracted out of the 
State Earnings-Related Pension Scheme (SERPS) between 6 April 1978 and 5 April 1997.
Mr D decided to take the benefits of his ReAssure personal pension as an annuity when he 
reached 65 in 2007. His pension pot, which wouldve been subject to fluctuations in 
investment performance until this point, became fixed in terms of what he would receive as 
an income in retirement for life, with the addition of any provision for indexing and death 
benefits (according to the product he decided to buy). So he had certainty, but less flexibility.
In 2021 Mr D noticed the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) had reduced his 
additional state pension to take into account monies he should have been receiving from 
private pension providers. In the case of ReAssure, this was for the period he was 
contracted-out between 1979 and 1986. Taken together with a later period of contracted-out 
employment, he was notified his additional state pension would be reduced accordingly.
Mr D queried what was happening to his pension and received confirmation from HM 
Revenue and Customs (HMRC) that the reduction made to his state pension should be 
made up by his pension plans with private providers, including ReAssure.
Mr D contacted ReAssure to try and get to the bottom of what was happening. In September 
2021 ReAssure informed him that it only had one policy in his name and that didnt include 
contracted-out benefits. He wasnt satisfied with the response and brought his case to this 
Service.
An Investigator looked into Mr Ds complaint and didnt uphold it. She explained that in 2007, 
hed converted his pension plan, including the GMP element, into an annuity. So, hed had 
the benefit of it. She also thought his GMP had been properly indexed up until 2007. The 
Investigator concluded ReAssure hadnt done anything wrong. Mr D disagreed.
As both parties couldnt agree with the Investigators findings and conclusions Mr Ds case 
has been passed to me to review afresh and to provide a decision. This is the final stage of 
our involvement in the dispute.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, my 
role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, 
whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint. Ill explain why.
The first thing Ive considered is the extensive regulation around transactions like those 
performed by ReAssure for Mr D. The FCA Handbook contains eleven Principles for 
businesses, which it says are fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in 
the FCA Handbook). These include:
- Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.
- Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers.
- Principle 7, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the information needs of its 
clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
The Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at the 
relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated firms like ReAssure. As 
such, I need to have regard to them in deciding Mr Ds complaint.
Having reviewed the file, I dont think ReAssure was as clear with Mr D as it shouldve been 
when he first made enquiries about his pension. For example in September 2021 it told him:
We can confirm that you only hold one policy with ReAssure and it is not from a contracted 
out fund, as this policy is ordinary rights and not protected rights.
Leaving aside the jargon, while ReAssure mayve been trying to say that his annuity policy 
didnt benefit from protected rights, it failed to get to the nub of his enquiry. It shouldve 
helped him understand what had happened to the GMP element of his former pension plan, 
that had been used to buy his annuity.
ReAssure did do better in its letter of 5 October 2022, when it informed him:
I can confirm we have again checked the back file from Guardian Financial, and confirm the 
Guaranteed Minimum Pension was £689.52 at the date of your leaving service on 
26/09/1986 revaluing at 8.5% per annum. This was equivalent to protected rights liability of 
£42,351.19 and this was taken into consideration when your annuity was calculated and set 
up in December 2007.
The option selected on your application from December 2007 was for £6244.58 Tax Free 
Cash and a reduced annual pension of £3987.24 per annum (paid in monthly instalments of 
£332.27 gross). This follows by a spouses annual pension of £1762.44. The annuity 
payment does not increase.
In her last view, the Investigator said:The issue here is that HMRC have deducted £82.30 from your state pension in lieu of the 
contracted-out benefits you get from the private pensions. And theyve told you that your 
ReAssure policy should have been revalued at 8.5%. Ive looked carefully at your documents 
again. The £82.30, which HMRC deduct, is made up of your CIS policy of £14.51 and the 
Guardian (ReAssure) policy of £67.79.
[ReAssures] policy document states the GMP was £689.52 per year. It attracted a 
revaluation rate of 8.5% a year compound. The revaluation rate is applied from the date you 
left the employment with [your former employer] to the date you took the benefits in 2007. 
£689.52 compounded at 8.5% over 20 years based on my basic calculation is £3,524.85. 
HMRCs deduction of £67.79 x 52 weeks = £3,525.08. And you receive £332.27 a month 
from ReAssure which is £3,987.24 a year.
So, this shows you already receive a revalued GMP. The GMP and any benefits over this 
amount, providing the value of the original pension pot was enough to pay any extra, is in 
the one payment. Its not paid separately in the way your other pensions are paid.
ReAssures more recent explanation and the Investigators further detail now set matters out 
more clearly for Mr D.
Looking at the substance of Mr Ds complaint and having reviewed the available evidence, 
Im satisfied he had a GMP element in his original ReAssure (Guardian Assurance) pension 
plan. The retirement funds he had available in 2007 incorporated this. And he used that fund 
to purchase an annuity. Nothing Ive seen makes me think he hasnt received what he was 
entitled to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out, Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint. And it follows that I dont 
require ReAssure Limited to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2023. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman