DRN-1921842
 
The complaint
Mr H says Stagemount Limited, irresponsibly lent to him. Mr H says Stagemount should 
have carried out more stringent checks to ensure his creditworthiness. He says he was in a 
dire financial situation and had defaulted on two credit cards, his overdraft and had reduced 
earnings.                            
What happened
This complaint is about one short-term loan Stagemount provided to Mr H in February 2019. 
Mr Hs borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount 
borrowedMonthly 
Repayment
1 28/02/2019 Outstanding* 3 £600.00 £298.78
 
*I understand Mr H is repaying the outstanding amount via a repayment plan. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. They thought that the checks carried out by 
Stagemount didnt give any cause for concern that would suggest it should carry out further 
checks. 
Mr H didnt agree with the adjudicator. He didnt agree with the conclusion of the credit 
checks and the fact that Stagemount knew his monthly credit commitments were higher than 
he had stated should have given it cause for concern. Mr H explained he had another similar 
complaint where it was agreed the lending was irresponsible. 
As the complaint remains unresolved, it has been passed to me for decision in my role as 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Stagemount needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr H 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  But certain factors might point to the fact that Stagemount should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Stagemount was required to establish 
whether Mr H could sustainably repay his loan  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Hs complaint. After doing so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mr Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
I should first explain that when considering a complaint this service treats each complaint on 
its own particular merits and circumstances. Mr H has explained that he understands this. 
And while I appreciate Mr H has referred to another complaint where the outcome is 
different, the same circumstances do not apply to this complaint. We take into account the 
individual circumstances of that particular lending such as the amount of the loan and the 
term of borrowing. We would also take his particular circumstances into account and what 
the business knew or should reasonably have known about those circumstances. 
Stagemount has told us of the checks it carried out before agreeing to the loan. These 
included income and expenditure checks as well as a credit reference check. 
Mr H confirmed his monthly income was £2,000 and after his expenditure (including other 
loan repayments) he was left with a disposable income each month of £825. Mr H confirmed 
to Stagemount he was not considering entering into an IVA, bankruptcy or debt management 
plan prior to the loan being approved. The credit reference check showed Mr Hs monthly credit commitments were higher than the 
amount Mr H advised on his loan application with Stagemount. To take account of this 
increase Stagemount reduced Mr Hs recorded disposable income and concluded the 
lending was affordable. So, on the face of it the lending would appear affordable on a 
pounds and pence basis and it wasnt unreasonable for Stagemount to have agreed to lend 
to Mr H. 
As Ive said above, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. But I dont think there was anything in the 
information that Mr H provided to Stagemount which would have caused it to be concerned 
that he was having problems managing his finances. And when it learned of the higher 
monthly credit commitment costs it adjusted Mr Hs disposable income figure. 
Its possible that Mr Hs financial circumstances werent correctly reflected in either the 
information he provided, or any other information Stagemount obtained. And if his 
circumstances were different Mr Hs actual financial position may well have been more 
apparent if further information  such as bank statements or more in-depth credit checks  
had been obtained. But I wouldnt have expected Stagemount to have gathered such 
detailed information at the point of lending to him. 
Stagemount could only make a decision based on the information it had available at the 
time. That information  and the fact the loan was at the beginning of the lending relationship 
 I dont think indicated there was a greater risk of the loan being unaffordable or 
unsustainable for Mr H. 
In these circumstances, I dont think Stagemount needed to take further steps to verify the 
information provided  such as asking Mr H for evidence of his income and outgoings which 
Stagemount could have gathered from his bank statements or copies of any bills, as 
examples. I have considered the information that was provided to, and obtained by 
Stagemount before it lent to Mr H. And there isnt anything in this information that may have 
led Stagemount to conclude that it should decline Mr Hs application for the loan. And there 
isnt anything to have prompted it to ask for more information about Mr H. So, I dont think 
Stagemount was wrong to have provided this loan, based solely on the information it had. 
So overall, in these circumstances, I think the assessment Stagemount did for the loan was 
proportionate. And I think its decision to lend to Mr H wasnt unreasonable. 
I appreciate my conclusion to Mr Hs complaint will be a disappointment to him, but I hope I 
have managed to explain how and why Ive reached it. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27August2020.
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman