DRN-2264584
The complaint
Mr M has complained about the way Santander UK PLC (Santander) has used the 
compensation it offered to settle his complaint about the mis-sale of a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy taken out with a credit card.  
What happened
Mr M opened a credit card account with Santander in May 2003 and at the same time he 
took out a PPI policy. Mr M has now complained that the PPI was mis-sold.
Santander agreed to uphold the complaint the PPI was mis-sold and wrote to Mr M offering 
£4,458.64, after tax, to settle his complaint. Mr M signed the acceptance form and returned it 
to Santander.
However, Santander only paid to him £2,061.86, using £2,396.78 of the total compensation 
to clear the debt it said was still owing on the credit card account. 
Mr M brought his complaint to this service as he says Santander had agreed the account 
was settled in 2015, so be believes there was no debt owing on the account and he should 
receive the full amount of compensation. 
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint and said what Santander had done was fair. Mr M 
didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander has agreed to uphold Mr Ms complaint that the PPI policy was mis-sold and 
offered compensation to Mr M. So in this decision Im not looking at how the PPI came to be 
sold, but considering whether Santanders offer is fair and if what Santander had done with 
the compensation is also fair.
When a business has mis-sold PPI, to puts things right, it must, as far as possible, put the 
consumer in the position they wouldve been in if they hadnt taken out the PPI. So it 
calculates how much was paid in premiums and interest for the costs of the PPI and if the 
consumer was out of pocket, then the business should also pay some compensatory 
interest.
Santander has used this approach and worked out that the compensation due, after tax, was 
£4,458.64. This is made up of premiums charged to the card of £2,602.02 and interest 
caused on the account because of those premiums of £1,471.98. In addition, Santander has 
worked out compensatory interest of £480.80 before tax is also due to Mr M.  Mr M hasnt 
raised any issues about the amount of total compensation offered. Also the approach taken 
by Santander appears to be what I would expect and is fair, so I wont consider the total 
amount offered any further. 
Mr Ms major concern is that Santander should not use any of the compensation amount to 
reduce the debt it says he still owes on the credit card account, but it should pay the full 
amount of compensation directly to him.
So in this decision I need to decide whether its fair and reasonable for Santander to use 
some of Mr Ms PPI compensation amount, to reduce any debt which remained unpaid after 
the credit card account was closed.
I have looked in detail at the records provided about the account. These show Mr M made 
regular payments to the account until March 2009. He then paid low or no payments over a 
few months. It then seems he entered a payment plan and agreed with Santander he would 
make small payments to try to reduce the balance. The PPI was at this time cancelled, and 
no further interest was charged on the account. 
Mr M made small, fairly regular payments until 2015. It seems Mr M then agreed with 
Santander, through a third party, to make a lump sum payment of £1,632.34 on the basis 
this would be a short settlement of the remaining outstanding balance on the account, which 
was at the time was £4,056.93. I can see from the records of the account that the amount of 
£1,632.34 was paid to the account in August 2015 and in September 2015 a payment of 
£27.81 was also paid to the account. This left an amount of £2,396.78 unpaid on the credit 
card account. But Mr M was not chased for this payment as Santander had agreed to accept 
the lump sum payment to short settle the account. 
When considering any complaint, I need to take into account the relevant law and in this 
case that includes what is called the equitable right to set off. This allows people and 
businesses to set-off closely connected debts. This means that one person (A) can deduct 
from a debt that they owe another person (B), money which that person (B) owes to them. 
For the equitable right of set-off to apply, I must be satisfied that there is a close connection 
between the PPI compensation and the outstanding debt. I must also consider whether it 
would be unjust not to allow Santander to set-off in this way. Both tests must be satisfied 
for me to conclude Santander has an equitable right to set-off the PPI compensation against 
Mr Ms outstanding debt on his credit card account.
The PPI policy that Mr M had, was taken out with his credit card and all the costs of the PPI 
were charged to this account and formed part of the balance. The PPI policy was only 
associated with this credit card, so there is a clear, direct connection between the PPI 
compensation Santander owes Mr M and the outstanding debt on the credit card that Mr M 
owes to Santander. 
During the time the credit card account was active, the balance on the account was never 
cleared. When PPI is charged to an account, and later found to be mis-sold, it is deemed the 
PPI costs are the last item cleared from the balance, so the premium and interest caused by 
it, remains in the balance until the balance is paid off in full. At that point the consumer would 
be out of pocket for any costs of the PPI that had been part of the balance as the balance, 
including all PPI costs have been paid.
In this case, as Ive said, Mr M never actually cleared the full balance owing on the account. 
So the costs of the PPI, would have remained as part of the balance outstanding. That is 
because the premiums were charged to the account and the card rate interest on the 
premiums, was also added to the balance and so was also in the balance of the account. 
As there was a balance unpaid on this account, it would be fair to remove the cost of the 
mis-sold PPI from the balance of the account  and that is in effect what Santander has done here. The full cost of the PPI as calculated by Santander was £4,074.00 and if this is 
removed from the balance on the account, it would bring the account into credit. So Mr M is 
then owed the credit amount and as he was out of pocket for this amount of the costs of the 
PPI compensatory interest is calculated.
So Santander has set off the debt for the compensation against the debt on the credit card 
account, and so removed the PPI from the credit card account. And this left an amount of 
£2,061.86, in effect a credit on the account, and this what Santander has paid to Mr M.
In this complaint if Santander paid Mr M the full amount of the compensation for the PPI then 
it would be paying to him some of the costs of PPI that he never actually paid  that is the 
costs that remained in the balance of the credit card account when it was in debt. 
Having considered all the facts, I am satisfied that it is fair that Santander uses the PPI 
compensation to set it off against the balance that remained outstanding on the account. In 
effect this is only removing the PPI that was in the account balance and was never paid by 
Mr M in this particular case. 
Although Mr M did make a lump sum payment to short settle the account, there was an 
amount that remained the Mr M had never paid. But he was never chased for this and in fact 
no interest was charged to the card account from 2009, which also means he didnt pay 
interest on some of his borrowings for spend on the card for his own use. When he paid the 
lump sum in 2015, without the PPI on the account it would have gone into credit, so 
Santander has also paid him compensatory interest for the time the account would have 
been in credit without PPI.
I have also noted that when Mr M signed to accept the compensation, the acceptance form 
stated, Please note that this amount [£4,458.64] may be used to repay any outstanding 
arrears on your account before the remaining balance, if any, is paid to you. So I think 
Santander made it clear that the account debt would be settled before any of the 
compensation was paid to Mr M. 
Overall, I cannot see that Santander has done anything wrong in the way it dealt with this 
mis-sale complaint and the compensation due. It follows that I think what Santander has 
done with the compensation, and what it has paid to Mr M, is fair.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I think Santander UK Plcs offer and what it has done with the 
compensation is fair and I am not upholding this complaint that any additional amount is due 
to be paid to Mr M.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 June 2021.
 
Chris Fraser
Ombudsman