DRN-2209871
The complaint
Mr H complains U K Insurance Limited (UKI) gave him incorrect advice when attending to his 
roadside assistance policy which led to them charging him £150.
A number of other companies have been involved in this complaint, but as UKI are 
responsible for it, Ive just referred to them in this decision.
What happened
On 6 January 2020 Mr Hs car wouldnt start, so he called UKI and was told the battery was 
flat. He says he was told by UKIs technician to run the car for 5-10 minutes, and itd be fine. 
Mr H ran the car for 15 minutes. Three days later on 9 January 2020 the same issue 
happened, and Mr H says he was told when calling UKI because it was the same issue 
within 28 days theyd charge him a £150 fee for coming out. Mr H wasnt happy with this and 
asked to speak to a supervisor. He says he explained the previous advice he was given and 
told at that time that actually theyd recommend driving the car for 30 minutes after a flat 
battery rather than the 5-10 minutes quoted. 
Mr H said due to needing his car for work he had no choice but to pay the £150 fee. Another 
technician came out and this time told him to run the car for 45-50 minutes and they said his 
battery was at 22%. 
UKI said because Mr Hs car was attended on 6 January, and the second call out was for the 
same issue within 28 days they wouldnt be refunding the £150 fee. They said as hed 
confirmed hed not been to a garage the correct process had been followed.
Mr H wasnt happy with this, so asked us to look into things. When doing so, he explained 
UKI have refused to provide him with the paperwork for the second callout on 9 January.
One of our investigators looked into things. He felt Mr H had been clear and consistent in 
saying hed not been told to take his car to a garage, and just been told to drive it around for 
5-10 minutes. Because of this, he felt UKI should refund the £150 fee.
Mr H accepted this, but UKI didnt. Across a number of responses, they said:
The policy terms say theyll charge extra in Mr Hs circumstances.
They got advice from their internal engineers who said theres no specific time of 
when to charge a battery, but it usually takes 12 hours or more. And when a service 
provider goes out to jump start a flat battery, they usually advise 30-60 minutes 
driving to recharge it.
Mr H signed a waiver to say he was told to take his car to a garage and get the issue 
fixed.
Mr H says one thing, their service provider says another  two conversations which 
they werent at. But the waiver is clear which Mr H has signed to say he understood  
and this tells him to take his car to a garage, and that he may not be covered if 
theres a call out for the same issue within 28 days.
Overall then, UKI say they were surprised we said theres no proof Mr H was told to take his 
car to a garage when he signed to say he had been told this. Because of this, the 
complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that the policy terms mean UKI can charge Mr H extra for a callout 
theyve attended to which is for the same reason within the 28 days. The key dispute here is 
what Mr H was told the first time UKI attended his car on 6 January 2020.
UKI have relied on the waiver, which Mr H signed, to say hed agreed he needed to go to the 
garage and might not be covered if the issue happened again within 28 days. I can 
understand why, as this is material evidence from the time of the event. But that doesnt 
mean I can or should ignore all of the other evidence in this case.
Mr H has been clear and consistent  from the first phone call with UKI to the last time our 
investigator asked him  that he was told to drive the car for 5-10 minutes and understood 
he didnt need to go to the garage. I understand UKIs service provider say theyd 
recommend longer  but the times seem to vary from 30 minutes, 45 minutes, 60 minutes 
and 12 hours across a number of people Mr H spoke to. I cant see why Mr H would have 
said, from the first opportunity to now, hed only been told to drive his car to charge up the 
battery for 5-10 minutes if that wasnt actually what he was told would solve the problem. 
I also think its unlikely Mr H would take chances with his car, if he understood potentially this 
wouldnt resolve the issue. I say that because hes said he needs his car for work  and this 
appears to be evidenced by him agreeing to pay the fee of £150 on the second callout.
Ive thought carefully about the waiver thats been signed  which does include Mr Hs 
signature and comments about going to a garage. But I cant rule out those comments that 
have been recorded were standard comments written by most technicians when attending 
the roadside.
Overall then, Im more persuaded by Mr Hs version of events, than the evidence UKI have 
provided. Because of that, I think its appropriate to require UKI to repay Mr H the fee he was 
charged.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I order U K Insurance Limited to refund the £150 fee 
they charged Mr H.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman