DRN-3442445
The complaint
Mr G has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him a fee-paying Silver 
account in July 2009.
Mr G says that he was led to believe that he had to have the Silver account to be able to get 
an overdraft. Mr G says that was the only reason he agreed to the account and says he had 
no need for the benefits that it provided.
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and they didnt think that the complaint 
should be upheld. Mr G disagreed, and so the matter was referred for an ombudsmans 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged accounts on our website, and 
Ive used that to help me decide this complaint.
I think it may also be helpful to explain that where matters are in dispute and evidence is 
lacking, as is the case here, I need to decide what I think is most likely happened, based on 
everything that is available.
Mr G says that he was led to believe that upgrading his account to a Silver account (from a 
fee-paying Select account  which he has not complained about) was the only way to obtain 
a small overdraft. However, Lloyds has provided evidence to show that Mr G already had a 
small overdraft on his account before it was upgraded to a Silver account. As such, Mr Gs 
recollection of the events dont match the evidence. I note that Mr G did eventually increase 
his overdraft from £50 to £100, but as this occurred a number of months later, it doesnt 
seem likely that he agreed to the upgrade for this reason.
On the contrary, I note that Mr G was paying £8.95 for his Select account, and by upgrading 
his account to a Silver account, he was able to reduce the monthly fee to £7.95. And the 
main difference in the insurance benefits was that the Select account provided mobile phone 
insurance and breakdown cover, but the Silver account had these benefits but also included 
European travel insurance.
Therefore, I think its much more likely that Mr G agreed to change his account from a Select 
account to a Silver account because he was able to get more insurance benefits, but for a 
cheaper price  rather than it being the case that he was misled into thinking that it was the 
only option available to him.
I understand that account was recommended to Mr G. This means Lloyds had to make sure 
it was a reasonable fit for Mr Gs circumstances at the time. As mentioned above, the 
account included mobile phone insurance, breakdown cover and travel insurance. And Mr G 
has said that he had a phone, drove and travelled abroad occasionally. Therefore, it seems 
that Mr G wouldve been able to make use of the main features of the account. So the 
recommendation seems to have been reasonable in the circumstances.
As well as making sure the account was a good fit for Mr G, Lloyds also had to provide Mr G 
with enough information about the account, so that he understood what he was agreeing to.
Unfortunately, due to how long ago the sale took place, its not clear exactly what information 
Mr G was given during the sale. However, given that I think Mr G agreed to the account as 
he was able to get similar benefits to his existing account, but for a lower monthly fee, I think 
its likely that the cost and the main features of the account were discussed with him. And 
although Mr G says that he never used any of the benefits of the account, I can see that he 
went on to register 4 phones under the Silver account mobile phone insurance. So its clear 
that at the very least, he made use of this benefit. And the fact he registered phones shows 
that he was given some information about the need to register handsets and also how to go 
about doing so.
I accept its possible that Mr G might not have been given all of the information he shouldve 
been given during the sale. But Ive not seen anything in this case, that makes me think that 
Mr G wouldve been put off from agreeing to the account, had he been given even more 
information about the account.
Finally, I note that Mr G says that he had account reviews, but says he was never given the 
option to have a fee-free account. However, the only time I can see an account review was 
carried out was in March 2003  at which point Mr Gs account was already a fee-free 
account.
I can also see that Mr G opened up a separate fee-free account in 2015. Therefore, Mr G 
was clearly aware in 2015 that fee-free alternatives were available to him and yet he 
continued paying for the Silver account after 2015. Mr G went on to register another phone 
on the Silver account phone insurance cover, after hed opened the separate fee-free 
account. As such, I think its much more likely that Mr G continued to pay for the Silver 
account because he was relying on the cover that it provided  rather than because, as he 
says, he was led to believe that fee-free alternatives werent available to him.  
Therefore, having taken everything into consideration, I dont think that the Silver account 
was mis-sold. I therefore dont think it would be appropriate to require Lloyds to refund Mr 
Gs Silver account fees.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2022.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman