DRN-3990674
The complaint
Mr A complains about the way J.P. Morgan Europe Limited trading as Chase handled a 
request he made for money back in respect of a trip he paid for. 
What happened
Mr A booked accommodation via a travel agent Ill call B. He paid around £300 for a short 
stay in July 2022 using his chase debit card. 
Mr A said when he arrived at the accommodation there were several problems. He said, in 
summary, that there were safety concerns with some electrical items, the room was smaller 
than the pictures on Bs website, the cooker didnt work, the room smelt and he couldnt get 
a key from reception when he needed it. Mr A said that because of these things, he didnt 
utilise his full stay and had to book accommodation elsewhere. 
Mr A contacted B and complained about the accommodation. Having not received a 
satisfactory response, he asked Chase to step in and help. 
In response to Mr As request Chase said it couldnt help. It said there were no grounds for it 
to raise a chargeback (the mechanism for getting Mr As money back in this case) as 
chargeback didnt cover situations involving standard of service. 
Dissatisfied with this, Mr A referred his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator decided not to uphold Mr As complaint. She said that although Chases 
reasons for not raising a chargeback were flawed it appeared unlikely a chargeback would 
have succeeded if raised as there was not enough available evidence to support it. 
Mr A disagreed with the investigator and asked an ombudsman to review his complaint. He 
said it was conjecture to say a chargeback would not have succeeded.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having thought about everything carefully, I agree that Chases reasons for not raising a 
chargeback were flawed and that based on Mr As description of the transaction, there was a 
chargeback dispute code that fitted his dispute.  
However, even if with that being the case, it doesnt necessary mean that Chase needs to do 
something now. 
As the investigator identified, a claim would be unlikely to succeed now as it wouldnt meet 
the necessary conditions in respect of timing in the card scheme rules (i.e. it was a condition 
that Mr A raise a chargeback within 120 days of the end of his trip). 
So, in order to fairly conclude that Mr A lost out financially as a result of Chases actions and 
that Chase should reasonably do something about it, Id need to find that the opportunity he 
was denied provided a real prospect of a benefit. In other words, I think this means that Id 
need to find Mr As chargeback would most likely have succeeded if pursued robustly by 
Chase. 
Ive not seen enough to make me think that this was the case. As the investigator explained, 
it seems likely based on what Mr A told us about Bs response to the complaint that it would 
have defended it. The card scheme rules required Mr A to document that the services did 
not conform to their description. While there was no requirement about the specific kind of 
evidence Mr A had to provide, it seems reasonable to say  given the more subjective nature 
of this kind of dispute  that the more Mr A was able to provide in the form of 
contemporaneous evidence, the better his chances of succeeding would have been. 
However, the evidence Mr A has provided in support of the room not matching the 
description he was given is somewhat limited and there appears to be little in the way of 
contemporaneous evidence. 
I know Mr A said more evidence might have revealed itself if a chargeback had been raised 
 he said for example that B might have contacted the accommodation to ask whether he 
made his concerns known to it. But there was no guarantee this would have happened or 
that it would have elicited something favourable to Mr As dispute. It seems more reasonable 
to take account of what Mr A has actually provided rather than what may or may not have 
come to light. Im not persuaded by what Ive seen of this, on the balance of probabilities, 
that a chargeback would have succeeded.
Mr A said its not for this service to decide how the card scheme would act. Obviously, it is 
not possible to know for sure what would have happened with a chargeback. However, I 
cant reasonably find that Chase should treat Mr A as if the chargeback was successful 
unless I thought, on balance that it would have been. And I dont. 
Thats not to say that Mr A doesnt have a claim of any kind against B or any other 
companies that were involved in the provision of the service he paid for. Chargebacks are 
not a way of determining someones legal rights. 
Overall, while Chases reasons for not raising a chargeback may have been flawed, its 
unlikely based on what Ive seen that this caused him to lose out. So, I dont find Chase 
needs to do anything about Mr As complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that J.P. Morgan Europe Limited trading as Chase doesnt need to do 
anything in respect of Mr As complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2023.
 
Michael Ball
Ombudsman