DRN-2184851
The complaint
Mrs H is unhappy about two loans she had with Amigo Loans Ltd. She says Amigo didnt
properly check whether she could afford the repayments and shouldnt have lent to her.
What happened
In May 2015, Mrs H applied for a loan with Amigo. And she applied again, in July 2017 when
she asked for a Top-Up loan. The monthly repayments on the loans were £197.62 and
£395.25 respectively. Mrs H said she struggled to make the repayments and complained to
Amigo.
Amigo accepted they could have done more to determine whether the first loan was
affordable and sustainable for Mrs H. They agreed to remove any interest from the loan and
any reference to it on Mrs Hs credit file. For the second loan, Amigo said they had carried
out sufficient checks and they had shown the loan was affordable and sustainable for Mrs H.
Mrs H wasnt happy as she said neither loan was affordable. She said her income wasnt
consistent and shed only just returned to work after suffering ill health. And Amigo hadnt
refunded any monies from the first loan to her. Instead they had offset this against the
second loan. She referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator didnt consider the first loan in his findings. But said Amigo should have
carried out further checks for the second loan to see if it was affordable and sustainable. But
he couldnt say if the loan was affordable or not as Mrs H hadnt sent him enough
information for him to decide.
Mrs H disagreed and asked for her complaint to be referred to an ombudsman to consider.
I issued a provisional decision in August 2020, that said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so Im currently minded to
uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
When someone complains about irresponsible and/or unaffordable lending, I need to
consider whether the lender completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy them
the lending was affordable, and that the affordability was sustainable. Where reasonable and
proportionate checks were carried out, I need to consider if the lending decision was fair.
And if reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if the loan
would have been approved if the checks had taken place.
Theres no set list for what reasonable and proportional checks are, but Id expect lenders to
consider things such as the amount, duration and payments of the loan being applied for;
and in this case the guarantors personal circumstances at the time of each application.
Loan One - £5,000 (over 60 months) - £197.62
Amigo has accepted they should have done further checks to see if this loan was affordable.
So, I wont comment further about whether this loan was affordable or not. But I will use the
information that was given by Mrs H for this loan to compare against the information for Loan
Two, what she said and what checks Amigo did as this information was available to Amigo in
their considerations.
Amigo has shown us evidence that they asked Mrs H about her living expenses and carried
out a credit check before agreeing to Loan One. I can see she told Amigo her income at the
time was £1,190 and her household expenses were around £690 per month. Mrs H also had
two mail order accounts and an unsecured loan with repayments. Amigo calculated her
overall outgoings at around £864 per month. This left Mrs H with a disposable income of
£326. Amigo also said theyd added a £100 contingency amount to their calculations, for any
unexpected expenses. This left Mrs H a disposable income of £226 with the loan repayment
being £197.62.
Loan Two - £10,000 (over 60 months) - £395.25
In July 2017, Mrs H asked for a Top-Up loan with Amigo. This meant Loan One would be
repaid, and any remaining balance would be paid to her. I can see Mrs H told Amigo her
income had increased to £1,860, which included a benefits payment of £320. And her
household expenses were now around £798 per month.
For Loan One, Mrs H said she didnt have any credit cards and one unsecured loan. But the
budget planner now showed, she had a credit card and her unsecured loan balance had
increased from £61 to £4265, and she now had only one mail order account. Mrs H said
shed had a county court judgement (CCJ) for £549 made against her as well.
In total Amigo calculated her monthly repayments to be around £878 per month as theyd
again included a contingency of £100 for any unexpected expenses. This would have left
Mrs H with disposable income of £982. The loan repayment was around £395 leaving her an
amount of £587 per month. Which would appear to show the loan was affordable.
But Amigo has also given us the results of the credit check. As Amigo lend to customers who
have a poor credit history its not unusual to see adverse information on the credit file and a
loan approved. But since the first loan was approved Mrs H had several defaults and a CCJ.
This, I think, would show that since the first loan was taken out shed been struggling with
her finances. And her ability for this loan to be affordable was based on her increased salary.
So, given the term and the cost of this loan, I dont think these checks were proportionate.
Thats because the second loan was for a substantial amount, and the repayment liability
had doubled. And it could be seen that despite what appeared to be a substantial increase in
included obtaining a better understanding of Mrs Hs actual financial circumstances.
Since making her complaint with us, Mrs H has shown us her tax returns and her bank
statements. And since the case was referred to an ombudsman, she has also sent her joint
account bank statements. None of this information shows evidence of the income she told
Amigo she was earning.
Her tax return for 2017/2018 shows her gross earnings to be £1,331.09, with sporadic
payments through the year. And her benefit payments were around £320 per month. Which I
calculate would only provide an average monthly income of around £431, well below Mrs Hs
stated income of £1860. And would mean she had no disposable income available to spend
or to repay her loan repayment.
I have also considered Mrs Hs bank statements for June and July 2017. And again, I see
little evidence of a regular income other than the benefit payments mentioned above.Having reviewed this information, Im satisfied Mrs H would have had difficulties meeting
the ongoing monthly payments of this loan. And Im satisfied on balance, had Amigo
completed further checks, they would have realised the loan was unaffordable for Mrs H and
decided not to lend to her.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Mrs H and Amigo accepted my provisional decision.
So, on this basis, Im satisfied this complaint should be upheld. This means Mrs H should
only have to pay back the money she has borrowed from Amigo. So, Amigo will need to
refund the interest and charges Mrs H has paid so far.
My final decision
So, Im upholding this complaint. And ask Amigo Loans Ltd to:
remove any interest and charges applied to Mrs Hs account from when it was
opened;
treat any payments that Mrs H has made as a reduction of the principle amount, if
this results in Mrs H having paid more than what she was initially lent, then any extra
should be treated as an overpayment and refunded to Mrs H plus 8% simple interest
on this amount from date of payment to date of settlement;
if an outstanding balance remains on Mrs Hs account after all adjustments have
been made, then Amigo Loans Ltd needs to come to suitable repayment plan with
Mrs H to pay off the remaining amount; and
remove any adverse information on Mrs Hs credit file in relation to this loan.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 October 2020.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman