DRN-4088039
The complaint
Mr L complains about what he considers to be irresponsible lending to him by Virgin Media 
Mobile Finance Limited (Virgin Mobile).
What happened
Over a period of around three and a half years Mr L took out eight Virgin Mobile phone 
contracts. The contracts mostly ran over a three-year term, with monthly payments ranging 
from £25 to £45. Mr L explains that he was heavily indebted during this period and had a 
gambling addiction. As I understand it, Mr L undertook similar action with another mobile 
provider. His purpose in taking out the phone contracts was to ease his financial situation by 
selling the phones and using the proceeds elsewhere.
Mr L eventually found himself in an unsustainable financial position. He complained to Virgin 
Mobile saying that the lender had failed to undertake suitable financial assessment. He said 
that if it had done so, he would have been prevented from taking out the contracts, which 
were contributing towards his unsustainable level of debt. He sought the cancellation of the 
contracts, their removal from his credit file, and compensation.
Virgin Mobile didnt accept Mr Ls complaint. It says it undertook credit checks before 
approving the finance agreements. It says Mr L repaid four of the contracts but that the 
remaining accounts were significantly in arrears. The accounts were with its Recoveries 
team and a debt repayment plan was in place. 
Our investigator didnt think Virgin Mobile had acted inappropriately in approving the first four 
contracts. He considered the credit checks alone were unlikely to be sufficient. But from 
reviewing Mr Ls bank statements and overall financial position at the relevant times, the 
investigator found that the payments were, on the face of it, affordable based on Mr Ls 
disposable income.
In respect of the other four contracts, our investigator again found that the limited checks 
Virgin Mobile carried out were unlikely to be enough to demonstrate his ability to meet the 
payments sustainably. Noting changes in Mr Ls financial position by that time, our 
investigator felt that Mr Ls disposable income would be unlikely to cover the payments due 
under the contracts.
However, the investigator also noted Mr L had gone on to sell the phones supplied under the 
contract and had used the money he received in return. In addition, no interest was payable 
under the contracts. The investigator didnt think in such circumstances it was appropriate to 
expect Virgin Mobile to write off any outstanding balances or compensate Mr L.
Mr L didnt accept the investigators conclusions and asked for this review. He said that his 
credit report showed that he was using credit to repay other debt and that he was only 
sustaining his outgoings by drawing cash on credit. He maintains that, had Virgin Mobile 
undertaken suitable checks, the credit would never have been given to him. Mr L said that 
there appeared to be no consequences to Virgin Mobiles actions and if the later loans hadnt 
been approved, he wouldnt have been able to sell them to fund his gambling addiction. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The contracts for the mobile phones are fixed-sum loan agreements, governed by  among 
other things  the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) and regulations set out by the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) in the CONC section of its Handbook. The FCA 
handbook can be found on its website.
Under CONC provisions, before agreeing to lend to Mr L on each occasion Virgin Mobile 
needed to make a reasonable creditworthiness assessment. That assessment has to be 
proportionate and based on sufficient information, taking into account matters such as the 
type and amount of credit, the payment frequency and amounts payable. It should also take 
into account any information of which its aware that might indicate a customer is 
experiencing financial difficulty or is particularly vulnerable.
Virgin Mobile has been able to provide only very limited information in relation to the 
creditworthiness assessments it undertook in relation to Mr L. Theres nothing to suggest 
either in Virgin Mobiles records or in Mr Ls own submissions that it was aware at the time of 
his applications of any financial difficulties Mr L was experiencing, or that he might have 
been in any way vulnerable. However, it is apparent that Virgin Mobile didnt do much in the 
way of assessing Mr Ls ability to make the required payments under the agreements.
An assessment based only on how Mr L has handled previous credit and his current overall 
level of debt is unlikely to be based on sufficient information. It doesnt, for example, take 
into consideration his level of expenditure. Thats not to say I would expect a proportionate 
assessment would require Virgin Mobile to examine in detail Mr Ls bank statements. The 
monthly payment on the phone contracts alone doesnt justify this.
But by the time of the fifth loan onwards, Virgin Mobile ought reasonably to have been 
considering Mr Ls combined commitments. Like our investigator, I think that should have 
prompted a more in-depth review of Mr Ls financial position. And such a review would more 
likely than not have established the limited level of disposable income Mr L had to sustain 
payments.
As such, I accept the contention that if Virgin Mobile had undertaken a reasonable 
creditworthiness assessment, it wouldnt have approved the lending for the agreements Mr L 
took out in 2020. I dont believe, however, that this means what Mr L is seeking represents a 
fair resolution to that failing. I have to consider all of the relevant circumstances in 
determining whats fair and reasonable.
That includes the fact that Mr L has had value for the contracts he took out. He sold the 
phones  which under the agreements hes obliged to return unless the loans are repaid in 
full. Hes made use of the cash he received by doing so. If I were to propose that Virgin 
Mobile simply write off the outstanding sums, that would put Mr L in a better position than he 
would have been in if Virgin Media hadnt agreed the loans. In the circumstances at play 
here, I dont consider that would be the right thing to do.
Its not my role to make an award against a firm as a fine or penalty for wrongdoing. And I 
dont agree with Mr L when he says there are no consequences to Virgin Mobiles failure to 
undertake an appropriate assessment. The consequence to Virgin Mobile is that instead of 
recovering the money it lent to Mr L over a three-year period, its going to take him much 
longer to repay. Virgin Mobile doesnt benefit from that timescale; the loans attract no 
interest. But having considered things as a whole, Im not minded to interfere with the current position under which I understand Mr L is making token affordable payments.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Virgin Media Mobile Finance Limited to take any 
further action to resolve this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2023.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman