DRN-3202211
The complaint
Miss S complains about the settlement Aviva Insurance Limited offered after she made claim 
for a lost ring.
What happened
Miss S has a home insurance policy with Aviva, which covers her personal belongings, 
amongst other things. She made a claim after she unfortunately lost a gold and diamond 
ring.
Aviva offered to replace the ring, but Miss S wasnt happy with the design of the 
replacement. Aviva then offered a cash settlement of £4,075, net the £300 excess on the 
policy.
Miss S made a complaint to Aviva. She said shed specified the ring as a valuable personal 
possession on her policy and valued it at £6,000, which would be the price of replacing it on 
the retail market.
Aviva considered Miss Ss complaint but maintained their position. They told Miss S that her 
policy terms said that if they provided a cash settlement, it would be for the amount it would 
have cost them to replace the ring.
Miss S wasnt happy with this outcome and brought her complaint to us. Our investigator 
looked into it and didnt think Aviva had done anything wrong.
Miss S disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First of all, I should say that Im really sorry that Miss S lost her ring. That was clearly very 
upsetting given that the ring had sentimental value for Miss S as well as its monetary value.
Theres no dispute in this case about the claim itself. Miss S lost the ring, shes shown that 
she owned it and shes provided a certificate of valuation, which says the ring was worth 
almost £6,000. Theres no dispute that that is what it would cost her to replace the ring at 
current market prices.
So, my decision is entirely about whether Aviva have treated Miss S fairly and reasonably by 
offering a cash settlement at around £4,000 (net of the excess). As Miss S has pointed out, 
she cant replace the ring for that amount on the retail market.
I think its important to set out exactly what Miss Ss policy says about this kind of situation. 
The policy covers personal possessions (as specified by the policyholder and included in 
their policy schedule) lost or damaged inside or outside the home.
In the relevant section of the policy terms and conditions, Aviva set out how theyll settle any 
claims for loss or damage of personal possessions. They say:
We can choose to settle your claim by
replacing
reinstating
repairing
payment
Replacement will be on a like for like basis or based on the nearest equivalent available 
in the current market. If we are able to replace the property, but we agree to make a 
cash settlement, we will only pay what it would cost us to replace the item as if it were 
new.
The terms go on to state that the most Aviva will pay to settle a claim is the amount shown in 
the schedule.
There are several important points to note about the policy terms, as set out above.
One, they give Aviva the choice of how to settle the claim, not the policyholder.
Two, they say the lost or damaged item will replaced like for like  and where thats not 
possible, Aviva will provide the nearest equivalent available.
Three, if Aviva could replace the item, but provide a cash settlement instead, the amount will 
be dictated by what it would cost them to replace the item, not what the item would cost on 
the open market. 
And four, the value specified in the policy schedule will be the maximum Aviva pay out. In 
other words, they wont necessarily pay the full amount specified in the schedule, if the cost 
of replacement is less than that.
Those terms arent unusual in this kind of insurance policy. Theyre not inherently unfair in 
any way (Ill come back to this below). And they are clearly set out and explained in a 
document provided to their customers before the policy is purchased.
So, the terms are fairly clear. And strictly speaking they allow Aviva to settle the claim in the 
way theyve offered. But theres an important principle here that I need to take into account 
in making my decision. 
When we see this kind of complaint, we have to ask ourselves how and why the claim is 
being settled with a cash payment, rather than by replacement of the lost item.
I think most of us would agree that if, in effect, Aviva had forced Miss S to accept a cash 
settlement  or left her with no real choice but to do so  then they should in fairness pay 
Miss S the amount it would cost her to replace the ring. 
In those circumstances, that would be the only fair and effective way for Aviva to indemnify 
Miss M for her loss  that is, to put her back in the position she was in before the loss 
occurred (in possession of a ring the same as, or very similar to, the one she lost).However, if Aviva were able to put Miss S back in the position she were in before the loss by 
replacing the ring, but Miss S insisted on a cash settlement, I think most of us would agree 
that it would be unfair to ask Aviva to pay the retail price to Miss S as a cash settlement. 
In that case, it would be Miss S effectively forcing Aviva into a cash settlement rather than 
taking a perfectly reasonable  and less costly  alternative.
Ill try to put it as simply as I can  possibly at the risk of over-simplifying it. If Aviva made the 
choice to cash settle the claim, they should pay the full retail price. But if Miss S chose cash 
settlement over replacement, she should accept the amount it would have cost Aviva to 
replace the ring.
If I look at the email correspondence between Miss S and Aviva, taking things very literally, 
its Miss S who decides that she doesnt want to continue with the process of designing a 
replacement ring. She says herself, in an email to Aviva dated 30 July 2021,  since I 
withdrew from that process this month.
However, its clear that Miss S withdrew from the process because she thought Avivas 
contractors werent going to be able to replace her ring satisfactorily. And if she was right 
about that, then theres a reasonable argument that she was effectively given no choice but 
to ask for a cash settlement.
Ive looked very closely at the way in which Aviva set out to replace the ring. They 
commissioned a jeweller  who they might reasonably regard as a suitably qualified expert  
to design and make the replacement ring.
The jeweller worked from photographs to replicate the ring using computer-aided design 
(CAD) software. And they spoke to Miss S about the draft designs theyd put together.
As I understand it, there were a number of iterations of the design. Miss S asked for 
amendments to be made on a number of occasions.
I can see that might have been time-consuming for Miss S. I know she was concerned that 
the design might not match the lost ring and that she might end up with something which 
didnt fit the bill, as far as she was concerned. She was also concerned that some previous 
changes were lost in later versions of the design.
That said, the jeweller offered to produce a wax model of the ring, once a final version of the 
CAD design had been agreed. This is normally a service the customer has to pay for, but in 
this case, Aviva agreed it would be free to Miss S.
It was when the jeweller sent Miss S a final draft of the CAD design to agree  so that a wax 
model could then be produced from that design - that she decided to ask Aviva for a cash 
settlement.
Miss S seems to have thought that the next step should have been for her to receive the wax 
model, not a further iteration of the design. So instead of asking for any final amendments to 
be made, she withdrew from the process. And asked for a cash settlement.
That being the case, I cant in all fairness conclude that Aviva have effectively forced Miss S 
to take a cash settlement. They  and their jeweller  were still happy to continue with the 
process of designing and producing the replacement ring.I realise that process had become quite prolonged, but Im satisfied that if Miss S had 
worked with the jeweller on that final design, the replacement ring would have been 
produced and provided to Miss S.
Miss S has said several times  to Aviva and to us  that she was worried that if she agreed 
for the ring to be produced from the CAD designs, she would be committed then to accepting 
whatever ring was produced. And she felt this might not match her lost ring.
I can see why Miss S might feel that way. But I have to refer back to the policy terms (as 
stated above). Particularly the part which says that if a like for like replacement is not 
available on the market, Aviva will provide the nearest equivalent available. 
In commissioning a reputable, expert jeweller to produce a ring that matched Miss Ss lost 
ring as closely as practically possible  and was made from the same grade of materials etc. 
 Im satisfied Aviva acted fairly and reasonably in attempting to meet that obligation under 
the policy terms. 
Its not unreasonable or unfair for Aviva to conclude that if the expert jeweller told them they 
could satisfactorily replicate the lost ring, then it was possible for them to do so.
Its not quite so straightforward, in this case, as saying the customer demanded a cash 
settlement and was unwilling to consider a replacement  so giving Aviva no choice but to 
cash settle the claim. Miss S clearly initially agreed to the replacement option and only 
withdrew later after she felt the process hadnt delivered what she was expecting. 
But on balance, Im satisfied Aviva did all they reasonably could to deliver a satisfactory 
replacement for the lost ring. And on balance, Im satisfied it was Miss Ss choice to 
withdraw from that process, before she could reasonably conclude that she wasnt going to 
get a satisfactory replacement ring.
That being the case, its not unfair or unreasonable for Aviva to offer a cash settlement 
based on what it would have cost them to replace the ring, rather than on its market value. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ss complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 January 2022.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman