DRN-3224805
The complaint
Mrs K complains to M & G Securities Limited about a transfer request that was delayed and 
ultimately incorrectly processed as a surrender  she seeks compensation for her financial 
loss.
What happened
Mrs K had an Individual Savings Account (ISA) with M&G. In 2020, she decided to transfer it 
to a new provider. She signed a transfer authority form on 1 May which allowed her new 
provider to start the transfer process. She told us the new provider had confirmed receipt of 
this form on 7 May. But the transfer didnt complete until late-July  more than double the 
amount of time it ought to have taken. Mrs K was also disappointed to see M&G had sold 
her investment and just sent the cash proceeds to the new provider, rather than keeping her 
investment in-tact and instead sending it in-specie. 
Unhappy with the process, Mrs K complained to M&G. They looked into what had happened 
and explained the contact theyd had with the new provider, but that the transfer was still 
outstanding as they didnt have everything they needed. They clarified the initial request was 
for a valuation  the process being that the new provider then accepts the transfer after 
knowing its value. But that the acceptance wasnt complete as the correct authority wasnt 
received. So M&G didnt think any delay was a result of shortcomings on their part. 
Around a week later, M&G received what they needed and transferred Mrs Ks ISA in cash 
to the new provider.  
Mrs K was unhappy and asked for our help. She told us about how her investment had fallen 
in value during the delay  had it have been transferred in cash earlier, itd have been worth 
more. And had it have been transferred in-specie as shed wanted, she wouldnt have been 
out of the market  especially given a cheque was sent rather than the money being 
transferred electronically. She referred to the ISA transfer guidance as the 30 calendar days 
that applied in her case was far exceeded. 
One of our investigators looked into Mrs Ks concerns  he tried to work with the new 
provider to better understand whatd happened between them and M&G, but unfortunately 
they didnt reply. From what our investigator had seen, despite Mrs K beginning the transfer 
in early May, the new provider hadnt initiated the process with M&G until later in June  so 
he didnt think the delay from those first five or six weeks were M&Gs fault. He also thought 
M&G had been clear with the new provider about what they needed. And didnt think M&G 
had done something wrong by transferring the value in cash rather than in-specie. 
Mrs K didnt agree  she didnt think the financial loss had been taken into account and 
pointed to the growth in the fund shed missed out on. She also didnt agree the ISA 
timescales had been met. Or that M&G were allowed to have transferred the cash. So as an 
agreement wasnt reached, the case was referred for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In order to consider M&Gs actions in Mrs Ks transfer, Ive consider what both parties have 
shared in order to establish a timeline. Unfortunately I have not been able to consider the 
new providers version of events as they have not responded to our service. From what I 
have been able to review I can see:
Mrs K signed an ISA manager transfer form with the new provider on 1 May 2020. 
M&G received an email from the new provider on 28 May asking for a valuation 
request  but they were unable to share this value given they had yet to receive the 
application or authority to share the information.
The new provider tried to email M&G on 2 and 4 June  but their encryption meant 
M&G werent able to read the emails, so M&G asked for another format, post or a 
call.
On 15 June M&G received a valuation request and copy of Mrs Ks transfer authority 
from the new provider  M&G pointed out that the new providers letter was dated 
11 May but that theyd received it more than a month later.
M&G replied to the new provider five working days later  they gave the value of the 
ISA and said theyd await either a cash or stock transfer form. 
M&G say they reconfirmed what was required with the new provider on 3 July. 
On 20 July the new provider wrote to M&G confirming receipt of the valuation and 
that theyd accept the transfer as stock. 
On 29 July M&G replied to say theyd need a stock transfer form.
But the new provider had already written back to M&G two days earlier on 27 July 
enclosing the form. The letter also said I am happy to accept this transfer in the form 
of cash as indicated on the clients transfer form. And went on to list two transfer 
options, the first being details for CHAPS and the second details for cheques.
Having reviewed Mrs Ks statement, I can see a transfer out was made two days later 
on 29 July.
For M&G to transfer Mrs Ks ISA, a process needed to be followed. This typically begins with 
a new provider reaching out to a current provider to notify them of their clients intention to 
leave, along with some authority. The new provider usually establishes the ISA value before 
formally confirming that they will accept a transfer. The mechanics of that are then decided 
before the money or stock is moved. What appears to have happened in Mrs Ks case is that 
her current provider, being M&G, were approached about initiating the transfer process on 
28 May, 2 June and 4 June  but none of these contacts were sufficient to begin the process 
given the lack of authority.
Instead, the new provider started the process by way of the communication M&G received 
on 15 June. Though this was around six weeks after Mrs K wanted the process to begin, I 
cannot see that this delay is the fault of M&G.Once M&G had received the communication, they took the next step of confirming the ISA 
value in five working days. I think this was a reasonable amount of time to have acted. 
The new provider attempted to perform the next step on 20 July but it does not appear M&G 
received the form they needed. This was instead sent on 27 July. Once this had been 
received, M&G processed the transfer within two days.
From all that I have seen, M&G acted within reasonable timescales with each step they were 
required to perform. For that reason, I dont agree with Mrs K in that M&G unfairly delayed 
her ISA transfer. 
I appreciate Mrs K is unhappy her investment was sold for cash to be transferred. I note that 
on her original transfer form, to the question how do you want this transfer to be made? she 
answered stocks and residual cash. I also note that the new providers letter on 20 July 
requesting the transfer (but omitting authority) said this letter is to confirm that we will accept 
the transfer in the form of stock. 
However, it is important to note that when the new provider sent M&G the completed request 
and authority on 27 July, their cover letter said Please accept this letter along with the 
enclosed clients transfer request as formal acceptance of this transfer I am happy to 
accept this transfer in the form of cash as indicated on the clients transfer form Though 
there had previously been instruction to transfer as stock, the previous instructions were not 
actionable by M&G  instead, the actionable instruction came with a request for cash. So I 
dont think it was wrong for M&G to sell the investment and send the cash to the new 
provider.
Mrs K says shes missed out on growth in the fund  shes shared a chart highlighting growth 
between November 2020 and November 2021. But its important to note that she was able to 
reinvest her money once it had been deposited within her new providers ISA. So if she has 
missed this opportunity for growth, that is a result of her subsequent, alternative investment 
decisions rather than the fault of M&G. 
From all that I have seen, M&G didnt delay Mrs Ks transfer nor did they make a mistake in 
surrendering her investment.
 
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mrs Ks complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask her to accept or reject my decision before 
28 July 2022.
 
Aimee Stanton
Ombudsman