DRN-3275911
The complaint
M, a limited company, has complained about the broker, Cullenglow Ltd which arranges the 
buildings insurance cover which M, by virtue of a property lease, is required to pay for.
What happened
M is party to a lease which requires the buildings, which are the subject of the lease, to be 
insured. The lease states that it is for M to ensure this occurs  but that the landlord may 
dictate which insurer and/or agency is used.  
For several years, under the terms of the lease, the landlord has dictated that the insurance 
must be arranged via Cullenglow and placed with E (an insurer). M pays for the cover and 
is a named policyholder. M feels the cost of cover with E is higher than policies that could be 
attained for the property elsewhere, and which give greater cover. M thinks that Cullenglow, 
which M says is linked to the landlord, hasnt been searching the market sufficiently each 
year, or it wouldve found that other cover. So M thinks Cullenglow has breached its duty to 
M as its client to look after Ms best interests. M also thinks that Cullenglow is failing to 
apportion the cost of cover correctly across the blocks of buildings that are subject of the 
policy. 
Cullenglow said it placed insurance on direction from the landlord. It said it doesnt apportion 
the cost of the premium  that is done by the landlord.
When M complained to this service, our investigator didnt think Cullenglow had done 
anything wrong. M said it was likely Cullenglow hadnt shopped around fully, and that it 
would be easy, by selectively shopping around, to generate a situation where E appeared to 
be offering the best cover. M explained that it was in Culleglows interest to keep the 
insurance with E as the premium rate was high  and it is the premium rate which dictates 
the commission amount Cullenglow receives. M said Cullenglow must be involved in how the 
premium cost is distributed to the leaseholders, and since M has made its complaint, its 
proportion has increased out of line with the rest.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Taking Ms last point first, I havent seen anything that makes me think Culleglow apportions 
the premium cost across the different policies it arranges. As our investigator said, that is not 
usually the job of the broker. Sometimes an insurer will set premiums individually for different 
blocks, but sometimes that is done by the landlord. That is often because whilst the insurer 
views the risk for all buildings subject of the cover as a whole, and charges one price 
accordingly, the landlord and tenants and/or leaseholders will have agreements about what 
share of liability is assumed for their property/building. And here I note that M has said that 
the landlord had been challenged several years ago over incorrect percentages applied to 
the leases. And that, to date, the landlord hasnt answered that challenge. Im not persuaded 
liability for apportioning the premium  or, therefore, correcting any errors that might be 
perceived to exist  lies with Cullenglow. 
I appreciate that M is frustrated about the cost and extent of cover. I understand that M feels 
Cullenglow has failed in its duty to look after Ms interests as a client. But I note Cullenglow 
has shown this service evidence that it had searched the market each year. The fact that in 
doing that it didnt find an offer from the insurer for which M has obtained a quote from 
doesnt show it failed to complete a proper search. It just shows that M was able to find a 
policy that, for whatever reason, wasnt made available to Cullenglow when it approached 
various insurers for cover. And in completing a proper search of the market, Cullenglow 
wouldnt need to run down every insurer  the level of enquiry would only need to be a 
reasonable one. I think Cullenglow did that and Ive no reason to think it did so selectively 
whilst knowing only poor or no returns would be received from those insurers it contacted.  
But, in any event, there is an overriding difficulty for M in this scenario. That is that the 
insurance in question is arranged subject to a lease. And that lease binds M to, at the 
landlords whim, using a broker and insurer chosen by the landlord. Seemingly the landlord 
chooses to use Cullenglow and E. And Ive seen a letter from the landlord confirming to M 
that it expects M to place insurance via Cullenglow, with E, in line with the lease. So even if 
Cullenglow had obtained a more competitive quote, perhaps in line with the one M found, 
Cullenglow and M would still not have been able to put that insurance in place. Not unless 
the landlord agreed to do so. Ive seen nothing that makes me think that would likely have 
happened. 
I know M thinks that Cullenglow, where it was bound to place cover with E, should have 
negotiated a better rate with E. I havent seen whether Cullenglow tried to obtain a better 
price from E. But I think its far from clear, assuming for a moment that it didnt, that if it had 
tried to do so, a reduction in the premium price being offered would have been achieved. 
I understand that M wants to pay less for, what M says is, comparable cover. And I can 
understand Ms frustration that even having found that this better policy was out there, that 
wasnt something Cullenglow had put forward as a possibility or even found. But, in the 
specific circumstances pursuant to this complaint, Im not persuaded Cullenglow has done 
anything wrong.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against Cullenglow Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2022. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman