DRN-4014316
The complaint
Mr T has complained BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS) gave him an incorrect 
settlement figure.  
What happened
Mr T entered into two agreements with BMWFS in December 2019 when acquiring a car  a 
hire purchase agreement to finance the acquisition; and a fixed sum loan agreement to 
cover the negative equity from a part exchange vehicle. The hire purchase agreement was 
for around £10,700 with monthly payments of nearly £200. And the fixed sum loan was for 
around £3,800 with monthly payments of nearly £100. Both agreements were over four 
years. 
Towards the end of 2022, Mr T asked BMWFS for a settlement figure because he wanted to 
arrange to sell the car to a dealer. BMWFS sent the settlement figure for the hire purchase 
agreement, and I understand the dealer settled it. BMWFS confirmed it held no interest in 
the car. 
The following month Mr T was surprised to receive contact from BMWFS saying hed missed 
a payment to the fixed sum loan agreement. Mr T complained because he said hed asked to 
find out what he owed to BMWFS and it didnt tell him about his fixed sum loan balance. 
BMWFS responded to Mr Ts complaint and said he had signed to enter into two 
agreements. It acknowledged its advisor didnt tell Mr T or the dealer about the fixed sum 
loan agreement. But it said the money was owed. It did agree to cover one of the monthly 
payments for £94.50. 
Mr T wasnt happy with the resolution so brought the complaint to our service. To resolve the 
complaint Mr T requested BMWFS waive the outstanding balance on the fixed sum loan. He 
said it should do this because it didnt give him the complete settlement figure he was 
looking for; if hed been given the correct figure he would have sold the car for more; having 
to pay more than he expected impacts him financially; and BMWFS gave him a letter of 
clearance. 
Mr T did however tell us that he received a £900 payment from the dealer he sold the car to 
in relation to the profit from the dealers sale of it.  
Our investigator looked into things and asked BMWFS to consider making a further award. 
BMWFS offered a further £150 which our investigator thought was fair.  Mr T didnt agree. 
He expected BMWFS to at least reduce the outstanding amount of the fixed sum loan by 
50%. As things couldnt be resolved, the complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to acknowledge Ive summarised the events of the complaint. I dont intend any 
discourtesy by this  it just reflects the informal nature of our service. Im required to decide 
matters quickly and with minimum formality. But I want to assure Mr T and BMWFS that Ive 
reviewed everything on file. And if I dont comment on something, its not because I havent 
considered it. Its because Ive concentrated on what I think are the key issues. Our powers 
allow me to do this. 
Mr T is unhappy BMWFS didnt give him the settlement figure for his fixed sum loan 
agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement, and our service is able to 
consider complaints relating to these sorts of agreements. 
Ive seen Mr T signed both the hire purchase agreement and the fixed sum loan. The hire 
purchase agreement was settled, but the fixed sum loan agreement wasnt. Unlike the hire 
purchase agreement, the fixed sum loan isnt tied to the car that Mr T acquired. So by having 
confirmation BMWFS held no interest in the car, this doesnt mean the fixed sum loan wasnt 
payable. Mr T hasnt disputed the amount owed under the fixed sum loan. Hes unhappy it 
wasnt included when he asked for a settlement figure. From what Ive seen, the amount 
BMWFS says is outstanding is correct. So I think its fairly payable under the agreement. 
On the one hand, theres an argument Mr T ought to have known he had two agreements, 
and what was roughly owed under each of them. But on the other hand, I do sympathise with 
Mr T. BMWFS has said its agent had access to both settlement figures. I dont know exactly 
what was requested by Mr T or the dealer, but I can understand why Mr T is unhappy the 
agent didnt provide both figures. It mustve been frustrating to find out he still owed money 
under the fixed sum loan when he thought everything had been paid off. 
I dont think its fair on BMWFS to write off the fixed sum loan because it didnt include it in 
the settlement. Similarly, I wouldnt generally ask a business to honour a misrepresentation 
that it had made. I need to consider the impact on Mr T. I dont find I have the grounds to 
direct BMWFS to reduce the debt by 50%. BMWFS has acknowledged things could have 
gone better. It covered one monthly payment. And its also offered a further £150. In all the 
circumstances, I agree this is broadly a fair way to put things right. 
Mr T was made aware the fixed sum loan agreement was in arrears as soon as the payment 
was missed after hed cancelled his direct debit. So things didnt drag out for a long time. 
BMWFS responded to him within a reasonable amount of time setting out its position. And 
Ive not seen enough to show Mr T would have fundamentally ended up in a better position 
had the fixed sum loan been included in the settlement. Hes said he would have sold the car 
for more, but Ive not been shown sufficient evidence of that. 
All things considered, I think BMWFS offer is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint. Im not going to direct it to do more. 
If Mr T is having difficulty making repayments to the fixed sum loan agreement, Id remind 
BMWFS to treat him with forbearance and due consideration.  
My final decision
My final decision is that BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited should, to the extent its not 
done so already:
Cover the £94.50 monthly payment towards the fixed sum loan. 
Compensate Mr T £150.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2023.
 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman