DRN-3387467
The complaint
Ms S complains that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) caused delays 
when she tried to encash her stakeholder pension. 
What happened
Ms A held a stakeholder pension with L&G. When she turned 55, she decided to encash the 
pension. She wanted to encash this before the new tax year started to make full use of her 
personal allowance in the 2019-2020 tax year.  She called L&G on 2 March 2020 to begin 
the process. 
During the call, L&G explained that Ms S should receive the forms she needed for the first 
part of the process within five working days. They also told her that once the initial forms had 
been completed, she should return them to a central mailbox. The relevant email address 
was provided. They further explained that when those forms had been received by L&G, 
further documentation would be sent to Ms S. Ms S was told shed need to complete further 
forms and produce proof of identity before the process could move on to payment. Ms S was 
also told that payment would take between 5 and 15 working days.
Ms S contacted L&G again on 9 and 10 March 2020 as she hadnt received the initial forms. 
L&G apologised and sent them on 11 March 2020. According to L&Gs Service Level 
Agreement, this part of the process shouldve been completed by 9 March 2020.
Ms S completed and returned the forms the day she received them - 11 March 2020. She 
returned the completed paperwork directly to the L&G call handler who shed spoken to on 2 
March 2020. That agent had told Ms S to send them to the central mailbox. Ms Ss email 
enclosing the paperwork asked a further question about the proof of identity shed need to 
provide.
The L&G call handler replied to this email on 12 March 2020. He explained that upon receipt 
of the initial forms a Quote pack would be issued. This would include a Payment Instruction 
Form. He told Ms S that once L&G had received a completed Payment Instruction Form and 
identity documentation payment could be made. He gave the correct email address for the 
paperwork to be submitted to. Ms S returned the required proof of identity to the correct 
email address. But didnt send the previously completed initial forms (the Options Form and 
Risk Questionnaire) to that address as shed already sent them to the L&G call handler at his 
email address.
Ms S didnt hear from L&G so chased them on 14 and 19 March 2020. 
Ms S next heard from L&G on 21 March 2020, when they contacted her to ask for policy 
information and her National Insurance Number. She provided this information on 23 March 
2020. With the end of the tax year approaching Ms S chased L&G again on 27 March 2020. 
But when she called she could only get through to a recorded message. So she sent an 
urgent email explaining her situation. And asking for confirmation that her pension had been 
closed.
Following the end of the tax year, and with the encashment not completed Ms S complained 
to L&G. 
On 23 April 2020, L&G replied. They asked Ms S to forward her email of 27 March 2020 as 
theyd been unable to locate it. Ms S forwarded the email trail from her secure L&G email 
box. On 28 April 2020, L&G emailed to tell Ms S that they didnt have her completed Options 
Form and Risk Questionnaire. She replied the same day. And told L&G she no longer 
wanted to encash her pension. 
On 13 May 2020 L&G issued their final response to Ms Ss complaint. This stated that L&G 
had never received the completed paperwork Ms S had sent to the call handler on 11 March 
2020. Therefore they said they couldnt have progressed her encashment request. L&G 
acknowledged that some elements of the service Ms S had received had been poor and 
offered £100 compensation.
Ms S accepted the compensation 'without prejudice'. And replied to L&G on 13 and 14 May 
2020. She suggested alternative redress including compensation in respect of the additional 
income tax she would now have to pay when she encashed her pension. 
Unhappy with L&Gs response, Ms S brought her complaint to this service at the end of May 
2020.
L&G issued a further response to Ms Ss additional complaint points on 3 June 2020. They 
said that as the pension hadnt been encashed, thered been no additional tax liability. They 
also noted that the value of the pension had increased since March 2020, so Ms S had 
suffered no loss. 
Our investigator issued his first view on 2 July 2021. He felt that Ms S wouldve encashed 
her pension prior to the end of the 2019-2020 tax year were it not for errors made by L&G. 
To put things right, he felt that L&G should compare the value at 26 March 2020, plus 
interest at 6.4% (8% net of tax), plus the reclaimable tax figure, with the eventual 
encashment value Ms S would receive. He felt that if the actual amount she received was 
higher, then no loss has occurred, and no redress would be payable. He also felt that L&G 
should pay Ms S a further £100 compensation in respect of the trouble and upset shed 
suffered.
L&G didnt agree. They said that their claims process can take between 6-8 weeks, due to 
the regulatory requirements in place for claims, and because their paperwork needed to be 
sent out at different stages. They said there was a service level attached to each step of the 
process. And that the payment part of the process took 5-15 working days. Therefore, when 
Ms S started her claim just over a month before the end of tax year, they couldnt guarantee 
the money would arrive with her before 7 April 2020. L&G said that when their call handler 
first spoke to Ms S, he pointed out the time frame was tight. They also said that a cut off 
point for receipt of the Payment Instruction form (the second part of the process) is put in 
place around 5th March every year. And this is the last point they could fully guarantee 
payment in time. So they felt it wouldve been unlikely the claim wouldve completed in time, 
even without any issues.
Ms S made some further points in support of her complaint. Our investigator considered 
them. But didnt change his view. 
L&G didnt accept our investigators view. They said theyd looked at the best-case scenario, 
and this had shown that the earliest point the payment wouldve credited Ms Ss account 
was 7 April 2020, given their two-stage process. So they felt they couldnt be held 
responsible for any tax liability. They didnt agree with our investigators assumption that the claims process should complete within a month. And also said that as it was the end of the 
tax year their claims teams were extremely busy. They also said that it was the beginning of 
the pandemic at that time. L&G agreed their communication couldve been better. And said 
that although the agent Ms S had spoken to did note that time was tight, he couldve been 
clearer that the claim was unlikely to complete before the end of the tax year. They said 
theyd already upheld the complaint regarding the service Ms S had received. But that they 
maintained their position that they werent responsible for any financial loss. They also said 
that Ms S hadnt yet incurred any tax liability. And that shed gained over £2,000 in her 
pension plan over the period. So they felt this outweighed any loss of interest.  
Our investigator considered what L&G had said. He acknowledged that they disagreed with 
his findings. But proposed that as his recommended redress would only be payable if the 
encashment value was lower than the figure hed asked L&G to calculate, it seemed 
possible that his suggested redress could result in a no loss outcome. So as Ms S was in the 
process of encashing the pension, he asked L&G to carry out the redress calculation hed 
recommended. He confirmed that this approach would be on the understanding that L&G 
didnt agree with his findings, but that it could lead to an earlier resolution of the complaint. 
L&G agreed to carry out the recommended redress calculations after Ms S had encashed 
her pension in August 2021. These showed that shed not suffered a financial loss.
Our investigator issued a second view on 8 October 2021. He said that L&G had completed 
the recommended redress calculations. And that these had shown no loss. But that theyd 
disagreed on the date hed recommended the redress calculations to be based on. He said 
that hed originally suggested that 26 March 2020 be used as an assumed encashment date. 
But that he was satisfied that if this date were to be used, L&Gs internal processes, their 
two-stage process and associated timescales and the payment system timescales would 
mean that the payment couldnt have reached Ms S before the end of the 2019-2020 tax 
year. So he agreed with L&Gs argument that an earlier date, which wouldve ensured 
payment wouldve reached Ms S before the end of the tax year, should be used. And he 
agreed that a fair date to use would be 17 March 2020.  He said that L&G had carried out 
the redress calculations hed recommended using this date. He detailed the calculation that 
had been carried out. And noted that as the amount Ms S had actually received was greater 
than the hypothetical amount calculated using the redress recommendations hed made, 
shed suffered no loss. He remained of the view that L&G had caused delays in the 
encashment process. But as the calculations had shown no loss, he didnt consider that L&G 
needed to take any further action.
Ms S didnt agree that thered been no loss. She felt that a selection of dates should be 
assessed, with the best outcome for her used. She also considered that the additional tax 
shed have to pay should be added as a separate amount and not included in the pension 
performance comparison.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint came to me for review.
I issued my provisional decision on 22 February 2022. It said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I intend to uphold it. But I dont agree with our investigator that L&G should 
be held responsible for the encashment not being completed in the 2019-2020 tax year. And 
therefore I dont agree that L&G caused Ms S to suffer a financial loss. However, I consider 
that the compensation L&G have offered for distress and inconvenience is insufficient under 
the circumstances of the complaint. Ill explain why.In my decision, I will consider the crux of the complaint. This is whether L&G should be held 
responsible for Ms Ss pension encashment not being completed in the 2019-2020 tax year. 
I have read all of Ms Ss points but wont be answering each individual one here. 
Should the encashment have completed on or before 5 April 2020?
Ms S considers that L&Gs call handler told her that they could achieve the encashment 
within the timescale shed told them she needed. She feels that she sent the correct 
paperwork in good time and that her encashment shouldve been completed on or before 5 
April 2020. She returned the completed paperwork directly to the L&G call handler. Ms Ss 
email enclosing the paperwork asked a further question about the proof of identity shed 
need to provide. And as the call handler had replied to her email she had no reason to think 
that her paperwork wasnt being processed. Ms S also said that the call handler told her at 
that start that her pension would be closed five days after the return of the necessary 
documentation. So she felt that the process would be completed by 20 March 2020.
L&G said the agent Ms S had spoken to had noted that time was tight for the encashment to 
complete to Ms Ss desired timescale. They acknowledged that he couldve been clearer that 
Ms Ss encashment was unlikely to complete before the end of the tax year. L&G also 
acknowledged that as Ms S had noted shed sent the paperwork with the email shed sent to 
the call handler, he couldve confirmed that it hadnt arrived with him. But said that their call 
handler had told Ms S to send paperwork to the central mailbox  which was the correct 
email address for the paperwork to be submitted to. They said that if shed followed the 
instructions, the correct team wouldve had all the information they needed to proceed to the 
next stage of the process.
L&G said that personal mailboxes have email limits that mean they wont always receive 
documentation emailed to them via attachments. And this is why they ask customers to use 
their operational mailboxes instead. They said that they confirm in their option pack that 
once theyve received confirmation of the customers option, they issue a quote. But that 
without the initial option form and the completed risk questions, they werent in a position to 
proceed with Ms Ss claim and issue her with the required quote and application form. They 
said that once this is signed and returned, it provides them with the mandate to pay the 
customers claim as it includes the payment instruction. L&G also said that even without the 
elements of poor service, and if Ms S had sent her forms to the stated mailbox, it still 
wouldve been unlikely the payment wouldve been made in time. They said it: wouldve 
required instant turnarounds at each stage which doesnt take into account the service levels 
that apply to these stages.  So they didnt agree they were at fault for not paying the claim 
before the end of the tax year.
Ive carefully considered what both parties have said. And the information theyve provided. 
Ive also listened in full to the phone conversation between Ms S and L&Gs agent. 
I can see that Ms S returned the required proof of identity to the correct email address. And I 
can understand why she didnt re-send the previously completed initial forms (the Options 
Form and Risk Questionnaire) to that email address. Shed already sent them to the L&G 
call handler. But Im satisfied that he didnt receive the forms. And therefore couldnt have 
acted on them, even if that had been his role. While I acknowledge that the call handler 
couldve told Ms S hed not received the forms, I also acknowledge that Ms S couldve re-
sent them to the correct email address. Im also satisfied that Ms S was given the correct 
email address to use at all stages of the process. Therefore, as Im satisfied L&G didnt 
receive the required forms, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to hold L&G responsible 
for the encashment not completing on time.
Ive found no evidence that L&G ever told Ms S that they could definitely complete her encashment before 5 April 2020. And Ive also not found evidence that L&G materially failed 
any of their service terms. 
I acknowledge that L&G took a couple of extra days at the start of the process. But Im not 
persuaded that this caused the failure of the encashment.  
Distress and inconvenience
Its not in dispute that L&Gs service wasnt what Ms S couldve hoped for. L&G 
acknowledged that some elements of the service and communication Ms S had received 
had been poor and offered £100 compensation.
L&G accepted that their call handler caused two days of delay to the process when he failed 
to promptly issue the option request form. He apologised for his oversight at the time. L&G 
said that the completed forms Ms S said she sent to the call handlers email address werent 
received. They said that while Ms S shouldve sent the completed forms to the correct email 
address, their call handler: still should have noticed there were attachments and sent these 
on for you. However, L&G also said that their call handlers role involved him taking 
between 40 and 50 calls a day. And that hed asked for everything to be sent to the claims 
mailbox as he wasnt in the best position to manage the documentation.
L&G also acknowledged that on 19 March 2020 Ms S emailed to request confirmation of 
receipt of her identity documents. She wanted to check they had everything they needed to 
close her pension.  But they didnt reply until 21 March 2020, when they asked for identity 
confirmation, but didnt answer Ms Ss question. And they acknowledge that they didnt reply 
to Ms Ss 23 March 2020 email which expressed her concern about the closure of her plan. 
Or the follow up email she sent on 27 March 2020. L&G said that they shouldve checked 
and noted that they didnt have a record of receiving her options forms. They said that due to 
the pandemic, some of their teams had been running a reduced service. And apologised that 
this had affected the service Ms S had received.
Ms S said that L&G caused her acute and sustained stress and inconvenience. She said: 
After all my efforts to keep this pension closure on the rails I could not believe that nothing 
had been done, or the casual way in which this failure was expressed. She also said that 
L&Gs: inaction and unwillingness to put things right directly left me feeling financially 
insecure, and I found the unnecessarily protracted correspondence to be stressful and 
exhausting. Because of this, she asked this service to consider asking L&G to increase the 
compensation theyd offered.
I understand that Ms S considers that £1,000 would be an appropriate compensation 
amount, given the extreme financial and emotional distress she considered she experienced. 
She gave an example of another occasion when shed been awarded £500 compensation 
for a situation which had been far less distressing. But I dont agree that the circumstances 
of this complaint warrant the level of compensation Ms S has requested.
I can see that the difficult claims process wouldve been stressful and time-consuming for Ms 
S. From what I can tell, L&G made three separate errors. They caused a small delay in the 
process. Their call handler couldve been more proactive in getting to the bottom of the 
information Ms S had incorrectly sent to him. And L&G failed to respond to several emails 
Ms S sent regarding her encashment. As Ive discussed earlier, I dont agree that the first 
two errors caused the failure of the encashment in the 2019-2020 tax year. 
However, I can see that the process has caused Ms S distress. Although there was no 
requirement on L&G to pull out all the stops in order to ensure Ms Ss encashment 
happened in the 2019-2020 tax year, I dont consider that they treated her fairly when they failed to respond to her requests for information. Therefore, Im not satisfied that the 
compensation L&G offered Ms S was reasonable under the circumstances. Taking all three 
errors into account, I intend to ask L&G to pay Ms S a total of £300 compensation. If L&G 
have already paid Ms S the £100 compensation they offered her, they can allow for this in 
any future payment.
Im sorry that Ms S wasnt able to complete her encashment when she wanted. But, as Ive 
explained above, I dont consider it would be fair or reasonable for me to hold L&G 
responsible for the failed encashment. But, having considered the service Ms S received, I 
intend to ask L&G to pay her a total of £300 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience she suffered.
Response to my provisional decision
L&G said they were comfortable with my provisional decision.
Ms S didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
No other new information has come to light to change my opinion. So I remain of the view I 
set out in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
I require Legal and General Assurance Society Limited to pay Ms S a total of £300 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience they caused her. If L&G have already paid 
Ms S the £100 compensation they offered her, they can allow for this in any future payment.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint. I require Legal and General Assurance 
Society Limited to pay Ms S a total of £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
they caused her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman