DRN-2248820
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Rs complaint is about a second charge secured loan originally taken out with 
another lender but which is now owned by Kensington Mortgage Company Limited. 
Kensington has accepted responsibility for the complaint and I will refer to Kensington 
throughout.
Mr and Mrs R say that, after clearing arrears on the loan in 2011, they continued to make the 
full contractual monthly repayment of £277.11. Kensington now says that this wasnt enough 
and so there is a balance of almost £10,000, made up of fees and interest on those fees still 
outstanding which Kensington wants Mr and Mrs R to pay.
To put things right, Mr and Mrs R want Kensington to stop chasing them to pay this amount 
and to remove adverse information from their credit files.
 
What happened
In 2005 Mr and Mrs R took out a secured personal loan. Kensington does not have a copy of 
the loan agreement (which is regrettable) and so the exact terms are unknown. For reasons 
that are unclear, Kensington has instead provided us with a copy of Mr and Mrs Rs 
mortgage application and offer for their first charge mortgage, which is of no relevance.
The account statements show that the loan began on 11 May 2005. Mr and Mrs R borrowed 
a total of £20,976.18 over a term of 15 years at an interest rate of 14%, with a monthly 
instalment of £277.11. As the loan is for under £25,000, it is reasonable to assume it is 
regulated under the Consumer Credit Act 1974, but as the actual agreement isnt available, I 
have been unable to confirm this. 
Unfortunately Mr and Mrs R fell into arrears on their loan, but were able to clear the arrears 
by 2010. They continued to pay the contractual instalment and their statements showed that 
this was the amount due in order to clear their loan by the end of the term. Kensington did 
not tell them, however, that there was a separate account to which fees and charges had 
been added, and that interest was also accruing on those fees and charges.
Kensington said that in July 2011 it realised it had made a mistake and that the amount 
Mr and Mrs R had been told to pay wasnt enough to clear the account balance. Kensington 
says it wrote to Mr and Mrs R about this, telling them how much theyd need to start paying. 
The letter is undated (date as postmark) but Kensington says its notes show that it was 
sent on 15 July 2011. 
Mr and Mrs R say they never received that letter and so continued to pay the £277.11 each 
month. They say that their annual statements made no mention of any separate account, or 
gave any indication that the amount they were paying  the amount shown on the 
statements as the required monthly payment  was insufficient and they should have been 
paying £322.54. Mr and Mrs R say that, if theyd been told they werent paying enough each 
month, theyd have increased their monthly repayments. But because theyve not paid the 
correct amount, their account balance hasnt been cleared. This is known as underfunding.
Mr and Mrs R complained to Kensington, but it didnt uphold the complaint, so Mr and Mrs R 
contacted the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
An investigator looked at the complaint and thought it should be upheld. She noted that over 
the course of the loan Mr and Mrs R had been in touch with Kensington regularly and 
worked with Kensington to clear the arrears. The investigator noted that in October 2011 
Mr and Mrs R spoke to Kensington about an arrears fee theyd been charged. Kensington 
refunded this but didnt mention in the call that the monthly repayment of £277.11 wasnt 
enough to repay the loan.
The investigator also noted that, other than this one letter which Kensington said it had sent 
in July 2011, there was never any further mention of a payment shortfall, either on the 
telephone, in correspondence or on the account statements.
The investigator thought that Mr and Mrs R would have increased their payments if theyd 
known they werent paying enough. To put things right, the investigator asked Kensington to 
re-work the account as though the increased monthly payment of £322.54 had been paid 
from July 2011, and to pay compensation of £350 for trouble and upset.
After the complaint was brought to us, Kensington said it would write off an amount of 
£4,770.15, leaving an outstanding balance due of £5,071.16. Kensington also agreed to pay 
the compensation of £350. 
The investigator reviewed what Kensington had said but she noted that the offer didnt take 
into account the compound interest that had been applied to the fees and charges. She was 
also satisfied that the annual statements had led Mr and Mrs R to believe they were paying 
the correct amount. The investigator wanted Kensington to re-work the account.
Kensington disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint, saying that it 
felt the customer had been made adequately aware of the running outstanding balance..
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator, for largely the same 
reasons.
The crux of this complaint is that Mr and Mrs R havent paid enough to clear the outstanding 
balance, which includes a fees and charges account on which compound interest has 
accrued. Kensington says that Mr and Mrs R had been made adequately aware of the 
running outstanding balance  
Ive reviewed everything Kensington has provided, and cant see in any document, 
statement or correspondence  other than the letter Kensington claimed to have sent in July 
2011  that it ever told Mr and Mrs R about any running outstanding balance. In fact, the 
contrary  Mr and Mrs Rs annual statements make no mention of this, and give the 
impression that they were paying sufficient to clear the account balance at the end of the 
term.
Mr and Mrs R say they didnt receive the letter which Kensington says it sent in July 2011. 
Kensington has provided a screenshot from its records which shows that on 15 July 2011 a letter was sent, but this is insufficient to persuade me that it is the undated letter which 
Kensington later said told us was sent to Mr and Mrs R.
Mr and Mrs R had been proactive about managing their arrears and engaging with 
Kensington. Given this, Im satisfied that they would, if theyd received a letter telling them 
they were paying too little, have taken steps to address this at the time and started making 
the higher repayments. 
So on balance I find that it is more likely than not that Mr and Mrs R didnt receive a letter in 
July 2011 telling them that they were paying too little. I also find that Kensington, despite 
what it has told us, did not keep Mr and Mrs R informed about the running outstanding 
balance on their account.
Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs R did not know they were paying too little, and that this was not 
their fault. Im also satisfied that they would have made the higher repayments, if theyd 
known about them. 
In the circumstances, I am upholding Mr and Mrs Rs complaint.
Putting things right
Kensington has acknowledged it made a mistake but was unclear about the redress the 
investigator had asked it to put in place. Because I am satisfied the underfunding of the 
account was not Mr and Mrs Rs fault, I think Kensington should put Mr and Mrs R in the 
position theyd have been in had they known about the need to make increased payments 
and as if they had made those payments. In other words, Kensington must be responsible 
for the underfunding of the account.
Kensington must re-work the account as if Mr and Mrs R had paid £322.54 from 15 July 
2011 onwards, applying those payments against the account balance and against the fees, 
charges and compound interest applied on those fees and charges. 
If Mr and Mrs R accept this decision, within 28 days of receiving the acceptance, Kensington 
must provide Mr and Mrs R and the investigator on this complaint with a copy of its re-
workings on the account. 
If this shows any remaining balance, Kensington must come to an arrangement with Mr and 
Mrs R to pay this  which must not be recorded on their credit files as either arrears or an 
arrangement to pay. If the re-working shows the account would already have been repaid in 
full, Kensington must refund to Mr and Mrs R any payments theyve made from the date 
where the account is showing a nil balance and pay interest on those overpayments at 8% 
per annum simple.
I also direct Kensington to remove any adverse entries recorded against Mr and Mrs Rs 
credit files in relation to the unpaid fees, charges and interest.
Kensington must also pay Mr and Mrs R compensation of £350 for trouble and upset.
  
  
My final decisionMy final decision is that I uphold this complaint. To settle this complaint, I order Kensington 
Mortgage Company Limited to re-work the account as detailed above, remove any adverse 
entries against Mr and Mrs Rs credit files and pay compensation of £350 for trouble and 
upset.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 February 2021.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman