DRN-1226737
 
The complaint
Mr P complains that Nationwide Building Society blocked access to his account, and would 
not unblock or close the account until he provided proof of his identity, even though he had 
already provided it recently.
What happened
In June 2019, Mr P opened a new account with Nationwide. He did this online, but as he was 
a new customer, Nationwide asked him to come to a local branch with some identification. 
He did this, but less than a month later Nationwide blocked his account and asked him to 
provide some ID again (either in person or by email). He lost confidence in Nationwide, and 
asked to close his account, but Nationwide couldnt close the account while it was blocked.
Mr P complained, and Nationwide refunded his monthly account fee. But it did not agree that 
it had done anything wrong. It said a third party had logged a CIFAS marker indicating that 
Mr P had been a victim of account takeover fraud, and so it had had to ask for ID again as a 
security measure.
Mr P did not accept that explanation. He said he had already provided his ID, and so 
Nationwide should just use that. He didnt accept Nationwides explanation that it was a 
different department asking for the ID. He brought this complaint to our Service, and argued 
that Nationwides different departments should just share information with each other.
Nationwide said that when Mr P had opened his account, Nationwide had not kept a record 
of the ID he had provided at the time. Nationwide initially said that his ID had been scanned 
and then destroyed, but later said that that was incorrect, and that no record of the ID had 
been kept at all. It couldnt unblock or close the account until it verified that Mr P was who he 
said he was.
Meanwhile, Mr P persuaded the third party to remove the CIFAS marker. He said that now 
the cause of the problem was gone, Nationwide could lift the block.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. She said that Nationwide had been entitled to 
take steps to protect Mr Ps account. Mr P asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think it makes any difference that the CIFAS marker has been removed. Nationwide is 
entitled to take its own view about how much risk there is that its customers account may 
have been compromised, or susceptible to compromise. It has a duty to protect its 
customers from fraud. So I would be reluctant to issue any decision which undermines 
Nationwides security measures.
I do understand Mr Ps frustration that he was asked to provide proof of identity so soon after 
already providing it. But it would be even more inconvenient if someone stole all the money 
in his account. Also, he didnt have to attend a branch the second time, as Nationwide told 
him he could send it online, so that does not seem to me to be particularly onerous.
My final decision
So my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 July 2020. 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman