DRN-4172038
The complaint
Mr F complains that Zopa Bank Limited (Zopa) is holding him liable for the debt on a loan 
which he says he neither applied for nor knew about. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
here. In brief summary, in July 2022 a loan was taken out with Zopa in Mr Fs name for 
£17,000. Mr F subsequently got in touch with Zopa to let it know he hadnt applied for the 
loan. Zopa investigated things and ultimately couldnt reach agreement with Mr F, so he 
referred his complaint about Zopa to us. As an Investigator here couldnt resolve the matter 
informally, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part, and for materially the same 
reasons as our Investigator. Ill explain why. 
The first question is: did Mr F enter into this loan agreement, or was it done without his 
knowledge and consent as he alleges? 
Having considered this carefully, I think its most likely the loan was taken out in Mr Fs name 
without his knowledge and consent, and he therefore did not enter into the loan agreement. I 
say this because:
Ive found Mr Fs submissions about him being scammed  and the scammers 
pretext for the loan funds coming into his account  to be plausible and persuasive. 
That is, Mr F has said that he thought he was involved in a legitimate investment but 
unbeknownst to him at the time, he was being scammed. Hes said he didnt know 
about the loan and the scammers tricked him into believing the loan funds were 
monies the scammers were lending him temporarily as part of the investment. 
Its easy to imagine from what Mr F has described how the scammers had enough 
information to successfully apply for the Zopa loan in his name without his 
knowledge. I can see Mr F reported the scam not only to Zopa, but also to Action 
Fraud, HSBC and Wise. And I think Mr F is likely telling the truth and this is most 
likely how things happened.
Zopa should understand there wont always be perfect evidence of everything a 
customer alleges. And in circumstances like this, the answer is not to automatically 
disbelieve a customers recollections. Rather, I have to make my decision based on 
what I think most likely happened taking into account all available information. Thats 
what Ive done. 
Its noteworthy, and I think it adds further credibility to Mr Fs testimony, that hes 
explained that he was later persuaded by the scammers to take out an HSBC loan 
himself (but that the Zopa loan was applied for by the scammers without his 
knowledge). I think its unlikely Mr F would say this if he wasnt being open and 
upfront about his recollections. 
Since Im satisfied Mr F most likely didnt apply for or agree to this loan, I dont think it would 
be fair for Zopa to hold him to the terms of the loan agreement he never agreed to. So, Zopa 
shouldnt hold Mr F liable for interest and charges, neither should there be a record of the 
loan on Mr Fs credit file  so if there currently is, this should be removed. 
At the same time, I dont think Zopa was to know at the time that the application hadnt come 
from Mr F or that there was anything untoward about it. I take on board what Mr F has said 
about the scammers persuading him everything was fine, when he questioned them about 
the loan funds arriving in his account presented very clearly as from Zopa. But Im not 
persuaded I can fairly say Mr F took reasonable steps at this point to verify the funds werent 
from a loan in his name before allowing them to be moved on from there to what he thought 
would be a legitimate investment. So, Im satisfied here, I cant fairly tell Zopa that it should 
not be able to pursue Mr F for any of the loan funds that are still outstanding, or that it should 
be required to refund to Mr F any repayments to the loan he has already made.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold this complaint in part and I direct Zopa Bank Limited to:
remove all interest and charges on the loan; 
take any repayments already made to the loan by Mr F to date as having reduced the 
loan balance;
remove reference to the loan from Mr Fs credit file; and
not pursue Mr F for more than the outstanding amount of the principal loan of 
£17,000.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2023.
 
Neil Bridge
Ombudsman