The complaint 
Mr and Mrs Gs complaint is about Barclays Bank Plc. They said the mortgage they took out 
with a related business in 2007 was mis-sold to them. Mr and Mrs G want the shortfall 
written off. 
Background
Mr and Mrs G took out a mortgage through a broker with a business related to
Barclays in 2007.
They said that it had been mis-sold as they believed they could buy the property
using the mortgage, and then build a new home on land (enabling them to sell the
original property). But in 2018 Mr and Mrs G were told that Barclays dont offer self-
build mortgages. The property was in negative equity; Mr and Mrs G said that they
wouldnt have taken out the mortgage if theyd known Barclays wouldn't offer self-
build mortgages in the future.
Mr and Mrs G complained to Barclays about the alleged mis-selling and failure to
discuss their concerns, including the lack of branch-based advisers. They were also
unhappy that in 2018 when they wanted to convert the mortgage from interest only
(which theyd moved to in 2009) to repayment, they said that the only product
available to them had an early repayment charge (ERC) attached if they wanted to
benefit from the fixed interest rate, and theyd had to make an application.
Barclays said Mr and Mrs G ought to have complained by 2013 at the latest about
the alleged mis-selling, and certainly knew by 2010 that they had cause to complaint
about the advice given in 2007. It paid £75 compensation for the poor handling of Mr
and Mrs Gs attempts to discuss the matter further (which included call costs).
Mr and Mrs G didnt agree and brought their complaint to us.
After investigating, our investigator concluded the complaint should not be upheld.
He also confirmed that the complaint about the mortgage taken out in 2007 had been
brought too late to this service, which Mr and Mrs G accepted.
Mr and Mrs G doesnt agree with the rest of the investigators view.
Ill now set out my decision and the reasons for it. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive decided this 
complaint should not be upheld for these reasons: 
Im not able to deal with the issue of the mortgage taken out in 2007 as its been
accepted this is out of time. And lenders are able to decide to not offer specific
products or to operate services in a particular way, provided that they apply policies
fairly and reasonably when dealing with consumers. I cant say Barclays acted
DRN-1517653unfairly or unreasonably by failing to offer in 2018 the type of product or service Mr 
and Mrs G wanted.
The issue about the 2018 mortgage changes isnt as Mr and Mrs G have stated.
They didnt just want to change the repayment method, but also to increase the
mortgage length and get an interest rate other than the standard variable rate; this
meant an application was required.
Looking at the evidence before me, there were several products potentially available
to Mr and Mrs G, but the applicable interest rate depended on the length of the fixed
interest rate period chosen and whether they paid product fees. I can see there were
special rates available for existing customers. Mr and Mrs G chose a two year
product and were offered the correct rate. If Mr and Mrs G didnt want a product, they
couldve paid more on the standard variable rate and stayed on the same length of
mortgage, but chose not to do so. It isnt unfair or unreasonable for lenders to only
offer products with ERCs as discounted rates tend to offered with such charges to
protect the lender from loss if the mortgage is repaid early. Mr and Mrs G also
couldve gone to another lender.
Theres no evidence that Barclays is responsible for the negative equity. When Mr
and Mrs G were ready to discuss converting from an interest only mortgage to a
repayment mortgage, they contacted Barclays and the switch was made. As the
statements told Mr and Mrs G they were still on interest only, I dont think this was
unfair or unreasonable.
I note £75 compensation was paid for the poor customer service Mr and Mrs G
experience when trying to discuss matters. I think this is fair and reasonable in all the
circumstances, especially as Barclays wasnt at fault in relation to the issue of the
products and services it offers or the 2018 switch.
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Barclays Bank Plc. Under the 
rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2020.
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman