DRN-3717006
The complaint
Mrs L and Mr F, are partners in a business trading in a business Ill call S. They have 
complained about HDI Global SEs refusal of a claim for business interruption cover under 
their Small Commercial/SME Package Cover business insurance policy. 
What happened
S held a business insurance policy with HDI. S made a claim under the policy after it was 
impacted by Covid-19. 
HDI said the policy didnt cover Ss claim. Whilst the policy provided an extension of cover 
for notifiable human disease, this applied only if the disease occurred at the premises and 
there was a closure by a public authority as a result of that occurrence. HDI said there was 
no evidence of any occurrence of Covid-19 at Ss premises.
Unhappy with HDIs response, S brought its claim to our service. 
S said its business had been closed by a notifiable disease and following the successful 
FCA test case the claim should be paid.
One of our Investigators looked into the matter. He didnt recommend it be upheld, as he 
thought HDI was entitled to refuse the claim. 
S does not accept the Investigators assessment. S says that Covid-19 is a notifiable 
disease and was present in the area. It questions why it was necessary for it to close down, 
if Covid-19 was not at the premises. S also says that insurance companies don't make their 
policies clear enough. 
As the Investigator has been unable to resolve the complaint, it has been passed to me. 
S has also complained that the HDI policy was mis-sold to it. HDI didnt sell the policy to S; it 
was sold to it by an independent broker. I cannot therefore address that allegation in this 
decision, which only addresses the handling of the claim by HDI. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an 
impact on Ss business. However, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why.
 
Business insurance policies offer protection from some of the risks common to a business, 
but different policies provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in 
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see 
if HDI has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy 
when declining Ss claim. 
The relevant part Ss policy is an extension to the business interruption section of the policy,  
which provides cover for losses resulting from business interruption or interference as a 
consequence of:
closure or restrictions placed on the Premises on the advice of or with the approval 
of the Medical Officer of Health for the Public Authority as a result of a Notifiable 
Human Disease occurring at the Premises 
The policy defines Notifiable Human Disease as: 
An illness sustained by any person caused by 
a) food or drink poisoning 
b) any human infectious or contagious disease
an outbreak of which the competent public authority has stipulated shall be notified to 
them.
Covid-19 is a notifiable disease. So, for this extension to provide cover for Ss claim, the 
closure or restrictions placed on the premises would need to be as a result of Covid-19 
occurring at the premises. 
Widespread testing wasnt available towards the start of the pandemic, and the Government 
advised people to avoid using health services if they were displaying symptoms of Covid-19, 
save for emergencies. Its therefore rare that a claimant will be able to produce a positive 
test result from that period. And to treat that as a requirement to demonstrate a case on the 
premises would, in my view, be unfair. 
Therefore, it is necessary to take a more pragmatic approach, and to consider whether other 
evidence can be provided that supports, on balance, that Covid-19 occurred at the insured 
premises. As with any insurance claim, the burden of proof initially rests with the policyholder 
to demonstrate that they have suffered a loss which their policy covers.
S says that Covid-19 was present everywhere and that if it wasnt, it would not have needed 
to close.  However, the terms in this policy specifically require there to be an occurrence of 
the disease at the premises. And I am satisfied the terms are sufficiently clear and are not 
inherently unreasonable, such that HDI is entitled to rely on them.
The evidence provided to me is that S closed as a result of the government restrictions and 
not due to anyone at the premises having Covid-19. I do not therefore think it was 
unreasonable for HDI to refuse the claim under this section of cover, as there is no evidence 
of there having been an occurrence of Covid-19 at Ss premises. 
Ive also considered the judgments in the FCAs test case in which the High Court and 
Supreme Court considered various policies which covered businesses which were forced to 
close as a result of notifiable diseases. However, the wording considered in the test case 
was different to that within Ls policy and whether a claim should be paid depends on the 
wording of the policy. Ss policy requires the closure or restrictions to have been as a result 
of notifiable disease at its premises and as S hasnt demonstrated that Covid-19 occurred at 
the premises, HDI was entitled to refuse the claim. My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 October 2022.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman