DRN-2370229
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1995. Mr and Mrs L say Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax mis-sold them PPI. The 
cover was for Mr L only.
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr and Mrs 
Ls circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So, I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mr and Mrs Ls representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any 
new or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ls. I havent set out that detailed 
information here, but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr and 
Mrs Ls complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 
I think Bank of Scotland plc made it clear that Mr and Mrs L didnt have to take out the 
PPI and they chose to take it out. I will explain why I say that. There is very limited 
evidence from the time of the sale of the policy. Bank of Scotland plc hasnt been able to 
give us any of the original paperwork from the time of the sale. But I dont find this 
surprising as the sale took place over 26 years ago and businesses arent obliged to 
keep paperwork indefinity. But where there is limited information, Ill make my decision 
based on what I think more likely happened, taking into account the evidence available, 
what both parties have told me and what we know about these types of sale. So, 
considering how long ago the sale was, and in the absence of any detailed testimony 
from Mr and Mrs L to the contrary, I think it more likely that they chose to take the cover 
and did so knowing they didnt have to. 
Bank of Scotland plc recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs L, so it had to check that the 
PPI was right for them. And the evidence about Mr and Mrs Ls circumstances at the 
time, shows that the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. For 
example, Mr L was eligible for the cover and he didnt have any means to fall back on, so 
they had a need for cover for Mr L. 
There was nothing about Mr Ls employment or occupation which would have made it 
difficult for him to claim. And although Mr and Mrs L say Mr L had a medical condition 
some time before the policy was taken out, I dont think it was wrong for Bank of 
Scotland plc to have recommended it. I say this because the condition was treated with 
an inhaler when it was needed and whilst Mr and Mrs L told us Mr L had to take some 
time off work because of it, they have provided no detailed testimony about the condition 
and no testimony that it caused Mr L any significant ongoing issues since diagnosis in 
1988, such as to have cost him any significant time off work in the seven years before 
the sale. 
Its possible the information Bank of Scotland plc gave Mr and Mrs L about the PPI 
wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. But Ive found that they chose to take it out - so it 
looks like they wanted this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr 
and Mrs L as I concluded above, or too dissimilar to what they reasonably thought they 
were buying from the information they were given. It also looks like it was affordable  so 
it seems like it would have been useful for them if something went wrong. Because of 
this I dont think Mr and Mrs L would have declined the cover had Bank of Scotland plc 
done anything more.
While the policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions, in light of Mr and Mrs Ls circumstances at the time of sale and despite its 
limitations, the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. So, I think they 
would have still thought they had some good reasons to take the policy out.
Overall, I consider that Mr and Mrs L would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy could 
provide a useful benefit in a difficult time, given their circumstances at the time. I also think 
the policy was sufficiently close to what its likely they thought they were getting. And in 
those circumstances, I think that they would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs Ls representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a 
claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules 
and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of 
the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant Bank of Scotland plc should have disclosed 
the poor value and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the 
impact it had on the chances of making a claim.
But Mr and Mrs Ls representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts 
and circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ls individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Ls particular 
case. But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold this complaint.
This means Bank of Scotland plc doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
non-disclosure of commission
Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including whether the non-
disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act  
and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Bank of Scotland plc didnt need to disclose the commission it 
received, so Bank of Scotland plc doesnt need to pay back any of the commission Mr and 
Mr and Mrs L paid. My reasons are set out below.
The Supreme Court decided a case that involved the commission on a PPI policy  Plevin 
v Paragon Personal Finance. And the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  who make the 
rules for financial businesses  introduced some new rules and guidance for businesses to 
follow when theyre looking at PPI complaints. This means businesses will sometimes 
need to give consumers back some of the commission paid on certain PPI policies.
But this only applies to credit taken out and still running at certain times. From the 
information that has been submitted in this case those dates do not apply in this case. And 
so, it falls outside of the scope for our consideration. So, I dont think Bank of Scotland plc 
have to refund any of the commission paid on the PPI policy.
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 February 2022.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman