DRN-3290312
The complaint
Ms Y complains that Portal Financial Services LLP (Portal) gave her poor advice to transfer 
her defined benefit pension scheme benefits in order to release tax-free cash and buy an 
annuity. 
What happened
In 2011, Ms Y approached Portal to get a review of her pensions. Portal carried out a fact 
find by phone on 30 November 2011. Portal said that Ms Y asked them to limit their advice 
to her retirement planning only. After a review of the information gathered, Portal said that 
their adviser recommended that Ms Y didnt transfer her defined benefit pension scheme 
benefits. Ms Y was told that if she was insistent on transferring her pension, Portal would be 
able to help, but this would be against their advice.
At the time of advice, Ms Y was 56 years old, and not married. But she was due to marry a 
couple of months later. She had one dependant. Ms Ys net income from work was £1,800 
each month. And she also received £125 each month from a different pension scheme.
The pension she was considering transferring had a transfer value of just over £50,000.
Ms Y said that at the time of the advice she had no previous investment experience, a low 
attitude to taking financial risks and a low capacity for loss.
Portal said their fact find had shown that Ms Y didnt have enough income and was worried 
about losing her house. Their notes from the time of the advice record that she wanted to 
take the maximum tax-free cash of around £12,000 from her pension to pay off debts and 
mortgage arrears. They recorded mortgage arrears of around £2,500. And other debts 
totalling £6,100. Their notes also state that Ms Y wanted to use the remaining money to buy 
a single life annuity with level escalation, as this would provide the maximum income.
Portal said that Ms Y decided to go ahead with the transfer as an insistent client. The 
transfer took place on 21 December 2011. 
Ms Y complained through a claims management company (CMC), saying that her general 
financial situation was in control at the time of the advice. She said she wasnt in a position 
where she required funds from her pension as a necessity. She said that at the time of the 
advice she was in mortgage arrears of around two months, which amounted to £1,200. She 
agreed that she had debts totalling around £6,100 other than the mortgage arrears. But she 
said that she had other options available to her to pay off the debts. And therefore didnt 
need to access her defined benefit pension for that purpose.
In the complaint to Portal in December 2020, the CMC said that Portal had been negligent 
when providing their advice. And that the pension transfer was not in her best interests. The 
complaint also included the following points:
1. The guaranteed nature of the defined benefit scheme hadnt been made clear to Ms 
Y and it wasnt justifiable to transfer away from it.
2. Portal hadnt explained the term insistent client in their report. And they hadnt 
explained the potential consequences of being classed as such. She said there is no 
evidence that she signed to confirm she understood what an insistent client was.
3. Although shed proceeded as an insistent client, the product recommended wasnt 
suitable.
4. Portal had failed to obtain and detail Ms Ys full financial situation. 
5. Portal hadnt complied with the Conduct of Business Sourcebook rules COBS 2.1.1R, 
9.2.1R and 9.2.3R.
6. The annuity Ms Y had purchased wouldve needed to find additional growth to 
compensate for the fees charged by various parties. And that this hadnt been made 
clear to her at the time.
Portal issued their final response letter on 27 January 2021. They considered each of the 
complaint points raised but didnt uphold any of them. They didnt agree theyd been 
negligent when theyd provided the advice. They said theyd shown Ms Y the guarantees she 
would lose if she transferred. They said Ms Y had told them she may lose her house due to 
her circumstances at the time, and that shed also told them she didnt have enough income. 
Portal felt that the term insistent client had been explained in their 20 December 2011 
report. They said this was because it showed the benefits Ms Y would lose if she transferred 
and why she was being treated as an insistent client. Portal also said that Ms Y had signed a 
Declaration Form stating that she did understand the guaranteed benefits she would be 
giving up. Portal said that it was clear that Ms Y needed a lump sum and regular income 
given her concerns that she was at risk of losing her house. But they nevertheless hadnt 
been able to recommend the transfer due to the guaranteed benefits shed be giving up. 
Portal said that Ms Y had asked them to limit their advice to her retirement planning only. 
They said the COBS rulings stated hadnt been in force at the time of the advice. Portal also 
said that no charges would be deducted from Ms Ys ongoing annuity.
Unhappy, Ms Y asked this service to consider her complaint. Our investigator felt that the 
complaint should be upheld. She said that the advice Ms Y had received hadnt been 
suitable. She felt that it wasnt in Ms Ys best interests to transfer her defined benefit 
pension. And that she shouldnt have been deemed an insistent client. She recommended 
that Portal should put Ms Y, as far as possible, into the position she would now be in but for 
the unsuitable advice. 
Agreement couldnt be reached between Ms Y and Portal. So the complaint came to me for 
a review.
I issued a provisional decision on 5 January 2020. It said: 
I have carefully considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, I dont intend to uphold it. I know this will be disappointing for Ms Y. But I 
dont agree with our investigator that the advice she received was unsuitable. And I dont 
agree that she wasnt an insistent client. Ill explain my reasons for this decision.
Before I start, I must note that Portal have yet to provide copies of certain documents that 
this service has requested from them. Theyve told this service that those documents are 
archived. But have yet to be able to recover them. In the absence of certain documents, Ive 
had to base my decision on what, on balance, I felt was more likely than not to have 
happened. I would be grateful if either party can provide any further relevant documentation 
for my consideration before I issue my final decision.
Should Portal have covered Ms Ys full financial situation in their report?Ms Y said that Portal had failed to obtain and detail her full financial situation.
Portal said that they usually obtain full information from their clients in respect of their 
circumstances, objectives and requirements so that a thorough review can be carried out. But 
that Ms Y had asked them to limit their advice to just her retirement planning. 
The cover letter which enclosed the 20 December 2011 report stated:
On this occasion the advice has been restricted to the consideration of existing pension 
benefits.  If you wish to consider other areas of your financial planning, then please let me 
know as specific advice can be given to these matters.
And the report itself stated:
We normally only give advice when we have obtained a full picture of your financial and 
personal circumstances, on this occasion you have requested that we limit our advice to 
your retirement planning only. We have therefore not considered the suitability of our 
recommendations in relation to your full financial circumstances
If you wish to receive full financial advice please do not hesitate to contact us.
Based on the evidence, I consider that even if Ms Y hadnt asked Portal to focus on just her 
retirement benefits, the cover letter clearly stated that she could ask them to consider her 
other finances if she wanted to. So I dont agree that Portal were at fault by not obtaining 
information about Ms Ys wider financial situation. 
Did Portal recommend the defined benefit pension transfer?
I agree with our investigator that the benefits in Ms Ys defined benefit scheme were secure. 
And that, at the time of the advice, they formed a significant part of her pension provision. I 
also agree that the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) explains that the starting point, when 
providing advice about whether to transfer a defined benefit pension plan, is to assume the 
transfer is unsuitable. And that an adviser should therefore only recommend the transfer if 
there was clear evidence it would be in the clients best interests. 
Portal said that they did start with this assumption. And that they advised Ms Y not to 
transfer. 
From what Ive seen, Im satisfied that Portal only facilitated the transfer once they were 
satisfied that she was an insistent client. In fact, Portal explicitly told Ms Y that they didnt 
recommend such a transfer as they didnt consider it was in her best interests. In their 1 
December 2011 to Ms Y after theyd completed their fact find they said:
As the Critical Yield (growth rate required to match your guaranteed benefits with [name of 
pension scheme] is 11.10% it would be against our recommendation to do this. Furthermore, 
you will be waiving your entitlement to a guaranteed pension of £3,531.71 per annum which 
is payable at retirement age 65.
I consider that it was reasonable for Portal to recommend Ms Y didnt transfer. This is 
because the required investment growth rate (11.10% each year) was considerably higher 
than the rate this service wouldve considered achievable at the time (by reference to the 
discount rates used in redress calculations for upheld complaint), and also higher than even 
the high rate growth band set by the regulator. Ive also noted that Ms Y said she had a low 
attitude to risk, and so the level of risk shed need to take to achieve such high returns would 
have been unsuitable for her. And she also had a low capacity for loss. Overall, Im satisfied 
that Ms Y was likely to be worse off if she decided to transfer. But the 20 December 2011 report Portal produced stated on page 10:
You have decided that you still wish to proceed with purchasing an Annuity. We will assist 
you with this, and have treated you as an Insistent Client.
I would normally recommend that you leave your pension benefits where they are as this will 
be most beneficial to you in retirement. However, during our telephone conversation you 
advised me that you are aware of the downfalls in taking your benefits now but due to your 
current circumstances you would like to take your benefits immediately.
The report then continued:
In accordance to your wishes, I recommend:
That you transfer your [pension scheme name] to [provider name], who will pay your 
full 25% Tax Free Cash entitlement.
Use the residual fund to pay an income for the rest of your life with [provider name]
Based on what Ive seen, Portals research showed that the transfer wasnt demonstrably 
viable in financial terms. But I consider that they explained this to Ms Y, both in the report 
and on the phone. I consider that Ms Y was determined to carry out the transfer despite 
Portals recommendation. So although I can see that Portal did assist Ms Y in carrying out 
the transfer, I dont consider that they recommended it until it became clear that she was an 
insistent client.
It might be arguable that the use of the word recommend above, relating as it does to the 
transfer itself, implies that Portal was in fact recommending the transfer. A more appropriate 
form of words mightve been that it couldnt recommend the transfer, but on the basis of Ms 
Ys insistence that she proceed, it was able to recommend a pension provider to receive the 
funds.
But I dont think this matters here, for reasons which Ill address further below.
Should Ms Y have been classified as an insistent client?
As well as the extract from the 1 December 2011 letter and page 10 of Portals report dated 
20 December 2011, both of which Ive highlighted above, the report also stated on page 5:
Due to the guaranteed benefits that you will be relinquishing with [name of pension scheme]  
it is against my recommendation to transfer your benefits. You are aware that you will have 
to opt out of the [pension scheme name] to proceed with the Pension Release. You have 
decided that you still wish to proceed with the Pension Release. On this basis, although we 
can help you release money from your pension, we are treating you as an insistent client 
due to the guaranteed benefits that you will be giving up upon transfer and also the critical 
yield required to match your existing benefits with [pension scheme name].
And the 1 December 2011 letter went on to state:
If you decide you still wish to proceed, we can help you release money from your pension, 
but we would have to treat you as an insistent client, as this would be against our 
recommendation. We would, therefore, require you to complete the attached insistent client 
form confirming that you are aware of the benefits you would be relinquishing. 
Portal havent yet been able to provide a copy of a completed insistent client form. But on balance of probabilities I consider that they did issue one to Ms Y and that she did complete 
it. I say this as I can see that Ms Y completed a lengthy application form on 21 December 
2011 for her annuity purchase, with Portals assistance. Im persuaded that Portal wouldnt 
have helped her to complete this form unless shed completed an insistent client form. I say 
this because the completed forms that have been shared with me also include a declaration 
form, signed by Ms Y, which stated:
I am fully aware that by transferring to an alternative pension arrangement, I will be giving 
up an Income of £3,531 per year and a Tax Free Cash Lump Sum of £10,595 payable at 
age 65 that I currently have with Current Provider, and understand that I will be worse off in 
retirement.
I wish to proceed on this basis as my main priority is repaying debts and mortgage arrears 
(ahead of retirement planning)
While I agree with our investigator that the wording here was probably not written by Ms Y, 
Im persuaded that it did reflect what the fact find had discovered. The fact find showed that 
Ms Y had concerns over her debts and that her income was not sufficient to cover her 
outgoings. So I consider that she approached Portal with the main aim of accessing the tax-
free cash from her defined benefit pension. And Im persuaded that this wording does reflect 
Ms Ys intentions at the time. I consider that the wording clearly shows what Ms Y was giving 
up. And that she would be worse off in retirement. And Im satisfied that Ms Y agreed with 
this as she signed and dated it.
Ms Y said that at the time of obtaining Portals advice, her general financial situation was in 
control and she wasnt in a position where she required funds from her pension. She said 
she had mortgage arrears of around £1,200. And other debts totalling £6,100. She said she 
wasnt concerned about her debts as she had other options available to her. But Im not 
persuaded by this. Ms Y approached Portal for their advice and asked them to only consider 
her defined benefit pension. Portals fact find shows that her mortgage arrears were twice as 
severe as Ms Y said. And note that other options for reducing her debt were considered at 
the fact find meeting. The fact find notes that other options werent affordable. And that Ms Y 
needs to reduce debt.
Ive carefully considered what Ms Y has said and Portal have provided. On balance, Im 
more persuaded by the written evidence from the time of the advice. I say this as Ms Y 
approached Portal for advice, not the other way around. And Im not persuaded that Portal 
wouldve exaggerated Ms Ys debts on the fact find form. Im also satisfied that other 
methods of reducing Ms Ys debts were considered. And I note that Portal didnt initially 
recommend the transfer, on the grounds that Ms Y would be worse off. 
Ms Y went ahead with the transfer anyway, despite Portal not initially recommending it. I 
consider that this shows that she did have an urgent need to access her tax-free cash. And 
that she didnt have other options available to her to reduce her debt at the time. 
I do agree with our investigator that the full report Portal produced is long. And that it doesnt 
go into a huge amount of detail about why Portal didnt recommend the transfer. So I agree 
that its not a particularly balanced report. But Im satisfied that itd been produced in Portals 
full knowledge that Ms Y intended to go against their recommendations given her financial 
situation at the time. In particular, I consider that the concerns she expressed at the time of 
the advice that she could lose her house would have outweighed any other considerations 
Ms Y mayve had. Overall, Im satisfied that it wouldve been clear to Ms Y that she was 
transferring against Portals advice.
Based on everything Ive seen, I dont agree with our investigator that Ms Y wasnt truly an insistent client. I consider that the Declaration Form she signed represented her own 
feelings about the transfer, even if it wasnt handwritten by her. And Im satisfied that she 
signed and dated the declaration form. 
Businesses are allowed to carry out business for insistent clients. But they must ensure their 
client understands the consequences of going against the advice theyre given. I consider 
that the overriding issue Ms Y was trying to address at the time of the advice was to ensure 
she didnt lose her house. So, based on those circumstances at the time of the advice, I 
consider that Portal did do enough to establish Ms Y as an insistent client.
Ive also considered if Portal followed the process Id have expected them to follow for an 
insistent client. I agree with our investigator that where a consumer is treated as an insistent 
client, the business first must give suitable advice. I consider that they did give suitable 
advice when they told Ms Y that it would be against their recommendations to transfer. But 
given Ms Ys circumstances at the time of the advice  specifically her stated concern that 
she could lose her house if she didnt manage to pay off her mortgage arrears  I can see 
why Ms Y wanted to ignore that advice. Having looked at the 1 December 2011 letter, I 
consider that the risks of not following Portals advice were briefly explained. Portal may 
have more usually given a full explanation of their rationale, but under Ms Ys particular 
circumstances Im satisfied that what they did say was sufficient. 
I also agree with our investigator that Portals report focuses on ways Ms Y can move her 
pension, rather than explaining the reasons why she should remain in her defined benefit 
scheme and the risks if she didnt. But I dont agree that if it had been worded differently, this 
would in any case have made a difference. This is because I consider that Ms Y had made it 
clear that she needed to access her pension or she could lose her house. And it doesnt 
appear that she had any other options available to her at the time to pay off her debts. 
Based on what Ive seen Im satisfied Ms Y truly was an insistent client. This is because Im 
satisfied that she wouldve gone ahead with the transfer, regardless of Portals 
recommendation. This is because she was concerned that she wouldnt be able to clear her 
mortgage arrears and other debts and may lose her house. 
For these reasons, even if it were arguable that the wording in recommending a provider to 
receive the pension funds was inappropriate, and appeared to recommend the actual 
transfer, I dont think that, even if it had been worded differently and maintained the theme 
that Ms Y should not transfer, Ms Y would have acted differently here.
And so, on the basis of the available evidence, I dont intend to uphold the complaint or ask 
Portal to do anything.
Response to my provisional decision
Portal didnt respond to my provisional decision.
Ms Y, through her CMC, made the following points:
She said certain documents this service had requested from Portal hadnt been 
provided, including a copy of the completed insistent client form. Ms Y was 
concerned about why Portal hadnt provided the document as theyd located her file. 
And questioned why theyd not provided it.
She disagreed that Portal werent at fault for not obtaining information about her 
wider financial situation. She felt that Portal had a responsibility to obtain a full picture 
of her financial situation before they could provide suitable advice. And that because 
they hadnt obtained full information, they shouldnt have proceeded to advise her.
She disagreed that Portal had only facilitated her transfer once they were satisfied that she was an insistent client. She felt that Portal hadnt adequately explained that 
the transfer wasnt demonstrably viable in financial terms. And that Portal had failed 
to provide a call recording to show theyd done enough at the time of the advice. She 
said that Portal had enticed her to use their advice service by stating one specific 
option which was taking tax-free cash with no income. And that they hadnt fully 
explained any drawbacks of taking a transfer. Ms Y also felt that Portal had facilitated 
her transfer in only two months. She felt this was questionable.  
She felt that the Suitability Report needed to be considered as a whole, rather than 
simply referencing the extracts Id considered. And that if I considered it that way, I 
would see that it wasnt a balanced report. And that it focused on how the transfer 
could be carried out, rather than being clear that following this course would be 
against Portals advice.
She felt that the 1 December 2011 letter hadnt sufficiently referenced the high critical 
yield or Portals recommendation against the transfer. And that the Suitability Report 
hadnt been provided for several weeks after that letter. And noted that Portal said in 
the 1 December 2011 letter that they would only release the Suitability Report if she 
returned some documentation confirming shed like to proceed. She said that as 
soon as the critical yield had been mentioned, Portal had recommended that a 
transfer would be against advice, but then immediately provided her with a way to 
proceed with the transfer anyway. Ms Y felt that Portal had provided minimal 
information which forced her to select an option without being sufficiently informed 
through the Suitability Report. 
She repeated that the declaration form had been pre-drafted, which wasnt best 
practice. And didnt agree that the form reflected what the fact find had discovered. 
She said that in the correct context, it was unreasonable to suggest that shed had a 
dire need for tax-free cash. She also said too much emphasis had been placed on 
whether she would lose her house if she couldnt access the tax-free cash. She said 
the fact find stated that she thinks she may lose her house. But that my decision 
had been fixated on this possibility. She said at no point did she tell Portal that she 
would lose her house. She also noted that she couldve asked for help from her 
family at the time. But that the fact find didnt ask her this question. Instead, it 
focused on raising money from more debt, which she couldnt afford. Therefore she 
didnt agree that she should be classed as an insistent client. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill address each of Ms Ys new points in order. 
Regarding the lack of completed insistent client form, I acknowledge that Ms Ys position is 
that the fact that Portal havent provided it probably means that they didnt obtain it at the 
time of the advice. But I dont agree. I accept that without proof of the completed form, we 
cant be sure whether it was completed or not. But, based on everything Ive seen, Im still of 
the view that it was more likely than not to have been completed at the time of the advice. 
And while its true that not all documentation this service requested from Portal could be 
provided, I can confirm that when I wrote my provisional decision, I was satisfied that I had 
enough information on which to make that decision. If I didnt feel that way, I wouldnt have 
proceeded to decision.
Ill now consider Ms Ys concern that Portal shouldve obtained information about her wider 
financial situation before they could provide suitable advice. I covered this point in my 
provisional decision. I said that even if Ms Y hadnt asked Portal to focus on just her 
retirement benefits, the cover letter clearly stated that she could ask them to consider her other finances if she wanted to. So I dont agree that Portal were at fault by not obtaining 
information about Ms Ys wider financial situation. I also note that Ms Y approached Portal 
for a review of her pensions. And that she asked them to limit their advice to her retirement 
planning only. So I dont agree that Portal shouldve obtained information about her wider 
financial situation before they could provide suitable advice.
Ms Y disagreed that Portal had only facilitated her transfer once they were satisfied that she 
was an insistent client. And felt that they hadnt adequately explained that the transfer wasnt 
demonstrably viable in financial terms. I acknowledge this disagreement but consider that I 
covered these points in my provisional decision.
Ms Y also said that Portal had failed to provide a call recording to show theyd done enough 
at the time of the advice. And that Portal had enticed her to use their advice service by 
focusing on the tax-free cash option, without fully explaining the drawbacks. She also felt the 
speed with which Portal had facilitated her transfer was questionable.
Ive carefully considered all of these points. Regarding the failure to provide the call 
recording, I agree it wouldve been helpful to listen to this call. But I dont agree that there 
wasnt enough other information available to me for me to make my decision. I also dont 
agree that Portal enticed Ms Y to use their advice service. I say this because I understand 
that she approached them, not the other way round. And from what Ive seen, although 
Portal did focus on the tax-free cash option, I consider this is because that is what Ms Y 
wanted to do. The 20 December 2011 Suitability Report referenced the call for which we 
dont have a recording in the Recommendations section on page 10. This said: 
I would normally recommend that you leave your pension benefits where they are as this 
will be most beneficial to you in retirement. However, during our telephone conversation you 
advised me that you are aware of the downfalls in taking your benefits now but due to your 
current circumstances you would like to take your benefits immediately. 
The cover letter for the Suitability Report started with the following sentence: 
Thank you for taking the time to discuss your requirements with me this week. I believe I 
have made a recommendation suitable for your situation, however, if any information is 
incorrect please do not hesitate in contacting me. 
So Im satisfied that if Ms Y had felt that the recommendation didnt cover her recollection of 
the call, she wouldve contacted the adviser at the time. So Im persuaded that Ms Y did tell 
Portal that she understood the drawbacks of carrying out the transfer, but that she still 
wanted to take her benefits immediately. 
Regarding the time it took for Portal to complete the advice, Ive seen no evidence that any 
vital steps were missed. So it wouldnt be fair to say Portal shouldve taken longer to 
complete their advice. 
Regarding the points Ms Y made about the Suitability Report, I already acknowledged in my 
provisional decision that it wasnt a particularly balanced report. I said:
I do agree with our investigator that the full report Portal produced is long. And that it doesnt 
go into a huge amount of detail about why Portal didnt recommend the transfer. So I agree 
that its not a particularly balanced report. But Im satisfied that itd been produced in Portals 
full knowledge that Ms Y intended to go against their recommendations given her financial 
situation at the time. In particular, I consider that the concerns she expressed at the time of 
the advice that she could lose her house would have outweighed any other considerations 
Ms Y mayve had. Overall, Im satisfied that it wouldve been clear to Ms Y that she was transferring against Portals advice.
Ive seen no new evidence to change my view on this point. 
Ill now move to Ms Ys points about the information in the 1 December 2011 letter and the 
time between that letter and the Suitability Report. And Ill also consider her point that the 
Suitability Report would only be provided if Ms Y returned some documentation confirming 
shed like to proceed. Ive reviewed the 1 December 2011 letter again. It said:
You currently have a pension with [pension scheme name] which has a Transfer Value of 
£50,166, from which you could release a total amount of £12,541 as a tax free lump sum. 
However, as the Critical Yield (growth rate required to match your guaranteed benefits with 
pension scheme name) is 11.10% it would be against our recommendation to do this. 
Furthermore, you will be waiving your entitlement to a guaranteed pension of £3,531.71 per 
annum which is payable at retirement age 65.
If you decide that you still wish to proceed, we can help you release money from your 
pension, but we would have to treat you as an insistent client, as this would be against our 
recommendation. We would, therefore, require you to complete the attached insistent client 
form confirming that you are aware of the benefits you would be relinquishing.
I enclose a form detailing the various options available to you. Please can you arrange to 
complete and return the forms to Portal Financial Services. Upon receipt, we will arrange to 
send out all the relevant application forms and Suitability Report detailing our advice.
Should you wish to discuss any aspect of this letter, please do not hesitate to contact us.
Having re-read this letter with Ms Ys points in mind, I can understand why she felt the 
Suitability Report shouldve been provided earlier. But I dont consider that she wouldve 
taken a different course of action if it had been provided shortly after the 1 December 2011 
letter, or even at the same time. I say this because I consider that Ms Y approached Portal 
with the intention of accessing cash from her pension. She was clear that she needed cash. 
And why she needed it. And from what Ive seen from the Recommendations section of the 
Suitability Report, she said she was aware that it wasnt in her best interests to take her 
benefits now, but wanted to do so anyway. So Im persuaded that Ms Y had made it clear to 
Portal early on that she wanted to proceed against their advice. I agree that the release of 
the Suitability Report shouldnt have been conditional on Ms Y completing the relevant 
application forms. But as I said earlier, I dont consider that this made any difference to the 
path Ms Y chose to take. I acknowledge that Ms Y felt shed had to select her final option 
without being sufficiently informed through the Suitability Report. But I dont agree that she 
couldnt have changed her mind once she had received it.  
Ive already covered Ms Ys point that the declaration form had been pre-drafted, which 
wasnt best practice, in my provisional decision. But Ill consider Ms Ys point that, in the 
correct context, it was unreasonable for Portal to consider that shed had a dire need for tax-
free cash. And that my provisional decision placed too much emphasis on whether she 
would lose her house if she couldnt access the tax-free cash. And that Portal didnt consider 
asking Ms Y if she could ask for help from her family when they carried out the fact find. Ive 
carefully considered what Ms Y has said. And Ive revisited the fact find carried out at the 
time of the advice.
The fact find asks How much tax free cash do you require?. And asks why that amount 
was needed. Ms Y said that she needed it to Pay off debts and mortgage arrears. The fact 
find then contains a section which said:Have you considered generating this amount from other sources (such as remortgaging, 
unsecured loan, state grants etc)?
Why have you not:
Remortgaged
Applied for a loan
Moved house (downsize etc)
Etc?
Ms Ys answers to this section were recorded as wouldnt be able to afford, needs to reduce 
debt.
Later on in the fact find, Ms Ys monthly outgoings were considered. The report noted: They 
do not have enough income at the moment. Not sure how much more they need as they pay 
some things one month and not the next. Near the end of the report, it noted: Her partner 
was made redundant recently and they have been unable to cope with the reduced income. 
Although she thinks that he will get a new job in the new year, she wants to take max TFC 
and a guaranteed income because she thinks she will lose her house if she doesnt. 
I acknowledge that the fact find didnt explicitly ask Ms Y to consider asking for financial 
support from her family. But I consider that it would be reasonable to assume that Ms Y had 
only approached Portal to access her tax-free cash after considering whether her family 
could help her. The fact find is clear that Ms Y was unable to cope with the reduced income 
since her partner had been made redundant. So Im satisfied that if shed felt she couldve 
asked her family for help, she wouldve already done so. I agree that Ms Y is recorded as 
having said: she thinks she will lose her house if she doesnt access her tax-free cash, 
rather than that she would definitely lose her house. But I dont agree that this shouldve 
made a huge difference to the process. Ms Y was sufficiently concerned about the possibility 
of losing her house to mention it to Portal. This would clearly be an extremely important 
issue for any customer in the same situation. So I dont agree that I shouldnt have placed 
emphasis on this point in my provisional decision, regardless of whether Ms Y had said she 
thought she would lose, or would lose her house. In fact, I consider that if this point hadnt 
been adequately recorded and Ms Y had lost her house, I would now be facing a different 
complaint. 
In summary, I have carefully considered all of Ms Ys new points. But they havent changed 
my decision. I remain satisfied that Portal acted fairly and reasonably under the 
circumstances. And I dont require them to take any further action.  
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint for the reasons above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman