DRN-4158493
The complaint
Mrs S complains about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited trading as More Th>n 
(RSA) and the way they handled the claim she made on her home emergency (HE) 
insurance policy.
Mrs S has been represented during the claim and complaint process by her son, Mr S. For 
ease of reference, I will refer to any comments made, and actions taken, by both Mrs S and 
her son as Mrs S throughout the decision.
What happened
In the early 2022, Mrs S took out a home insurance policy, underwritten by RSA. Mrs S paid 
an additional premium to ensure this policy also included an additional HE policy, for 
emergency situations.
Unfortunately, in late October of the same year, Mrs S noticed a leak in her property 
originating from an issue with her roof caused by storm conditions in her area. So, she 
contacted RSA to make a claim on her HE policy.
RSA delegated authority to a separate company, who Ill refer to as C, to manage HE 
claims such as the one Mrs S made. As C were acting as an agent of RSA, I will refer to any 
actions taken by C as if they were made by RSA throughout the decision.
RSA arranged for an engineer, who Ill refer to as E to attend Mrs S property and inspect 
the damage. Having done so, E felt the leak had resulted from a block valley on the roof and 
they recommended getting the valley cleaned. But they did nothing further at the property 
and so, the leak remained. RSA then relied upon the opinion of E to decline the claim, 
stating it wasnt covered under the policy she held.
So, as the leak remained and was continuing to cause damage into her home, Mrs S 
arranged for her own roofer, who Ill refer to as X, to repair the leak. This work was 
completed in mid-November, with Mrs S paying Xs invoice for £1,100 on 5 December 2022. 
But Mrs S was unhappy shed had to cover this cost herself, so she raised a complaint.
Mrs S didnt think RSAs decision to decline the claim was fair. And she didnt think E had 
done enough to assist her when they had attended her property. So, Mrs S wanted RSA to 
reimburse her the amount shed paid to repair the leak herself, up to her policy limit.
RSA responded to the complaint and upheld it in part. They accepted there had been delays 
and a lack of communication during the claim process, so they offered Mrs S £30 to 
recognise the impact this caused. But they thought their decision to decline the claim was 
fair, and in line with the terms of the policy based on the information they had at the time. 
Mrs S remained unhappy with this response, so she referred her complaint to us.
While our service was investigating the complaint, RSA accepted the images provided didnt 
seem to show the findings reached by E. Our investigator considered this and upheld the 
complaint.
Our investigator noted RSAs admittance that Es report wasnt supported by the 
photographic evidence. And our investigator noted RSAs comments that a permanent repair 
wouldve been needed, which wouldve been covered under the terms of the policy Mrs S 
held. So, our investigator thought RSA acted unfairly when not accepting the claim. So, they 
recommended RSA pay Mrs S £1,000, her policy limit, plus 8% simple interest from the date 
Mrs S paid X, to the date of payment. And she thought RSA should pay Mrs S £150 to 
recognise the upset and inconvenience she was caused, in place of the £30 that was 
originally offered.
Mrs S accepted this recommendation. But RSA didnt. RSA felt that some of the work 
completed by X wasnt part of the repair required to fix the leak. And so, they didnt think 
they should pay Mrs S up to the policy limit, as this would place her in a better position than 
she wouldve been, had RSA fixed the leak themselves.
Our investigator considered RSAs comments, but their recommendation remained 
unchanged considering Mrs S individual circumstances and vulnerabilities. RSA continued 
to disagree and so, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
I note Mrs S original complaint was centred around RSAs initial decision to decline the 
claim, based on the findings of E when they attended the property. Since RSAs final 
response to this complaint, RSA have accepted the photographic evidence supplied doesnt 
support the findings E reached. And, in conversations with our investigator, RSA have 
accepted a permanent repair shouldve been attempted by E and that the costs of this 
wouldve been covered under the policy Mrs S held. So, Im satisfied RSA have accepted 
their original decision the decline the claim was unfair and because of this, I dont intend to 
discuss the merits of this complaint in any further detail.
Instead, Ive focused my decision on the aspect of the complaint that remains in dispute. And 
this centres around what RSA should reasonably do to put things right.
Putting things right
When deciding what I think RSA should do to put things right, any award or direction I make 
is intended to place Mrs S back in the position she wouldve been in, had RSA acted fairly in 
the first place.
In this situation, had RSA acted fairly, I think they wouldve accepted the claim and arranged 
for the leak at Mrs S property to be repaired. As RSA failed to do so, this left Mrs S in a 
position where she had a substantial leak at her property causing damage, and she was left 
to arrange a repair on her own, without any expert support or guidance.
I can see Mrs S, with the help of her family, sourced her own repairer, X, to fix the leak. And 
she paid X £1,100 to do so. Had RSA acted fairly, then I dont think Mrs S wouldve needed to find her own repairer and incur these costs. So, I think RSA should reimburse Mrs S the 
amount she paid, up to her policy limit and any applicable excess.
I recognise RSA disputes the work X completed, stating some of the work X completed 
wasnt related directly to the leak and so, reimbursing Mrs S for the full cost up to the policy 
limit would place her in a position of betterment.
But I must consider the individual circumstances of this complaint, including Mrs S own 
vulnerabilities and ensure any direction or award fairly takes these into account. While I 
recognise the comments RSA have made, and I understand their basis for these, I dont 
think it would be fair for me to say RSA should only make a partial payment on this occasion.
This is because I dont think Mrs S has set out to intentionally, or knowingly, put herself in a 
position of betterment. Due to RSAs error, Mrs S was left needing to source her own 
repairs. And Mrs S lived alone, with vulnerabilities and likely very limited knowledge of 
roofing, or what repairs were required. And Ive seen a video of the leak, showing it was 
substantial and would no doubt have been upsetting and create a sense of urgency. So, I 
dont think it was unreasonable for Mrs S to assume all the work X completed was required 
to repair the leak. And I wouldnt have expected her to challenge this with X at the time.
If RSA had accepted the claim and arranged repairs themselves as they shouldve done, 
they wouldve had the ability to manage the works that were completed and where 
necessary, ensure only the repairs needed to address the leak directly were completed. But 
their error removed their ability to do so. Because of this, I dont think it would be fair for RSA 
to pay now only a proportionate of the costs Mrs S incurred, when they failed to provide her 
adequate support through their own claim process.
Due to the actions of RSA, Mrs S incurred costs of £1,100. So, I think a fair and reasonable 
resolution to this financial impact is for RSA to reimburse her this amount up to the policy 
limit in full, less any excess that wouldve been applicable had the claim been accepted.
And as Mrs S has been without access to the £1,100 she paid, I think RSA should add 8% 
simple interest to the amount they pay Mrs S, from 5 December 2022 when she paid Xs 
invoice to the date of payment by RSA.
I also dont think the £30 RSA have offered to recognise Mrs S upset and inconvenience is 
enough in this situation. Our investigator recommended this compensatory amount be 
increased to £150 and I think this recommendation is a fair one, that falls in line with our 
services approach and what I wouldve directed had it not already been put forward.
I think the £150 recognises the upset and inconvenience Mrs S wouldve felt when needing 
to source her own repairer, while her property was continuing to be damaged by the leak in 
question. But I do think it also takes into consideration the fact RSA have accepted, and paid 
out, on a claim Mrs S made separately for the damage caused to the contents of her home. 
So, I think RSA should pay Mrs S £150 compensation, alongside the reimbursement up to 
her policy limit.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Mrs S complaint about Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Limited trading as More Th>n and I direct them to take the following action:
Re-imburse Mrs S costs up to her policy limit, less any applicable excess;
Pay 8% simple interest on this amount, from 5 December 2022 to the date of payment; and
Pay Mrs S £150 compensation for the upset and inconvenience shes been caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman