DRN-1536455
The complaint
Mr T complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as NatWest) have refused to 
refund a number of disputed transactions made with his debit card which he says he didnt 
make or authorise.
What happened
Mr T has disputed 34 transactions totalling £11,077.51. These were carried out between 
4 and 7 July 2019. Mr T has said he did not make or authorise anyone to carry out these 
transactions. He believes that he was targeted by fraudsters on 4 July 2019, who managed 
to shoulder surf his PIN whilst he was at a cash machine near his place of work and were 
successful at pickpocketing his debit card.
On 7 July 2019 Mr T noticed several transactions that he did not recognise. He said he 
checked his wallet immediately and saw that his debit card was missing. He contacted 
NatWest to cancel his card and report the unauthorised use. Mr T wasnt sure how his debit 
card had gone missing, especially since he still was in possession of his wallet containing all 
his other cards. He was advised to contact the police  which he did. He also reported the 
matter to Action Fraud. 
Mr T has said that he didnt use his NatWest debit card regularly, as he generally uses his 
credit card for day to day expenditure  which every month is paid in full by direct debit from 
his account. The only time he uses his debit card is when he cant use his credit card. And 
even then, the physical use of the debit card is limited, as he utilises a smart phone app 
which stores his card details to make payments. 
NatWest investigated Mr Ts claim and decided not to refund the disputed transactions. It 
thought he had authorised the payments because;
All the transactions were made with Mr Ts genuine card and PIN.
He said he didnt keep his PIN written down and hadnt shared it with anyone else. 
He couldnt remember when he last used his card and there was no evidence of how 
someone else might have known his PIN.
He accessed his mobile app at 1.07am and 12:24pm on the 5 July 2019 on a 
genuine device, but the matter was not reported till 7 July 2019.
The activity and pattern of spending didnt quite follow what it wouldve expected to 
see if a fraudster was in possession of his card. 
 
Mr T didnt agree with NatWests decision and so he brought his complaint to this service. 
He is unhappy that NatWest kept questioning him and treated him like a criminal for not 
knowing exactly how the fraud occurred. He doesnt understand nor does he think its 
acceptable to blame the victim of the crime for not knowing with certainty when and how they 
were targeted. Mr T has said he was going through a difficult time when these events took place and feels 
extremely let down by NatWest for not supporting him. The treatment he received 
exacerbated his health issues and he strongly feels NatWest have failed to treat him fairly. 
Mr T has made detailed submission about NatWests failure to identify the fraud, the unusual 
nature of the activity compared to his historic account usage and his dissatisfaction about 
how it handled his fraud claim. He thinks as NatWest havent proven beyond reasonable 
doubt that he authorised the disputed transactions - it cant hold him liable. He is a victim of 
fraud and wants NatWest to refund all the disputed transactions  putting him back into the 
position he wouldve been had the fraud not occurred.   
An investigator looked into Mr Ts complaint, but she didnt uphold it. She concluded that on 
balance, it was more likely that Mr T had authorised the disputed transactions.
Mr T disagreed with our investigators view and asked for an ombudsman decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive reached materially the same conclusions as the investigator did, and 
for materially the same reasons.
Firstly, I really am sorry to hear this whole experience has made Mr T feel very unwell and I 
know this will be very disappointing for him as its clear he has very strong feelings about his 
complaint. But to be clear for Mr T, whilst I can see he has spent a lot of time and effort in 
bringing his complaint to our service and has provided detailed submissions in support of his 
complaint, as Ive already explained to him I wont be setting out my view on every piece of 
available evidence, nor am I able to provide comment on every point he has made. But I 
hope having had the opportunity to speak to me and ask any questions, has assured him 
that Ive read and considered everything provided by him in its entirety.   
My role is to consider the evidence presented by both parties and reach what I think is an 
independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. The purpose of 
my decision is to set out my conclusions and reasons for reaching them. So, my findings 
focus on what I consider to be the central issues. 
Mr T has mentioned in his submissions that it has not been proven beyond reasonable doubt 
that he made or consented to the disputed transactions. Its worth noting that we are an 
informal dispute resolution service, acting as an alternative to the courts. We dont consider 
complaints in the same way as a criminal court might. Where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory, we would make a decision on the balance of probabilities. In 
other words, what we think is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence 
and the wider circumstances. 
The investigator wrote a detailed view that set out in full the facts, the transactions, the 
relevant regulations and the evidence. Both Mr T and NatWest have read the investigators 
view, so I wont repeat every detail here, only those which form the basis of my decision.
The regulation that is relevant when considering Mr Ts complaint in relation to the disputed 
transactions is the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs 2017). In short, NatWest is 
generally required to refund any unauthorised transactions. Mr T says he didnt make the 
disputed transactions and they are unauthorised. So, my primary concern now is to come to 
a view about whether or not I think Mr T authorised the transactions and whether NatWests conclusion that he did was reasonable. If Im satisfied that Mr T did, then I wouldnt ask 
NatWest to refund him.
Looking at all the facts of this case, I cant know for certain exactly whats happened. I wasnt 
present at the time the disputed transactions took place or when the preceding and ensuing 
events occurred. So, in situations like these I need to decide a case on what I think is more 
likely than not to have happened. To help me decide this Ive looked at the evidence of the 
payments, as well as what both Mr T and NatWest have told us.
Firstly, after reviewing the banks technical evidence Im satisfied that Mr Ts genuine card 
and PIN were used to make the disputed payments  neither party has disputed this. 
However, Im not persuaded a third-party without Mr Ts consent carried out the transactions 
and from what Ive seen I also dont think its unreasonable for NatWest to conclude that 
Mr T authorised the transactions. I say this because: 
Theres no convincing explanation for how a third party couldve obtained Mr Ts card 
and known his PIN. I know Mr T on reflection has said he is fairly confident he was 
shoulder surfed whilst at a cash machine on 4 July 2019. But Mr T has amended his 
version of events from when he first reported the matter. Im afraid that this does 
impact on the credibility of his evidence. Mr T has said he was in shock and disbelief 
when he first contacted NatWest  which is the reason for the inconsistencies in his 
testimony and why he may not have remembered certain events  but later did. Ive 
thought about this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr Ts latter version of events 
is what actually happened. By his own admission and looking at Mr Ts account 
history, he didn't use his physical debit card often nor did he use cash machines to 
obtain a balance  the last time he did was in April 2019. So, I think its more likely 
that he would have remembered if he had visited a cash machine to obtain a balance 
enquiry a few days prior to reporting the fraud. 
 
During the period of the disputed transactions, Mr T logged onto his mobile app on 
5 July 2019 at 1.07am and 12.24pm. He said he usually checks his account in 
greater detail once a week to make sure he is not spending too much as him and his 
partner are saving for their wedding  which he did on 7 July 2019. The reason Mr T 
has given for checking his balance on the 5 July 2019, was his anxieties. He said all 
he wouldve done is taken a quick glance at his balance for reassurance. Mr T has 
explained the account balance displayed with prominence on his mobile app does 
not take into account pending transactions, which is the reason why he didnt notice 
any discrepancies in his balance or see the disputed transactions. I accept NatWests 
mobile app displays the account balance in the way Mr T has described. But it also 
displays the available balance - granted with less prominence, which does take into 
account pending transactions. This is displayed directly underneath the account 
balance. And by 5 July 2019 this balance wouldve been approximately £8000 lower. 
And whilst some transactions may have been pending and only reflected in the 
available balance, the cash machine withdrawals wouldve also shown in the account 
balance straight away. So, I cant see how it wouldve been possible for Mr T to have 
not noticed his account balance was less than expected and his available balance 
significantly lower  especially as he was saving for a specific purpose and logged on 
with the intention of checking his balance due to his anxieties. I dont find Mr Ts 
explanation plausible that he didnt notice the disputed transactions and I can only 
conclude that he did see the decreasing balance on his account, yet he didnt contact 
NatWest until the 7 July 2019. 
 A fraudster will generally remove all available funds, over the shortest possible 
timeframe, to maximise their gain before the fraud is identified and reported. But in 
this case, the transactions took place over a three-day period. And whilst that doesnt 
ordinarily fit the pattern wed expect to see, I also take on board that the bulk of these 
transactions approximately £8,000 did in fact take place on the 4 July 2019. So, I 
havent placed a great deal of weight on the pattern of transactions in this case. I do 
however note that the first disputed transaction took place around 45 minutes after 
the point at which Mr T has said his card and PIN were compromised. Id expect a 
fraudster to try to use the card almost immediately. I also note a balance enquiry was 
carried out around 25 minutes before the first disputed transaction, but no cash was 
withdrawn. And over the course of the following  days a number of balance enquires 
were carried out but no cash withdrawn, and I think its unlikely that a fraudster 
wouldve carried out balance enquires without drawing out cash. I also find it unusual 
and unlikely that a fraudster would only take a small amount like £20 from a cash 
machine, when they had the opportunity to take more. 
 
I did take a closer look at where the disputed transactions took place. And I accept 
this could be purely coincidental and on its own isnt conclusive, but I can see a 
number of these were either carried out in the vicinity of where Mr T works and 
spends his time socially, or in the locality of where he used to live. Also, it would be 
an odd coincidence for someone else to be using Mr Ts debit card a couple of days 
after taking it, in an establishment three minutes walk from where he was.
 
Mr T feels he has done everything he can to help the investigation - from raising the 
fraud as soon as he became aware of it; promptly reporting the matter to the 
authorities and tracking down CCTV footage  which he says shows a group of four 
individuals using his debit card. I appreciate Mr T seeks to rely on these actions to 
support his contention that he wasnt involved in the events. But this wouldnt prove 
whether this was done with Mr Ts knowledge and permission. And the issue I need 
to decide isnt who carried out the transactions, but rather were these transactions 
consented to by Mr T.  
 
I understand Mr T was also unhappy NatWest kept questioning him and treated him like a 
criminal for not knowing exactly how the fraud occurred. Ive listened to the relevant 
conversations between NatWest and Mr T. I dont think NatWest asked unreasonable 
questions during these. Mr T was disputing a significant amount of money. NatWest were 
asking questions to help it get to the bottom of what happened. Im satisfied it didnt act in an 
unprofessional manner, although I understand why Mr T may have felt this way as ultimately 
NatWest made the decision to hold him liable for the disputed payments  which in itself is a 
difficult message for NatWest to give and indeed for Mr T to receive. 
For the reasons above, Im not persuaded that the disputed withdrawals were made by an 
unauthorised third party as Mr T has alleged. On balance, considering all the evidence, I find 
its more likely, that Mr T authorised the disputed transactions. It follows that NatWest is 
entitled to hold him liable for them. 
Whilst I know my decision isnt the answer Mr T was hoping for, I hope it brings some 
closure to this matter for him. He is not obliged to accept what Ive said, in which case Mr T 
remains free to pursue this matter by alternative means should he wish to do so.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Ts complaint against The 
Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as NatWest). 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2020.
Sonal Matharu
Ombudsman