DRN-2077157
The complaint
Mr H complains that he was mis-sold life and critical illness insurance by an appointed 
representative of St. James's Place Wealth Management Plc (SJP). He says the adviser 
ought to have realised that his premiums differed substantially from his existing cover, and 
therefore that the new proposal did not have the same protection. 
Mr H submits that he suffered a consequential loss because he was not able to make a 
claim on the policy sold by the adviser. He believes SJP is accountable for that loss.  
What happened
Mr H is now represented by his solicitor, Ms B. 
Mr H previously applied for a life and critical illness insurance policy with Scottish Widows. 
That policy offered £65,000 of level cover for a ten year term. Mr H also applied for a 
second, separate level life assurance policy with Scottish Widows. 
Based on the content of Mr Hs application, Scottish Widows wrote to Mr Hs GP for a 
medical report. On receipt of the report, Scottish Windows wrote to Mr H in a letter dated 13 
May 2011. It said it had applied a premium rating to Mr Hs policy based on the further 
information it had received from Mr Hs GP in relation to his past history of drinking 
excessive volumes of alcohol (which by this time had been reduced) and also a more recent 
episode of chest pain. Due to these disclosures, it was still able to insure Mr H, but it would 
have to charge a higher premium to do so.    
Mr H accepted the rated terms offered to him and the cover began on 16 September 2011. 
In October 2018, Mr H met with an adviser from Pettengell Wealth Management (PWM). 
SJP takes responsibility for the advice given by that adviser, as he was acting in capacity of 
an appointed representative of SJP.  
The adviser reviewed a number of Mr Hs business needs as he was Managing Director of 
his own business, which he operated alongside his wife, two other family members and a 
number of other staff. One of the areas of review was life and critical illness cover. Mr H 
therefore sent the adviser information about his existing protection policies, following which 
the adviser wrote to Scottish Widows for clarification.
A further two meetings took place in October 2018 and January 2019. The adviser 
recommended taking out new life and critical illness cover for business protection since he 
had determined that the existing policies were for personal protection. 
A combined life and critical illness policy came into force on 4 January 2019. The Scottish 
Widows policies were cancelled thereafter.  
In June 2019, Mr H sadly had a heart attack. He made a claim to his insurer, Legal and 
General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) for critical illness benefit. 
However, L&G refused Mr Hs claim on the grounds of misrepresentation.  It said that the 
heart attack criteria under the policy had been met but it wouldnt have been able to insure 
Mr H in the first place if it had known his full medical history. Once it had obtained medical 
evidence from Mr Hs GP surgery, it became aware that he had been advised to reduce his 
alcohol intake in 2004, with his GP recommending liver function tests and a referral to a 
community alcohol team  though the referral didnt go ahead.
L&G said this history would have affected the terms it could offer, and even if Mr H hadnt 
answered about being advised to reduce his alcohol intake he was referred to a specialist, 
and he was aware of that. L&G could not have insured Mr H for life or critical illness cover, 
and therefore it cancelled both policies in November 2019, returning the premiums Mr H had 
paid. 
Mr H complained, but L&G was unwilling to change its view. It issued a final response to Mr 
Hs complaint in January 2020, explaining that it had been right to refuse his claim, because 
it believed there had been careless misrepresentation from the outset.  
Mr H made an initial complaint to L&G. During the course of the first complaint he then 
lodged another complaint with SJP.
The first complaint was about the refusal of the claim, as Mr H considered he had acted 
innocently rather than carelessly in the circumstances as he was not aware of the content of 
his medical records. Mr H said that whilst it was true he was drinking more than he should 
have in 2004, the interpretation of the report supplied to L&G was unfair. The GP that 
completed it was not his actual GP, and the new GP had simply inferred that Mr H had been 
told to reduce his alcohol consumption.  
The second complaint against SJP was for not appropriately investigating the
significant difference in premiums between the Scottish Widows existing cover and the new 
L&G cover. Mr H said he didnt know about the loading Scottish Widows had applied, and it 
was the duty of the adviser to find out why the new cover was cheaper. 
The first complaint was reviewed by one of our investigators, who determined Mr H should 
have answered L&Gs policy application questions differently. Specifically, she said she 
thought Mr H was aware Scottish Widows had loaded his policy premium due to his medical 
history, and that was in partial reference to his historic alcohol consumption. That Scottish 
Widows would offer cover was not a reason to conclude L&G had acted unfairly. 
She therefore believed L&G was entitled to treat the matter as a misrepresentation. This was 
careless as Mr H had made an oversight given the passage of time. She said L&G was 
entitled to void the policy because it wouldnt have offered Mr H insurance in the 
circumstances. The complaint was not taken any further.  
The second complaint arose from the first; it is the subject of this decision. 
When SJP rejected the complaint, it explained that the adviser had confirmed the details of 
the policies with Scottish Widows, but that information was limited to relevant details about 
the policies, including the terms and the sum assured  not the specific underwriting process 
of 2011, which it couldnt have given to the adviser under relevant data protection laws.  
It also said that there was no reason the adviser ought to have known about the ratings 
applied to the existing policies. Mr H had confirmed he didnt know about the circumstances 
of Scottish Widows having written to his doctor at the time, so this could not have been 
something the adviser would have known either. SJP also said it was important to note the adviser had not recommended the new cover to 
replace the Scottish Widows policies in any event. It was recorded that the existing cover 
was personal family protection for Mr H, with his wife as the beneficiary to the policies. The 
new policies were recommended as key person cover, with the sum assured based on a 
multiple of Mr Hs salary and the recommended beneficiary being Mr Hs business. 
SJP noted that it could find no evidence that the adviser had told Mr H to cancel his existing 
policies or that the new cover was a replacement for the existing cover. It said that Mr H 
went on to cancel the Scottish Widows policies was a decision he made for himself. 
Mr H said the policy documentation from Scottish Widows shows that the beneficiary for his 
existing cover was his business, not his wife. He also said that in email correspondence the 
adviser had compared his new cover to his old cover on a cost basis, and therefore this must 
infer that one was set up to replace the other. He said that if the adviser had undertaken 
proper and robust research and provided full advice, he would not have been left in a 
position without insurance now.  
The same investigator reviewed both complaints, and she did not believe the SJP complaint 
ought to succeed either. She said it was clear from an initial suitability email from the adviser 
in December 2018 that the adviser had no knowledge of Mr Hs medical history, as that had 
not been discussed. Yet, at this time he had already undertaken a broad premium 
comparison. So she did not agree that the adviser ought to have reasonably been able to 
ascertain that premium loading may have applied on the Scottish Widows policies.  
Further, in bringing the complaint against L&G, Mr H had confirmed how he had not seen the 
letter referring him to the community alcohol team until such time as his claim was declined. 
If Mr H wasnt aware of that, the investigator concluded that he could not have told the 
adviser about it either. She therefore did not believe SJP was liable for Mr Hs lost 
opportunity to claim on the voided L&G policies, or that the adviser had unreasonably sold 
the new cover to him.  
Mr H disagreed. He said he had previously been mistaken and since reviewing all of the files 
held by his business, he confirmed that the 2011 premium loading letter sent by Scottish 
Widows was shown to the adviser in 2018. He also made further detailed comments in 
response to the view. I will not repeat these here in full, but I have reviewed them all. In 
summary, Mr H said:
in 2018, the invitation extended to PWM/SJP in an advisory capacity was to ensure, 
at whatever cost (within reason), that his company was protected in all eventualities;
at some point between October 2018 and January 2019, the adviser wrongly 
deduced (and without consultation with the business) that the Scottish Widows 
policies were 'personal' policies simply because the main beneficiary of both plans 
was named as Mrs H, his wife and major shareholder in the family business;
the adviser either did not read the files and completely missed the 'loading' issue, or 
if he did read the files he felt the loading information contained therein was irrelevant 
as 'personal'/'business' policies were somehow un-connected;
either way, the loading issue was missed or not even questioned and now is wrongly 
being denied as being seen by the adviser;
if the adviser had undertaken a more thorough investigation then it would have been 
noted about the loading and therefore L&G could have been put on notice that it 
needed to seek more information from Mr Hs GP;
consequently, Mr H and his family would have retained the Scottish Widows cover 
and been able to make a claim under the critical illness policy;it was the adviser that said he could achieve cheaper cover for them, so he should 
have properly understood why there was a price difference;
cost was not a factor in their decision to change policies, the adviser told them the 
new cover was more comprehensive. 
The investigator reviewed Mr Hs comments and referred them to SJP for further 
consideration. However, SJP confirmed it had never had sight of the letter or a file of 
documents before the application was lodged, and the investigator couldnt find any clear 
evidence of this either. Nonetheless, even if the letter had been supplied she still did not 
consider the complaint should be upheld. She said it was a policyholders responsibility to 
correctly answer any questions posed by the insurer. She felt the onus was Mr Hs to ensure 
the answers he provided were accurate. She didnt think it was the advisers role to 
meticulously scrutinise the answers Mr H gave, as these were accepted in good faith.
Mr H still disagreed. He said he couldnt have told the adviser that he had misrepresented 
his position, because he didnt know he had done so. He remained of the view that the 
adviser should have done more to find out why there was a difference in premiums. He also 
supplied a detailed letter from a third party independent financial adviser in support of his 
position.  
The IFA said that, on the same facts, an adviser ought to have questioned why the Scottish 
Widows policies had higher premiums, as these were around 16% higher. Those policies 
were business policies taken out with lending, and the adviser should have known that. 
However, if age had been factored into the cost-saving exercise, the existing cover was 
some 277% more costly. This should have raised a red flag with the adviser and he should 
have done more research.  
The IFA also said that whilst the circumstances of the loading would not have been 
disclosed, the factual question could have been asked by the adviser and he would have 
been told a rating applied (though not why), yet he didnt query it. The adviser ought to be 
held to the same level of scrutiny that Mr H is.  
Our investigator still was not persuaded to change her view. She said the duty to accurately 
answer any questions asked at inception remained with Mr H. And the adviser was clear that 
prices were pre-underwriting. As she hadnt seen evidence to suggest SJPs adviser could 
have reasonably been aware that the previous policy was loaded due to the 2004 alcohol 
referral, she did not agree it had acted unreasonably. 
Mr H asked for the matter to be passed to an ombudsman. He also sought legal advice. Ms 
B took over as representative for the complaint and made several further representations:
an email from Mrs H to the adviser dated 19 December 2018 said that she would 
intend to get rid of the Scottish Widows cover, as the adviser had pointed out that 
the policies were costly;
the adviser replied to this email but did not tell Mrs H to retain the policies  this must 
show that there was intent to replace one with another;
the adviser would only have talked about the Scottish Widows costs as a comparison 
if one set of products was intended to replace another;
Mr and Mrs H gave the information from Scottish Widows (including the rating letter) 
to the adviser at the first meeting of 24 October 2018 to take away;
in an email of 20 November 2018 the adviser refers to based on the information I 
took away when we met; which determines he had the information in bag of 
paperwork;however, Mr and Mrs H had not themselves looked at the information in the bag of 
paperwork before making the application  they instead gave it to the adviser to rely 
on his expertise;
the fact PWM/SJP claims it never received the information because it doesnt have it 
in its files is of no evidentiary value;
the very fact that the original Scottish Widows premiums were so much more 
expensive than the L&G terms ought to have put PWM on a course of enquiry which, 
if followed, would have led it to conclude that the L&G policy was unsuitable to 
recommend;
PWM failed to draw obvious inferences from the premium levels where a competent 
adviser would have done;
the investigator felt that the quotes were not wildly different, but in fact they were;
a prudent adviser should have, and could have, obtained an authority from Mr and 
Mrs H as to their medical circumstances and made the necessary enquiries with 
Scottish Widows before proceeding any further;
had Mr H been properly advised by their adviser, they would have instructed PWM to 
investigate whether L&G would have been prepared to offer the same level of cover 
for an increased premium;
Ms B can think of no reason why L&G would not have been prepared to proceed on 
this basis. Therefore, Mr H has lost the sum of £100,000, which is the sum assured 
and is the amount which would have been paid out had they received competent 
advice from PWM;
if that isnt the case, then in the alternative, had Mr H (and his business) received 
competent advice from PWM, they would not have cancelled the original policies. 
The sum assured for critical illness was £65,000;
that former insurer would have been bound to make this payment pursuant to their 
policy which was underwritten with knowledge of the relevant facts now relied on by 
L&G, and with a premium weighted accordingly;
either way, SJP is now liable for the errors of PWMs adviser. 
For the sake of completeness, our investigator provided a fourth assessment of the 
complaint looking at the new submissions. However, she still did not change her view.  
She said she felt that the correspondence showed SJPs adviser did not have the loading 
evidence when he made his recommendations. She said if he had been in receipt of this 
information he would a) have identified it when it reviewed the documents and b) still have 
some record of it when it made its submission to our service. She also disagreed that the 
premium differences ought to have been a red flag to the adviser. She finally reiterated how 
the email of December 2018 email confirmed that the premium would be dependent on the 
medical information Mr H provided. PWM (and therefore SJP) was not responsible for giving 
that medical information, Mr H was. 
Mr Hs solicitor made a number of additional points about the categorisation of the 
misrepresentation. I have not included them here as they are relevant to the L&G complaint, 
not this one. It did note that as Mr and Mrs H did not know about the entries on Mr Hs 
medical file, and as a result were not in a position to disclose them at the time of the L&G 
application, they were reliant on their financial adviser. As stated previously, the solicitor 
considers that a prudent financial adviser adopting the necessary skill and care would have 
noted that the existing cover had loaded premiums. 
Mr H also made additional further submissions himself setting out the wider operation of his 
business, and the effect that his heart attack had on himself and his family. He also said that 
PWMs failure to uncover what was lurking in the detail has almost cost him his business, his 
family their income and left them with an uncertain future. Mr H also felt it particularly unfair that the investigator continues to 'hang her hat' on the fact 
that he did not disclose facts which the insurer recognises that he was unable to recall when 
completing the application. He feels he should be offered a justifiable explanation as to why 
a financial advisor that he commissioned to carry out a full and thorough investigation into 
his insurance circumstances, requirements and protection objectives had failed his family. 
The complaint has now been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have carefully reviewed the large volume of evidence supplied by the parties. I can see Mr 
H has gone to a significant effort to obtain additional information, professional advice and 
supporting statements following a very difficult time for himself and his family. My decision 
will not set out a direct response to each and every submission made; instead I will 
concentrate on the issues I believe are central to the complaint within our remit of 
determining what is fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances.  
Though I realise how upsetting this matter is for Mr H, I do not believe this complaint ought 
to succeed. That is because I do not find the adviser  and therefore SJP - to be 
consequentially liable for Mr Hs inability to pursue a critical illness claim. I will set my 
findings out for that below.  
I cannot review the decision or outcome of the L&G complaint here. This complaint concerns 
the actions (and specifically as put forward by Mr H and his representatives the inaction) of 
PWM for which SJP takes responsibility.  
In circumstances of providing recommendations for protection policies, I agree that the 
adviser should have used care to provide a reasonable assessment of Mr Hs requirements. 
But neither party disputes that the proposals he made for the new policies were 
unreasonable recommendations of themselves. The suitability is only questioned by Ms B as 
a consequence of loading which applied to Mr Hs existing policies. 
There is a dispute as to the purpose of the policies, specifically as to the nature of the cover 
for family or business protection. What is submitted by Mr H is that the PWM adviser ought 
to have known that replacing cover like for like (if this was the case) requires additional 
exploration of the exact nature of the cover as there were material differences in responses 
to the medical information by each insurer.  
I accept that an adviser ought to reasonably appreciate reinsuring for protection policies will 
involve a consideration of new medical circumstances which may have arisen since the start 
of the existing cover, a comparison of the benefits, a comparison of exclusions, and whether 
any differences in the policies are justified by any particular gain, such as a reduction in 
premiums. However, that can only be achieved based on the information that an adviser has 
been given or reasonably attempted to ascertain from his or her clients. 
In the PWM advisers case, he sought policy details from Scottish Widows, which set out that 
the policies had Mrs H as a beneficiary. That was an error made by Scottish Widows, not the 
adviser. It wasnt unreasonable for him to then go on to conclude that policies did not exist 
for the purpose of business protection. His suitability letter of 15 January 2019 therefore 
confirmed that a lump sum is required to protect the business. He also explained that 
there is no existing provision for any key person insurance within [Mr Hs business]. This was stated after receipt of the existing provisions from Scottish Widows. He went on to 
propose a sum assured which was a multiple of twice Mr Hs salary because replacing [Mr 
H] as Managing Director would be a huge task, and this would take time, this would likely be 
1 to 2 years to hire and train an employee to take on the responsibilities of [Mr Hs] role.
The adviser went on to explain what Key Person Protection was and how his 
recommendation was to provide cover for an key employee and paid for by a business.
I therefore consider that it was more likely that the adviser believed the proposal he was 
making was for business cover. It was for that reason the suggested sum assured was 
based on a multiple of Mr Hs salary. Mrs H also referred to it as Key Man Cover in her 
follow up email after the initial meeting.  
I recognise that Ms B has explained how Mrs H said in that email that she felt it was best to 
cancel their existing cover going forwards, but I do not agree that this meant the advisers 
recommendation was wholly unsuitable because he didnt specifically address that point in 
his email reply. He also didnt advise Mr and Mrs H in any of his documentation to cancel 
their existing cover either. The existing policies for personal protection only had a further two 
years left to run. I believe the suitability letter sets out that his advice was relating to Mr Hs 
business needs. 
Even if the policies were a direct replacement for one another (though I dont accept they 
were) that does not materially affect Mr Hs duty to accurately answer questions within the 
new policy application, with the consequence of that being subject of the L&G complaint 
about the claim refusal.
Mr H and his representatives say that, notwithstanding the error on the L&G application, if 
the adviser had been more thorough he could have identified that Scottish Widows had 
cause to rate/load Mr Hs existing cover, and the L&G application could have been changed 
or stopped. Contrastingly, SJP says the adviser did not know that the existing policies had 
premium loading because of Mr Hs medical history, nor could he be expected to know. 
Having looked at the information from the time of the sale, I do not accept that the adviser 
was likely aware of the rating letter dated 13 May 2011. I also do not consider that the 
adviser would have wilfully overlooked the content of a letter of that nature since it would not 
benefit either party to recommend insurance that Mr H could not reasonably make a claim 
against.  
I realise Mr H and his wife say that the letter was given to the adviser in a bag of documents. 
But they also say that they did not know what the letter said, or that it existed, and they had 
never seen it themselves at that time. They only became aware of its existence once L&G 
began to assess Mr Hs critical illness claim. If that is the case, I do not believe that Mr and 
Mrs H can likely be sure what the adviser had received, as they hadnt reviewed it to know 
what information they did and didnt give to the adviser.  
The email the adviser sent to Mr and Mrs H after that initial meeting in October 2018 sets out 
the quotes obtained so far with two variations for sums assured and terms. He does refer to 
the cost of the existing cover but only to explain that the premiums arent out of keeping with 
the price of their existing provisions. He also explained that please remember this is pre-
underwriting so they may change dependant on any answers given in the medical 
questionnaire. 
Like our investigator, I believe that if the adviser had received information relating to 
historical rating of Mr Hs existing insurance, he would have likely mentioned it in relation to 
explaining how premiums can change upon underwriting. Nonetheless, even if my conclusions above were different and the letter was given to the 
adviser within the bundle of documentation passed to him at the meeting, I do not accept 
that this means SJP is liable for Mr Hs inability to claim on the L&G policy now. That is 
because the information supplied on the new policy application was put forward by Mr H. 
Though the omission of his true medical history was noted to be an oversight, the adviser is 
not responsible for that. 
Even if the adviser had seen the letter from Scottish Widows, he could not have ascertained 
from it how that would affect the underwriting with L&G. The letter explains that it felt an 
additional premium was necessary based on Mr Hs medical history of chest pain and 
drinking. But Scottish Widows did not say what the rating/loading was or how it had been 
applied. 
Further, no exclusions or restrictions were applied to the policy that could reasonably have 
prompted the adviser to know what weight the underwriters had given to Mr Hs history, or 
whether that history was a factor in taking out cover some fifteen years later. That was a 
matter for L&G to decide, based on the answers Mr H gave in his policy application. The 
questions, if answered correctly, would have prompted L&G to seek a GP report, after which 
it would have refused terms.  
So it does not follow that L&G could have offered Mr H cover along the lines of the full 
£100,000 sum assured as suggested by Ms B. It never would have insured Mr H at all, and 
the outcome of the other complaint confirmed as such.
Mr H says he didnt know about the existence of the letter when he applied for his Scottish 
Widows policies either. In that case that other answers he gave led Scottish Widows to write 
to his GP. That did not happen in the L&G application process, but that is not because Mr H 
did not know of the existence of an underwriting process. That is because he forgot (and 
therefore was considered careless misrepresentation) that he had been referred for blood 
tests and seen his doctor for excessive alcohol intake many years prior, and it was 
information that should have been provided on his policy application. 
PWMs adviser is not at fault for L&G and Scottish Widows having different underwriting 
processes. Nor is it at fault for any questions being answered incorrectly on L&Gs insurance 
application. 
I cannot therefore conclude that the adviser acted unreasonably or unfairly in proposing the 
cover to Mr H. Nor do I think it more likely than not that he acted contrary to the information 
he had before him.  
I have considered the point made by Mr H, his solicitor and the statement of his IFA where 
they all state that the difference in policy premiums for the quotations ought to have put the 
adviser on notice that there must have been an explanation for why Mr Hs policy premiums 
were more costly back in 2011. 
The quote email from the adviser gives four varied quotes, with the nearest comparison as 
£100,000 of life cover for thirteen years (which was varied down to five upon application). 
This was at a monthly premium of £211.76, This was compared to the previous ten-year 
cover having a premium of £212.45 with a lower sum assured. 
Even if the adviser had ascertained something within Mr Hs medical history could have 
given rise to him presenting a greater insurance risk in 2011 than he did in 2018, he had not 
yet met with Mr H to discuss the medical questionnaire. No two insurers cost risk equally, 
which is why comparisons are undertaken. Further, there are a number of variables in the old and new cover which could account for the differential in premium. 
I accept that given Mr H was older, the cost would be expected to be greater. But as Ive 
said, the adviser had yet to undertake the application process with Mr H and it was not the 
only variable. I agree with our investigator that the premiums are not so wildly dissimilar (or 
that of the five-year quote) that it ought to be apparent to the adviser that this difference had 
to be the result of a rating or premium loading and that the premium loading ought to have 
still applied in 2018. 
More importantly, the adviser could not have foreseen that L&G would go on to determine 
under relevant insurance law that Mr H gave incorrect answers on his policy application. I 
dont agree with the suggestion that in order to make a recommendation that the adviser 
needed to understand the specific reasoning of Scottish Widows underwriting criteria for Mr 
H. It isnt reasonable to assume that an adviser will have detailed medical knowledge in 
every given case to investigate the specific reasoning for a precise premium cost.
To find PWM (and therefore SWJ) liable for the loss of a claim against either insurer now, I 
would have to conclude: 1) that the adviser should have known Mr Hs policy application had 
wrong answer(s) because he ought to have reasonably foreseen that a previous insurer had 
different evidence regarding Mr Hs medical history and loaded the policy premium 
accordingly. And, 2) that he acted in some way to consequently cause that loss  for 
example by failing to insist that L&G considered the same medical evidence or by compelling 
Mr and Mrs H to cancel their existing cover. I have not seen evidence to that effect. 
The adviser did not have the influence to determine what L&Gs underwriting decision would 
be, and he could not answer for Mr H. Nor have I seen any suggestion that he provided 
advice for the cancellation of the existing cover, such that PWM could have attributed 
directly or indirectly to Mr Hs inability to claim within the remaining term of his existing 
policies. 
My final decision
Though I know my decision will be a disappointment for Mr H, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2020.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman