DRN-1366865
The complaint
Mr F complains that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
What happened
Mr F says he was mis-sold PPI, which covered his credit card. Lloyds says that there is no 
evidence that any PPI premiums were ever charged. So no refund would be due to Mr F 
even if the PPI was mis-sold. 
Our adjudicator didn't think the complaint should be upheld. Mr F disagreed, so I've been 
asked to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Fs case.
Lloyds has provided evidence that shows PPI appears to have been attached to the account 
only from 2000 to 2017. However, the card statement data shows that, even on the rare 
occasions when there was a balance owing on the account, no PPI premiums were taken. 
The statement data covers the majority of the time that PPI appears to have been attached 
to the account. But given the evidence  it appears that Mr F never paid anything  for it, 
even when he should have. 
Why that happened I don't know. But it means that, even if the PPI was mis-sold, Mr F never 
paid for it. So, I don't think he's suffered any financial loss as a result of having PPI. 
Ive thought about everything Mr F has said  including  about having a credit card with 
Lloyds for many years before 2000. But these points dont change my decision. The 
evidence indicates PPI was only added to the account in 2000, and that Mr F never paid 
anything for it. So there is nothing to be refunded to him.
My final decision
I've decided that there is no evidence that Mr F suffered a financial loss relating to PPI on his 
credit card account. As such, I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 April 2020.
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman