DRN-3827647
The complaint
Miss P complains Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) unfairly declined her 
contents insurance claim after she was led to believe it would be covered.
What happened
Miss P was burgled, so she made a claim on her contents insurance policy. The thief gained 
entry via an open window whilst the property was unoccupied. 
When Miss P made the claim, she was asked to gather evidence and documentation for the 
stolen items. After Miss P provided that information, RSA declined the claim because the 
open window breached the security requirements within the policy terms. Miss P 
complained.
RSA accepted it had sufficient information from the outset to decline the claim, and it offered 
Miss P £150 compensation for the inconvenience caused to her by not doing so. Miss P 
remained unhappy, so she contacted our service. 
Miss P noted she paid £500 for a professional to help her gather the supporting information, 
and she provided the contract and invoice.
One of our investigators concluded the claim had been fairly declined. However, he said in 
addition to the £150 compensation, RSA should reimburse Miss P the £500. He also said 
RSA should pay 8% simple interest per annum on that amount.
Miss P accepted our investigators findings, but RSA disagreed. RSA noted the £500 costs 
hadnt previously been presented to it. RSA said we should only base our decision on the 
information that was available when it issued its final response. RSA also questioned 
whether the costs were reasonably incurred.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not disputed that the thief gained entry via an open window whilst the property wasnt 
occupied. As per the policy terms, windows must be closed and locked when there isnt 
anybody in the property. So, Im satisfied the claim was fairly declined. 
RSA accepts it made an error by not declining the claim from the outset. It follows that had 
the claim been declined from the outset, Miss P wouldnt have gone on to gather the 
supporting information or have paid £500 for professional help.
I accept that had the claim been accepted, Miss Ps £500 costs wouldnt have been covered. 
However, the costs were incurred on the understanding her stolen items would be settled, 
and I dont find it unreasonable Miss P paid for assistance if she was struggling with 
gathering evidence and documentation, or if she didnt have the time.
Ultimately, the costs wouldnt have been incurred but for RSAs error. So, it follows that 
those costs need to be covered as part of putting matters right.
RSA makes the point the professional help is new information it wasnt aware of when 
responding to Miss Ps complaint  and I accept thats the case. But nonetheless, the 
information cant reasonably be ignored by our service, and RSA has been given an 
opportunity to consider the costs, contract, and invoice prior to my final decision.
So, Im satisfied RSA should reimburse Miss P the £500, and pay 8% simple interest per 
annum on this amount from the date she paid the invoice to the date of settlement. 
The late declinature has also caused Miss P upset and inconvenience. As such, I agree the 
£150 compensation should be paid, in addition to reimbursing the £500.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I uphold this complaint in part. 
My final decision is Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited should:
- reimburse Miss P the £500 she paid for professional assistance, and pay 8% simple 
interest per annum on this amount from the date she paid the invoice to the date of 
settlement; and
- pay Miss P £150 compensation, if it hasnt yet done so.
If RSA considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
any interest paid, it should let Miss P know how much it has taken off. If requested, RSA 
should also provide a certificate showing the amount deducted, so Miss P can reclaim it 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 January 2023.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman