DRN-2935027
The complaint
Mr V is complaining about the way Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) has offered to settle a 
claim he made after water leaking from an upstairs property damaged his home.
What happened
Mr V is the beneficiary of insurance taken out on his property by the leaseholder of the 
property. In March 2018 Mr V contacted Aviva about water damage in his property, which 
had been caused by a leak in the property above.
Aviva agreed to consider the claim, and asked Mr V to get some quotes for the work. Those 
quotes were provided in October 2019  about 18 months after the leak was reported.
The lowest of the quotes was over £70,000, which Aviva considered very high  and it still 
thought the cost was high when this amount was reduced to about £45,000. So Aviva sent 
one of its own contractors out to look at the damage and quote for the repairs. The quote 
was for about £8,000, rising to just over £10,000 with the addition of VAT.
Aviva told Mr V it would settle the claim and get the work done by its own contractor. It said if 
Mr V wanted a cash settlement then it would only pay him what it would cost to do the work.
Mr V said he didnt trust the contractor to do a good job and that the cash settlement was 
much too low. 
Because of the wide discrepancy in the quotes, Aviva commissioned a report from a second 
surveyor  who was approved by Aviva to do the work but reported independently. A second 
quote was also prepared for the work. The figures and work needed were similar to those 
suggested by Avivas first contractor.
Aviva didnt increase its offer and Mr V complained. He also said that hed lost a lot of rental 
income as his tenant had moved out because of the water damage.
Aviva didnt change its position so Mr V asked us to review his complaint.
Our investigator thought Aviva had acted reasonably. He limited his comments to the topics 
covered in Avivas response to Mr Vs complaint, but did explain how Mr V could raise other 
complaints with Aviva if he so wished. He thought Aviva had acted in line with the policy 
terms and conditions, and didnt think he could ask it to more.
Mr V doesnt agree. He says when a previous (similar) leak was repaired, costs came to 
about £34,000, so his quotes this time are reasonable and Aviva should base a cash 
settlement on the figures he provided.
Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr V has raised a separate complaint about the way Aviva handled his claim 
and lost rental income. This decision is only about the way Aviva has offered to settle his 
claim. 
The way a claim for damage to a property is settled is described in the policy terms and 
conditions. In this particular policy it says Aviva can either arrange for the work to be done by 
one of its own contractors or it can make a cash settlement. If Mr V chooses the latter then 
Aviva need only pay Mr V what it would have paid to have the work done. 
Sometimes an insurer decides it doesnt want to arrange for the work to be carried out. If it 
only offers a cash settlement then it would normally agree a figure based on quotes for the 
work sent in by a customer. But thats not the case here.
Insurers routinely check that quotes they receive look reasonable  and thats what Aviva did 
when Mr V sent in two quotes for work and the lowest was over £70,000. It sent one of its 
own contractors in to quote  and when this came in at just over £10,000 including VAT, said 
it would either do the work for Mr V  or pay him the reduced amount.
When Mr V disagreed Aviva got an independent report on the damage and required work. 
And it said that if Mr V wanted his own surveyor to look at the damage it would take that into 
account. Both of those actions are what Id expect it to do when theres a large discrepancy 
between a customers quotes and its own. 
Ive seen the independent report and it looks reasonable to me. The cost of the repairs from 
a second contractor were broadly similar to the first. I cant see that Mr V has commissioned 
his own report.
I think this means Avivas offer  to either do the work for Mr V or pay him cash equivalent of 
what it would have paid  is fair, and in line with the terms and conditions in the policy.
I accept that Mr V doesnt like the contractor and doesnt think his property will be returned to 
the condition it was in before the leak  but I havent seen anything that suggest the 
contractor isnt competent. And of course if a contractor appointed by Aviva does something 
wrong  or the work turns out to be more extensive than initially thought  then it would be 
up to Aviva to put it right. So Mr V does have some assurance of quality.
I understand that the last time Mr V had work done after a leak it cost about £34,000. But 
that doesnt have any bearing on this claim: these are two separate incidents and the 
damage is assessed separately. Its possible that some additional underlying damage 
attributable to the leak could be discovered once work starts, because thats the nature of 
water damage. But any reasonable costs for this could be added to the claim whether Aviva 
was doing the work or paying a cash settlement. 
I think Avivas offer is fair and Im not going to ask it to do more. I leave it with Mr V to decide 
whether to have the work done by Avivas contractor or accept the cash settlement offered.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2021.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman