DRN-3999110
The complaint
Mr A and Mrs A have complained that esure Insurance Limited (esure) unfairly declined a 
claim under their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr A and Mrs A contacted esure to make a claim for storm damage to their roof. esure 
asked Mr A and Mrs A to provide photos of the damage, an invoice for making the roof 
watertight and an estimate for work to permanently repair the roof. Mr A and Mrs A 
contacted esure again with queries about the claim. They later told esure they had repaired 
the roof. Because of the costs involved, esure said it would appoint a surveyor. esure then 
assessed the claim and declined it because it said the damage was the result of pre-existing 
issues with the roof.
When Mr A and Mrs A complained, esure maintained its decision to decline the claim. So, Mr 
A and Mrs A complained to this service. Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said it 
was reasonable for esure to decline the claim for the roof based on its surveyors findings. 
However, the internal damage should be covered as accidental damage.
esure didnt reply, so the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold the complaint. I will explain why.
When we look at a storm claim complaint, there are three main issues we consider:
1.    do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to 
have happened?
2.    is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Were only likely to uphold a complaint where the answer to all three questions is yes.
Ive checked weather reports around the time the claim was made. This showed winds of up 
to 59mph in the local area, which would be considered storm conditions under the terms of 
the policy. I also think a storm could cause damage to a roof. So, I think the answer to the 
first two questions is yes.
So, Ive thought about the third question on whether the storm was the main cause of the 
damage. esure based its assessment on photos provided by Mr A and Mrs A. The surveyor 
found a number of issues with the roof that indicated wear and tear, including debonding and 
delamination. The roof was considered to have reached the end of its serviceable life. Im 
aware Mr A and Mrs A said they had the roof inspected about a year before the damage and 
no issues were identified, but I havent seen expert evidence to support this. So, based on 
what Ive seen, Im more persuaded by esures surveyor about the condition of the roof.
Im aware Mr A and Mrs A also said that from the start of the claim they asked esure to send 
a surveyor. By the time esure offered to send a surveyor, the roof had already been 
repaired. So, Ive thought about this. It isnt unusual for an insurer to request further 
information before deciding whether to send a surveyor. In this instance, esure requested 
photos and a quote for the work. When Mr A and Mrs A later told esure of the costs involved, 
it said it would send a surveyor. Again, I dont think that was unusual. I also dont think it 
showed esure should have sent a surveyor at the start. By the time the costs became 
clearer, the work had already been carried out. So, esure didnt then send a surveyor, as it 
wasnt possible to inspect the damaged roof, and instead it made its assessment based on 
the photos. In the circumstances, I think that was reasonable.
Ive also thought about the internal damage. esure told this service it would only consider the 
internal damage if it was the result of water entering due to a storm. It said there wasnt 
enough rain for it to be considered a storm. In my view, this appears to be a misreading of 
the policy wording. Looking at the policy booklet, this said it was a storm if there were storm 
strength winds and/ or storm levels of rain. So, the policy said it could be considered a 
storm on wind speed alone. Ive already concluded there were storm strength winds and that 
there was a storm. So, I think that is sufficient to show there was a storm, regardless of the 
amount of rain. 
Ive also considered the amount of rainfall to see if this affects my view on whether the claim 
should be covered. Im aware esure provided the rainfall figures for the nearest weather 
station, which showed the maximum 24-hourly rainfall as 0.4mm for that day. Ive checked 
the weather data and saw another weather station that is about a mile further away in a 
different direction and shows a much higher hourly and daily rainfall for that day. So, I think 
even if an average was taken of the two, this would show there were more likely than not 
levels of rain that could have penetrated into the property and caused damage. Based on 
what Ive seen, I think esure should settle the claim for the internal damage. As part of that, it 
should also consider the invoice for the temporary repair to the roof, as this was put in place, 
at least in part, to stop water continuing to enter the property.
Im aware Mr A and Mrs A have been caused inconvenience by their claim being declined. 
Ive taken into account the full circumstances of the claim, including why a surveyor wasnt 
sent and I dont consider that esure should pay any compensation.
I uphold this complaint and require esure to settle the claim for the internal damage.
Putting things right
esure should settle the claim for the internal damage and should also consider the invoice 
for the temporary repair to the roof as part of this.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is upheld. I require 
esure Insurance Limited to settle the claim for the internal damage.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 May 2023.
 
Louise O'SullivanOmbudsman