DRN-2163044
The complaint
Mr H complains that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold him payment protection insurance 
(PPI). 
What happened
Mr H took out an unsecured personal loan in September 1996 and at the same time he took 
out PPI. The policy provided cover for Mr H in the event of accident, sickness and 
unemployment as well as life cover.  
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. 
Mr H mainly says that even though Nationwide and our adjudicator said this was a non-
advised sale, Nationwide advised him of the policy, advised Mr H of his eligibility for the 
policy (something that required a discussion of his personal financial circumstances at that 
time) and advised that Mr H should still protect his payments by taking out this policy.  
Mr H told us that in view of this advice, and Nationwides refusal to let Mr H set up his own 
commission-free staff discounted policy with another insurer where he previously worked, it 
was apparent to him that to get this loan he had to accept taking out the PPI policy with 
Nationwides insurers.
Mr H said the PPI wasnt something he needed as he had other ways to pay the loan if he 
wasnt able to work.
So the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Hs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint. Heres why I say this.
Nationwide couldnt provide any signed paperwork from this sale. But this isnt a reason for 
me to uphold the complaint. Its not surprising, given how long ago this sale happened, that 
paperwork isnt still available. Mr H has sent us a copy of the policy document sent to him 
when he took out this loan and this indicates that he took out an unsecured personal loan.
I cant know exactly what was discussed or how the PPI was presented when Mr H arranged 
this loan. Ive taken carefully into account what he remembers. But it wouldnt be reasonable 
to expect Mr H to recall in detail what was said over 20 years ago. So this means that what 
Mr H says now isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold the complaint.
I have to look at all the available information and decide what I think is most likely  making 
reasonable assumptions where necessary.
Nationwides sales process wouldve required Mr H to say if he wanted PPI. Ive seen an 
example of an application form that I think is probably similar to the one Mr H wouldve had 
to sign to get his loan. This shows hed have to pay a separate additional premium to have 
PPI  which is clearly described on the form as Optional Credit Insurance. 
So, looking at this paperwork, I cant fairly say that Nationwide didnt make Mr H aware that 
the PPI was optional.  
On balance, the information I've seen overall makes me think that Nationwide did do enough 
to make Mr H aware that he had a choice about whether to buy the policy and it was added 
to the loan when Mr H decided he wanted to buy it. 
Mr H says Nationwide recommended him to take out the policy. Nationwide says it didnt. 
Looking at what we know about how Nationwide sold policies in its branches at the time, 
I dont think its likely it gave advice or a personal recommendation about PPI to Mr H. 
But Nationwide still needed to give Mr H enough clear information so he could decide if the 
policy was right for him. And I've kept this in mind when looking at Mr Hs complaint.
Mr H told us hed have got 26 weeks full sick pay. If he was still too unwell or disabled to be 
able to return to work he would then have been able to rely on a Permanent Health 
Insurance that would pay 2/3rds of his pensionable salary until retirement. 
Its unclear how long the loan term was when it was set up. But Nationwides records show 
the loan account was settled after it had been running for 3 years and 4 months.  
The PPI wouldve paid out in addition to Mr Hs sick pay and on top of his permanent health 
insurance pay out. The PPI wouldve covered the loan repayments in full. I think that 
couldve been a useful benefit at whats likely to have been a difficult time if Mr H was too 
unwell to work  especially if he mightve faced extra costs as a result of illness or disability, 
and particularly bearing in mind that his income wouldve dropped by around one third after 
hed been off work for just 6 months and the loan term was more than 3 years. 
If Mr H had found he wasnt ever well enough to go back to work, the policy wouldve paid 
out until the loan was paid off. This meant he wouldnt ever have to rely on his reduced 
income to stretch to pay his monthly loan repayments  which I think is something he 
mightve found difficult if he was dependent on just his permanent health insurance to cover 
his monthly outgoings.
As well as this, the policy wouldve also paid out for 12 months if Mr H lost his job 
unexpectedly and he became unemployed.  
Although Mr H mentioned having residual monies from a life insurance surrender and 
payments hed received when his job was transferred to a new employer, this doesnt 
change my view of his complaint overall.
I say this because Mr H also told us that the purpose of this loan was for refinancing debt. 
He mentioned having an outstanding loan with another bank when he arranged this loan 
(and this may have been a debt he consolidated when he took out this loan with 
Nationwide). Mr H also borrowed some extra to cover other expenses. So it seems unlikely to me that Mr H wouldve had any significant savings to fall back on by 
the time he took out this loan  otherwise, it seems unlikely to me that he wouldve needed 
to borrow for the purposes he mentioned to us. 
Alternatively, I've considered the possibility that Mr H simply preferred to take out this loan 
rather than use money he had set aside to limit the cost of his borrowing. In that event, it 
seems to me that a policy that ensured the loan monthly repayments would be covered if he 
couldnt work wouldve been something Mr H wouldve thought worthwhile as it meant his 
savings would be protected from having to be used to pay the loan if he couldnt work. 
And I cant be sure Mr H would have always been able to rely on having savings available to 
pay off the loan if he wasnt working. 
Being entitled to redundancy benefits from his employer wouldnt have helped Mr H if he was 
off work sick. 
And PPI wouldve paid out in addition to any redundancy money he mightve got if hed lost 
his job, giving Mr H some additional financial security in those circumstances.
Life insurance provided a different sort of benefit and paid out only in the event of death  it 
wasnt the same as having PPI to cover loan repayments.
So, taking into account everything Mr H has said about his other means, I think Mr H still 
couldve benefitted from having PPI.
Mr H met the eligibility requirements for the policy. 
There were some things the policy didnt cover. But it doesnt look as if those applied in 
Mr Hs case. So, I dont think having more information about things the policy didnt cover 
wouldve affected his decision to take it out.
Mr H wouldve seen the PPI costs and loan costs clearly set out in the loan agreement he 
wouldve had to sign to get his loan. 
So he seems to have been happy to pay for PPI at the time  and he took out cover when he 
didnt have to, so it looks as if he wanted to protect his ability to cover the loan monthly 
repayments. 
Mr H couldve cancelled the policy at any time if hed changed his mind about having PPI or 
his circumstances changed and he no longer wanted to pay for it.
Its possible there mightve been some failings in the way Nationwide sold this policy. But 
I dont think having more information about it wouldve put Mr H off buying it as it provided 
him with useful protection at the time. 
On balance, I think he wouldve still taken out the policy.  
This means it doesnt look as if Mr H has lost out as a result of anything Nationwide did 
wrong. So it doesnt need to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman