DRN-3351967
The complaint
Mr C complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as first direct did not switch his current 
account to them within seven days.
What happened
Mr C applied to switch his current account to a First Direct current account, early in March 
2021. He expected the switch to be completed in seven days, however, nothing happened, 
so he raised a complaint with First Direct on 28 April 2021. As Mr C hadnt had a response 
from them within eight weeks, he brought his complaint to our service.
First Direct responded to Mr Cs complaint on 20 July 2021. They explained to Mr C that his 
application was declined on 11 March 2021 and they had sent Mr C an email informing him 
this. 
Mr C disputed that First Direct sent him the email on 11 March 2021. He said that as he 
hadnt heard anything from First Direct, he hadnt been using his original current account in 
case money would disappear during the switch process. Mr C also complained how First 
Direct handled his complaint, as it was late July 2021 before they responded to his complaint 
made late April 2021.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Cs complaint. He said that First Direct made a 
commercial judgement not to offer Mr C the account he applied for. Our investigator said that 
First Direct had sent an email to Mr C on 11 March 2021, to the same email address that Mr 
C had provided this service, so they hadnt treated him unfairly. Our investigator also 
explained that our service cant specifically look at how First Direct handled his complaint as 
this is not a regulated activity. 
Mr C asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He made a number of points. In 
summary, he said he didnt receive the emails First Direct said they sent him on 11 March or 
26 July 2021, First Direct cant evidence they sent him the emails, First Direct sent our 
service a copy and paste picture as opposed to a screenshot, First Direct sent him a text 
message to confirm he applied for the account, but First Direct changed the channel they 
communicated with him to email, which they didnt tell him they would do so. Mr C also said 
that First Direct kept incorrect records of when he applied for his account as he applied on 2 
March 2021, but First Direct said he applied on 1 March 2021.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything
hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be
focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here.
As our investigator has explained, complaint handling by a business isnt a regulated activity 
and as such, the issues Mr Cs has raised that relate directly to how First Direct have 
investigated his complaint, such as the delays in responding to him, dont come under my 
powers to consider. 
It is not within my remit to tell First Direct what applications they should approve or decline 
as this is a commercial decision for First Direct. While Mr C has said he applied for the 
account on 2 March 2021, Ive seen his application data which shows the account was 
applied for on 1 March 2021 at 16:48:24. So while First Direct may have sent him a text on 2 
March 2021, Im satisfied that his application was made on 1 March 2021. If Mr C has 
concerns about this, then he will need to raise this separately with First Direct, as this wasnt 
part of the complaint he originally brought to this service. 
Ive considered what Mr C has said about not receiving First Directs email on 11 March 
2021 and 26 July 2021. But Ive seen a couple of different screenshots from First Direct. One 
is with Mr Cs email address in the background and a pop up box which shows messages 
sent to this customer. The box includes four dates and times: 
29 July 2021 16:01
29 July 2021 15:14
26 July 2021 15:37
11 March 2021 13:01
The other screenshot is where First Direct has copied and pasted four parts of an internal 
system, to email our investigator. These show the date and the time which match up to the 
four email messages above, the user who sent the emails and the status showing SENT. 
While these arent on the same screenshot as the above data, although Mr C may strongly 
disagree with me, Ive no reason to believe that they dont relate to the emails sent to Mr C. 
I say this as the times and dates match up and show a status of sent. So while Mr C may not 
have received these emails, I cant hold First Direct responsible for this as theyve sent the 
emails. So if Mr Cs email provider was not able to successfully deliver the emails First Direct 
had sent him, I cant hold First Direct responsible for this.
But I know that Mr C has received at least one of these emails as hes forwarded us a copy 
of the email. While I know hes commented on an additional email address thats included 
with his own email address, this shows that on at least one occasion he has received First 
Directs email. As there appears to be no difference with the data on First Directs internal 
systems with how theyve sent the four emails, then Im satisfied that First Direct has sent Mr 
C the four emails theyve said they have. 
I say this as otherwise I wouldnt have expected Mr C to receive the email he did on 29 July 
2021, when First Direct have sent this in the same way as the other emails (showing the 
sent status). While the time the email is sent and the email has been received is different, 
this is out of First Directs control as this may be dependent on when Mr Cs email provider 
delivers the email to Mr C. 
Ive then considered what Mr C has said about First Direct changing the method of 
communication from texting him about his application to sending him an email. But I can see 
from the application data that he had answered Yes to both mobile messaging service and 
email service. So I cant say that First Direct has been unfair by using the methods Mr Cs 
expressed he was comfortable using. In summary, Ive seen no evidence that First Direct have kept incorrect records. They made 
a business decision to decline Mr Cs application to switch his account to them. Im satisfied 
for the reasons above that First Direct sent Mr C an email on 11 March 2021, to inform him 
of this decision. So it follows that I wont be asking First Direct to do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 May 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman