DRN-4295380
The complaint
Mr M complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) defaulted his loan account, even though 
he was making repayments each month.
What happened
Mr M has held a loan account with HSBC for several years. In 2020, HSBC agreed a deferral 
of his monthly repayments due to the covid-19 pandemic. After the deferral arrangement 
ended, HSBC agreed numerous payment plans and periods of breathing space with Mr M as 
he wasnt able to make the full contractual repayment each month. A token payment plan 
was in place from November 2022. At around the same time, HSBC told Mr M that it planned 
to default his account.
Mr M was very unhappy about this as he had kept up payments under each of the plans, 
including the latest token payment plan. He wanted to keep making the payments until the 
debt was fully repaid and asked HSBC not to default the account.
But HSBC said it couldnt stop the collections process given Mr Ms circumstances and the 
level of arrears, which equated to around 18 missed payments. It said it would send him a 
Final Demand, requiring payment of the full outstanding balance. HSBC said that, if Mr Ms 
account was defaulted, it would back-date the default to December 2020.
The Final Demand was sent to Mr M on 20 January 2023. His account was defaulted in 
February and is currently with HSBCs Repayment Services team. Mr M is very unhappy 
about this and asked this service to look at his complaint. He would like HSBC to remove all 
adverse entries about the loan from his credit file and allow him to continue making 
payments under the payment plan until the loan is repaid in full.
Our Investigator thought that HSBC had acted reasonably and didnt ask it to do anything. 
But Mr M didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think HSBC acted unreasonably here. I realise Mr M feels strongly 
about the situation and Im sorry to disappoint him. But Im afraid Im not going to ask HSBC 
to do anything. Ill explain why.
Under Mr Ms loan agreement, he is required to make a repayment each month. The amount 
of that monthly repayment is fixed. Mr Ms loan statements show that he made the 
contractual payments in full by way of one payment to the loan account every month up until 
February 2015. From March 2015 until March 2020, Mr M continued to pay the contractual 
amount each month, but as two separate payments rather than one.
Mr M says that the problems began before March 2015, when he tried (unsuccessfully) to 
find someone at HSBC who could make a decision to allow him a bit of leeway on the loan 
repayments so that he could recover from an operation. I dont doubt what Mr M says about 
this and I can appreciate it was frustrating if he wasnt able to have a meaningful 
conversation about his situation with anyone at the bank. But I dont think the current issue 
with the default is related to anything that happened in 2015 or earlier. Ill explain why.
The covid-19 payment deferral was in place until July 2020. HSBC didnt expect Mr M to 
repay the missed payments until a later date and said his credit file wouldnt be adversely 
affected by the deferral. I think that was fair. Mr M resumed payments in August 2020. But 
the payments he made from this time onwards were all less than the contractual amount.
From August 2020, Mr M was continuously on a payment plan or breathing space. He made 
monthly payments and kept to the payment plans. The amount which he was paying under 
these plans varied from time to time, but it was always significantly less than the contractual 
payment. So, although Mr M made monthly payments from August 2020 onwards, they were 
all less than the amount he was obliged to pay under the loan agreement. Therefore, arrears 
began to build up and continued to do so over this period of time.
A default occurs when a customer fails to meet certain obligations under their loan 
agreement. This is usually when arrears have built up to an unacceptable level, generally 
between three and six months. Where a customer enters into a short-term arrangement to 
pay less than the contractual amount each month, I wouldnt necessarily expect the business 
to treat this as a default. Here, Mr M entered into several such arrangements, in the form of 
payment plans of three or six months. HSBC accepted lower payments for these periods, but 
Mr Ms obligations under the original loan agreement didnt change. HSBC didnt treat the 
account as being in default while these arrangements were in place and maintained contact 
with Mr M, agreeing new plans from time to time and writing to him to confirm these. I think 
that was reasonable.
But, where the payments under such arrangements are substantially less than the 
contractual payment, or are for a token amount only, I think its reasonable for a business to 
treat the account as being in default. Here, Mr M made a new arrangement with HSBC in 
November 2022, under which the amount he was going to pay each month was reduced 
again. HSBC treated this as a token payment arrangement. This is the point at which HSBC 
appears to have decided to follow the default process. I think that was reasonable.
By this time, the account was around 18 payments behind schedule. I think it was fair that 
HSBC had worked with Mr M up to this point and hadnt defaulted the account. The 
information Ive seen indicates that it had suppressed Default Notices during this period, 
which I think was fair. But, in November 2022, I think it was reasonable to view the account 
as being in default. I say that because of the level of arrears, the continual arrangements to 
pay over a long period of time, the fact that Mr M wasnt able to increase the payments and 
the fact that there was no arrangement in place to clear the arrears.
I would usually expect a business to treat an account as defaulted by the time a customer is 
six months in arrears with no arrangement in place to clear them. As I have said, I think it 
was reasonable that HSBC didnt default the account before, allowing Mr M plenty of 
opportunity to bring it back on track. But, by November 2022 it was looking unlikely this 
would happen, so I think it was reasonable for HSBC to proceed with its collections process, 
ultimately defaulting the account in February 2023. As Mr M hadnt been able to make the 
contractual payments since mid-2020, I think HSBCs decision to backdate the date of the 
default to December 2020 is fair. Mr M says that HSBC didnt make it clear that his account could be defaulted even though it 
was agreeing payment plans with him. I find that HSBC sent Mr M seven Notices of Sums in 
Arrears under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in the period from June 2020 to December 
2022. I have also seen copies of numerous letters it sent him over the same period, many of 
which said that, if he didnt make payments to bring his account up to date, it would continue 
its collections process which may involve sending a default notice. So, Im satisfied that 
HSBC provided Mr M with details of the arrears and made him aware that the account could 
be defaulted if they werent cleared. And I find that it gave him notice of the default, and the 
chance to stop this by paying off the arrears, before it when ahead with the default. 
In conclusion, I think HSBC acted fairly and reasonably here. I realise Mr M will be 
disappointed by my decision and Im sorry for that. But, in the circumstances, Im not going 
to ask HSBC to do anything.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2023.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman