DRN-4036215
The complaint
Miss P has complained about the way her insurer Watford Insurance Company Limited dealt 
with a claim made under her car insurance policy. 
All reference to the insurer Watford in my decision includes its agents. 
What happened
In July 2022 Miss Ps named driver was involved in an incident with another car. She 
reported it to her insurer, Watford. 
Watford arranged for Miss Ps car to be taken to storage. It then arranged for Miss Ps car to 
be returned to her and Miss P brought her car to an approved repairer (AR) for an estimate. 
The AR advised Watford that it couldnt yet take Miss Ps car to carry out repairs. 
When Miss Ps car was returned to her from storage, she identified additional damage not 
related to the incident. 
In August 2022 Miss P complained to Watford. She was unhappy with the lack of updates 
about her claim, about the delay in getting her car repaired and the additional damage she 
said the storage agent had caused. 
Miss P was also unhappy about being charged an additional premium for a change in 
occupation for the named driver. 
Watford didnt uphold Miss Ps complaint. It said when Miss P had called for updates, it had 
correctly transferred her to the relevant departments. It said the broker was responsible for 
applying an additional premium and it had passed this complaint to them. It said the storage 
agent had dealt with Miss Ps complaint about the additional damage separately. But 
Watford had agreed to arrange for the incident related damage and the damage caused by 
the storage agent to be carried out by their AR. 
Miss P remained unhappy and asked us to look at her complaint. She said she hadnt 
arranged for her car to be repaired because she had to make a further payment of £600 
which she didnt think was fair. 
Our Investigator established that the payment being asked for by Miss P was the excess of 
£650 owed under the policy. Having clarified this, the Investigator explained that Miss P 
owed this if she wanted the repairs to her car to be done irrespective of whether she 
believed the named driver was at fault for the incident, which Miss P accepted. 
Miss P told us her car was booked in for repairs in February 2023. 
The Investigator recommended Watford pay Miss P £300 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by its delay arranging repairs, lack of communication between 
suppliers and general lack of urgency to progress repairs.
Watford didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman decision. It didnt provide any comments. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that the storage agent offered Miss P an award to meet the costs of repairing 
the damage it caused. Notes provided by Watford show that the storage agent said it would 
pay Miss P £250 as a final offer for the damage it had caused to her car. 
As the storage agent is an approved supplier of Watford, the insurer is responsible for the 
actions by it under the claim. Watford hasnt provided any further details to show that this 
part of Miss Ps complaint was resolved. 
In a note dated 28 September 2022 Miss P queried the excess payment and Watford 
explained that she needed to pay it. It said it was possible to consider reimbursement pf the 
excess, but that depended on the outcome with liability. This is correct - and so Im satisfied 
that Miss P was made aware that she needed to pay the excess as the first part of her claim 
in order to have her car repaired. 
Its clear that Miss P called Watford for updates on her claim, on when her car would be 
assessed for being repaired, and about liability. Watford hasnt shown that it was proactive in 
providing updates on the claim and arranging for Miss Ps car to be assessed. 
Two weeks after the incident, Watford arranged for Miss Ps car to be returned to her from 
the storage agent as although it was deemed repairable, the AR said it wouldnt be able to 
book her car in for repairs yet. 
When Miss Ps car was returned to her, she discovered further damage to her car which she 
was very upset about. 
Its difficult to tell from the information Watford has given us what contact it made with the 
third party and Miss P to progress her claim and advise of the next steps. I can see that Miss 
P was concerned that the costs of the additional damage (caused by the storage agent) 
would form part of her claim costs which she says isnt fair - especially if this affects the price 
she pays at renewal as a result of the claim. I cant see that Watford has addressed this 
concern for Miss P. 
Watford agreed to cover the costs of the additional damage when the AR carries out the 
incident related repairs. But it shouldnt record the additional damage costs on any database 
in relation to the claim - as this damage is separate to the claim costs. Watfords notes show 
it intends to invoice the storage agent separately for the additional damage costs - as they 
do not fall under the claim costs. 
While it was explained to Miss P that she would need to pay the excess in September 2022, 
I cannot see any evidence of Watfords actions as the insurer in ensuring the claim was 
progressed. 
So from the information Ive seen, I think Watford has provided a poor service to Miss P. I 
think it caused delay in arranging repairs, and there was a lack of communication between 
suppliers and a general lack of urgency to progress repairs. I can understand Miss Ps upset 
at having her car returned to her with further damage. So I agree with the Investigators 
recommendations and I think Watford should pay Miss P £300 compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience caused. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Watford Insurance Company 
Limited to pay Miss P £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Watford Insurance Company Limited should ensure it records only the claim related costs on 
any databases and not the additional damage costs it has agreed to cover caused by the 
storage agent. Watford Insurance Company Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date 
on which we tell it Miss P accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a 
simple rate of 8% a year.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 July 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman