DRN-2713613
The complaint
Mrs W and Mr W complain that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited increased the premium on 
their whole of life plan. Mrs W and Mr W say they were told the premium would remain the 
same until October 2021.
What happened
Mrs W and Mr W took out a whole of life policy in 1995 through an Independent Financial 
Adviser who have now ceased trading. Aviva are now responsible for the administration of 
the policy. The policy included life and critical illness cover on the life of Mr W only, and Mrs 
W was a joint policy owner. The initial premium was £14.60, and the policy included an 
option to increase the sum assured by 10% per annum. The policy was reviewed in 2005, 
2010 and 2015. And by 2015 the premium had increased to £100.40 to maintain the level of 
cover on the policy.
Mrs W and Mr W say they raised concerns with Aviva about the premium increases at the 
reviews. They said they werent told at the time of the sale the premiums would go up and 
asked for a copy of the policy schedule.  Unfortunately, at the time Aviva were unable to 
locate the policy schedule, and Mrs W and Mr W could not find their copy.
Later, when Mrs W and Mr W asked about the possibility of writing the policy under trust, 
Aviva responded and enclosed a copy of the policy schedule. Mrs W and Mr W then 
complained in 2020 that the policy schedule said the renewal contributions would stay the 
same until 2021. 
Aviva provided a final response to the complaint. In the response Aviva explained how the 
policy worked, when the review dates were and what options Mrs W and Mr W had taken up 
at the reviews. Aviva didnt uphold the complaint. They said Mrs W and Mr W were aware 
the premiums were reviewable and had taken up the increase options at the regular reviews.
Mrs W and Mr W didnt agree with Aviva and brought their complaint to our service. One of 
our Investigators looked into things for them. Our Investigator thought it wasnt possible to 
establish what Mrs W and Mr W were told at the point of sale. But, he felt that because Mrs 
W and Mr W elected to increase premiums at previous reviews, they were likely aware the 
premiums could increase. And, that Aviva hadnt done anything wrong.
Mrs W and Mr W didnt agree with the Investigator and asked for an Ombudsman to decide 
the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I address the complaint that the premiums increased before 2021, I want to deal with 
the comments Mrs W provided to the Investigator. Mrs W and Mr W told us that at the last 
review in 2020, the premium had gone up significantly more than they expected. Mrs W and 
Mr W have told us their circumstances have changed and they cant afford the policy. But, 
we cant ask Aviva to stop payments as this would impact on the benefits provided, or the 
policy may lapse. This isnt a complaint that has been raised with Aviva and we must give 
Aviva the opportunity to deal with this specific complaint before we can consider 
investigating this new issue.
Im aware that Mrs W and Mr W have been waiting for a decision on the complaint their 
premiums shouldnt have increased before 2021 and Im satisfied I can make a final decision 
on this matter. I dont feel it would be fair for Mrs W and Mr W to wait for Aviva to consider 
the complaint that the premiums have risen significantly more than they expected until I 
provide my final decision on the complaint Ive been asked to consider. So, our investigator 
is now treating the complaint about the significant increase in premiums as a separate 
complaint and hes raised it with Aviva to consider under a different case reference number. 
Mrs W and Mr W have already been provided with a further case reference number for this 
matter. When Aviva have had the chance to consider that complaint and if Mrs W and Mr W 
are not happy with the final response, we will consider investigating it.
In respect of the complaint about the premiums increasing before October 2021, I 
understand Mrs W and Mr W will be disappointed, but for very much the same reasons as 
the Investigator, Ive decided that Aviva didnt do anything wrong. I will now explain why.
The crux of Mrs W and Mr Ws complaint is that theyd lost their original documents but recall 
being told at the point of sale that the premiums would not increase. Because Aviva have no 
records from the sale from over 25 years ago, I cant reasonably say what was or wasnt 
explained at the time. Therefore, I will consider what I think is likely to have happened when 
Mrs W and Mr W purchased the policy and what the documents Aviva sent told them about 
the policy.
Ive seen the policy is a unit linked plan that provided cover on a maximum sum assured 
basis. The benefits of the policy are dependent on the investment performance of the funds 
into which the premiums were paid and the ongoing charge for life and critical illness cover. 
As a customer gets older, so the charge for the life and critical illness cover increases. 
Generally, these policies are reviewed after the first 10 years. And, in this case, this is what 
the policy schedule confirmed. A review will either require no change to the premium to 
maintain the cover or an increase in premium to maintain the sum assured. Or, if the 
provider doesnt receive a response, the premium would remain the same and the sum 
assured would decrease.
Mrs W and Mr W were provided with the schedule at the time of the sale and theyve told us 
they lost it. Aviva have since provided them with a copy of the schedule and this is what lead 
to this specific complaint. Aviva have been able to provide a Policy Booklet that would have 
been issued at the same time. The policy schedule explains when the premiums will be 
collected. And it says the Renewal Contributions of £14.60 would be due on the Date of 
the Policy and on each subsequent Renewal Date until October 2021 This is the 
statement that Mrs W and Mr W consider supports they were told the premiums would not 
increase until October 2021.
Ive discounted the 10% per annum increases as Mrs W and Mr W havent disputed them. 
However, the policy schedule also explains the first policy review would be 29 November 
2005. And, Ive seen that in October 2005, Aviva issued a review letter to Mrs W and Mr W. 
Further reviews were sent in 2010 and 2015. Im also aware a further review has been sent 
since Mrs W and Mr W complained.
I acknowledge Mrs W and Mr W may have thought the premiums would not increase. But 
the schedule explained the policy was reviewable after the first 10 years. Therefore, I consider it likely that Mrs W and Mr W were made aware by Aviva that the policy was 
reviewable. However, in addition to this, each of the reviews explained the premium would 
need to increase to maintain the level of life and critical illness cover. The reviews also gave 
other options for Mrs W and Mr W. One was to continue paying the same premiums and 
reduce the amount of life and critical illness cover; the other was to pay the same premium 
but the cover may reduce, and a premium increase would be likely.
So, although Ive considered the comments from Mrs W and Mr W, the documents Ive seen 
persuade me Aviva havent done anything wrong.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I wont be asking Aviva Life & 
Pensions UK Limited to take any action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 1 March 2020.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman