DRN-1273127
 
The complaint
Mr S complains that The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited (NFU 
Mutual) proposes to settle a claim under his motor insurance policy on the basis that he is 
partly at fault for the accident which resulted in the claim. 
What happened
In November 2017, Mr S was involved in a collision with another car. In the early morning he 
was driving on a narrow country road. It was snowing, with snow on the road. He says he 
was proceeding slowly because of the conditions at about 15 to 20 mph.
The road ahead bent to his right, and he could see the lights of a car approaching the bend. 
The car came round the bend. Mr S says the other driver lost control, skidded into the offside 
of his car, and pushed it on to the verge.
The emergency services attended and cut him out of his car. He was taken to hospital with a 
fractured neck, and was off work for several weeks. NFU Mutual assessed his car as a total 
loss and paid him its market value before the accident.
Mr S had legal expenses insurance with another company. Using this he made a claim 
against the third party (TP) for the personal injuries he had suffered. TPs insurer agreed to 
settle this claim, but without admitting liability on the part of TP, and paid him a five figure 
sum.
NFU Mutual then discussed with TPs insurer liability for the damage to Mr Ss car. NFU 
Mutual said that as TP had lost control and hit Mr Ss car, it held TP responsible for the 
accident. TPs insurer said that, according to TP, both drivers had lost control. So it 
proposed that each driver be held 50% responsible for the damage to the cars.
NFU Mutual discussed this proposal with Mr S. It pointed out that there were no other 
witnesses to the accident. Police had attended but hadnt responded to its repeated requests 
for an accident report. NFU Mutual thought if the matter proceeded to court, the conflict of 
evidence, and absence of witnesses, meant liability was likely to be split between Mr S and 
TP. So it suggested 50/50 liability be accepted.
Mrs S was most unhappy with this proposal. He said he wouldnt agree to any settlement 
other than TP being 100% responsible. He pointed out that TPs insurer had already paid 
him a substantial sum in respect of his personal injury claim, which suggested it knew TP 
was responsible for the accident.
He also said a friend who was a barrister had advised him that on the evidence he would 
stand a good chance of success if the claim went to court.
NFU Mutual instructed external solicitors specialising in motor insurance law to advise it on 
the likely outcome if the claim went to court. They said the damage to the vehicles was consistent with Mr Ss version of events. However, there were no independent witnesses, so 
it was one persons word against the others. 
The facts werent clear-cut so that one or other party could be said to be fully to blame. 
Litigation was always uncertain, and much depended on how parties giving evidence 
performed at the trial, and the judges opinion of what had happened.
For these reasons they thought it unlikely that Mr S would be 100% successful at trial. They 
suggested NFU Mutual offer to settle with TPs insurer on the basis of 70/30 liability in favour 
of Mr S. But if TPs insurer didnt agree, they thought it wouldnt be unreasonable for NFU 
Mutual to settle on a 50/50 basis.
They also pointed out that under the court rules, if Mr S held out for TP to be 100% 
responsible, and the court decided Mr S was even a small percentage responsible for the 
accident, Mr S (or NFU Mutual if it was involved in the court proceedings) would be liable for 
substantial costs.
NFU Mutual relayed this advice to Mr S and said it proposed to offer settlement to TPs 
insurer on the 70/30 basis suggested by its solicitors, but if this wasnt agreed it would need 
to agree 50/50 liability. Mr S didnt agree to this, and complained to us. 
He also said that if NFU Mutual settled on any basis other than TP being 100% responsible, 
he wanted this to be recorded on his insurance record as non fault on his part so as to 
avoid a negative effect on his future insurance premiums.
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. He said following 
the advice it received from its solicitors, NFU Mutual had approached TPs insurer and 
offered to settle on a 70/30 basis in favour of Mr S. But to date it hadnt had a response to 
this.
If TPs insurer didnt accept this, NFU Mutual proposed to settle the claim on a 50/50 basis. 
Its solicitors advised that to take court proceedings to achieve a more favourable result were 
likely to prove unsuccessful, and so it would be uneconomical for it to do this.
The investigator said the terms of Mr Ss insurance policy allowed NFU Mutual to do this. It 
was following expert legal opinion. The investigator hadnt seen any contrary expert opinion. 
So he thought NFU Mutual had acted fairly and reasonably in following the expert advice 
available to it.
Any settlement NFU Mutual made would be on a without prejudice basis. This meant Mr S 
could still pursue a claim against TP in the courts if he wished to do so.
Mr S reiterated that he hadnt lost control of his car before it was hit by TPs car. And he said 
his personal injury claim was settled by TPs insurer paying 100% of his claim. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not our role to decide who was at fault for an incident  only the courts can do that. But 
we will consider whether an insurer has acted fairly and reasonably when deciding how to 
settle a claim, on the basis of the evidence available and the policy terms.
Mr Ss policy contained the following term in its General Conditions section:Control of Claims  We are entitled to... take over and conduct the defence or settlement of 
any claim. 
This is a wide power which is commonly found in motor insurance policies. We dont 
consider such a term is inherently unfair, but will look to see that an insurer exercises it fairly 
and reasonably.
TP disputed liability, and there was little firm evidence to challenge this. NFU Mutual thought 
it would be difficult to establish TP was 100% liable if the claim went to court. Mr S was 
unhappy with the proposal to settle on a 50/50 basis. So NFU Mutual instructed specialist 
external solicitors to advise it.
The solicitors were aware that TPs insurers had settled Mr Ss personal injury claim in full, 
but on a without prejudice basis  that is without admitting liability. And they thought the 
damage to the vehicles was consistent with Mr Ss version of events. 
Nevertheless, for all the reasons set out above, their advice to NFU Mutual was to offer to 
settle with TPs insurer on the basis of 70/30 liability in favour of Mr S. But if TPs insurer 
didnt agree, they thought it wouldnt be unreasonable for NFU Mutual to settle on a 50/50 
basis.
NFU Mutual says TPs insurers have confirmed that they wont agree to settle on a 70/30 
basis in favour of Mr S. So NFU Mutual proposes to accept TPs insurers proposal for 50/50 
settlement, but before doing so its awaiting the outcome of this complaint.
I do sympathise with the position Mr S finds himself in, and I understand the strength of his 
feelings on the matter. But in view of the policy term Ive mentioned, the circumstances of 
the claim, and the solicitors advice its received, I dont think its unreasonable for NFU 
Mutual to proceed to settle on a 50/50 basis. However, NFU Mutual should ensure in doing 
this that it doesnt prejudice in any way the payment Mr S has already received on his 
personal injury claim.
I would mention that in coming to this view I havent placed any weight on what Mr S says 
his barrister friend told him. This is because I havent seen anything in writing from this 
barrister, and Im not aware what expertise he has in this area.
Mr S is concerned about this claim being recorded in his insurance record as a fault claim, 
and that this will affect his insurance premiums in the future. If NFU Mutual settles the claim 
on the basis he is liable to any extent, he still wants the claim to be recorded as non fault.
Insurers have a duty to record accurately on the insurance database what has happened. By 
recording a claim as fault, the insurer isnt making a judgment about which party was 
responsible for the incident. Its merely recording that it had to pay something out on the 
claim. 
NFU Mutual has said any settlement it agrees with TPs insurer will be on a without 
prejudice basis. So Mr S will still be able to bring his own claim, at his own expense, against 
TP in the courts if he wishes to do so and feels confident he will succeed. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, my decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, and 
make no order against The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2020.
Lennox Towers
Ombudsman