DRN-2508865
The complaint
Mr F complains about the service hes received from Charles Stanley & Co Ltd trading as 
Charles Stanley Direct. Hes unhappy with issues he faced when trying to make a deposit 
into his account and the time he subsequently spent trying to resolve the problem.
What happened
Mr F has said in April 2020 he tried to deposit £550 into his Charles Stanley account in order 
to invest in a fund. The payment didnt go through due an error and he unsuccessfully tried 
another four times to make the payment. He then checked his bank account and found out 
that all his available funds had been ring fenced due to the multiple payment attempts.
He then contacted Charles Stanley to resolve the issue as he was concerned that direct 
debits due out the following day wouldnt go through. He says he was told it was an IT error 
and there was nothing Charles Stanley could do. He asked them to send him an email which 
he could then provide to his bank. 
He spoke to his bank and says he was told the issue would need to be resolved by Charles 
Stanley. He got back in touch with Charles Stanley later that day as he hadnt received the 
email and also to see if there was any more that could be done. He was told that they would 
send him some authorisation codes which he could send to his bank in order to try to resolve 
the issue.
Hes said over the course of the day he spent a lot of time speaking to his bank trying to get 
details of where he should send the authorisation codes, sometimes waiting on hold for over 
an hour. At this point he hadnt received the authorisation codes and called Charles Stanley 
again. They sent them shortly after that call but unfortunately by that time it was too late to 
cancel the incorrect payments. The next day Mr F managed to cancel four of the five 
payments - one went through successfully as hed wanted the previous day. 
Mr F then complained to Charles Stanley, he wasnt happy with the service hed received, 
the time it had taken him to resolve the situation and the stress caused by the potential 
failure of his upcoming direct debits. He also felt a lot of his time was taken up on what was 
meant to be a day off to deal with this. Hed lost a day to spend with his family and was 
particularly upset that what was a known issue couldve been prevented with a clearer 
message upon his first payment.
Charles Stanley upheld his complaint. They explained that they hadnt sent him a secure 
message as hed requested on the basis of a comment hed made, and the fact that he was 
due to be sent the authorisation codes instead, which were sent at 16:14 that day. They 
confirmed that he was told weve had this before and you need to phone bank. 
They also confirmed that there were no further actions that their Helpdesk would have been 
able to take to lift the hold over the ring fenced payments, other than supplying him with the 
codes. They explained that the reason he didnt receive a callback hed been promised was 
because they were waiting to receive the codes first. Finally, they disagreed that someone 
hed spoken to gave the impression they werent concerned by his situation and explained 
that she was unable to assist him further simply because there were no further measures 
she was able to take.
They went on to explain that the payment issue was due to a technical failure but they 
involved every available IT resource to resolve it and it was fixed later that afternoon. They 
apologised and made an offer of compensation to cover the difference in the price of the 
fund hed intended to purchase from the intended trade date and actual trade date  around 
£11. They also offered a six month platform fee waiver on his accounts and to refund any 
overdraft fees hed incurred. 
Mr F didnt agree with their proposed compensation and thought their offer didnt reflect the 
impact that the issue had on him. He brought his complaint to this service where it was 
considered by one of our investigators. The investigator thought the complaint should be 
upheld and Charles Stanley should pay an additional £75 in compensation to Mr F.
Charles Stanley accepted the investigators findings but Mr F didnt agree. He thought that 
around £550 would be fair compensation in the circumstances. The investigator wasnt 
minded to change his opinion and as theres been no agreement the complaint has been 
passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached a slightly different conclusion on this complaint to our investigator and I will now 
explain why. The key facts about this complaint arent in dispute. Charles Stanley have 
accepted the investigators findings that theyve caused Mr F frustration. So, what I have to 
decide is whether the things it has done to put things right, including the amount of 
compensation, is fair and reasonable.
Theyve offered to compensate Mr F for any financial loss hes suffered. Theyve offered to 
pay the difference in the price of the fund he wanted to invest in  based on the price from 
when he wanted to make the investment and when he actually made the investment. 
Theyve also offered a six month platform fee waiver on his accounts and to refund any 
overdraft fees hed incurred. I think this is fair in the circumstances and covers any direct 
financial loss Mr F has suffered.
I think its also right that they should compensate Mr F for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by having to try to resolve the issues. Ive noted the points raised by Mr F regarding 
the secure message he was promised but never received, and the lack of a clear message 
after the failure of the first payment he tried to make. He also clearly spent a lot of time trying 
to resolve the issue and ensure that his direct debits would get paid the following day. 
Undoubtedly, this would have caused him distress and I agree that £75 isnt enough 
compensation. 
Mr F thinks he should be awarded around £550 in compensation, as thats the cost of a 
days holiday hes lost due to having to resolve the issue. I agree that hes needed to spend 
a lot of time on the phone chasing things up and that he experienced some unnecessary 
distress and inconvenience. I appreciate why Mr F thinks he should be compensated for a day of his time. He already 
had the day off but unfortunately lost the opportunity to spend the day with his family. I fully 
acknowledge how frustrating and inconvenient it can be when things go wrong, and when it 
takes a lot of time to arrange for them to be put right.
If we decide a business has acted unfairly, we consider the impact on their customer. For us 
to award compensation, we need to decide that the impact of a business's action or inaction 
has been greater than just a minor inconvenience or upset, more than the inconvenience 
and upset that happens from time to time in our day-to-day lives and in our dealings with 
other people, businesses and organisations.
But at the same time, we as a service must be even handed and listen to what a business 
says and consider whether they have acted fairly and reasonably in the circumstances. 
Charles Stanley have said they did everything in their power to help Mr F but ultimately all 
they could do was provide him the authorisation codes to give to his bank. And they did this 
as soon as they possibly could have done.
Ive also taken into account the fact that Mr F attempted the payment five times before 
contacting Charles Stanley. And that a lot of his time was taken up by having to wait in a 
queue to speak to his bank, hes said that at times he had to wait over an hour to get through 
 but I cant fairly say Charles Stanley is at fault for this.  
Having considered what both parties have said and thinking about what this service awards 
in similar circumstances, I think £150 compensation is fair and reasonable compensation for 
the trouble and upset Charles Stanley caused Mr F.  
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive given above, I uphold this complaint and require Charles Stanley & Co 
Ltd trading as Charles Stanley Direct to pay Mr F £161.87 in compensation (less any 
amounts theyve already paid him) - £150 for the trouble and upset they caused him and 
£11.87 for the difference in cost of the investment he wished to make but was unable to.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2021.
 
Marc Purnell
Ombudsman