DRN-3797377
The complaint
Ms R, through a representative complains that Morses Club PLC (Morses) didnt carry out 
proportionate affordability checks before it granted her loans. 
What happened
Ms R was advanced six home collected loans between August 2016 and April 2019. Ive 
included some of the information weve received about these loans in the table below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(weeks)weekly 
repayment
1 £200.00 16/08/2016 23/12/2016 20 £15.00
2 £300.00 23/12/2016 23/06/2017 33 £15.00
3 £500.00 23/06/2017 04/01/2018 33 £25.00
4 £500.00 04/01/2018 22/06/2018 33 £25.00
5 £600.00 22/06/2018 08/03/2019 33 £30.00
6 £300.00 18/04/2019 27/12/2019 33 £15.00
Following Ms Rs complaint Morses wrote to her representative to explain that it wasnt going 
to uphold it. Ms Rs representative didnt agree and referred the complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. 
An adjudicator reviewed the complaint. He thought Morses had made a reasonable decision 
to provide loans 1  3 so he didnt uphold Ms Rs complaint about these loans. But he 
thought the lending was now harmful for Ms R by the time loan 4 was granted so he thought 
loans 4  6 shouldnt have been lent to her. 
Morses disagreed with the outcome the adjudicator had reached. Ive summarised its 
comments below.
While loans were taken in a consecutive manner Ms R couldve chosen to end the 
lending relationship at any point. 
There was a gap in lending between loans 5 and 6 of just over a month. 
Loan 4 was the same value as the previous loans. 
The loans were repaid without undue financial hardship.
An income and expenditure assessment were carried out before each loan which 
showed these loans were affordable. 
Ms R was only repaying one loan at a time. 
Loan 5 did take longer to repay but Morses wasnt told of any financial difficulties. 
Ms Rs representative has confirmed it accepts the proposed outcome. 
The case was then referred for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Ms R could afford to pay back the amounts 
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. Morses checks couldve taken into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and 
Ms Rs income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Ms R. These factors include:
Ms R having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Ms R having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Ms R coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Ms R.
Morses was required to establish whether Ms R could sustainably repay the loans  not just 
whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Ms R was able to repay her 
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Ms Rs complaint.
Neither Morses nor Ms R disagree with the outcome the adjudicator reached about loans 1  
3. I therefore no longer think these loans are in dispute. I would add, that like the adjudicator, 
I do agree Morses made a reasonable decision to provide these loans. So, I say no more 
about these loans. 
Loans 4 - 6
For these loans, Morses has shown that it asked Ms R for details of her income and 
expenditure. She declared, for each loan an income of £300 with outgoings of between £130 and £176 per week. This left Ms R with a weekly disposable income of at least £124 per 
week for each loan to make her combined weekly repayments of no more than £30. 
Based solely on Ms Rs income and expenditure information Morses couldve been confident 
she would be able to comfortably afford the repayments she was committed to making. 
But its arguable whether these checks went far enough considering how long Ms R had 
been indebted to Morses, her future weekly commitment and what Morses already knew 
about Ms Rs finances. For example, Ms R returning for further borrowing on the same day a 
previous loan had been repaid. By now, it wouldve been reasonable for Morses to have at 
the very least, started to have verified the information it was being given. Ive not seen 
anything to suggest carried out further checks in this case. 
However, I dont think I need to try and establish, in this case, whether a proportionate check 
wouldve led Morses to conclude these loans were unaffordable for Ms R. 
So, in addition to looking at the checks that Morses did Ive also looked at the overall pattern 
of Morses lending history with Ms R, with a view to seeing if there was a point at which 
Morses should reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise 
harmful. And so Morses should have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further 
loans. 
Given the circumstances of Ms Rs case, I think that this point was reached by loan 4. I say 
this because:
At this point Morses ought to have realised Ms R was not managing to repay her 
loans sustainably. Ms R had taken out four loans in 18 months. So Morses ought to 
have realised it was more likely than not Ms R was having to borrow further to cover 
a long-term short fall in her living costs. 
While Ms R didnt have more than one loan running at the same time, they were lent 
in a consecutive manner. Which could suggest that Ms R was still in need for credit 
and so was likely facing longer term cash flow problems. 
While it appeared that Ms R had repaid all her loans to date earlier than planned this 
only seems to have happened because she used later loans to repay them. For 
example, it is likely some of loan 4 went towards repaying loan 3 and the same thing 
occurred when loan 5 was granted. This is an indicator that there was a constant 
need for new funds.
Over the course of the lending relationship, Ms Rs weekly commitments generally 
increased. Rising from £15 per week at loan 1 to £30 a week at loan 5. I accept the 
commitment drops at loan 6, but this was the first time this had happened in the 
relationship and I dont think one decrease is an indicator that Ms Rs financial 
position had improved. While this may have given Morses confidence that Ms R was 
no longer reliant on these loans, the fact that these loans were lent in a consecutive 
manner, ought to have led it to realise these loans werent sustainable anymore. 
Ms R wasnt making any real inroads to the amount she owed Morses. Loan 6 was 
taken out 31 months after Ms Rs first loan and was to be repaid over a similar term  
33 weeks. Her final loan was about a third larger than her first loan. Ms R had paid 
large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to Morses over an extended 
period.
I have thought about the gap in lending between loans 5 and 6. But in my view, its not long 
enough for either the chain to be broken or for it to have been longer enough for Morses to 
have considered the lending was no longer harmful for Ms R. I also accept loans 6 was smaller than loan 5, but it was still larger than loan 1 and the same 
value as loan 2. While in some cases the drop in capital borrowing may have been enough 
to make Morses think the lending was no longer harmful, given the other factors Ive 
mentioned above I think it still ought to have concluded loan 6 was harmful for Ms R. 
I think that Ms R lost out when Morses provided loans 4 - 6 because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Ms Rs indebtedness by allowing her 
to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time
the number of loans and the length of time over which Ms R borrowed was likely to 
have had negative implications on Ms Rs ability to access mainstream credit and so 
kept her in the market for these high-cost loans.
So, Im upholding Ms Rs complaint about loans 4  6.  
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened if it hadnt lent loans 4 - 6, as Im satisfied it ought not to have. Clearly there 
are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Ms R may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, she may have 
looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how she would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Ms R in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable 
to conclude that Ms R would more likely than not have taken up any one of these options. 
So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morsess liability in this case for what Im satisfied it has 
done wrong and should put right.
Morses shouldnt have provided Ms R with loans 4 - 6. 
A. Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Ms R towards 
interest, fees and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party 
where applicable, but not including anything you have already refunded.
B. Morses should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Ms 
R which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Ms R originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Morses should pay Ms R the total of A plus B.
D. The overall pattern of Ms Rs borrowing for loans 4 - 6 means any information 
recorded about them is adverse, so Morses should remove these loans entirely from 
Ms Rs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to deduct tax from this interest. Morses should 
give Ms R a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if she asks for one.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Ms Rs complaint in part.
 
Morses Club PLC should put things right for Ms R as directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman