DRN-3649607
The complaint
Mr H complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) transferred his pension to a 
new provider without his consent.
What happened
Mr H said that Aviva transferred his pension to a new provider without his consent. Although 
it had reinstated it he didnt think it had fully put him back in the position he should have 
been in. He felt the payment for distress and inconvenience should be higher than the £100 
Aviva offered.
Aviva said it reinstated Mr Hs plan as though it had not been transferred on 12 April 2021. It 
was now in the position it would have been had it remained invested and benefited from the 
growth from that date. It said it was not at fault for the transfer. The new provider sent a 
request via the Origo transfer system and it was not required to contact Mr H before making 
the transfer. He should take up that complaint with the other provider. It accepted it made a 
mistake when adding a letter of authority to his plan. It offered £100 for this and felt that was 
fair and reasonable.
The investigator said that the transfer was made following a request via the Origo transfer 
system. The system was designed to make transfers between businesses easier. Aviva did 
not have to contact Mr H for his consent and was entitled to rely on the transfer request. The 
investigator was satisfied Aviva had not done anything wrong and wasnt going to ask them 
to do anything further. She felt the £100 compensation for incorrectly adding a company as 
the agent was fair and reasonable.
Mr H said he had not received the £100 from Aviva and was still disputing he was back in 
the position he would have been in but for the erroneous transfer. He said that if Aviva had 
not added the company as agent the transfer would not have gone ahead. He was told by 
the receiving company that had Aviva not added the IFA as servicing agent the transfer 
would not have gone ahead without his authority. As it was its mistake it should pay at least 
as much as the other companies involved which had paid £500 each for trouble and upset, 
He also complained about the time taken to deal with this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to consider two issues. The transfer and the addition of the IFA to the policy.
Aviva said it received a letter from the new IFA. It was a signed letter of authority for 
information only and requested projections to age 65. The IFA was added to the plan in error 
But Aviva said this would not affect the Origo transfer request as the instruction to transfer 
was not received from the IFA but from the receiving scheme who made the request within 
the Origo rules before requesting the money. 
I note that Mr H doesnt agree and refers to correspondence with Aviva which he said 
confirmed that the transfer out could not have happened without the IFA. But I dont agree. I 
have read the copy letters and believe that these refer to a transfer in and not a transfer out 
(as was the case here). I say that because the letters he provided said the following:
I can confirm that we would not be able to request a transfer without either verbal or signed 
authority from yourself first.
And in another letter it said the following
The receiving scheme. would need an agreement verbally or signed in writing from the 
policyholder giving them authority to request the transfer. The receiving scheme then puts 
the request on Origo and we, Aviva, action it based on the request received.
But in this case Aviva didnt request a transfer in, on behalf of Mr H. It was the transferring 
and not the receiving scheme. It was making a transfer out. It responded to a transfer out 
request via the Origo system which did not require it to check with Mr H first.
Aviva has accepted that the transfer should not have taken place but its clear that this was 
not its fault. It said it was up to the new provider to make sure it had appropriate authority 
before making a transfer request via Origo. I think it was reasonable for Aviva to assume that 
the authority to transfer indicated in the Origo request was present and to pay the transfer. 
That is because the Origo system is set up to allow quick transfer and therefore relies on the 
requesting party to make sure they have the consent that is needed. So it doesnt seem that 
Aviva did anything wrong in that respect. As Aviva didnt make a mistake in allowing the 
transfer, I cannot consider an award for financial loss or distress and inconvenience related 
to it.
But even if I am wrong in that conclusion, I understand  that the transfer has been fully 
reinstated to put Mr H back in the position he would always have been in but for the transfer. 
This is what I would have directed. So it seems that Aviva has done what I might reasonably 
have expected it to, had it been at fault for the mistaken transfer.  
But Aviva does accept it made a mistake in adding a letter of authority to the plan. The letter 
was received for information only but Aviva added the financial adviser as agent in error.  It 
does not seem that this has resulted in a financial loss ( and didnt impact the transfer out) 
and it has since been corrected. However I can make an award for distress and 
inconvenience arising from the mistake.
An award for distress and inconvenience is intended to reflect the impact on Mr H not to 
punish Aviva. 
Mr H says that at the time he was dealing with the death of his parents and the erroneous 
transfer and wasnt feeling well. So the impact on him was greater than it might otherwise 
have been. I understand that in the context of all that was going on at the time this would 
have been distressing for Mr H. However I note Aviva spotted the error and corrected it
I note that Mr H feels this award should be around £500 which is what he says the other 
parties involved in the transfer had to pay. But I dont agree. I dont have information about 
why those parties were at fault, but it seems likely that it was connected with the error in 
requesting the transfer from Aviva without Mr Hs consent and not due to adding the IFA to 
his policy. I have already concluded that Aviva was not at fault for the transfer.
I note that Mr H recently made contact to say that Aviva has again added an IFA to his plan 
when in fact he had simply asked for them to have access for information only. I can understand that this was upsetting as it was a repeat of what happened before. But this 
latest recurrence was not the subject of the original complaint so I cannot make an award 
based on it. I have not asked Aviva to comment on this, but if it is correct I accept it shows 
there is some kind of systemic problem within Aviva, given this matter has recurred. As this 
event happened after the original mistake it is not something that I have been able to take 
into account in reaching my conclusions about the impact of the original error. 
Lastly Mr H complains about how long the complaint has taken. Unfortunately this service 
cannot investigate how a financial business handles complaints, so that it not something I 
have taken into account in reaching my decision.
We all experience inconvenience in day-to-day life. Having considered all the Mr H has said 
about his circumstances at the time I think this made the impact of this error greater for him. 
But the error was corrected. On balance I think that an award of £100 is fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances. 
So I think Aviva has done or offered to do all that I might reasonably expect it to ( which is to 
pay £100 for the impact of its mistake) and I do not propose to make any further award. If 
Aviva has not already done so, it should pay Mr H the £100.
My final decision
I think Aviva has acted in a fair and reasonable manner.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 February 2023.
 
Colette Bewley
Ombudsman