DRN-2790968
The complaint
Mr V complained about delays caused by Utmost Life and Pensions Limited in transferring 
his pension.
What happened
Mr V wanted to take the tax free cash from his pension but that wasnt something Utmost 
Life could facilitate. So he needed to transfer his pension funds to another provider (who Ill 
refer to as H). Utmost Life received a request from H on 31 January 2020 for the necessary 
information and paperwork to enable the transfer to take place. On 13 February Utmost Life 
provided H with information about Mr Vs pension. It also said the transfer form (that Mr V 
needed to complete) could be found on its website. Utmost Life received the completed 
transfer form on 18 March. It processed the transfer and paid the funds to H on 20 April. I 
understand the funds were received on 24 April.
Mr V complained to Utmost Life about the delays. Utmost Life said the delay was caused by 
an increase in requests from policyholders and operational changes it had to make (eg 
arranging for its staff to work from home) due to the Covid-19 pandemic. It nevertheless 
confirmed that the transfer was processed with effect from 18 March ie when it received the 
transfer form.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. In summary, he felt any delay in 
Utmost Life responding to Hs initial request for information was immaterial given the time it 
took for Mr V to then provide Utmost Life with the completed transfer form. But even allowing 
for the problems Utmost Life faced due to the national lockdown at the time, he felt the delay 
in making the payment was unreasonable. He felt Utmost Life should pay Mr V £150 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by the delay.
In his complaint Mr V had referred to the difference in the transfer value between 18 March 
and 20 April but our investigator felt it was fair for Utmost Life to have used the value as at 
18 March.
Mr V accepted our investigators opinion but Utmost Life didnt. It didnt think there had been 
any delay in dealing with the initial request for information as it took nine working days, 
which was within its service standards (10 working days). It also disagreed that the delay in 
processing the transfer was unreasonable. It agreed that in normal circumstances the delay 
would be excessive; but it felt it was working in an unprecedented situation  it was dealing 
with the impact of the lockdown, which included having to develop and implement the 
capacity for its staff to work from home.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The circumstances and timings in this case arent in dispute so I dont need to comment on 
them. The issue for me to determine is simply whether Utmost Life treated Mr V unfairly and, 
if it did, what it now needs to do to put matters right.
I dont think the fact a business responds to a request within its published service standards 
automatically means the time taken to respond is reasonable. If that logic is taken to the 
extreme, a business could say that its service standard is to respond within 100 days so the 
fact it takes 99 days is reasonable. Nevertheless, having said that, I dont think the time 
taken by Utmost Life to respond to Hs original request materially affected things in this case 
given that it still took just over a month from then for Utmost Life to receive the completed 
transfer form.
The delay once the transfer form was received is a little trickier and finely balanced. This is 
because I think there are plausible and persuasive arguments both ways. On the one hand, 
taking around five weeks to process the transfer is excessive and unreasonable  something 
Utmost Life accepts. But, on the other hand, I think its fair to cut Utmost Life a little bit of 
slack given that the transfer form was received when a national lockdown was imminent 
(and, indeed, was announced by the Prime Minister the following week), with a requirement 
for everyone who could to work from home.
In respect of the lockdown, Utmost Life has explained to us that its office was never closed, 
but there was a period from 24 March to 20 April 2020 where it wasnt able to take incoming 
calls. Key staff were in the office with remaining staff working from home, which meant it had 
to develop and implement a home working model for its customer services operation. This 
impacted on service levels and on how long it took it to process Mr Vs transfer.
Utmost Life further explained that this coincided with a spike in policyholder activity following 
a transfer of business from another financial business to it. It said that in April 2020 incoming 
written requests were around 50% higher than normal. It said messaging was placed on its 
website and telephone lines to explain its position and to manage policyholder expectations.
Im aware that many financial businesses experienced significant upheaval during the initial 
stages of the pandemic and lockdown. Ive no doubt that Utmost Life experienced something 
similar. However, having considered everything in this case, I conclude on balance that 
Utmost Life treated Mr V unfairly. This is for three main reasons:
Mr Vs transfer form was received by Utmost Life nearly a week before the national 
lockdown  so it had a reasonable amount of time before the upheaval started to process 
it
although I accept there was disruption to Utmost Lifes day-to-day operations, the delay 
in processing the form here was weeks rather than a few days
the lockdown announced by the Prime Minister wasnt a total surprise as the general 
feeling in the weeks leading up to the announcement was that something like this was 
likely  meaning that Utmost Life had some time to start making preparations for 
continued operation in advance of having its staff work from home.
Putting things right
Me concluding that Utmost Life treated Mr V unfairly isnt enough in itself for me to uphold 
the complaint  I must also be persuaded that Mr V suffered unnecessarily.
I dont think Mr V suffered any financial loss as the transfer was made effective18 March, 
which is what would have happened had there not been any delay. But I think its likely he 
suffered some unnecessary distress and inconvenience. Mr V needed the funds from the 
transfer to pay for renovations to his home to help with his wifes health and decreased mobility. So I think he would have been anxious at not being able to immediately receive the 
tax free cash following the transfer form being submitted. And I think the delay caused some 
distress and inconvenience.
I agree with our investigator that £150 compensation is appropriate in this instance for that.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Utmost Life and Pensions Limited to pay Mr V £150 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2021.
 
Paul Daniel
Ombudsman