DRN-3716292
The complaint
Miss R is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC cancelled an arrears repayment plan to which 
shed agreed and then later defaulted her account.
What happened
Miss R had a personal loan with Lloyds, the terms of which included monthly repayments of 
£296.34 for 20 months, from August 2020 to April 2022. 
In November 2021, with seven monthly payments still outstanding, Miss R explained to 
Lloyds that she was experiencing financial difficulty and was struggling to pay the loan 
instalments. Lloyds agreed that Miss R wouldnt need to make any payments towards the 
loan for three months. Miss R didnt make the next three loan payments as agreed, but she 
then noticed that Lloyds had reported these as missed payments to her credit file. Miss R 
wasnt happy about this, so she raised a complaint.
Lloyds looked at Miss Rs complaint. They felt it had been explained to Miss R when shed 
accepted the three month plan that her credit file would be affected, and they noted that this 
had been confirmed in the letter sent to Miss R which confirmed that the payment plan had 
been put in place. However, Lloyds did agree that the three payments that Miss R hadnt 
made would be added to the end of the loan, extending the loan term so that the last 
instalment would now be in July 2022.
Miss R spoke with Lloyds again shortly afterwards because the three-month payment plan 
had come to an end and because she still couldnt afford to pay the instalments that had 
again become due. The Lloyds agent that Miss R spoke with discussed Miss Rs financial 
position with her and agreed to allow Miss R to pay the remaining £2,048.28 that was due on 
the loan over a period of twelve months at £170.69 per month. Lloyds then sent a letter to 
Miss R confirming this agreement. 
However, when the first instalment of £170.69 was due, Lloyds took a direct debit payment 
of £296.34. Miss R contacted Lloyds about this, who reimbursed the overtaken amount of 
£125.65 to Miss R, but who then explained that they werent able to honour the payment 
arrangement agreed by their agent with whom Miss R had spoken. Lloyds also confirmed 
that because Miss R couldnt afford to make the contractual payments of £296.34 per month 
that were due on the loan, the only option they had was to default her account  which 
Lloyds subsequently did. Miss R wasnt happy about this, so she raised another complaint.
Lloyds looked at Miss Rs second complaint. They explained that the 12-month reduced 
payment plan should never have been set up because Lloyds werent able to set repayment 
plans that go past the end date of a loan agreement. Lloyds apologised to Ms R for this and 
offered to make a payment of £100 to her by way of compensation. Miss R wasnt satisfied 
with Lloyds response, so she referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They felt that Lloyds position that Miss R 
wasnt able to meet the contractual repayment terms of the loan was reasonable, but that 
Lloyds should backdate the default date of the loan to May 2022, when the default should 
reasonably first have been applied, so that the default wouldnt remain on Miss Rs credit file 
for longer than was fair. Our investigator also recommended that Lloyds should increase the 
amount of compensation payable to Miss R at that time to £200, although that was inclusive 
of a payment of £25 that Miss R had already received from Lloyds.
Miss R didnt agree with the view of this complaint put forwards by our investigator, and so 
the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds have explained that the three-month extension of the loan term that they agreed to 
following Miss Rs first complaint was a one-off form of assistance agreed by a complaint 
manager that wouldnt usually be available because it involved extending the agreed term of 
the loan, which Lloyds were generally unwilling to do.
The twelve-month payment plan that Lloyds later agreed to with Miss R meant that the term 
of the loan would need to be extended again, and it was Lloyds reluctance to do this that led 
to them not honouring that agreement.
When Lloyds responded to Miss Rs first complaint, they explained that they were unwilling 
to remove the missed payment markers from Miss Rs credit file, but that in order to avoid 
Miss R having a large sum in arrears that required immediate repayment, they were willing 
to extend the term of the loan by three months. 
This seems reasonable to me, and I say this because Lloyds, like all credit providers, have 
an obligation to make accurate reports to the credit reference agencies about how a 
customer has repaid a loan, including if that customer isnt able to meet the contractual 
repayments of a loan and requires a payment plan to be put in place. 
This means that if a loan account holder experiences a change of financial circumstances 
such that they cant meet the monthly payments due on a loan, then while a credit provider 
can agree not to chase that account holder to make payments for an agreed time, they still 
have an obligation to make accurate credit file reports, if that account holder doesnt, for 
whatever reason, make the monthly payments that are contractually required on the loan.    
Notably, the letter sent by Lloyds to Miss R dated 2 November 2021 which confirmed the 
agreed payment plan explained this point, and advised that while Miss R wasnt required to 
make payments for the next three months, if she didnt make those payments the account 
would still be considered as having fallen into arrears and would still be reported to the credit 
reference agencies as such.
Accordingly, I dont feel that Lloyds did act unfairly towards Miss R by reporting the three 
payments that Miss R didnt make during the payment plan period as being missed, and I 
also feel that Lloyds did act fairly towards Miss R by agreeing to add the three missed 
payments to the end of the loan  extending the loan term by three months  rather than 
considering the combined amount of the three payments as being the amount which Miss 
Rs loan account was in arrears, and then chasing Miss R for the repayment of that amount.
All of which meant that, when the three-month period during which Lloyds werent expecting 
payment from Miss R came to an end, the contractual repayments that remained 
outstanding on the loan  seven monthly payments of £296.34  became due again. But 
Miss R remained unable to make these payments, and so she contacted Lloyds.What should have happened at this time is that it should have been recognised by Lloyds 
that Miss R, having already received some financial assistance, wasnt reasonably able to 
meet the terms of the loan agreement such that it should have been explained to Miss R that 
if she wasnt able to meet the instalments required on the loan that the loan would fall into 
arrears and may ultimately default.
However, what did happen was that the Lloyds agent that Miss R spoke with agreed to a 
new payment plan where Miss R would be allowed to repay the outstanding balance of the 
loan over twelve instalments at a reduced amount, which would have meant extending the 
term of the loan again by a further five months.
Lloyds have explained that this was a mistake by their agent, who should never have agreed 
to the twelve month plan, and that Lloyds werent willing to extend the term of the loan 
agreement once again, having only done so previously as an exception.
Ive therefore asked myself whether Lloyds should fairly be instructed to honour the terms of 
twelve-month payment plan that their agent mistakenly agreed to. But, upon consideration, I 
dont feel that it would be fair to instruct Lloyds to do this.
One of the reasons for this is because the loan agreement dictates the contractual terms of 
the loan, including the term. And, as alluded to earlier, if a loan account holder cant meet 
the terms of the loan agreement, including repaying the loan within the agreed term  which 
Miss R was unfortunately unable to do in this instance  then I feel its fair that that loan 
should be considered to have defaulted. And this is generally regardless of any reason why 
the loan account holder hasnt been able to make the required payments.
And while Lloyds did make a mistake in regard to their agent incorrectly informing Miss R 
that they would accept a twelve month reduced payment plan when in fact that wasnt the 
case, I dont feel that Lloyds should fairly be instructed to honour that mistake, which in 
effect would allow Miss R to not meet the contractual repayment terms of the loan without 
incurring the consequences that all other similar loan holders would incur under the same 
circumstances.
Ultimately, Miss R didnt repay the loan in line with the terms of the loan agreement, and 
while I can appreciate that her change of circumstances contributed to this, I feel its only fair 
that her account should be considered as having defaulted because of that non-payment. 
And so, I wont be instructing Lloyds to remove the default from Miss Rs credit file here as 
she would like.
However, I do feel its important that the date of the default be recorded accurately, in line 
with when Miss Rs account should first reasonably have been defaulted, so that the default 
doesnt remain on Miss Rs credit file for any longer than should fairly be the case. And for 
that reason I concur with our investigators instruction to Lloyds to backdate the default date 
to May 2022, which  following the three missed payments from the first payment plan, and 
the subsequent missed payments following the end of the plan  is when I feel the default 
should reasonably first have been applied.
I also feel that, while Lloyds shouldnt be instructed to remove the default from Miss Rs 
account for the reasons explained above, they should be instructed to pay compensation to 
Miss R for the trouble and upset that shes incurred here as a result of her being given 
incorrect information by their agent about the viability of the twelve month payment plan. 
Matters of compensation can be subjective, with an offer considered as being fair and 
reasonable by one party not being considered as being such by someone else. However, the 
further compensation payment of £175 as recommended by our investigator and accepted by Lloyds does feel fair to me here, given the full circumstances of this complaint, and I can 
confirm its commensurate with what I would have instructed Lloyds to have paid, had our 
investigator not already done so. 
Finally, I note that Miss R has advised that if Lloyds had told her that they wouldnt be willing 
to accept the twelve month payment plan, that she would have been able to borrow money 
from her family to make the payments necessary to avoid her account defaulting. I can 
appreciate Miss Rs position here, to a degree. But its notable that Miss R wasnt able to 
make the payments needed to avoid the account defaulting after she was told by Lloyds that 
the previously agreed twelve month payment plan was no longer valid but before the 
account was defaulted, and so I dont feel that it can be reasonably demonstrated that Miss 
R would have been able to borrow the money from her family as she contends.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Miss R was wanting, but it follows that while Ill 
be upholding this complaint in her favour, Ill only be doing so on the limited basis as 
described. I hope that Miss R will understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the 
final decision that I have.  
Putting things right
Lloyds must make a further payment of £175 to Miss R.
Lloyds must also backdate the date of default from August 2022 to May 2022.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC on the basis 
explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 December 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman