DRN-3697525
The complaint and what happened
Mr W complains ClearBank Limited (a Tide account) wont reimburse money he lost as a 
result of a scam. He is being represented in his complaint. 
The full details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here. 
Instead, Ill recap the key points and focus on giving reasons for my decision. 
Mr W met two individuals through a well-known online dating site. They persuade him 
to invest with two different investment companies. During October and November 
2020, Mr W invested a total of £7,410 via a crypto-currency site and an electronic 
money issuer. He was also able to make a £200 withdrawal. So his total loss is 
£7,210. 
Mr W realised hed been scammed and contacted Tide. Tide attempted to recover 
funds but declined to refund him. When sending its file ClearBank offered £50 for any 
distress and inconvenience in it not contacting some of the recipient banks sooner. 
Our investigator didnt find the payments were so unusual or suspicious such that 
they ought to have triggered any security measures. But she agreed the £50 
compensation was fair for the delays in handling his claim. 
Mr Ws representative has asked for an ombudsmans decision. It considers sending 
over £4,000 over a two-day period to be unusual for Mr W and the payments ought to 
have been flagged by the bank. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to reassure the parties that although I have only set out the key points of the 
complaint, I have read and considered whats been provided. Having done so, I agree with 
the investigator, for the following reasons:
Under regulations and in accordance with general banking terms and conditions, a 
bank should execute a payment instruction without undue delay. The starting position 
is that liability for an authorised payment rests with the payer, even where they are 
duped into making payments. There is no dispute that Mr W made the payments, 
even if he didnt intend to get scammed, and so they are authorised. 
But if ClearBank breaches its duty to protect customers against the risk of fraud and 
scams, it might be liable for its customers losses. 
I have therefore considered the operation of Mr Ws account. I accept the payments 
made as a result of the scam were higher than some other payments on the account. 
But that of itself doesnt make them suspicious or something that ought to have 
flagged. I also accept some of the payments were made in close proximity.  But I 
dont find they were so close such as to arouse suspicions that Mr W might have 
been falling victim to a fraud or scam. Im also mindful that the payments were either 
sent to individuals with references mentioning clothes or products, and some others 
were sent to an electronic money issuer referencing his own business name  the 
same name that is on the account the funds were sent from. Mr W regularly made 
payments to individuals and other financial institutions. I accept the payments were to 
new payees. But overall, Im not persuaded the transactions were so unusual or so 
uncharacteristic such that I think the bank ought to have intervened and paused 
payments to question Mr W about them. 
ClearBank has accepted that more should have happened when Mr W first reported 
the scam to contact the recipient banks to see if any funds could be recovered. That 
is usually done on a best endeavours basis. Its clear that didnt happen with all of the 
recipients. It has provided evidence to show that none of the banks concerned have 
replied to ClearBank about whether any funds would have been available if they had 
been contacted sooner. And in our experience scammers invariably withdraw ill-
gotten gains immediately. ClearBank has offered £50 for not following up that 
process sooner. In the absence of persuasive evidence ClearBanks delays 
prevented any recovery from taking place, I find £50 to be a fair reflection of the 
impact that had.
I understand Mr W has lost a lot of money as a result of being a victim of a scam. But 
as I dont find ClearBank ought to have done anything more when executing his 
payments, I find no basis on which to ask it to reimburse Mr Ws losses.  
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decisions is that ClearBank Limited has made a fair offer to 
resolve Mr Ws complaint. I require it to pay him £50. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2022.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman