DRN-3794780
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that National Westminster Bank Plc wont refund money he lost as the 
result of a scam. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so I wont repeat it in detail 
here. But in summary and based on the submissions of both parties, I understand it to be as 
follows. 
In April 2022, Mr S reached out to somebody, through a social media platform, who was 
promoting an investment opportunity. Mr S has said hed been following the person (on 
social media) for some time. Mr S was told an initial payment of £600, would realise a profit 
of £4,900 within one to one and a half hours. Unknown to Mr S at the time, he was dealing 
with fraudsters.
Mr S entered into communication with the fraudsters, via WhatsApp, and asked how he 
could tell this was real and not a scam. He said in his messages to the fraudsters that they 
had a lot of followers, but hed noticed most of them were fake accounts. Mr S also said he 
was sceptical and asked, how they could guarantee such substantial returns, in such a short 
time frame. The fraudsters told him it was possible due to a network of brokers who provide 
favourable pricing on currencies (where stocks could be bought at a third of the price and 
then sold on making two thirds in profits).
The fraudsters also provided Mr S with details of Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) numbers 
to prove they were legitimate. Mr S has said he checked these numbers on the FCA website 
and they matched to legitimately authorised people. Believing everything to be genuine,         
Mr S went ahead and made a payment for £600 through his online banking, to account 
details provided by the fraudsters. 
Within hours of making this initial investment of £600, Mr S was told that hed made a profit 
of over £12,000, for which he was required to pay a £2,500 release fee, which Mr S went on 
to pay. Mr S eventually realised he had been scammed when he didnt receive any money 
and the fraudsters blocked him on social media, so he reported the scam to NatWest.
NatWest is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(CRM Code) which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP 
scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances. NatWest tried to recover the 
money from the beneficiary bank (the bank to which the payments were made), but 
unfortunately no funds remained. NatWest refused to refund the money Mr S lost as they 
didnt think he had taken reasonable steps to verify who he was paying, considering the 
returns he was being offered were unrealistic. It added that it had also given a warning when 
Mr S made the payment and it didnt consider there had been a bank error.
 
Unhappy with NatWests response, Mr S then brought his complaint to our service. One of 
our investigators looked into things but didnt uphold the complaint. In summary she was 
satisfied NatWest had assessed Mr Ss fraud claim fairly as she didnt think he had a 
reasonable basis for believing the payment he was making was genuine, as the rate of 
return being offered was unrealistic.
Mr S didnt agree with our investigators view. As agreement couldnt be reached the 
complaint has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
not to uphold it.
 
NatWest is a signatory of the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model 
Code (the CRM Code). This requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the 
victims of Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams, in all but a limited number of 
circumstances. A firm may choose not to reimburse a customer, if it can establish that: 
- The customer ignored what the CRM Code refers to as an Effective Warning by 
failing to take appropriate action in response to such an effective warning. 
- The customer made payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that: 
the payee was the person the Customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for 
genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted 
was legitimate. 
There are additional exceptions set out in the CRM Code, however they do not apply in 
these circumstances, so I have not listed them. 
In the particular circumstances of this case, Im not persuaded that Mr S had a reasonable 
basis for believing the payment he made was for a genuine investment with a legitimate 
individual. Ill explain why.  
Mr S has said that he was following the fraudster on a well-known social media platform and 
had seen them posting about successful investments and trading. Mr S had subsequently 
sent a direct message when an opportunity to invest presented itself. Following which Mr S 
entered into conversation through WhatsApp messenger. 
I find the initial offering itself, of turning £600 into £4,900 within such a short timeframe, is 
improbable to the point of being too good to be true. I dont think delivering a return of 800% 
within ninety minutes, is plausible. I appreciate Mr S asked the fraudsters how such returns 
could be achieved, before he invested, but Im not persuaded he was provided with a 
persuasive answer. The fraudsters explanation that they could achieve such profits as they 
were able to secure currency deals at a third of the expected price is in my mind, at best, 
questionable, especially coupled with the claim that there seems to be some tax avoidance 
initiative sitting behind it. The nature of the investment proposed by the fraudsters seems 
implausible, as they said the profit was made by buying currency for a third of its normal 
value  but there was no further explanation or context behind how they were able to 
purchase currency at what is objectively an unrealistically low rate.
But this isnt the only factor. Mr S was also offered a no loss guarantee. Mr S has said he 
had some knowledge and experience of investing and I do appreciate that hes been 
provided with details of FCA numbers, which he checked and found to be legitimate. But even when considering this, I believe the unrealistic rates of returns being offered ought to 
have caused him to question what was going on.  
Alongside this, theres also the channels through which the alleged investment was found, 
and the deal made. Everything took place on social media and messaging apps. That seems 
an unusual set up for a legitimate trading company. And I think Mr S himself had his 
concerns. I say that as he has expressed in his submissions to this service, and to the 
fraudsters themselves, that he was sceptical about what was being offered. He has been 
provided with FCA details, but Id question how reliable information youre provided with is 
when you are sceptical about the legitimacy of the people that are providing it. 
Mr S himself had noticed that a lot of the fraudsters followers seem to be fake accounts, he 
questioned the fraudsters about this but didnt receive any explanation, which again I think 
ought fairly to have caused him concern that things may not be as they seem. As well as this 
the payments Mr S has made, have been sent seemingly to two private individuals. Im not 
persuaded a legitimate investment company would provide bank details for private 
individuals, aside from different account details. 
Once Mr S had invested his money, he was told that he had made over £12,000 within a 
matter of hours. Given that he had only invested £600, I think a reasonable person ought to 
have had some concerns about whether this was realistic, and whether the investment 
and/or the person he was dealing with were in fact legitimate.
Overall, I think Mr S ought reasonably to have had some concerns about the risks 
associated with the payments he was making. I appreciate that he questioned certain things, 
but in the circumstances, Im not persuaded there was enough reasonable basis for him to 
believe that he was making a payment towards a genuine investment and/or that the 
individual he was talking to had any link to a legitimate trading company. So I dont think 
NatWest have acted unfairly by relying on this exception to not reimburse him under the 
provisions of the CRM Code.
 
Should NatWest have done anything else to protect Mr S and prevent the fraud?
Ive thought about whether NatWest did enough to protect Mr S from financial harm. The 
CRM Code says that where firms identify APP scam risks, they should provide effective 
warnings to their customers. I am also mindful that, when Mr S made these payments, 
NatWest should fairly and reasonably have had systems in place to look out for unusual 
transactions or other signs that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among 
other things).
 
Having considered this, Im not persuaded the payments Mr S made to the fraudsters were 
so remarkable or unusual that I would have expected NatWest to have identified a scam risk. 
So Im satisfied NatWest neednt have identified a scam risk and in turn did not need to 
provide effective warnings or question the payment before processing it. And so overall, I 
dont believe NatWest needed to do more than it did. 
Finally, Ive considered whether NatWest did all it could to try and recover the money Mr S 
lost once he had reported the scam to it. From the evidence Ive seen, NatWest did contact 
the receiving bank when he raised the matter, but unfortunately the receiving bank told it that 
no funds remained. So I think NatWest has done what could reasonably have been expected 
of it to try to recover the money. 
I am sorry that Mr S has lost money in this way, and I understand the whole experience will 
have been very frustrating and upsetting for him, but in the circumstances, for the reasons explained, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to order NatWest to repay him the money 
he sadly lost.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2022.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman