DRN-4338110
The complaint
Mrs H complains Chubb European Group SE (Chubb) unfairly declined a claim for damage 
under her purchase protection cover. 
Any reference to Mrs H includes the comments of her representative. 
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ive summarised what 
happened. 
Mrs Hs card account includes purchase protection which covers: Up to £2,500 
towards repair or replacement if an eligible item purchased on the Card account is 
stolen or damaged within 90 days of purchase. The policy is underwritten by Chubb. 
Mrs H made a claim on it when a hoverboard shed bought for her son stopped 
working. 
Chubb declined the claim saying the damage was attributable to normal wear and 
tear. Mrs H disputed this saying it had been used as intended and it was less than 90 
days old. She said the damage had occurred during normal use of the item and that 
the hoverboard stopped working after her son used it on a bumpy surface - which 
she said damaged it and affected the functionality of it.
Chubb maintained its position and said as there was no evidence of a particular 
incident which damaged the hoverboard, it was most likely defective and that is why 
it malfunctioned after a short period of time. So, it said the damage was excluded 
because it was due to a manufacturing defect. 
Mrs H disagreed and brought a complaint to this Service. An Investigator considered 
it and upheld the complaint as he wasnt satisfied Chubb had shown the damage was 
due to a manufacturing defect. Though Chubb had completed a desktop review of 
the damage, he said it should physically inspect the item to determine if the damage 
was due to a manufacturing default as it had suggested.
Chubb disputed the Investigators findings and said it didnt have the means to 
inspect the hoverboard. It said Mrs H hadnt evidenced how the damage had 
occurred and so, it was most likely a warranty issue.
The Investigator considered Chubbs comments but maintained his position that the 
complaint should be upheld. But he said owing to Chubbs lack of resources to 
inspect the item, it should instead pay the claim. 
Chubb disagreed and so, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome the Investigator reached  and Im upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain why. 
When making a claim its the policy holders responsibility to show an insured event occurred 
 meaning Mrs H needs to show theres a valid claim. Its not in dispute the hoverboard was 
purchased on her card, or that it was damaged and stopped working within 90 days of it 
being purchased, but Chubb has said Mrs H hasnt shown a specific incident caused the 
damage.
Mrs H has said she believes the hoverboards loss of functionality to have occurred because 
of her son using it on bumpy ground. From what Ive seen, it seems most likely the 
hoverboard was damaged in this way  with the scratches to it indicating it had come in to 
contact with a raised, hard surface. As Im satisfied loss of functionality can be reasonably 
be considered damage, Im satisfied Mrs H has done enough to demonstrate an insured 
event took place as it is evidently damaged. 
Chubb initially said the damage was excluded because it was attributable to normal wear 
and tear. Later, it said the damage was caused by product defects. As Chubb is seeking to 
rely on these exclusions to limit its liability, the onus is on it to show the exclusion applies. 
With regards to the normal wear and tear exclusion, I dont consider it reasonable for 
Chubb to suggest an item - which was being used as intended, and for less than three 
months after it was purchased - can reasonably be considered to have reached the end of its 
shelf life through normal wear and tear  given it had stopped working altogether. So, Im not 
persuaded it can rely on this exclusion to decline Mrs Hs claim. 
Im also not persuaded Chubb has demonstrated the hoverboard was defective. I note 
Chubb has said that if the item stopped working through normal usage less than three 
months after purchase, then the conclusion must be that its defective. I accept this is a 
possibility, but the onus sits with Chubb to evidence this.
Given Mrs H has provided a plausible account for the how the damage occurred, and Chubb 
hasnt inspected the item or provided technical evidence to support its position, I dont 
consider it reasonable for it to conclude the item is defective. Whilst it has said Mrs Hs 
previous hoverboard stopped working because of a manufacturing defect and so its 
reasonable to presume her current one was afflicted with the same issue - Im not persuaded 
a problem with her previous hoverboard proves her current one is defective without evidence 
to support this position. 
Finally, I note Chubb has said Mrs H should arrange an inspection of the item to disprove 
there is a manufacturing defect, but given it is seeking to rely on the exclusion  and Im 
satisfied an insured event occurred  the onus is on Chubb to show the exclusion applies, 
not Mrs H. 
So, Im not satisfied Chubb has shown the exclusions apply and I, therefore, consider its 
decision to decline Mrs Hs claim to be unfair. To put things right it must pay the claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint and direct Chubb European Group SE to pay Mrs Hs claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2024.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman