DRN-4329507
The complaint
Mr S complains that Monzo Bank Ltd refuses to refund the money he lost to an investment 
scammer.
 
What happened
In October 2022, Mr S was introduced to an investment company Ill call C by an individual 
(the scammer) hed met on a dating website. The scammer explained they were a 
successful broker who was knowledgeable about trading. After about a month of speaking to 
the scammer, Mr S decided to invest with C. He said Cs website looked professional and so 
he proceeded to make an initial deposit. Mr S was instructed to first purchase crypto before 
sending it onto his trading platform with C. Mr S was coached by the scammer on how to 
invest and he watched his investment grow. 
When Mr S tried to withdraw his funds, he was told to pay tax to access his funds, which he 
duly did. He was then instructed to make a further payment as a withdrawal fee, which he 
also duly paid. Mr S said the scammer asked him to make a final payment to enable the 
withdrawal and Mr S paid this. When no funds were received and a further payment was 
requested, Mr S realised hed been scammed. He realised that C had impersonated a 
legitimate company.
From 15 November 2022 to 17 November 2022 Mr S sent seven payments from his Monzo 
account totalling £12,945.32 to a cryptocurrency exchange, purchased crypto, then sent the 
crypto onto his account with C. He says he used three loans to fund the payments in order to 
access his investment. 
Mr S complained to Monzo and it declined to refund the disputed transactions. 
Mr S referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our Investigators looked into things. She felt Monzo should have reasonably 
intervened based on the unusual nature of the transactions compared to Mr S usual spend. 
She suggested Monzo refund the disputed transactions. Monzo didnt agree. It said in 
summary:
The payments were deemed suspicious because they were paid to a legitimate 
cryptocurrency exchange. 
Mr S didnt have any reasonable basis to believe in the investment opportunity. For 
example, he didnt check that the investor was registered with the FCA. 
In line with Phillips v Barclays  the regulator and the court upheld that they expect 
banks to carry out customers wishes. 
The funds were moved to an account in Mr S control and no fraud happened at that 
stage and it cant be responsible for what happened later. 
It doesnt believe Mr S needed to be an experienced investor to check details about a 
company or investor. 
The complaint has therefore been passed to me for determination. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the complaint, I uphold it and Ill explain why.  
Before I discuss my findings in further detail, Ive noted that Mr S initial payment to the 
crypto exchange was for £0.10p. This was made a couple of minutes before his initial 
disputed payment. For the avoidance of doubt, Ive not considered this payment as part of 
Mr S dispute as this hasnt been complained about. 
It is common ground that the disputed payments were authorised by Mr S for the purposes 
of the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the Regulations), in force at the time. This is 
because they were made by Mr S using the legitimate security credentials provided to him 
by Monzo. These must be regarded as authorised payments even though Mr S was the 
victim of a scam. So, although he did not intend the money to go to scammers, under the 
Regulations, and under the terms and conditions of his account, Mr S is presumed liable for 
the loss in the first instance.
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Monzo should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accountsand any payments made or receivedto counter 
various risks, including anti-money-laundering, countering the financing of  terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams;
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer; and
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Neither party disputes that Mr S was the victim of a scam. Im also satisfied Mr S was the 
victim of a scam. C, in my judgement, were scammers based on all the evidence Ive seen. 
Based on this, Ive thought about whether Monzo should have reasonably made further 
enquiries based on the nature of Mr S payments. 
Monzo says Mr S paid a legitimate crypto exchange, so it doesnt think the payments he 
made were unusual. I dont agree. Monzo, as a financial professional should reasonably be 
aware that payments to cryptocurrency exchanges carry a high risk of fraud against the 
backdrop of common investment scams that were occurring at the time. With that being said, 
I recognise that not all payments to cryptocurrency exchanges are made as the result of 
fraud or scams. So, Ive considered this when reviewing Mr S normal account spend against 
the disputed transactions. 
Ive noted Mr S commonly spent less than £100 on any one occasion. There was the very 
occasional one-off larger transaction but this was no more than £800. In my judgement, Mr 
S initial payment of £5,149.50 was significantly unusual for him and I think it would have 
been reasonable for Monzo to have made further enquiries to check that all was well before 
processing the payment. In reaching my decision that firms should have made further enquiries, I have taken into 
account the Supreme Courts decision in Philipp v Barclays Bank UK PLC [2023] UKSC 25.
In that case, the Supreme Court considered the nature and extent of the contractual duties 
owed by banks when making payments. Among other things, it said, in summary:
The starting position is that it is an implied term of any current account contract that, 
where a customer has authorised and instructed a bank to make a payment, the 
bank must carry out the instruction promptly. It is not for the bank to concern itself 
with the wisdom or risk of its customers payment decisions. 
The express terms of the current account contract may modify or alter that position. 
For example, in Philipp, the contract permitted Barclays not to follow its consumers 
instructions where it reasonably believed the payment instruction was the result of 
APP fraud; but the court said having the right to decline to carry out an instruction 
was not the same as being under a duty to do so.   
In this case Monzos 23 March 2021 terms and conditions gave it rights to:
Block payments if it suspects criminal activity on a customers account. It explains if it 
blocks a payment it will let its customer know as soon as possible, using one of its 
usual channels (via its app, email, phone or by post)
Whilst the current account terms did not oblige Monzo to make fraud checks, I do not 
consider any of these things (including the implied basic legal duty to make payments 
promptly) precluded Monzo from making fraud checks before making a payment.  
And whilst Monzo was not required or obliged under the contract to make checks, I am 
satisfied that, taking into account longstanding regulatory expectations and requirements,  
and what I consider to have been good practice at the time, it should fairly and reasonably 
have been on the look-out for the possibility of fraud and have taken additional steps, or 
made additional checks, before processing payments in some circumstances  as in practice 
all banks, including Monzo, do. 
If Monzo had intervened, I think it would have been reasonable for it to ask Mr S some 
simple questions. Theres no reason for me to doubt that Mr S wouldnt have explained what 
he was doing in that he was investing with C and he was making a payment for tax to 
release his funds. I think Monzo would have at this stage been concerned that Mr S could be 
falling victim to a scam and explained common cryptocurrency scams it sees, along with an 
explanation of how they operate  particularly around paying money to release money. I 
think Monzo could have reasonably sign posted Mr S to the various credible warnings about 
cryptocurrency scams and encouraged him to carry out further pointed checks himself.
I think Mr S would have likely gone away to carry out his own checks into the operation of 
cryptocurrency scams and would have likely seen that what he was involved in, had all the 
hallmarks of a common cryptocurrency scam. I think Mr S would have stopped in his tracks 
and I dont think he would have sent any further payments to C. In other words, but for a 
warning from Monzo, I dont think Mr S would have lost any money from his Monzo account 
to C. 
Despite regulatory safeguards, there is a general principle that consumers must still take 
responsibility for their decisions (see s.1C(d) of our enabling statute, the Financial Services 
and Markets Act 2000).
In my judgement, this was a very sophisticated scam. Ive noted Monzos comments about 
Mr S carrying out additional research to check whether C was regulated with the FCA. I dont agree that Mr S would have reasonably known to carry out the checks Monzo describes. As 
Ive explained this was a sophisticated scam and Mr S was introduced to it by someone he 
thought he was in a relationship with. 
I dont think Mr S could have reasonably known that C were impersonating a legitimate 
company. He was provided with a trading website and saw his investments growing, I dont 
think he could have reasonably known that the investment account he was viewing was 
likely fake or a simulation. Nor do I think he could have reasonably known that the request to 
pay money to release the investment was a common scam indicator  unless he was 
provided with information about the operation of these types of scams by a financial 
professional (like Monzo).
 
In this case, I dont think Mr S should share responsibility for his losses. 
My final decision
My final decision is, I uphold this complaint. Monzo Bank Ltd should;
Refund Mr S all of his disputed payments totalling £12,945.32.
Pay 8% simple interest per year, on the above amount from the respective dates of 
loss to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 January 2024.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman