DRN-2618875
The complaint
Mr P says Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) gave him unsuitable 
advice when it recommended he contract-out of the state earnings 
related pension scheme (SERPS).
Mr P has been assisted in bringing his complaint by a relative. But to 
keep things simple Ill just refer to Mr P in this decision.
What happened
Mr P received advice from Abbey National, then an appointed 
representative of Friends Provident (FP). That means FP was 
responsible for any acts and omissions of its agent. FP has since 
become Aviva. So, Ill just refer to Aviva in this decision.
Mr P was advised to contract-out of SERPS in April 1991. He accepted 
the recommendation which was given effect from 29 April 1991. A 
personal pension plan was established into which his contributions, any 
rebate from the then Department of Health and Social Security (DHSS) 
and any tax adjustments from HM Revenue and Customs (HMRC) were 
paid.
I understand Mr P switched away from his Aviva personal pension to a 
different provider in 2011 on the advice of a financial adviser. Since this 
concerns a different business, I wont be covering matters related to 
those events. This decision will only focus on the suitability or otherwise 
of Avivas advice in 1991.
Mr P complained to Aviva in July 2020 about the advice he'd been given 
in 1991. He highlighted his concerns about the recommendation to 
contract-out of SERPS. For example, he said his health hadnt been 
properly taken into account. And he hadnt been properly informed about 
the risks he was taking on. He also described how his circumstances 
had changed in later years subsequent to the advice provided.
Mr P says that if hed been given fair advice he wouldnt have contracted 
out of SERPS.
Aviva rejected Mr Ps complaint. It said hed been provided with 
information about the policy and illustrations setting out what he might 
receive. It was satisfied he was informed that returns from investments 
were not guaranteed. But that there was potential to achieve more 
benefits than available through SERPS.
Aviva said his contributions were invested into a With Profits Fund, 
which is the investment fund with the lowest risk rating. His payments 
bought units in the fund and these increased at a guaranteed rate. There 
was also the possibility of a final bonus at retirement.
Aviva acknowledged the amount of his state pension will have been 
reduced in respect of the period when he was contracted-out. And that 
unfortunately, the amount of this reduction may have been higher than 
the value of his retirement benefits. 
However, it said unlike the state pension, Mr P wouldve had the option 
of taking 25% of his pension fund as a tax-free lump sum. He could also 
choose how his pension income was paid and mayve been eligible for 
an enhancement to the annuity rate used to calculate any pension 
income.
The Investigator didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint. She thought that given 
the criteria for recommending contracting-out of SERPS at the time, in 
particular with regard to his age and salary in 1991, the advice hed 
received hadnt been unsuitable.
Mr P disagreed. He provided our Service with documents hed secured 
through a subject access request from Aviva related to the transaction in 
1991. He provided medical records to evidence a medical condition. And 
he set out his arguments in more detail.
As Mr Ps complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed 
to me to review afresh and issue a final decision. This is the last stage of 
our process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The events complained about happened in 1991. Memories can and do 
fade. And it is perhaps inevitable given the passage of nearly a third of a century that I dont have perfect information to review. Im also mindful of 
the dynamic regulatory position over that time. The way things must be 
done today isnt necessarily the way things could be done 31 years ago.
Where theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in 
what we know, my role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to 
decide, on the balance of probabilities, whats most likely to have 
happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. 
Thats deliberate; ours is an informal service for resolving disputes 
between financial businesses and their customers. While Ive taken into 
account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on what I think is 
relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im not upholding Mr Ps complaint. Ill explain why.
The advice was provided to Mr P in 1991. At the time, Aviva was a 
member of the Life Assurance and Unit Trust Regulatory Organisation 
(LAUTRO). This required that advisers:
- Exercised due skill, care and diligence and deal fairly with 
investors.
- Gave best advice, including giving the investor all relevant 
information and using best endeavours to enable the investor to 
understand the nature of any risks involved.
- Had regard, in particular, to the investors financial position 
generally, to any rights they may have under SERPS and to use 
best endeavours to ensure that only those contracts which are 
suited to that investor were recommended.
Many consumers were advised to contract out of SERPS around the 
time Mr P received his advice because the assumed growth of a private 
pension and the annuity rates available indicated there was a 
reasonable prospect theyd be better off at retirement. Unfortunately, 
factors affecting the whole sector including lower investment returns, 
lower annuity rates and changes in life expectancy, led to significantly 
reduced prospects for pension plans like the one he held.
I can appreciate why Mr P might feel hes lost out in some way because 
of the advice he followed.But even if Mr P might now be worse off having contracted out of 
SERPS, that doesn't necessarily mean the advice he received at the 
time was unsuitable. It's important complaints like this are assessed 
based on what was known or reasonably assumed at the time; not what 
is now known with the benefit of hindsight.
When people contracted-out, the Department of Social Security (DSS) 
would transfer National Insurance contributions normally paid into 
SERPS to a private pension provider. To encourage people to leave 
SERPS, during the early years the Government also paid a further 
incentive payment into contracted-out personal pension plans until 1993.
One of the benefits of the contracted-out personal pension plan was the 
growth potential wasnt limited by state provisions or restrictions. But 
future investment performance couldnt be guaranteed and the benefits 
payable werent known until just before benefits are taken.
Mr Ps age at the time the advice was given is important. That's because 
the growth that might have been achieved in a personal pension was 
affected by the length of time between each payment and his retirement 
age. The longer the money was invested, the more chance that he 
wouldve been better off by contracting out of SERPS. For consumers 
who were closer to retirement it was generally more sensible for them to 
remain in SERPS.
For this reason, firms like Aviva set what were called 'pivotal ages'  this 
was essentially the maximum age for men and women below which they 
might expect to be better off by contracting out of SERPS.
The amount a consumer earned at the time the advice was given is also 
an important consideration. That's because someone who only paid a 
small amount of National Insurance would receive a very small rebate 
from the DHSS. And the charges on a personal pension would make it 
unlikely that these individuals would be better off in retirement.
For this reason, firms also often set a minimum earning level  this was 
essentially the minimum amount a person could earn above which they 
might expect to be better off by contracting out of SERPS.
At the relevant time Mr P received the advice, Avivas pivotal age for 
men was 49 and the minimum earnings level it set was £2,704. Mr P 
was 40 at the time the advice was given. It also recorded that he earned around £13,000 a year. So, he easily met what were considered at the 
time to be the key criteria. 
Its likely Mr P wouldve also benefited from a 2% enhancement on his 
SERPS rebates (until 1993). And had he wanted to, he couldve re-
joined SERPS in the future.
So, overall I dont think it was reasonably foreseeable at the time the 
advice to contract-out was likely to leave him worse off.
The information Mr P wouldve received in 1991 about his pension made 
it clear that his SERPS rebates would be invested in a with-profits fund. 
With-profits bonds are generally considered to represent a lower risk 
than investments that are linked directly to the stock market. This is 
because they usually include a mixture of assets, including those that 
are more secure; when determining the value of bonuses, providers 
apply a process of "smoothing". This means money is kept back in years 
when investment returns are high to support bonus payments in years 
where investment returns are lower; and annual bonuses cannot usually 
be taken away once they have been added. 
While theres no risk appetite assessment for me to review, Ive not seen 
any evidence contemporaneous with events in 1991 which show the 
standard personal pension plan Mr P took out was a clear mis-match for 
him in terms of exposure to risk. With-profits bonds are usually 
considered to be suitable for most consumers, including those with a 
more cautious attitude to risk. I think the information he was given at the 
time wouldve also made clear that any bonuses payable were 
dependent on investment performance.
Mr P says that the application completed to give effect to his contracting-
out wasnt fully completed. He thinks it shouldve identified the mortgage, 
endowment and insurance policies sold to him at the same time. The 
point he makes is that it needed to consider his financial position in the 
round. The general argument he makes here isnt without merit. But Mr 
P didnt pay any money into his pension plan  the funds came from a 
rebate of what he wouldve contributed to SERPS. So, the issue of the 
affordability of his pension plan isnt telling.
Mr P has told us about a pre-existing medical condition (hypertension) 
he had at the time of the advice in 1991. Hes provided medical notes 
from 1992 which show he made regular visits to his doctor and was on 
medication to control his condition. He thinks Aviva failed to ask him about his health and that this was important to the advice it was giving 
him. Ive thought carefully about what hes said.
On balance, I agree with the Investigators findings on this matter. If 
Aviva had been more thorough and had found he suffered from 
hypertension, I dont think it would have necessarily made the advice to 
contract-out unsuitable. While Mr P told us he took time off work, theres 
no evidence that at the time he thought his condition would mean hed 
have to retire soon. I understand he received medication to control his 
hypertension.
Further, while Mr P did end up retiring early sometime after he was 
diagnosed with a serious illness in 2015, this wasnt due to the condition 
he had in 1991.
Mr P thinks Aviva failed to consider any future risks, such as him 
becoming unable to work due to illness. But I havent seen anything 
which makes me think it failed to meet the regulatory obligations placed 
on it at the time.
Based on the available information, I think its more likely than not the 
advice Mr P received in 1991 was suitable. I appreciate he feels he may 
have lost out because of what happened. But based on the relevant 
criteria and what was known and fairly assumed at the time, there was a 
reasonable prospect that he wouldve been better off by contracting out. 
And the advice he received was in line with that likelihood.
I know Mr P will be disappointed by my decision. And I recognise his 
situation over the past several years has been difficult. But I dont think it 
would be reasonable for me to direct Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited 
to do anything further in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to 
ask Mr P to accept or reject my decision before 31 March 2022. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman