DRN-2925167
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc wont refund the money they 
lost when they were the victims of a scam.
What happened
Mr and Mrs J owned a timeshare in America they no longer wanted. They saw an advert in a 
paper for a company who said it could help get people out of their unwanted timeshare 
contracts and, after checking reviews for the company, arranged an appointment with them. 
At the appointment, Mr and Mrs J were told it would cost £10,950 to get them out of their 
timeshare contract and were given the bank details of where to pay the money if they 
wanted to go ahead. They then went into an RBS branch and made a transfer of £10,950 to 
the bank details they were given.
Mr and Mrs J say they were told to send any letters or paperwork they received about their 
timeshare to the company, which they did. They also say they were in contact with the 
company for around two years following the transfer by both letter and post. And theyve 
sent us a copy of the timeshare exit certificate the company sent them. But they then got a 
letter from another company saying the company they had paid had been liquidated and 
taken over, and that they hadnt been exited from their timeshare contract. Mr and Mrs J 
then looked up the company theyd paid online and found reports of other people not being 
exited from their timeshare contracts and of the person behind the company being 
fraudulent. So they reported the transfer as fraud to RBS.
RBS investigated but said it had followed the correct process when processing Mr and 
Mrs Js transfer in branch. And that it was ultimately the responsibility of the account holder 
to check the legitimacy of a company before making a transfer. So it didnt agree to refund 
the transfer. Mr and Mrs J werent satisfied with RBS response so referred their complaint to 
our service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint and said they didnt think there was 
anything further RBS could reasonably have done that would have uncovered that Mr and 
Mrs J were the victims of a scam at the time. And that it was unlikely RBS wouldve been 
able to recover the money due to the amount of time that had passed since the transfer. Mr 
and Mrs J disagreed, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute that Mr and Mrs J authorised the transfer themselves. They say they went 
into an RBS branch and asked for it to be made. So while I recognise that they didnt receive 
the service they thought they were paying for, the starting position in law is that RBS was 
obliged to follow their instruction and process the transfer. So Mr and Mrs J arent 
automatically entitled to a refund.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I think RBS 
should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
For branch transactions, those steps may include following the Banking Protocol 
where appropriate.
As the transfer was done in branch, RBS had the opportunity to ask Mr and Mrs J about it 
before it was processed, to try to identify whether they were potentially at risk of fraud. And 
as the transfer was for a relatively large amount of money, I think it should have done so.
But, even if RBS had asked Mr and Mrs J further questions about the transfer, I dont think it 
would have become apparent that they were potentially the victims of a scam and I think Mr 
and Mrs J would still have gone ahead with it.
Its not for our service to dictate the checks RBS should do or the questions it should ask. 
But RBS should take steps designed to protect its customers from the risk of financial harm. 
And, in these circumstances, I think it would be reasonable to expect these checks to include 
questions about the purpose of the transfer, whether the customers had done any checks 
into the company they were paying and whether they had met anyone from the company.
Mr and Mrs J have said they looked up the company on the internet before their appointment 
and all the information they found seemed very positive and legitimate. Theyve also said 
they checked reviews of the company, which also seemed very good. And Mr and Mrs J had 
met someone from the company and they said the appointment all felt very professional, the 
person they met seemed to know what they were talking about and they had no reason to 
believe anything wasnt legitimate.
So, even if RBS had carried out further checks and asked questions like these, I think it 
would have been satisfied by Mr and Mrs Js answers. I dont think theres anything further 
RBS could reasonably have asked that would have suggested that this was a scam. And I 
dont think any warnings RBS could reasonably have given would have stopped Mr and 
Mrs J from believing the company was legitimate and going ahead with the transfer.
RBS has also suggested that the company Mr and Mrs J sent the money to was legitimate 
and that, rather than being a scam, the company was just liquidated before it could complete 
the work Mr and Mrs J paid for. And I agree its unusual for a scam company to be registered 
at Companies House  as this one appears to have been, to advertise in a newspaper, to 
have an office and conduct meetings in person, and to carry on corresponding with victims 
for several years after receiving the money. But whether the company was a scam from the beginning or not, as I explained above, I dont think anything RBS could reasonably have 
been expected to do would have stopped Mr and Mrs J going ahead with the transfer.
Where a customer has been the victim of a scam, wed also expect the bank to take 
reasonable steps to try to recover the money that was lost. But, even if the company Mr and 
Mrs J sent money to was a scam from the beginning, nearly two years had passed before it 
was reported as fraud to RBS and the company had been liquidated. So I think its very 
unlikely anything RBS could have done would have led to Mr and Mrs Js money being 
recovered.
I sympathise with the position Mr and Mrs J have found themselves in and I appreciate how 
they feel about this case and that this decision will come as a disappointment to them. Im 
also not suggesting they did anything wrong themselves. But I dont think it would be fair to 
say any further action RBS could reasonably have been expected to take would have 
stopped them going ahead with the transfer and so losing their money. And so I dont think it 
would be fair to require RBS to refund the £10,950 payment they lost.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 September 2021. 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman