DRN-3022649
The complaint
Miss G is unhappy with Aviva Insurance Limiteds handling of a claim she made under her 
home emergency policy.
What happened
In March 2021 Miss G noticed a leak in her kitchen. She contacted Aviva to make a claim 
under her home emergency policy. An engineer attended the same day, albeit she says she 
was initially offered an appointment for the following day and had to press for this to happen 
earlier. 
The engineer found the problem lay with a valve linked to Miss Gs hot water cylinder. After 
he contacted the office to query whether this issue was covered under the policy, it was 
determined not to be. Aviva says this is because Miss G has an unvented cylinder, which is 
excluded under her policy. 
The engineer offered to drain and isolate the system to stop the leak. Miss G was not 
satisfied with this. She says the valve that was the source of the leak had failed and under 
the policy terms it should be replaced. Aviva disagreed and said the replacement of the 
valve was not covered. 
One of our investigators looked into the matter. He agreed with Avivas view that work to 
replace the valve was excluded under the policy terms. He felt the company had been fair in 
its handling of Miss Gs claim and its engineers offer to isolate the system was reasonable.   
Miss G disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the matter.
The complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided not to uphold Miss Gs complaint. Let me explain.
From the records provided, the engineer who visited Miss Gs home found a fault with the 
combination valve related to the hot water cylinder. To stop the leak the valve needed to be 
replaced. I have looked through the exclusions section of the policy terms to identify whether 
this is excluded as claimed by Aviva. The terms say:
What isnt covered
f) replacement of radiators, hot water cylinders (and their unique and integrated 
components) and central heating control valves (unless changing the valves is necessary to
stop a leak.
The valve identified by the engineer falls under the hot water cylinders (and their unique and 
integrated components part of this exclusion. 
I note Miss Gs argument that the exclusion term includes the caveat unless changing the 
valves is necessary to stop the leak. However, Im satisfied this only applies where the 
central heating control valve is the problem. As above, the faulty valve identified by the 
engineer was the combination valve, which is different.
I note our investigator has provided Miss G with links to online information to demonstrate 
the difference between the two types of valve. Hopefully this has been useful in confirming 
the distinction.  
I can understand why Miss G was frustrated given a repair was not carried out. However, my 
focus is on whether Aviva acted fairly when considering the terms of the policy. As the faulty 
valve was not covered, the only option available was for the system to be isolated to stop the 
leak. I accept this was not a permanent fix, but it was the only option available under the 
terms of Miss Gs policy. 
I note Miss G says she did not need the engineer to isolate the system, as she could turn the 
water supply off by herself. She queried why, when no work was carried out by the engineer, 
she should have to be pay the excess charge for the policy. 
Aviva has confirmed its excess policy charge was refunded back to Miss G in June. The 
policy terms say, Your excess payment(s) will be refunded if for whatever reason the claim 
is cancelled prior to the engineer attending or, where after initial inspection, the engineer 
does not start work under the claim due to the incident not being covered by your 
agreement. 
I think it was correct for the excess charge to be refunded, and Aviva acted in line with the 
policy terms when doing so. I note our investigator discussed the excess charge with Miss G 
and said the terms didnt support a refund of this payment. However, its clear Aviva has 
refunded this payment. If Miss G cannot trace receiving it, she can contact the company 
directly to query this.
In considering all of this, I think Aviva acted fairly in relying on the terms of the policy when 
confirming the repair was not covered, and in refunding the excess charge. Because of this I 
cannot reasonably ask it to do more to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 October 2021.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman