DRN-2276024
The complaint
Ms W has complained that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) increased her motor insurance 
premium without explaining why.
Reference to UKI includes its agents.
Background
Ms W has insured her car with UKI for a number of years. In 2016 she was involved in a 
minor accident with a taxi. The taxi driver didn't pursue his claim initially and UKI closed the 
incident as non-fault on Ms Ws claims history. In 2017 Ms Ws premium increased from 
around £464 to nearly £750. She initially told UKI she wasn't going to renew her policy. But, 
after looking online, she rang UKI back and said she could only find an alternative premium 
that was around £20 cheaper, so she said shed renew with UKI.
In 2018 Ms Ws premium increased again by around £34. She rang UKI and complained. 
She was particularly unhappy because it couldn't explain why her premium had increased by 
so much in 2017. But it told her the incident from 2016 had been incorrectly added to her 
policy as a fault claim in 2018. So it refunded her £241 from her 2018 premium. And it later 
paid her £50 compensation to address her distress and inconvenience because of that. 
Ms W remained unhappy that UKI couldn't explain why her premium had increased in 2017. 
While it was looking further into that, UKI noted the taxi driver had made a claim against 
Ms Ws policy in 2018. So it said it had correctly changed the record of the 2016 incident 
from non-fault to fault. As such it said it shouldnt have issued the earlier refund.
Ms W remained dissatisfied and brought her complaint to us. I issued a provisional decision 
on 18 September 2020. For ease Ive copied my provisional findings below. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so its likely I won't uphold it.
I can understand why Ms W wasn't happy that her premium increased by around 62% in 
2017. And the only explanation UKI provided was that it was due to a change in rating 
factors. But that doesn't mean that UKIs done anything wrong.
It might help if I explain that insurance essentially concerns risk assessments. When 
deciding how much to charge for their policies insurers will make an assessment of the 
likelihood that their policyholders will make a claim and how much they might have to pay 
out for those. Insurers take into account numerous different factors when deciding what to 
charge for their policies. And if the insurers assessment of risk increases, it may decide to 
increase the premium to address that increased risk. Thats something that insurers are 
allowed to do.
I need to be absolutely clear that were not the industry regulator; the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) is. That means its not my role to tell an insurer how much it can charge for 
its policies. Neither is it my role to tell an insurer what factors it should take into account 
when assessing risk. Different insurers will have different views on what presents a risk and 
the extent of those. Thats essentially a matter of commercial judgement and not something 
we would usually think is fair to interfere with.
Also, like any business, an insurer has to think about its costs and profit margins to remain in 
business. A customer may expect a simple explanation for a price increase like Ms Ws 
experienced. But for an insurer, there may be hundreds of variables it has to consider when 
setting a premium. And we generally take the view that, providing they treat people fairly - 
that is they treat customers with similar circumstances in the same way - insurers are 
entitled to charge what they feel they need to in order to cover a risk. And insurers will 
re-rate the risks they consider regularly. In fact many insurers will do this on a daily basis. So 
the quotes an insurer provides will vary from day-to-day and year-to-year as their 
assessment of those risk factors change.
We asked UKI to show us how it had calculated Ms Ws premium. UKI didn't provide us with 
an itemised breakdown of how it did so in 2017. But in the specific circumstances of this 
case I don't think we need to see that in order to find out if UKI dealt with Ms W fairly.
UKI did give us some information about how its calculated Ms Ws premiums. It also told us 
why some of its rates changed in 2017. That information is commercially sensitive. Thats 
because the methods insurers use to assess risks and the premiums they charge to cover 
those risks will alter to respond to the changing insurance market. As such, insurers dont 
want their competitors getting insight into their pricing practices and risk assessments. As 
that could give their competitors a commercial advantage.
Also our final decisions are published on our website, which means that any information we 
include in those decisions about an insurers risk assessments or pricing practices will be 
available to anyone who wants to read it. So, when an insurer provides us with details of its 
pricing calculations and how it assesses risk, thats business sensitive information. And we 
will abide by insurers requests to keep such information confidential. As a result I can't 
share this commercially sensitive information about Ms Ws premium calculations with her. 
But I hope Ms W will be reassured that Ive carefully considered the information UKI has 
given us. Having done so Im satisfied its treated her as it would other customers with 
similar circumstances. So, although I'm not in a position to explain to Ms W exactly why UKI 
raised her premium by the amount that it did, Im persuaded it dealt with her fairly and it 
hasn't singled her out.
Further, as Ms W is aware, she was under no obligation to renew her policy with UKI in 
2017. But it seems that she couldn't find a policy substantially cheaper elsewhere so she 
chose to renew with UKI for the premium it quoted. That wasn't something she had to do. 
And I dont think UKI has treated her unfairly.
For completeness Ill add that theres been some confusion about how the 2016 incident with 
the taxi has affected Ms Ws policy. It seems that, initially at least, the taxi driver didn't 
pursue the claim. So that didn't affect how UKI calculated Ms Ws premium in 2017. But 
before Ms Ws policy renewed in 2018 the taxi driver made a successful claim. So UKI 
factored that claim into its premium calculation in 2018. But it then told Ms W it had recorded 
the claim as fault when it should have been non-fault. And it gave her a refund together with 
compensation for the inconvenience. But UKIs since said that as it had paid the taxi drivers 
claim then it was correctly showing as a fault claim in the first place. That means it shouldnt 
have issued the refund. But I note UKI hasnt sought to recover that, which I think is 
appropriate in the circumstances.
DevelopmentsUKI didn't provide any further comments, Ms W did. Amongst other things, she said 
that following the 2016 incident the driver made a fraudulent claim, which was then 
dropped. She referred to a letter UKI sent to her in October 2018 in which it 
acknowledged that the other driver hadn't made a claim and paid her a premium 
refund. Ms W said that refund reduced her 2018 premium from around £825 to 
roughly £582. She said this shows UKI had made a mistake when calculating her 
2017 premium.
Ms W added UKI had written to her in November 2018 to advise her that, as it was 
paying out on the 2016 incident, the claim would affect her no claims discount 
(NCD). She said that as her policy runs from September onwards her NCD shouldn't 
have been affected when the policy renewed in 2018.
Ms W also said UKI had been aware of all her personal information since 2013; so it 
had no reason to keep anything secret. She said shed recently spoken to someone 
at UKI whod never heard of anyone receiving a 62% pricing increase because of a 
ratings change. And she said the increase was dropped a year later (after UKI 
issued a refund) and that's why she feels singled out.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm not going to uphold it. 
Ms W remains of the opinion that UKI made a mistake when calculating her premium 
in 2017. She thinks the fact UKI paid her a refund in 2018 shows her 2017 premium 
must have been too high. But having reviewed all the information again Im satisfied 
thats not right.
Im aware UKI wrote to Ms W in October 2018 to say that, as the taxi driver hadn't 
made a claim, it was paying her a premium refund. But UKI has since confirmed the 
information in that letter was wrong. In fact the taxi driver had made a claim. And 
while UKI was disputing the amount of that claim, it was wrong to say it hadn't 
received a claim at all, although at that point UKI hadn't settled it. 
It might help if I explain that, after receiving a claim, it's usual for insurers to treat that 
claim as fault until its been settled. So an open (unsettled) claim will affect any 
renewal premium in the same way as a fault claim. If the insurer later closes the 
claim as non-fault then it will issue any premium refund thats due as a result. 
But in this case Ms W has agreed she was at fault for the incident. And as the taxi 
driver pursued his claim before Ms Ws policy renewed in 2018, the open claim did 
affect Ms Ws premium at renewal. At that time UKI wasn't disputing that it would 
need to pay for the repairs to the taxi, only whether or not the driver had suffered a 
personal injury. So, UKI knew it would settle the taxi drivers claim for repairs, which 
meant it would show as a fault claim on Ms Ws insurance history. That meant Ms W 
wasn't going to be entitled to a premium refund once the claim was closed. 
Therefore, UKI was wrong to tell Ms W, in October 2018, the taxi driver hadn't made 
a claim or that it was treating it as non-fault. In fact the premium UKI initially charged her in 2018 to renew her policy was right. And, as it paid a refund by mistake, it 
follows thats not evidence UKI had incorrectly calculated her premium in 2017. 
I should also add that while UKI didnt provide us with an itemised breakdown of how 
it had calculated Ms Ws premium in 2017, it did give us enough information to show 
that the premium wasn't affected by the 2016 incident at that time. It also explained 
to us how its ratings changed for some of its policyholders that year. And it was that 
rating change that principally caused Ms Ws premium to increase so significantly. 
And its that information  the change in the way it rated the risk of certain 
policyholders  that is commercially sensitive, rather than any personal details it 
holds about Ms W. As that change has affected everyone fitting those particular 
rating criteria, I can't agree that UKIs singled Ms W out, regardless of what a 
member of UKIs staff has recently told her. So Im satisfied it calculated her 
premium in 2017 fairly.
For completeness Ms W referred to a conversation with a - now departed - member 
of our staff in which he told her UKI might keep sensitive information from us but 
would have to disclose it to a court. Ms W asked if we could confirm if that's the 
case. I haven't listened to that conversation. But as Ive said above I was satisfied 
that the information UKI gave to us was enough to show it had calculated her 
premium fairly. Whether or not UKI would have to release commercially sensitive 
information to a court isn't something I'm in a position to comment on. Thats 
because the disclosure of information to a court would most likely be a matter to be 
decided by the specific court involved.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2020.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman