DRN-3152229
The complaint
Mr S has complained that MCE Insurance Company Limited turned down his claim under his 
motorcycle insurance policy following the theft of his motorcycle. 
What happened
Mr S renewed his motorcycle insurance policy with MCE in August 2020. His motorcycle was 
stolen in December 2020 and he made claim under his policy. MCE checked to see whether 
he had a certificate proving his motorcycle was restricted to a maximum net power of 35 KW 
or less. This was because Mr Ss licence only allowed him to ride motorcycles up to this 
power and the V5 for his motorcycle said it had a maximum net power of 55 KW.
Mr S said the motorcycle had been restricted, but he couldnt provide a document to prove 
this. So MCE told him it was avoiding his policy on the basis hed failed to take reasonable  
care not to make a misrepresentation when he renewed his policy. And that this meant it 
wouldnt be settling his claim. Mr S complained and MCE decided it wasnt going to avoid his 
policy, but it still refused to pay his claim on the basis that he hadnt provided evidence to 
show his motorcycle was restricted. 
Mr S asked us to consider his complaint against MCE. One of our investigators did this and 
said MCE should pay Mr Ss claim and pay him compensation for distress and 
inconvenience. This was on the basis that Mr S hadnt told MCE when he took out the policy 
that he had a certificate proving his motorcycle was restricted. And - in view of this - it wasnt 
fair for MCE to turn down his claim because he couldnt provide one.
MCE doesnt agree with the investigator and has asked for an ombudsmans decision. Its 
argued Mr S agreed to receive limited information about the policy when he renewed it over 
the telephone. And from what its said, I assume MCE thinks he should have realised when 
he read the policy documentation that hed need proof of the fact his motorcycle was 
restricted. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For me to be satisfied the fair and reasonable outcome is for me to allow MCE to refuse his 
claim, I need decide its entitled to rely on the policy terms to turn down his claim. And I dont 
think it is.
 
In its final response letter to Mr S, MCE referred to the following which appeared on the first 
page of the Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) sent to Mr S after he agreed to 
renew his policy:
There is no cover if any permitted rider is using a vehicle which doesnt meet the terms of 
their licence (E.g. an A2 motorcycle licence holder riding an unrestricted bike or a bike over 
35kw/47bph)
This document is a summary of the cover and details only the main characteristics of the 
policy; it is not the policy document. Ive looked at the policy document and this term isnt in 
it. So, I assume MCE is referring to the following which appears in the section of the policy 
entitled General Exceptions Applying to All Sections Of The Policy:
Any accident, injury, loss or damage while any motorcycle insured under this policy is being:
Ridden by you unless you hold a valid licence and CBT certificate (if applicable), for the 
vehicle insured and not disqualified from holding or obtaining such a licence.
Mr S wasnt riding his motorcycle when it was stolen, so I dont think MCE is entitled to rely 
on this exception to reject his claim. And he wasnt using it at the time, so the term in the 
IPID isnt relevant either. 
 
And I cant find another policy term that it would be reasonable for MCE to rely on to reject 
Mr Ss claim. In its response to the investigator MCE has suggested that when he spoke to 
its adviser to renew his policy Mr S was told that in the event of a claim hed be required to 
provide MCE with acceptable proof of the relevant documents. And its said if Mr S had read 
the terms of his policy, hed have been aware of the term on page 12. 
 
Ive listened to a recording of this call and Mr S was indeed told hed be required to provide 
MCE with acceptable proof of the relevant documents. But he was never told what the 
relevant documents were. And I cant find anything on page 12 of the policy document that 
would give MCE the right to reject Mr Ms claim. There is a policy condition on this page 
which says the policyholder may have to provide documentary proof of their licence, 
convictions and claims details, but this doesnt mention they may need to provide a 
document to prove that the insured motorcycle has been restricted. So what MCE has said 
in response to our investigator doesnt alter my view that it isnt entitled to reject Mr Ss 
claim.
And - even if there was a policy term that required Mr S to provide a certificate or some other 
proof that his motorcycle was restricted, I still wouldnt think it fair and reasonable for MCE to 
rely on it to reject his claim. This is because at no point in the renewal process, or  as far as 
I know  prior to this, did MCE ever tell Mr S hed need this proof. It only told him when he 
made a claim and at this point it was too late. Mr S did try to get proof from the person who 
sold him the motorcycle after it was stolen, but he couldnt get hold of them. 
Had MCE told Mr S he needed a certificate when he renewed his policy or when he took it 
out, he could have taken the motorcycle somewhere, had it checked and got a certificate. Or 
he could have bought a different policy. So I think its very unfair of MCE to now expect Mr S 
to provide this proof when his motorcycle is no longer available. 
In summary, I dont think there is a policy term or another reason which gives MCE the right 
to reject Mr Ss claim. 
Putting things right
For the reasons set out above, I think as part of the fair and reasonable outcome to this 
complaint MCE should settle Mr Ss claim in accordance with the claims settlement terms in 
the policy. 
I also agree with our investigator, that MCE should compensate Mr S for the distress and 
inconvenience hes experienced as a result of having his claim turned down and being 
without a motorcycle for a period of time because of this. I agree £200 is fair and reasonable 
compensation for this. 
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ss complaint and require MCE Insurance Company Limited to settle his claim 
for his stolen motorcycle in accordance with the claim settlement terms in his policy. I also 
require MCE Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr S £200 in compensation for distress and 
inconvenience.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2021.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman