DRN-4063775
The complaint
Mr D has complained that CST Wealth Management Limited (CST) gave him unsuitable 
advice to transfer his defined benefits from his occupational pension scheme (OPS)  the 
British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS)  to a Personal Pension Policy (PPP).
What happened
The investigator who considered this matter set out the background to the complaint in his 
assessment of the case. Im broadly setting out the same background below, with some 
amendments for the purposes of this decision.
In March 2016, Tata Steel UK Ltd announced that it would be examining options to
restructure its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation
with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, one of
which was a transfer to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund
designed to provide compensation to members of defined benefit pension schemes when
their employer becomes insolvent. The BSPS was closed to further benefit accrual from 31
March 2017.
In May 2017, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) made the announcement that the terms of
a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said
that, if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Ds employer would be set up  the BSPS 2.
This was, however, intended to receive deferred benefits only. The main defined benefit
OPS had been replaced by a new defined contribution scheme. The existing scheme was
due to be closed in the near future, with the options being set out in a subsequent letter in
October 2017 for deferred members to either transfer their benefits to the successor
scheme, BSPS 2, the PPF or into a private arrangement, such as a PPP.
A fact find was completed to understand Mr Ds circumstances and objectives at the time. 
Details were also taken of his partner. The key points from this are summarised below:
He was 33 and engaged to his partner (of the same age).
He was in good health.
His income was £30,000 pa, or £2,000 net pm.
He owned his home, which had a mortgage of £65,000.
He had savings of £13,000, which were earmarked for his wedding.
He had an outstanding loan and car finance.
His monthly expenditure totalled £1,500.
He was paying 6% to his group personal pension and the employer was paying 10%.
He was also entitled to another defined benefit pension of around £1,000 pa.
A pension transfer questionnaire was completed. From that questionnaire, Mr D expressed 
the sentiment that there were many unanswered questions with the BSPS, that he was too 
far away from retirement to decide on lump sum needs, and that he didnt anticipate retiring 
early, but would like the flexibility to do so if circumstances changed.
His capacity and tolerance for loss was agreed as cautious. He didnt mind a reasonable
degree of risk, but handwritten notes recorded that he wasnt a high risk taker. An attitude to 
risk (ATR) questionnaire noted that Mr D had never invested before. The results of the
questionnaire indicated an ATR of highest-medium.
CST complete a transfer value analysis (TVAS) based on the cash equivalent transfer value 
(CETV) of £60,832.
It estimated the scheme benefits at age 60 to be a full pension of £4,406 pa or a lump sum 
of £21,136 and reduced pension of £3,170 pa. The critical yields to match those benefits 
were 5.99% and 5.31% respectively.
The TVAS set out that if Mr D drew an income from a personal pension which was 
equivalent to the benefits of the BSPS, then based on an annual return of 5%, his fund 
would last until at least age 116.
CST set out its recommendations in a suitability letter dated 10 November 2017. It advised 
Mr D to transfer to a PPP, noting his primary objectives as follows:
He wanted to secure the generous transfer value.
He wanted to avoid a transfer into the PPF.
He wanted the potential for capital growth over the next 30 years.
He wanted control over his pension, due to mistrust of the scheme.
CST recommended that Mr D invest the transfer value in the Governed Portfolio 4, which 
was graded as a moderately cautious/balanced fund. Mr D accepted the recommendation 
and proceeded with the transfer.
Mr D complained to CST in June 2022, but CST declined to uphold the complaint.
Dissatisfied with the response, Mr D referred the matter to this service.
Having considered the complaint, our investigator thought that it should be upheld. He said 
the following in summary:
The regulators guidance, when considering a transfer of defined benefits, was that it 
should be presumed to be unsuitable unless it could be clearly demonstrated that it 
was in an individuals best interests.
The advice had been after the regulator had given instructions in final guidance 
FG17/9 as to how businesses could calculate future discount rates for complaints 
about transfers which were being upheld. Prior to that, this service was publishing 
information with which businesses could calculate future discount rates. Whilst businesses werent required to use these when giving advice, they 
nevertheless provided a useful guide as to the kinds of returns deemed feasible at 
the time of the advice.
The discount rate for the 30 or so years left to retirement was 4.6% pa and the 
regulators mid band growth projection was 5% pa. Taking into account Mr Ds 
attitude to risk and the recommended fund, and given the critical yields required 
simply to match the scheme benefits, it was unlikely that the scheme benefits could 
be bettered through transferring.
Mr D may have been keen on having flexibility of income, but he still had around 27 
years before prospective retirement and so wouldnt have known what the shape of 
his retirement benefits would need to be at the time of the advice. There was much 
scope for his circumstances (he was soon to be married and may have started a 
family) - and his career - to have changed in the intervening period.
The accrued fund in the defined contribution plan would likely be able to meet any 
requirements for flexibility of income.
Lump sum death benefits, and the legacy that this may provide for his family, might 
have been attractive to Mr D, but the advice needed to be given in his best interests 
 which was his own financial security in retirement. 
The investigator recommended that CST undertake a loss calculation in accordance
with the regulators guidance (FG 17/9) for such complaints  and on the basis that Mr D
would have opted to join the BSPS 2.
But the investigator also noted the regulators consultation on a revised methodology and 
enquired of Mr D as to whether, if the complaint was upheld, his preference would be to 
have a loss calculation undertaken on the existing basis, or to await the new methodology 
for defined benefit transfer redress calculations.
He said that any redress should in the first instance be paid to Mr Ds pension plan, but if this 
wasnt possible, it should be paid directly to Mr D, with a notional deduction for the (assumed 
basic rate) income tax he would have paid on the pension benefits.
Mr D accepted the investigators findings and confirmed that hed like any redress to be 
calculated on the basis of the current methodology. 
CST submitted no response on the merits of the case.
The investigator then wrote to both parties to confirm that the FCA had developed a BSPS-
specific redress calculator to calculate redress for cases which were included in the BSPS 
consumer redress scheme. But, he said, the FCA was also encouraging businesses to use 
the calculator for non-scheme cases.
The investigator further said that, when issuing my decision, I may require CST to use the
FCAs BSPS-specific calculator to determine any redress due to Mr D.
The investigator said that, if either party didnt think it was appropriate to use the BSPS-
specific redress calculator in the circumstances of Mr Ds complaint, they should let him
know by 5 June 2023.CST confirmed that it would be using the BSPS-specific redress calculator if an ombudsman 
upheld the complaint.
The matter has now been referred to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, and in accordance with the Financial Services 
and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) and DISP, I need to take into account relevant: law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards, and codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
The applicable guidance, rules, regulations and requirements 
This isnt a comprehensive list of the guidance, rules and regulations which applied, but 
provides useful context for my assessment of the business' actions here.
Within the FCAs handbook, COBS 2.1.1R required a regulated business to act honestly, 
fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client. 
The FCAs suitability rules and guidance that applied at the time CST advised Mr D were set 
out in COBS 9. The purpose of the rules and guidance is to ensure that regulated 
businesses, like CST, take reasonable steps to provide advice that is suitable for their 
clients needs and to ensure theyre not inappropriately exposed to a level of risk beyond 
their investment objective and risk profile.
In order to ensure this was the case, and in line with the requirements COBS 9.2.2R, CST 
needed to gather the necessary information for it to be confident that its advice met Mr Ds 
objectives and that it was suitable. Broadly speaking, this section sets out the requirement 
for a regulated advisory business to undertake a fact find process. 
There were also specific requirements and guidance relating to transfers from defined 
benefit schemes  these were contained in COBS 19.1. 
COBS 19.1.2 required the following:
A firm must:
(1) compare the benefits likely (on reasonable assumptions) to be paid under a defined 
benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded 
benefits with the benefits afforded by a personal pension scheme, stakeholder 
pension scheme or other pension scheme with flexible benefits, before it advises 
a retail client to transfer out of a defined benefits pension scheme or other pension 
scheme with safeguarded benefits;
(2) ensure that that comparison includes enough information for the client to be able to         
make an informed decision;
(3) give the client a copy of the comparison, drawing the clients attention to the factors 
that do and do not support the firm's advice, in good time, and in any case no later 
than when the key features document is provided; and(4)take reasonable steps to ensure that the client understands the firms comparison 
and its advice.
Under the heading Suitability, COBS 19.1.6 set out the following:
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined benefits 
occupational pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits whether to 
transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a transfer, conversion or 
opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a transfer, conversion or opt-out 
to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the transfer, 
conversion or opt-out is in the client's best interests.
COBS 19.1.7 also said:
When a firm advises a retail client on a pension transfer, pension conversion or pension 
opt-out, it should consider the clients attitude to risk including, where relevant, in relation to 
the rate of investment growth that would have to be achieved to replicate the benefits being 
given up.
And COBS 19.1.8 set out that:
When a firm prepares a suitability report it should include:
(1) a summary of the advantages and disadvantages of its personal recommendation;    
(2) an analysis of the financial implications (if the recommendation is to opt-out); and
(3) a summary of any other material information.
As set out above, the starting assumption for a transfer from a defined benefit scheme is that 
it is unsuitable. So, CST should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly 
demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Ds best interests.
Having considered the above and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for broadly the same reasons set out by the investigator.
The TVAS report which CST was required to carry out noted that the critical yield - 
how much Mr Ds pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide 
the same benefits as his defined benefit scheme  was 5.99% to match the full 
pension hed have been entitled to under the scheme at age 60. Or to match the 
maximum tax-free cash and reduced pension the scheme would provide at that age, 
it was 5.31%. 
Given Mr Ds recorded highest-medium attitude to risk, the discount rate of 4.6% for 
the number of years until Mr D was 60, and the regulators middle projection rate for 
growth (5% pa), I think Mr D was more likely than not to receive pension benefits, 
from age 60, of a lower value that those hed have been entitled to under the BSPS 2 
(or the PPF) by transferring and investing in line with that attitude to risk. 
As set out in the suitability report, at the time of the advice Mr D envisaged working 
until his normal retirement date. Early retirement may well have been appealing to Mr 
D, as it might reasonably be appealing to a great many people, but as noted by the 
investigator, his circumstances may in any case have changed significantly between then and retirement. Mr D was planning to marry, and may well have had a family, 
which can of course impact upon retirement plans. 
Mr D may not have envisaged relying upon the scheme benefits to any great extent 
at the time, but they would have formed a valuable foundation of guaranteed income, 
to complement that which he would have received from his other defined benefit 
scheme, and later the state pension, upon which the flexibility which would be offered 
by the defined contribution accrual could then be based. He would by necessity be 
relying upon risk based returns from another 30 or so years of pension accrual within 
the replacement group personal pension arrangement.
In terms of the alternative lump sum benefits a transfer offered to his family, the 
priority here was to advise Mr D about what was best for his retirement. And the 
existing scheme offered death benefits, by way of a spouses (and dependants) 
pension, that could have been valuable to his wife to be and any subsequent family 
in the event of his death.
And while the CETV figure would no doubt have appeared attractive as a potential 
lump sum, the sum remaining on death following a transfer was always likely to be 
different. As well as being dependent on investment performance, it would have also 
been reduced by any income Mr D drew in his lifetime. And so may not have 
provided the legacy that Mr D may have thought it would. 
The different death benefits available through a transfer didnt justify the likely 
decrease of retirement benefits for Mr D. And ultimately CST shouldnt have 
encouraged Mr D to prioritise the potential for alternative death benefits through a 
PPP over his security in retirement.
Mr D may have legitimately held concerns about how his employer had handled his 
pension and the prospect of entering the PPF. But it was CSTs role to objectively 
address those concerns. At the time of the advice, all signs pointed toward the BSPS 
2 being established. But even if not, the PPF still provided Mr D with guaranteed 
income and the option of accessing tax-free cash. Mr D was unlikely to improve on 
these benefits by transferring. So, entering the PPF wouldnt have been as 
concerning as Mr D might have thought, and I dont think any concerns he held about 
this meant that transferring was in his best interest.
Overall, I cant see persuasive reasons as to why it was clearly in Mr Ds best interest to 
relinquish his defined benefits and transfer them to a PPP. And I also havent seen anything 
to persuade me that Mr D would have insisted on transferring, against advice to remain in 
the defined benefit scheme. 
So, as with the investigator, Im upholding the complaint as I think the advice Mr D received 
from CST was unsuitable.
Putting things right
As set out in the investigators further comments relating to the BSPS-specific redress 
calculator, I consider that it would be appropriate to use that calculator here, given the 
BSPS-specific circumstances.A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr D, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr D would more 
likely than not have remained in the occupational pension scheme and opted to join the 
BSPS 2 if suitable advice had been given.
CST Wealth Management Limited must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with 
the rules for calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in 
policy statement PS22/13 and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4:
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter.
CST Wealth Management Limited should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to 
calculate the redress. A copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr D and our 
service upon completion of the calculation.
Mr D hasnt yet retired, and cannot do so for many years. So compensation should be based 
on the schemes normal retirement age, as per the usual assumptions in the FCA's 
guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ds
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and
set out in DISP App 4, CST Wealth Management Limited should:
calculate and offer Mr D redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr D before starting the redress calculation that:
- its redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in line with 
the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment
their defined contribution pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr D receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr D accepts CST Wealth Management Limiteds offer to calculate how much of its 
redress could be augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr D 
for the calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of its redress 
augmented,
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ds end of year tax position.Redress paid to Mr D as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in
line with DISP App 4, businesses may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum 
payments to take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their 
pension.
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have
been taxed according to Mr Ds likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%.
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
Determination and money award: I require CST Wealth Management Limited to pay Mr D 
the compensation amount as set out above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I would also 
recommend that CST Wealth Management Limited pays Mr D the balance.
If Mr D accepts this final decision, the award will be binding on CST Wealth Management 
Limited.
My recommendation wouldnt be binding on CST Wealth Management Limited. Further, its 
unlikely that Mr D could accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr D may 
want to consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept my final 
decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct CST Wealth Management Limited 
to undertake the above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2023.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman