DRN-3638705
The complaint
Miss E complains that Phoenix Life Limited (Phoenix Life) has recently confirmed it will pay 
her a yearly pension income of £3,304.11, instead of the £4,838.35 it stated it would pay her 
in correspondence from 2009. She wants the original annuity figure to be honoured. She 
also thinks the pension should have been index linked or invested from 2009 to date, so that 
it maintained its real value.  
What happened
Miss E had been a member of an occupational pension scheme (OPS) which was wound up 
in 2009. As a result the cash equivalent value of the OPS benefits was used to purchase a 
non profit deferred annuity (NPDA) which was then administered by Phoenix Life. I 
understand the administration of the plan is now carried out by a different firm  who has 
provided information about this complaint. But for clarity I shall only refer to Phoenix Life 
throughout this decision.
 
An email which Phoenix Life sent to Miss E in 2009, which confirmed the plan was a NPDA, 
explained that no further bonuses would be accrued and the value of the annuity at Miss Es 
normal retirement date (NRD) of July 2020 would be the same as that calculated in 2009. 
But the payments would increase in line with certain percentages during retirement.
A letter from Phoenix Lifes annuities department issued on 29 July 2009 confirmed the 
annuity payment at NRD would be £4,838.35. It also set out how any tax that might be due 
would be collected.
But a benefit certificate dated 4 August 2009 that Phoenix Life sent Miss E showing her 
preserved benefits at her NRD, confirmed she would receive a total pension of £3,304.11. 
The certificate confirmed that the pension included revaluation in deferment to NRD and 
outlined the increases she could expect to her pension whilst in payment. 
Six months before her NRD Miss E received a pre retirement pack from Phoenix Life which 
noted that her annual pension entitlement would be £3,304.11. This figure was also noted in 
the pack she received just prior to her NRD. 
In October 2020 Miss E contacted Phoenix Life about the options on her plan and she 
requested confirmation of the annuity calculation. But she remained concerned that the 
annuity shed been told she would receive was around £1,500 lower than the figure shed 
been given in the correspondence from July 2009. So she complained about the shortfall 
while also requesting further clarification about the (index linked) increases she could expect 
from her payments going forward.
Phoenix Life asked Miss E to provide the letter shed received in 2009 so that it could 
investigate the matter. It then said it had discovered an error had taken place in the 
calculation from 2009. It said the death benefit in retirement figure of £1,534.24 had been 
added to the annuity payment  which should only have been £3,304.11. Having checked 
the original annuity it was satisfied the figure was correct but said it recognised its error had 
caused Miss E some distress and inconvenience and offered her £200 compensation.
But Miss E remained of the view that she should be paid the higher annuity amount that was 
set out to her in the July 2009 letter, so she brought her complaint to us. In her submission 
Miss E posed the following questions:
She had a number of other pensions whose providers all provided annual statements 
 except for Phoenix Life. She wanted to know why that was.
She understood her pension provided for index linked annual increases  which 
meant she had expected her guaranteed pension from 2009 to include annual 
increases for inflation, instead of facing an overall real reduction in the pensions 
value.  
She hadnt received any correspondence between July 2009 and early 
December 2020 to explain that the 2009 letter was sent in error. It wasnt until 
10 December 2020 that she was made aware of the error. She didnt think this was 
fair especially as Phoenix Lifes letter was only sent in response to her query about a 
discrepancy in its figures.
She thought that as her pension had been an index linked final salary pension it 
should have been index linked from 2009 to present day values. She thought to 
accept the higher 2009 income  which would only be index linked from July 2020, 
was a compromise on her behalf.
She had yet to receive any income payments from Phoenix Life.  
So, one of our investigators looked into the matter. She didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld making the following points in support of her assessment:
Phoenix Life accepted it had made an error in its calculation, so the consideration 
needed to be whether the error was made in 2009 or 2020. 
Although Phoenix Life said the July 2009 letter gave the wrong annuity figure, a 
benefit certificate issued the following month did set out the correct payment. Miss E 
said she hadnt received that correspondence, but the investigator thought that on 
balance it was likely she had, as it was sent to the same address as the July 2009 
letter  which had been received.
So she was satisfied the error was made in the July 2009 letter and that Miss Es 
correct entitlement was £3,304.11. She didnt think it was fair to ask Phoenix Life to 
pay an incorrect amount that Miss E wasnt entitled to. 
But she did think that Miss E had been caused some upset in finding out that her 
expected pension income had reduced by around one third between 2009 and 
2020. She thought Phoenix Lifes offer of £200 for this trouble and upset was fair and 
reasonable. 
She hadnt seen any evidence that, following the OPS being wound up, there were 
any guarantees that the income would be index linked up to the NRD. 
Miss E didnt agree. She made the following points in response:
She should be able to trust the contents of a letter sent to her from a large company 
like Phoenix Life  or at least expect any errors to be promptly notified with a full 
explanation of what had happened, with an apology. She didnt think it was 
reasonable for this error to only come to light over 11 years later. 
Phoenix Life would have appropriate insurance to cover employee errors such as this 
rather than the customer having to cover any financial loss which may have occurred. 
She hadnt said she didnt receive any statements about her plan, simply that she 
hadnt received regular annual statements.
Phoenix Lifes email to her from September 2021 referred to index linking being 
compounded in 2009 when it took over the scheme. But she wasnt clear how it could be projected forward without knowing the factors, such as inflation or RPI for 
example  which would have occurred in the proceeding 11 years. She expected 
some growth on the annuity to provide the guarantees that are a usually seen as a 
benefit of final salary schemes. 
But as no resolution could be found the case has been passed to me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as the investigator. I know this is an 
outcome that will disappoint Miss E  Ive seen the strength of her feelings about this matter 
from her submissions.  But I dont think Phoenix Life needs to do anything beyond the offer 
of compensation its made  so Ill explain my reasons. 
Ive been provided with a policy information sheet that Phoenix Life said was issued to  
Miss E at the time her wound up OPS benefits were used to buy a pension plan 
administered by Phoenix Life. The sheet provided a definition of its plan as follows, the 
benefits are held in the form of a Non Profit Deferred Annuity (NPDA). This is an individual 
policy held in the member's name that was issued following the wind up of a defined benefit 
scheme. This policy provides a defined benefit that was decided at the scheme wind up and 
calculated as at the member's NRD. If the member decides to take theirs before their NRD 
an early retirement factor may apply. We are unable to provide a table of early factors as 
these are in-built in the calculators we use. 
Ive set out this definition as a background to the complaint issue which focuses on whether 
Phoenix Life has provided an annuity along the lines that it said it would and also whether 
the conflicting information it provided about the amount of pension income was a error that 
Phoenix Life should now have to put right. 
Which annuity payment should Miss E receive?
Miss E says Phoenix Life made her aware that her annual annuity payment - starting in 2020 
- would be £4,838.35, in a letter it sent her in July 2009. She says this was the amount she 
assumed she would receive and has been planning towards that figure from that time. 
Phoenix Life doesnt have a record of that letter on its system because it thinks it was a one 
off letter which clearly contained an error. It says the error was that the death benefit in 
retirement amount of £1,534.24 was added to the annuity figure thereby giving an inflated 
but incorrect amount. It says the benefit certificate it sent Miss E afterwards contained the 
correct information  which it has now confirmed as being correct after being rechecked. It 
says this information was also set out in its retirement pack in January and July 2020.
So Ive looked at all the information which Phoenix Life says it sent Miss E in both 2009 and 
2020 to work out where the error was, more likely than not, made.
In July 2009 Miss E received a letter from Phoenix Life which stated that, we advise you 
that a pension has been set up with an annual gross payment of £4,838.35 payable in 
monthly instalments less tax if applicable. The letter, which had the reference annuities, 
gave Miss E confirmation of what she could expect as her pension payment starting on 
25 July 2020  some 11 years ahead.But Phoenix Life has also provided a copy of a letter it sent to Miss E on 4 August 2009  to 
the same address, and which included a benefit certificate. The certificate detailed her paid 
up entitlement, and comprised of a pension at NRD as follows:
£1,694.71 p.a pre 6th April 1997 pension.
£525.20    p.a pre 6th April 1988 GMP
£1,084.20 p.a pre 6th April 1988 GMP
Total Pension- £3,304.11 p.a
So Phoenix Life sent Miss E two different annuities payment figures within a week of each 
other in separate letters. I think the second letter with the benefit certificate would have 
appeared more formal to Miss E, as it included a lot of personal information about her OPS 
service and an explanation of how the annuity had been arrived at. Whereas the July letter 
simply stated the gross annual annuity payment. And I would have expected Miss E to have 
queried the significant discrepancy between the figures as it would have caused confusion 
about what she should expect.
But Miss E says she didnt receive the second letter with the certificate. And while Im 
satisfied that Phoenix Life would have dispatched the letter and that it was sent to the same 
address as the other letter from July 2020, I cant discount the fact that it wasnt received by 
Miss E as theres no evidence to confirm its acknowledgement. So, while I think the 
evidence does demonstrate the existence of documentation which would have either 
confirmed the correct annuity payment or at least enabled Miss E to question the 
discrepancy  which would presumably have led to her being advised of the correct (lower) 
figure, I cant safely conclude that Miss E was made aware of the information contained in 
the benefit certificate.
But even if Miss E didnt receive the benefit certificate in 2009, and her only notification of 
the annuity she was going to receive was the higher figure from the July 2009 letter, theres 
still good reason to conclude that the figure she was made aware of in the 2020 retirement 
pack was correct and is the pension income she should receive. 
I note the retirement pack, which was issued in January 2020, was consistent in the annuity 
figure it quoted with the pension information within the benefit certificate from August 2009. 
But I havent seen any separate documentation which corroborated the annuity figure 
contained in the one off letter from July 2009  which noted the higher annuity of £4,838.35. 
Ive also taken into account the estimated death benefits from the January 2020 pack  
which was £1,652.06. This was not dissimilar to the figure of £1,534.24 which Phoenix has 
explained had been incorrectly added to the basic annuity figure in 2009. So overall Ive 
given more weight to this evidence which would suggest to me that the correct figure from 
2009 should have been £3,304.11. Theres only one reference to the higher figure from 2009 
which came within a personal letter to Miss E and set out the starting annuity and 
arrangements for collecting tax from her payments. I think that letter had more potential for 
individual employee error. 
And I think its more likely than not that the author of that letter, which was primarily about 
Miss Es tax position, made an error in adding together the death benefit and annuity figures. 
Its unfortunate this mistake occurred, and Phoenix Life has identified that the letter shouldnt 
have been sent out with the incorrect information. But I think its generally accepted that 
errors can occur within such documentation and I dont think that automatically means that 
Miss E is entitled to what was written in the July 2009 letter. I dont think the letter constituted 
a contract; it was a letter that was sent to Miss E about her tax situation, but which included an incorrect total of the annuity Phoenix Life would be paying her in 11 years time. So I dont 
think Phoenix Life should have to honour the erroneous 2009 annuity payment of £4,838.35.  
Miss E has suggested that Phoenix Life should absorb the cost of such an employee error 
through its liability insurance instead of her accepting it. But if I were to reach that conclusion 
then Miss E would be benefitting from a higher annuity than I think she was due. So it 
wouldnt be fair to consider that course of action. I dont think theres a loss for anyone to 
absorb as Im satisfied the amount Miss E was told she will receive in 2020 is correct. 
Theres no dispute that an administrative error occurred here and one of Miss Es concerns 
was that it took over 11 years to come to light. She thought Phoenix Life should have picked 
up its error and made her aware of it sooner and apologised. And I can understand Miss Es 
frustrations here especially with regards to the length of time until it did come to light. But the 
mistake was made in a one off letter which I dont think Phoenix Life would have had any 
reason to revisit. The information it gave out in its benefit certificate was correct and 
therefore I dont think Phoenix Life would have been aware of an error. The fact that it 
provided the same annuity figures in 2020 as it had within the benefit certificate would 
support that claim. It was only when Miss E was able to send the letter to Phoenix Life that it 
looked into the matter and realised its error. I dont think it was in a position to correct the 
error in 2009, or shortly after, as I dont think it was aware it had been made. There was no 
copy of the July 2009 letter on its system.  
The matter of the index-linking
I havent seen any evidence to show that Phoenix Life promised to increase the annuity in 
line with any index or benchmark from 2009 to Miss Es NRD. All the references Ive seen 
are for increases in payment. I know Miss E has referred to the usual benefits of a final 
salary OPS and the guarantees of payments that these usually offer, one of which is index 
linking. But from 2009 the scheme had been wound up, so Miss E wasnt receiving the 
benefits of the OPS, but those of a NPDA administered by Phoenix Life. Phoenix Life was 
entitled to set its own rules around the NPDA, it wasnt obliged to follow those of the OPS. 
So I cant say Phoenix Life has done anything wrong by not including index linking each year 
from 2009. It has explained it included such a feature in 2009 by projecting ahead using its 
own figures and working out what the annuity would be using revaluations. I know Miss E 
thinks it isnt fair to make assumptions about the proceeding 11 years in 2009, as Phoenix 
Life wouldnt have known about the future costs and changes in indices. But that doesnt 
mean Phoenix Life did anything wrong as it was entitled to set out its criteria  which was its 
own commercial decision, and isnt something we would usually interfere with.
But I would have expected Phoenix Life to have confirmed the basis of its calculation to 
Miss E, which I think it did within the benefit certificate from August 2009, which stated that 
the pension shown above includes revaluation in deferment to NRD. So I dont think it 
raised any expectations of additional index linking of the annuity up to Miss Es NRD. It also 
set out the increases that would apply to the various components of the pension whilst in 
payment, so the only references to any increases were quite specific in referring to the 
annuity income payment once it was being made to Miss E. 
So I dont think its fair to say Phoenix Life didnt apply index linking according to how it said 
it would in the benefit certificate. 
Ive also taken into account that the plan Miss E held was an NPDA which by its very nature 
wouldnt usually have benefitted from the addition of bonuses or investment growth. 
Phoenixs offer of compensationHowever, Phoenix Life clearly made an error in the figures it set out in the July 2009 letter. I 
think this raised Miss Es expectations of what she would receive, so the consideration here 
is to what extent Miss Es expectations have been raised.
Ive thought carefully about the impact this would have had on her over an extended period 
of time. I dont underestimate the concern and distress she would have experienced when 
she was made aware that she wouldnt receive the higher annuity amount. But overall, I 
think the amount Phoenix has offered is within the range of what I would expect to see for an 
error and subsequent impact such as this. 
Putting things right
Phoenix Life has already made an offer to pay £200 to settle the complaint and I think this 
offer is fair in all the circumstances.
My final decision
So my decision is that Phoenix Life Limited should pay £200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 September 2022.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman