DRN-2760588
The complaint
Ms M says Gain Credit LLC trading as Lending Stream lent to her irresponsibly. She says 
she couldnt afford the repayments and she needed to cut back on other expenditure in order 
to repay the loan. She ended up repaying double what she had borrowed. 
What happened
This complaint is about one instalment loan Lending Stream provided to Ms M. Ms M 
borrowed £600 in January 2020. The loan was due to be repaid over six monthly 
instalments, five of £216 and one of £118. Ms M repaid the loan on time. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. He said the checks Lending Stream did were 
proportionate and so it was reasonable for it to lend. Ms M disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion. She said that she had provided evidence that showed she was in significant 
financial difficulty. Lending Stream should have found out about this and not lent to her. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms 
M could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive seen a record of the information Ms M provided when she completed her loan 
application. Ms M said she had a monthly income of around £2,500 and she had regular 
monthly outgoings of around £1,250. So, it was reasonable for Lending Stream to think that 
this loan was affordable for her.  
The crux of Ms Ms objection to the lending is that she feels Lending Stream should have 
made more in-depth checks. Had it done this, it wouldve seen she was in financial difficulty. 
But given the amounts borrowed against her income, and that that it was early in the lending 
relationship, I dont think its reasonable to say Lending Stream should have looked into her 
finances in more detail.
I havent seen any further information that shows its likely Lending Stream was made aware 
of any financial problems Ms M mightve been having. Or anything that wouldve prompted it 
to investigate her circumstances further. So, I think it was reasonable for Lending Stream to 
have relied on the information it obtained.
So overall, in these circumstances, I think the assessments Lending Stream did before 
approving for this loan were proportionate and the checks showed Ms M was likely to be 
able to afford her loan repayments. I think its decision to lend for was reasonable. Im not  
upholding Ms Ms complaint.  
I can see M feels strongly about this and I appreciate this wont be the answer she was 
hoping for. But I hope my explanation is helpful and it doesnt cause her any distress. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman