DRN-2901809
The complaint
Mr Ns complaint is about investment advice from Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays or 
Barclays UK) in late 2015, about that advice leading to an investment portfolio that began 
around January 2016 and about the management of that portfolio until it was liquidated in 
2019. 
What happened
Background/the 2018 case
Mr N referred a complaint, about Barclays, to this service in May 2018. In it, he made 
allegations about fees, including the allegations that additional and third-party management 
and portfolio related fees were undisclosed to him, and that only the Annual Management 
Charge (AMC) of 0.95% was disclosed to him.
We issued a view on the complaint in August 2018, a Provisional Decision (PD) on the 
complaint in March 2019 and a Final Decision (FD) on the complaint in June 2019. The FD 
addressed the fees and charges related issues in the complaint and Mr Ns 13 main 
comments/submissions on the findings in the PD, which covered events from 2015 up to 
when the FD was issued. 
His comments/submissions addressed, under dedicated sub-headings, Barclays regulatory 
Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) obligations, the third-party fees matter, issues 
arising from a meeting with Barclays on 13 October 2015, Barclays alleged exploitation of 
his vulnerabilities, alleged fact finding mistakes (with regards to the fee schedule and 
suitability), an issue about whether his adviser was independent or restricted, his request for 
a fee structure in November 2017, Barclays compensation of £150 for delays in setting up 
his bank accounts and its refund of insurance fees associated with his packaged bank 
account. 
Mr N returned to us in 2020. He said he had new material evidence related to his 2018 case, 
and that the case should be re-opened. The Ombudsman who issued the 2019 FD  the 
Deciding Ombudsman (DO)  reviewed his submissions. Another Ombudsman  the 
Corresponding Ombudsman (CO)  sent him the review outcome (including the DOs 
comments) in September 2020. The outcome was that the DO considered that some of the 
points Mr N had raised had already been addressed in FD and that the others did not 
amount to new material evidence that would have changed the FDs outcome.
Mr N disagreed with this and he continued, into 2021, to pursue reconsideration of the 
matter. By 2021 he had also submitted a new complaint about Barclays.
The CO wrote to him in April 2021 acknowledging that he still wanted reopening of the 
previous case; that he wanted copies of the view, the PD and the FD from previous case; 
that he disagreed with the view that had been issued in the new case and that he said there 
is a conflict between the outcomes we have issued in both cases. His submissions were put 
to the DO and again she concluded that some points were already addressed in the FD and 
that the others do not amount to new material evidence that would have changed the FDs 
outcome. Mr N was informed that there would be no reopening of the previous case and no 
further engagement by us in that respect. Copies of the view, PD and FD in the previous 
case were sent to him. 
The CO said that the investigator assigned to Mr Ns new case is entitled to reach findings 
on it based on available relevant information; that the investigator can reconsider his view in 
light of the comments he had made on it; that if at the end of the view stage of our process 
Mr N remains unhappy, his case can go to an Ombudsman; but, that only the new case will 
go to an Ombudsman, and no further consideration will be given to the previous case (and 
the issues related to it). 
The new case
The investigator did not uphold Mr Ns new complaint. He mainly found as follows:
The complaint is mainly about alleged unsuitability of his £3 million investment in a 
Jersey based Discretionary Managed Portfolio (DMP) service recommended by 
Barclays in October 2015. Mr N wants a refund of fees he says were 
unexplained/misrepresented to him, a refund of accountant fees he says he incurred 
to resolve problems after liquidation of the investment in 2019 and redress for what 
he considers to have been an unsuitable investment, based on the relevant 
benchmark performance. The investment was recommended around the time Mr N 
sold his business and sought to invest from the proceeds of the sale. 
There will be no consideration of the allegation about misinformation on fees/charges 
because this has already been addressed in the previous complaint (and FD). 
Furthermore, Mr Ns argument that Barclays did not give details of fees/charges until 
2018 is met by the effect of the introduction of MiFID II in January 2018, which meant 
firms that previously did not have to give such details now had to, so it was not 
unreasonable that Barclays did not give those details earlier than 2018.
Mr N completed a Financial Personality Questionnaire (FPQ) in April 2015 with 
responses that confirmed a moderate/medium risk profile; his private banking 
application form signed on 28 October 2015 also confirmed his selection of a 
moderate risk strategy; he had the financial capacity to mitigate potential losses and 
the suitability letter issued to him for the investment confirms that he sought to benefit 
from professional and dedicated portfolio management.
Whilst Mr N was not an experienced investor, it could be seen why Barclays 
recommended the DMP service to him and why that service may have appealed to 
him. He liquidated the investment in February 2019 with around £3.65 million in 
proceeds, so he made a sizeable gain for an investment of just over three years and 
three months. 
There is some evidence of inconsistent know-your-client (KYC) information in 
Barclays records but that did not affect its advice to Mr N. He says the offshore 
setting for the investment was unsuitable given the potential tax implications he 
would have faced if he had to withdraw funds and bring them into the UK. Barclays 
made it clear to him that it was not a tax adviser and evidence suggests that Mr N 
had tax advice from his accountant or opportunity to get such advice. Barclays was 
still obliged to consider possible tax implications as part of the overall suitability of its 
advice. Evidence suggests Mr N had no withdrawal plans for the investment at the 
time of advice, that the offshore setting matched his plan (as a Resident Non-
Domicile/RND) to remain in the UK for the mid-term (seven years), after which if he left the UK the offshore setting could then have had tax advantages for him, so it was 
not unsuitable. 
Mr N says Barclays did not explain risks associated with the investment, but 
evidence of the presentation he received for the DMP service shows otherwise. He 
says Barclays suitability letter was received after the investment was made, but 
COBS 9.4.4 says a firm must provide a suitability letter when, or as soon as possible 
after, the investment happens and Barclays sent him the suitability letter a few days 
after the investment, so that was not unreasonable. He alleges gross misconduct and 
falsifications by the relevant Barclays adviser, but regulatory matters are for the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) to address, not for us. He is unhappy about 
performance of the investment, but performance was not guaranteed to him. He says 
he was rushed into the investment but evidence shows otherwise  after his meeting 
with Barclays on 13 October there was an email from him to Barclays on 17 October 
saying he had read the information given to him and that he was interested in the 
DMP service; he could have sought clarification of anything he did not understand or 
asked for more information if he needed that; there is no evidence that he did either; 
his investment application form was signed on 28 October; overall, he had time to 
consider and to change his mind if he wished to. 
Overall and based on all findings, Barclays recommendation of the DMP to Mr N was 
not unsuitable. 
Mr N disagreed with this outcome and made a number of submissions in this respect. He 
initially said, in the main, that the investigator had misguided himself on the issues that he 
addressed and had not addressed some key issues in the complaint, these being  the DMP 
services pre-requirement for his certification as a High Net Worth (HNW) client, which was 
not done until three months after the investment; Barclays breach of pre-2018 COBS and 
MiFID I rules (COBS 6.1.9R and COBS 16 Annex 2R) on the provision of periodic 
investment reports with full information on fees (including information on the potential for 
third-party fees); COBS and MiFID I rules at the time which said Barclays could not suitably 
recommend a service that he had no knowledge and experience of (which is what it did); 
evidence that the accountant Barclays says he received tax advice from was actually his 
business accountant (not his personal tax adviser) and evidence that he did not receive 
personal tax advice from the accountant; evidence that the adviser should have obtained, 
agreed to obtain, but did not obtain guidance from his accountant on how to structure the 
portfolio (for tax efficiency); the advisers failure to assess whether (or not) he had access to 
sufficient alternative clean and segregated capital in order to avoid withdrawal from the 
offshore portfolio; evidence from a previous decision from this service in which a claim 
(about the unsuitability of an offshore investment) with circumstances comparable to his was 
upheld; the advisers failure to recommend usage of his Individual Savings Account (ISA) 
and Capital Gains Tax (CGT) allowances at the time; inaccurate information that Barclays 
had on his investor profile which, importantly, must have been relevant to its poor 
assessment of suitability at the time (how could it have properly assessed suitability on the 
basis of inaccurate information?). 
Mr N then said his solicitor advised him that he has a case against Barclays for financial 
negligence and he confirmed he wished to pursue that. He made a succession of 
submissions setting out his financial negligence/financial loss/damages/but-for-negligence 
claims, references to the negligence related legal/caselaw authorities he considered relevant 
to his claims, and submissions on his allegations about misconduct and breach of 
regulations/compliance by Barclays. His concluding arguments were that the investigator 
had missed the crux of his case; that crux being Barclays negligence, malpractice and gross 
misconduct in relation to  onboarding/KYC (including suitability of advice) related to its advice to him  
including the adviser allegedly falsifying the investor profile he created for Mr N and 
misrepresenting whether he provided a restricted or independent service; including 
the adviser onboarding him without him (Mr N) having first met his accountant, 
without the adviser having first assessed his investor profile and before the adviser 
had made a recommendation (hence why he considers he was rushed into the 
investment); including the advisers breach of COBS 4.12.3R by recommending the 
DMP service/offshore portfolio that was meant only for HNW clients without first 
confirming his certification as an HNW client (a certification that COBS does not allow 
to be assumed); and including the advisers/Barclays breach (especially in the 
assessment of his investment knowledge and experience, and of his understanding 
of risks) of the requirements of a proper suitability assessment as set out in the rules 
and guidance from the European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA),
non-disclosure of fees/charges at the outset,
unclear and misleading periodic reports (with regards to fees/charges);
that but for Barclays negligence in these respects he would have behaved differently; that 
he would have done so by taking his business to another firm; that he has therefore suffered 
financial loss as a result of Barclays negligence (for which he provided a detailed schedule 
of loss); and that suitability, which is what the investigator restricted himself to addressing, 
is  only a small part  of the main complaint about negligence and malpractice. 
Nevertheless, he maintained that the portfolio recommended to him was unsuitable because 
it was based on a falsified investor profile, because he had no prior investment knowledge 
and experience to match what he was recommended, because it lacked proper 
consideration of his tax position and appetite for risk, because it caused too much exposure 
to the stock market, because he made clear at the time that he did not trust discretionary 
portfolio management and because he raised his concerns with the adviser after the 
investment (especially around November 2016) but they were not addressed and instead he 
was falsely assured not to worry and was told that the long term strategy for his portfolio 
remained on course.
In subsequent correspondence Mr N then said the crux of his case is  based on the 
process prior to the investment and that this relates to a core argument that he would never 
have been a client of Barclays if all information about its service that it was required by law 
and regulations to disclose at the outset had been disclosed to him; that the same applies in 
terms of the HNW certification assessment that should have been conducted at the outset, 
but was not; and that the same applies in terms of  the confirmation of an accountant. In 
this context, he said the matter of whether (or not) Barclays advice was suitable for him is 
irrelevant because, but for being misled at the outset, he would never have been Barclays 
client in the first instance  and because, had the HNW certification been addressed at the 
outset (as it should have been), he would never have signed the HNW declaration, as it is 
likely that he would have been deterred by the risk warning within it.
Mr N then made submissions which referred to what he considered to be new evidence and, 
it appears, a new complaint issue about Barclays not providing him with Generic Disclosure 
on its service(s) (including Key Facts disclosure, disclosure about fees/charges and 
disclosure on whether its service was restricted or independent) and not providing him with a 
client agreement for its advisory service.
The Investigator was not persuaded to change his view(s) or to go beyond the remit of the 
new complaint about alleged unsuitability. Amongst his responses to Mr N he acknowledged the HNW point but said it is not disputed that he was an HNW client, so it is more likely (than 
not) that he would have been certified as such if that was done before the investment; he 
referred to evidence in the FPQ in which Mr N agreed to a statement that said he had more 
experience with investing than the average person and to notes for the meeting of 13 
October which said he had a good understanding of equities, bonds and other instruments; 
and he considered that this showed Barclays assessed Mr Ns investment knowledge and 
experience at the time. 
The periodic reports issue was debated further between the investigator and Mr N. The 
investigator concluded his part in the debate by repeating that fees related issues in the case 
have already been addressed in the previous FD, so they will not be revisited. He also noted 
that Barclays in Jersey (not Barclays in the UK) was responsible for the periodic reports, so 
he said the issue is outside the remit of the complaint about Barclays (UK) and outside this 
services jurisdiction (as the Channel Islands Financial Ombudsman probably had the 
relevant jurisdiction). Mr N continued his part of the debate and disputed the investigators 
comments by presenting extensive submissions (and supporting evidence) about Barclays 
(UK) having ultimate responsibility for the periodic reports, about the Jersey office being no 
more than a branch for Barclays (UK) at the time (because Barclays Jersey did not exist until 
2018), about the UK and EU regulations and laws that meant Barclays (UK) should have 
provided information about third-party fees in the periodic reports (but did not) and about 
why he considers that this service has the jurisdiction and obligation to address the matter. 
Seemingly without prejudice to this position, Mr N also thereafter sought information from the 
investigator (and Barclays) about pursuing a complaint against Barclays Jersey with regards 
to the periodic reports matter.
Overall, the investigator retained the conclusion that the complaint should not be upheld and 
the matter moved into our process for referral to an ombudsman.
Mr Ns Submissions to the Ombudsman
Following notice about referral of the complaint to an ombudsman, Mr N submitted 
statements (and compilations of documents as supporting evidence) that he wished to be 
passed to and considered by the ombudsman who received the case. One statement 
presented a detailed critique of the investigators overall work and findings in the case; and 
another focused on asserting that the investigator was misguided in his approach to the 
case.
Another statement presented the case Mr N says he wants the Ombudsman to address. The 
essence of that case was summarised as the allegations that the Barclays adviser  
breached the regulations and requirements under the RDR, that the adviser and Barclays 
 misled [him] concerning the services which were sold and that most importantly, [he] 
did not receive the service, and investment management, he understood he would receive 
and desired. 
Mr N summarised the background to Barclays recommending the Discretionary Portfolio 
Management (DPM) service to him and the main events in the matter. He then made the 
following main claim  that he was not given the unique, bespoke and holistic DPM service 
that he should have been given, instead he received a DPM service based on Barclays 
application of its in-house models and benchmarks. He set out the evidence and arguments 
that he says supports the claim. He also set out wrongdoings that he says were committed 
during the DPM service and during management of his portfolio.
Barclays PositionBarclays disputes Mr Ns complaint and has set out, and repeated, its grounds for doing so 
in relevant correspondence. It has engaged with this service  and directly with Mr N  
throughout the events summarised above. In its last key response to queries from Mr N it 
addressed the queries and concluded with the following  
To remind you, the basics of your situation are:
You invested £3,000,000 with Barclays Jersey in a discretionary portfolio with a 
Moderate risk rating. We have found this to be suitable.
This portfolio was split between capital and income so the clean capital would not be 
tainted by any income generated offshore. This is a suitable arrangement for clients 
who are resident in the UK but not domiciled here for tax purposes.
On 27 February 2019, this investment was surrendered for £3,654,100.21. This 
represents a return of 21.8% in a little over 3 years and 3 months, which roughly 
equates to a compound return of 6.17% per annum.
Both Barclays and the Ombudsman have found that the fees were appropriately and 
compliantly disclosed to you.
We will not reopen or reinvestigate any matters where the Ombudsman has made a 
final decision, we will abide by their decisions.
Barclays says all fees and charges related issues were addressed and concluded in the 
previous case and FD, so it will not revisit them and it will not open a new complaint(s) in 
response to what it considers to be Mr Ns attempts to relaunch the same issues; and that 
this extends to the allegations he has made under the disclosures related claim, with the 
matter of disclosures having already been addressed in the FD. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Introduction
It is evident, and fair to say, from the background summarised above that Mr Ns overall 
pursuit against Barclays has undertaken a number of different forms over time  from his 
2018 complaint that was concluded in 2019; to his request, in 2020, to re-open the 2018 
case; to his submission of the new case; to his attempts to have issues from the 2018 case 
addressed within the new case; to his pursuit of the issue about suitability of advice; then to 
his claims for negligence, malpractice and gross misconduct by Barclays/the adviser (as 
summarised above); then to his claim that his case is  based on the process prior to the 
investment (including the HNW certification issue) and is about being misled into engaging 
with Barclays at the outset (so, in this context, he said the question of suitability of advice is 
irrelevant); then to his references to disclosure related issues (which appear to be partly 
related to the process-prior-to-investment claim and to be partly an extension beyond that 
claim but related to the 2018 case); then, most recently, to the claim Mr N says he wants the 
Ombudsman to address (that he was deprived of the unique, bespoke and holistic DPM 
service he ought to have received and that his portfolio was mismanaged).
Mr N has displayed considerable effort and capabilities in terms of the detailed submissions 
(and evidence) he has provided to us, and I appreciate that he has done this in order to 
clarify the different aspects of what he seeks from the complaint. It is impractical for this 
decision to reflect all of what he has provided to us, but, on balance, I consider that what I 
have summarised thus far in this decision  and what I continue to address below  has 
captured/will capture his key submissions. The above summary of his changing claims does not necessarily suggest criticism of the manner in which Mr N has presented his complaint 
issues. I have seen enough from his representations in the case to acknowledge that there is 
a significant strength of feeling on his part that Barclays committed wrongdoings against him, 
and I consider that the changing and developing nature of his claims has perhaps been an 
illustration of him trying, over time, to exhaust all elements of this feeling.
Having said the above, it is equally fair to say that complaint issues which appear to have 
been in flux need to be brought into a focused state, in order for them to be properly 
approached by this service. I should also note that Barclays  that is, Barclays Bank UK 
PLC, the respondent to the present complaint  has displayed its own strength of feeling 
about its dispute of Mr Ns suitability related complaint, about its view that the previous/2018 
complaint has been concluded and should not be revisited and about its position that it is not 
the respondent for matters related to Barclays Jersey.
For all the above reasons, and because this service functions within rules about our 
jurisdiction and about how we determine complaints (including rules about what within a 
complainants submissions we can and cannot, or should not, address), I consider it 
important to set out the scope of this decision. This should allow both parties to be clear on 
what this decision will and will not address, and why.
Scope of this decision
This decision addresses only Mr Ns complaint about unsuitable investment advice 
from Barclays in 2015.
This decision does not revisit any of the matters from the 2018 complaint that were 
concluded in the FD of 27 June 2019. Those matters have been reflected in the 
background above. I am satisfied that they included all issues and arguments 
relevant to Mr Ns dispute about fees and about disclosures. It is also noteworthy that 
his allegation about the adviser misrepresenting whether he provided a restricted or 
independent service is expressly featured in the FD  so it too will not be revisited. 
Mr N has continued to make substantial arguments and submissions about some of 
these issues, especially the periodic reports matter, but none of his arguments and 
submissions in this respect will be addressed in this decision because the overall 
matter has already been treated and concluded in the FD of 27 June 2019. He says 
the FD addressed only management related fees and not the advice related fees he 
has now made some of his continuing submissions about (and that, he says, he has 
new evidence about). Based on my reading of both the PD and FD, I disagree. 
There is sufficient content in both that shows the DO addressed the matters of fees 
and disclosure of fees in the context of the DMP service and in general (at the point 
of Barclays recommendation in 2015 and thereafter). I accept that there was more 
focus, in the DOs considerations, on the management and third-party related fees 
issues, but I am satisfied that the decisions addressed the matter of disclosure of 
fees to Mr N in its full  not limited  context. That will not be revisited in this decision. 
If Mr N maintains his assertion that new material evidence now exists and now 
demands a reconsideration of all or any of the matters concluded in the 2019 FD, I 
consider that his assertion has already been treated and concluded by the DO and 
CO, as summarised in the background above. If I am wrong in this respect  which I 
do not believe I am  I also have discretion to dismiss a resubmission of the 2018 
complaint and I have done so in the sub-section on Dismissal that follows.
This decision does not address any issue related to conduct of the DPM service 
and/or the management of Mr Ns portfolio between 2016 and 2019. Mr N initially maintained that his core arguments about the DPM service and the portfolio were 
that they were unsuitable, were fundamentally wrong for him and should never have 
been recommended to him. These points relate to suitability (or otherwise) of 
Barclays recommendation (of the service and the associated portfolio) at the outset 
in 2015. Most recently he presented  as part of his submissions to the ombudsman 
 what are clearly new claims about alleged misrepresentation of the DPM service 
(the claim that he did not receive the type of service he ought to have received) and 
about alleged mismanagement within that service (and in his portfolio). His 
submissions included the assertion that he ought not be required to raise this as a 
new complaint with Barclays because these issues had already been mentioned in 
correspondence with Barclays last year. I disagree. 
There has been debate in this case about the distinction of responsibility between the 
Barclays entity (in the UK) responsible for the advice given to Mr N and the Barclays 
entity (in Jersey) that Barclays UK says was responsible for the DPM service and 
management of his portfolio. Mr N essentially says both firms are parts of the same 
UK entity that he has complained about, but as far as I have seen, Barclays UK 
disputes this and maintains that it is responsible only for the advice to Mr N. There 
also appears to have been no response from Barclays UK treating the new 
allegations about service misrepresentation and portfolio mismanagement as a 
complaint it is responsible for. This means that despite Mr N saying the allegations 
were mentioned in correspondence with Barclays last year, it is not established that 
he has exhausted the requirement to submit a complaint, about these allegations, to 
the correct respondent because Barclays UK has not been established as the correct 
respondent.
This is important because the case that has been referred to me  and that this 
service has been addressing thus far  is about Barclays Bank UK PLC, so firstly, I 
must be satisfied that this is the firm that was responsible for the management 
service and management of Mr Ns portfolio; if so, then secondly, I must be satisfied 
that the management service and management related complaint has been put to 
Barclays UK and that it has had requisite time to address it. If Barclays UK is not the 
responsible firm, the second consideration becomes redundant.
I have consulted the September 2015 version of the Wealth and Investment 
Management terms of service relevant to the DPM service recommended to Mr N 
later that year and to the discretionary management of his portfolio that followed. The 
document states that  
Barclays offers wealth and investment management products and services to its 
clients through different Barclays Group companies.
Wealth Management business is carried on by the following legal entities: Barclays 
Bank PLC, Barclays Private Clients International Limited and Barclays Bank Ireland 
PLC.
In a section dedicated to Investment service specific terms it is confirmed that the 
investment management service (including the discretionary and non-discretionary 
versions) was provided by Barclays Private Clients International Limited (BPCIL) 
which the document describes as a distinct and separate Barclays Group company 
registered in the Isle of Man (with a base in Jersey) and as regulated/authorised, at 
the time, by  the Financial Conduct Authority in the UK in relation to UK regulated 
mortgage activities. The above appears to match the setting for the offshore DPM service recommended 
to Mr N. That service was provided by BPCIL from, it appears, its base in Jersey  
periodic portfolio reports that have been submitted as evidence support this, as they 
were from Jersey; and the presentation document (for the product presentation given 
to Mr N in October 2015) confirmed the service was based in Jersey and that the 
document was issued and approved by BPCIL. The complaint that has been 
referred to me is not about BPCIL, it is about Barclays UK. The FCAs register for 
firms confirms separate entries for Barclays UK and for BPCIL  with the register 
showing that the former currently continues to have regulated authority and that the 
latters regulated authority ceased on 23 December 2016. They are also different 
corporate entities, albeit parts of the same Barclays Group of Companies. A 
complaint about the DPM service and/or about mismanagement of Mr Ns portfolio 
under that service  both of which relate to the activities of BPCIL  is therefore not 
one for Barclays UK to respond to and is therefore beyond the remit of this decision.
This service conducts Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR). We are an alternative 
to the courts and to litigation in the courts. Mr N has clearly received legal advice in 
this case, from the solicitor he has referred to and seemingly from other sources who 
have referred to themselves as his helpers. The somewhat substantial claim he has 
made under the law/tort of negligence is one better suited for the courts, instead of 
this service, and perhaps he might have already been told this by his solicitor and/or 
helpers. I have discretion to dismiss his claim in this respect and I have done so in 
the sub-section on Dismissal that follows.
This service is not the industry regulator. Mr N has made serious allegations about 
regulatory breaches, malpractice and gross misconduct by Barclays and by the 
relevant adviser. Where these are relevant to the determination of his complaint 
about suitability of advice they can be considered. However, if he seeks to have us 
investigate in isolation and, depending on the outcome of such investigation, hold 
Barclays and/or the relevant adviser accountable for the regulatory breaches, 
malpractice and gross misconduct that he has alleged that is beyond our remit and 
would likely be within the remit of the industry regulator (the FCA). This decision does 
not extend to such a regulatory investigation or finding of accountability. 
We do not conduct criminal law enforcement. Mr N appears to have made serious 
allegations about fraudulent and/or falsifying and/or illegal/unlawful actions 
supposedly committed by Barclays and/or the relevant adviser. If and where 
particular submissions he has made in this respect are undisputed, supported by 
facts and are relevant to the determination of his complaint about suitability of advice, 
they can be considered in that overall context. Otherwise, it is distinctly beyond this 
services remit to conduct any form of criminal investigation. No such investigation 
has been conducted to date and none will be done in this decision. If such an 
investigation is what Mr N seeks, he might wish to consider taking independent 
and/or legal advice on that separately. 
To conclude and re-affirm, this decision will address only whether (or not) Barclays 
investment advice to Mr N in 2015 was suitable. In this respect and context, relevant 
factors from his process-prior-to-investment claim can also be considered. However, 
the other aspect of that claim  related to the isolated consideration of regulatory 
breaches, malpractice and gross misconduct alleged to have been committed by 
Barclays and by the relevant adviser  will not be addressed for the reason stated 
two bullet points above. Also with regards to the process-prior-to-investment claim, Mr N has presented 
arguments about why the offshore DPM service and portfolio should never have 
been promoted to him in the first instance, mainly because he says he had no 
experience of such an investment product. The facts of his case are such that 
matters went beyond promotion and into recommendation of and investment in the 
offshore DPM product. It is not disputed that Mr N sought advice for the investment of 
proceeds from his business sale. He says Barclays initiated the consideration of such 
advice (and investment), but even if that was the case he nevertheless engaged with 
Barclays in order to receive its advice. It therefore follows that he wanted to invest. If 
the investment proposed to him was unsuitable, the matter of promotion (of that 
investment) would be relevant. However, if the investment was not unsuitable the 
question of promotion arguably becomes less, if at all, relevant in the circumstances 
of his case. The test for suitability is higher than that for promotion, so if Barclays 
recommendation was not unsuitable and given that Mr N wanted to invest, it would 
follow that there was nothing wrong with the investment advice service he received  
even if, in isolation, there is a technical question about whether (or not) the product 
should have been promoted to him at the outset.
Scope Continued (Dismissal)
The rules about our jurisdiction are in the Dispute Resolution (DISP) section of the FCAs 
Handbook. DISP 3.3.4A (R) says as follows: 
The Ombudsman may dismiss a complaint referred to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service on or after 9 July 2015 without considering its merits if the Ombudsman considers 
that: 
(5) dealing with such a type of complaint would otherwise seriously impair the effective 
operation of the Financial Ombudsman Service.
The FCA gives the following relevant guidance at DISP 3.3.4B (G):
Examples of a type of complaint that would otherwise seriously impair the effective 
operation of the Financial Ombudsman Service may include: 
(1) where it would be more suitable for the complaint to be dealt with by a court or a 
comparable ADR entity; or 
(3) where the subject matter of the complaint has previously been considered or excluded 
under the Financial Ombudsman Service (unless material new evidence which 
the Ombudsman considers likely to affect the outcome has subsequently become available 
to the complainant); 
As I said above, Mr N presented a substantial claim against Barclays under the law/tort of 
negligence. The natural forum for such a claim is the civil court(s). Proper determination of 
such a claim usually includes a hearing(s), the calling (or ordering) of witnesses, 
examination and cross examination of witnesses during the hearing, the calling (or even 
ordering) of expert evidence, and the examination and cross examination of such expert 
evidence. This service neither has the structure to cater for such an extensive formal 
process, nor are we required to. We are a comparatively informal [ADR] service, with some 
discretion to call a hearing (where a complaint cannot be determined on documentary 
submissions and evidence), power to request evidence but not necessarily to order 
disclosure and we do not have the natural remit for negligence claims that the civil courts 
have. Of course, there can be elements of negligent behaviours in the cases we address under 
different allegations and complaints, but what Mr N has presented is a full scale, pure and 
dedicated negligence claim  to the extent that he has quoted renowned leading negligence 
caselaw as part of his submissions for the claim. This amounts to more than a complaint with 
elements of negligent behaviours alleged within it.
For the above reasons, I consider that the negligence claim Mr N appears to want to pursue 
is one that would be more suitable to be dealt with by a court. I do not consider that this 
service should address it and I dismiss it.
I also dismiss any resubmission of the 2018 complaint. I have already addressed this above. 
I consider that the responses from the DO in 2020 essentially confirmed a similar decision to 
dismiss for reasons that I share, endorse and incorporate into this decision  those reasons 
being, in summary, that the points Mr N has re-presented have previously been addressed 
by this service in the DOs 2019 PD and FD, and that what he has presented as new 
evidence falls short of establishing material new evidence likely to affect the outcome of the 
PD/FD. Upon reading the correspondence between the DO/CO and Mr N in 2020 and in 
2021, I am satisfied that this outcome  and the rationale behind it  is credible and has 
been clearly explained to him.
Suitability of Barclays 2015 Recommendation
Based on some of the points Mr N has made, I accept that there were some errors in 
Barclays KYC work ahead of its recommendation to him. The investigator identified some of 
these errors in his views and I echo the same. I consider it important to acknowledge this at 
the start of this section because it relates to one of Mr Ns main arguments about 
unsuitability, because it prompts me to set out how the matter of suitability in this case will be 
approached and because, as I develop further below, I wish to give early notice that I have 
not found it to be the pivotal (or one of the pivotal) arguments about suitability that he 
believes it to be  so it has not featured in my considerations to the extent that he would 
probably like.
There are a number of key elements to consider in terms of suitability (or otherwise) of a 
recommended investment;
An investors profile at the time of the recommendation (mainly, his/her objective(s), 
attitude to risk (ATR), investment experience and affordability status (including 
capacity for loss)). [Which I shall refer to as element 1.] 
Whether (or not), on balance, the investors profile was properly determined between 
the investor and the adviser. [Which I shall refer to as element 2.]
Whether (or not), on balance, the advisers recommendation was suitable for the 
investors profile [Which I shall refer to as element 3.]
Whether (or not), on balance, the investor was informed about the nature of the 
recommended investment and its risks. [Which I shall refer to as element 4.]
It is important to be mindful that, depending on the relevant circumstances, there could be 
more than one suitable recommendation for an investor. The regulatory duty upon a firm to 
assess and give suitable advice does not require that firm to give the most suitable advice, 
or to give advice that is considered, perhaps in hindsight, to be more suitable than the advice 
it gave at the time. If, on balance, Barclays recommendation to Mr N was suitable, the relevant regulations  which Mr N has cited in his submissions  do not require me to 
consider whether (or not) it could have been better or more suitable. 
Returning to the KYC issue, Mr Ns summary argument is that the advisers KYC process 
and findings were flawed, that inaccurate information about him was recorded in the fact 
finding notes/records and that it therefore follows that the advice to him could not possibly 
have been suitable if the fact finding was incorrect. I appreciate the approach he has applied 
in this argument, but in order to achieve a fair and reasonable conclusion in a case it is 
generally required to follow where the evidence (and relevant laws/regulations) leads to. In 
other words, if the facts show that fact finding errors committed by Barclays prior to its 
recommendation misguided the recommendation and made it unsuitable, after consideration 
of all the elements of suitability mentioned above, then such could be the reasonable 
conclusion. However, it would be wrong to leap from a finding that KYC errors were 
committed to the conclusion of unsuitability, without considering the actual recommendation 
that was made and the elements of suitability mentioned above.
It is enough to say Barclays KYC related fact finding and record keeping ahead of its 
recommendation had some errors and could have been better. Mr N has made extensive 
submissions about this. It is not necessary to set them out in this decision because they 
persuade me only to the extent of the finding in the previous sentence; because beyond that 
finding and with regards to his argument that Barclays committed KYC related regulatory 
wrongdoings the matter becomes one about regulation (which is beyond my remit); and 
because, as I said in my explanations on scope, where particular KYC errors are relevant to 
my consideration of suitability those errors can (and will) be addressed in the context of 
suitability.
Another reason for this approach is that whilst many of the pre-recommendation fact finding 
documents were produced by Barclays, do not appear to have been shared with and agreed 
by Mr N at the time and are presently disputed by Mr N, in contrast the suitability letter of 22 
November 2015 is a document that was shared with him. He does not appear to have 
objected to it upon its receipt  despite the letters invitation for him to do so if he had reason 
to  so it appears to have been agreed by him. It is a document that captures Barclays 
summary of his profile and of its recommendation to him  so it seems a good starting point 
for the consideration of elements 1 to 4. In terms of element 4, there is also evidence of 
information about the recommended DPM service and portfolio (within and beyond Barclays 
October 2015 presentation) given to Mr N. I have not ignored the fact that the suitability letter 
was issued around four weeks after he had committed to the recommended investment, but 
the letter (and its appendix) includes invitations to him to contact Barclays if any of the stated 
information was incorrect or if changes were needed, so this suggests that the letter 
remained meaningful and that his commitment could have been reviewed at the time if 
necessary.
The main contents of the suitability letter (and appendix) are as follows:
A summary of the recommendation to Mr N to invest £3 million in the DPM product, 
based on a moderate ATR and on a total return pursuit.
A statement that said he was  looking to benefit from the professional 
management of [his] assets and to entrust decision making on an ongoing basis to a 
dedicated portfolio manager. I appreciate that Mr N says he neither wanted nor 
trusted discretionary portfolio management, but this statement informed him that 
such was the nature of Barclays recommendation and there is no evidence that he 
objected to it (or that he objected to the notion of discretionary management) in 
response; so, on balance, I consider that this was indeed what he sought at the time. 
It is also noteworthy that in his application form for the service/product  dated, signed and initialled (on every page) by him on 28 October 2015 (prior to the 
suitability letter)  he expressly selected the DPM service, which had a clear 
summary explanation of its discretionary based nature set out next to it that he would 
have seen and read. Perhaps in hindsight, at the time of his complaint(s), he 
considered this objective differently, but my task is to address the objective 
presented to Barclays for its 2015 advice.
Statements about Mr N having  sufficient income and cash assets outside of [his] 
assets with Barclays whereby [he was] not seeking an income from the investment; 
about him wishing  to achieve returns above cash deposits and inflation on a total 
return basis, being a mixture of income and capital growth over the term of [his] 
investment; and about Barclays recommendation being  designed to meet this 
objective. A key part of Mr Ns argument about KYC flaws relates to the factual 
details of his wider assets and wealth. However, it is not disputed that he had 
substantial wider assets and wealth beyond what he sought to invest with Barclays 
advice. It also does not appear to be disputed that he did not seek income from the 
investment, I have not seen evidence that such income was part of his objective and 
there is no evidence that he corrected the suitability letter in this respect. 
Confirmation of Mr Ns moderate ATR and statements that said he was  
comfortable with the risk [he] would be exposed to and that he had  the capacity 
to take on this risk as [his] invested wealth [was] well diversified and [he held] 
sufficient cash and [had] no debt. Again, none of this appears to have been objected 
to or disputed by Mr N in response to the suitability letter  and his application for the 
DPM service (prior to the suitability letter) expressly confirmed his selection of the 
moderate ATR  so, on balance, I consider it reliable. The same applies to 
statements that followed about his investment experience and knowledge having 
been considered on the basis that through his experience of running  an 
international business [he had] gained an understanding of equity markets and 
investments and that he  also had experience more recently dealing with 
investment management firms which  improved [his] understanding of the different 
types of investment available; about him having sufficient access to cash and 
liquidity elsewhere in his wealth which negated any need to withdraw from the 
investment; and about him having an investment time horizon of five years and 
above.
Notice that the recommendation was for an offshore portfolio, so use of Mr Ns ISA 
allowance had to be considered separately, and that he had indicated he would do so 
(separately).
Confirmation that Mr N had been advised to hold the portfolio in a segregated capital 
and income structure and that the portfolio was to be set up accordingly.
Notice that whilst Barclays would take his personal tax position into account in its 
recommendation, it did not provide tax advice and that it recommended Mr N consult 
his tax adviser on the tax implications of the recommended portfolio. As I included in 
the background above, Mr N made submissions about Barclays failing to consult his 
accountant, about it failing to ensure that he had done so, about it misrepresenting 
the role of his business accountant and about the recommendation being unsuitable 
because of the lack of thorough tax related considerations and advice. I address 
suitability, in terms of tax implications, further below. However, at this point I consider 
it important to note evidence of an email from Mr Ns accountant to him, dated 11 
September 2015. The email appears to have been shared, by Mr N, with Barclays in 
a forwarded email dated 24 September 2015. In it, the accountant (whose email signature stated his role as a Private Client Senior Tax Adviser) refers to Mr Ns 
personal self-assessment tax return, to attaching a completed self-assessment tax 
return form for the year ending 5 April 2015, to some advice on Mr Ns tax position 
and to a request (to Mr N) to check the form and ensure all his worldwide income, 
capital gains, outgoings and allowances are correct. On balance, I consider this to be 
evidence that the accountant serviced Mr N personally and that Barclays could 
reasonably have relied on this as information/proof that he was in receipt of personal 
tax advice at the time. Barclays was not responsible to duplicate such advice or for 
the dedicated tax advice that Mr N says he should have received, and it gave him 
notice of this within the suitability letter.
 
I am satisfied that, overall and on balance, Barclays DPM product presentation to Mr N in 
October 2015 had sufficiently clear and detailed explanations about the product/service to 
inform him about the recommendation to invest in it. A copy of the presentation document 
shows that it was produced specifically for Mr N and that it had a total of 34 pages, divided 
into sections that included one on the products/services overall investment approach, one 
dedicated to the discretionary management process (inclusive of the mandate derived from 
Mr Ns investor profile  which itself included reference to the income and capital 
segregation that he required) and one about fees and benchmarks for the service. 
As the investigator noted, Mr N had broadly between 13 and 28 October to consider the 
relevant information. I am mindful that whilst Mr Ns first language is not English, he can 
communicate in English, his communications at the time were in English and he has 
confirmed assistance from his wife whose first language is English and whose understanding 
of the language, he says, is at a high level. As such, I am satisfied that he had enough 
consideration time (inclusive of time he might or might not have needed to be assisted in 
understanding the contents of the information) during these 15 days, that the absence of 
further enquiries or objections from him at the time suggests he understood the information 
and that his commitment to the recommendation on 28 October signifies that he did so in an 
informed state. This finding also serves to address Mr Ns criticism of the sequence of 
events  that is, the investment happening prior to the suitability letter. Given its contents, 
the presentation document (which appears to have followed from a presentation meeting 
with Barclays) was arguably equal to an earlier  and pre-investment  version of a suitability 
related document.
Returning to the elements I set out above, I do not consider that there are problems with 
elements 1 and 2. Irrespective of the KYC related errors that Mr N has highlighted and feels 
strongly about, the balance of evidence shows that by November 2015 when the suitability 
letter was issued to him, he was in agreement with that letters summary of his profile and 
did not object to it; and information in the letter about his profile (in terms of his objective and 
ATR) is consistent with information he selected and agreed within his DPM application form 
around four weeks earlier. Overall and on balance, Mr Ns investor profile around the time of 
the recommendation in 2015 was as depicted in the profile/mandate in the presentation 
document, as depicted in the application form he completed for the DPM service and as 
depicted in the suitability letter, and I do not find any notable inconsistencies between the 
profiles in these documents.
The next issue to address  element 3  is whether the DPM service (and associated 
portfolio) was suitable for Mr N. In this respect, I should begin by saying I am satisfied that 
the recommended mandate for the portfolio to  hold a mix of equities, government and 
corporate debt instruments and alternative investments in proportions judged by the 
Investment Manager to provide returns consistent with a balanced risk investment profile 
matched his moderate ATR (with a reflection of the balanced/moderate ATR within the 
mandate itself) and was suitable. It broadly matched Barclays risk profile definition of the 
moderate ATR and the same goes for what this service would consider to be a balanced/medium/moderate investor ATR. He also had total personal wealth notably beyond 
the £3 million he sought to invest, including significant sums in cash and/or liquid assets and 
no immediate requirement for income from the investment. As such, he had the financial 
capacity (including capacity for loss  that is, capacity to cope with the risk of potential 
losses) for the investment.
I understand Mr Ns strong feelings about the expectation that his HNW status and 
certification should have been concluded prior to the recommendation and investment, 
instead of months thereafter as was the case. Barclays was wrong in this approach but, as I 
explained above, I am not conducting a regulatory investigation so the main matter to 
address remains, only, suitability of the recommendation. 
In terms of the impact this had on suitability of the recommendation, I agree with the 
investigators findings. Mr N has conceded to us that he was an HNW client at the time of the 
recommendation and that he does not dispute this. The implication is that, had the requisite 
certification been attended to before the recommendation and the investment he would have 
been certified as an HNW client anyway. He says the point to note is that the risk warning in 
the documentation related to the HNW certification process would have discouraged him, so 
by being deprived of the process he appears to say he was denied a risk warning that would 
have changed everything. On balance, I disagree. Comparable risk warnings were 
presented to him as part of his ATR assessment and as part of the product/service 
presentation given to him, both of which happened before he invested  and warnings were 
given (for the different risk profiles) in the application form for the DPM service he completed 
and signed on 28 October 2015.
Having addressed the HNW related argument I now quote, as follows, from my summary 
(above) of Mr Ns other main arguments for unsuitability  
 Barclays breach of pre-2018 COBS and MiFID I rules (COBS 6.1.9R and COBS 16 
Annex 2R) on the provision of periodic investment reports with full information on fees 
(including information on the potential for third-party fees); COBS and MiFID I rules at the 
time which said Barclays could not suitably recommend a service that he had no knowledge 
and experience of (which is what it did); evidence that the accountant Barclays says he 
received tax advice from was actually his business accountant (not his personal tax adviser) 
and evidence that he did not receive personal tax advice from the accountant; evidence that 
the adviser should have obtained, agreed to obtain, but did not obtain guidance from his 
accountant on how to structure the portfolio (for tax efficiency); the advisers failure to assess 
whether (or not) he had access to sufficient alternative clean and segregated capital in 
order to avoid withdrawal from the offshore portfolio; evidence from a previous decision from 
this service in which a claim (about the unsuitability of an offshore investment) with 
circumstances comparable to his was upheld; the advisers failure to recommend usage of 
his Individual Savings Account (ISA) and Capital Gains Tax (CGT) allowances at the time; 
inaccurate information that Barclays had on his investor profile which, importantly, must have 
been relevant to its poor assessment of suitability at the time (how could it have properly 
assessed suitability on the basis of inaccurate information?).
As I have already stated, the periodic reports issue will not be addressed as it relates to the 
complaint concluded by the 2019 FD. I have also already referred to evidence showing, on 
balance, that the relevant accountant was Mr Ns personal tax adviser and was the source of 
personal tax advice that he was receiving at least up to a month before his investment. 
Barclays was not obliged to give him dedicated tax advice or to liaise with his accountant for 
that purpose. Its terms of service gave him notice about this and about the recommendation 
to take independent tax advice. Barclays investment recommendation reflected Mr Ns need for segregated capital and income. I am not persuaded that it was required to ensure he had 
access to sufficient alternative clean capital in order to avoid withdrawals from the portfolio. 
There is no evidence that he needed income at the time, or that he anticipated a need for 
income in the near future or that he gave instructions in either respect. In contrast, the 
balance of evidence shows that he had a number of alternative and liquid sources of capital 
to resort to if he needed funds. His distinction of clean capital in this respect and his 
argument about assessing whether (or not) he had access to such capital appears to relate 
to the hypothetical tax implications of having to withdraw from those alternative sources of 
capital but, overall, I consider that was also a matter for his accountant to advise him on, not 
for Barclays.
I have considered Mr Ns references to the previous decisions from this service. We address 
each complaint on its own facts and evidence. A previous decision is not automatically 
binding on subsequent cases which might share similar facts. The matter of suitability is also 
inherently subjective, so due regard still applies to individual circumstances and facts, 
despite any similarities between cases. Overall, on balance and for these reasons I am not 
persuaded that the previous decisions Mr N has referred to are enough to establish that the 
offshore DPM portfolio was unsuitable for him. 
The offshore context of the portfolio appears to have been the reason why no 
recommendation was made to Mr N to use his ISA allowance within it  as that could not be 
done; and the matter of CGT allowance usage is one that he could have and should have 
discussed with the accountant that was giving him tax advice, as an RND, at the time. 
I have already addressed the matter of Barclays KYC process and Mr Ns assertion that 
some of the information it had on him in that process was inaccurate. 
Overall and on balance, I do not consider that the offshore DPM portfolio product/service 
was unsuitable for Mr N. Besides the offshore setting having potential benefits for him as an 
RND  benefits that Barclays and the investigator have highlighted  that setting appears to 
have been a derivative of his objective. He wanted a DPM product/service, which is what 
Barclays recommended. A part of that recommendation was inevitably the portfolio to be 
used within that service and that was the offshore portfolio. The suitability letter says he had 
been advised towards the offshore setting and the implication appears to be that this was tax 
advice from his accountant because of his RND status. 
The offshore setting was not inherently unsuitable. It is not uncommon for offshore 
investments or portfolios to be recommended to investors  to HNW investors in particular, 
and to such investors who also hold RND status and who wish to either avoid the 
implications of an onshore investment or for whom such avoidance is considered suitable. 
A November 2015 independent research report, commissioned by HMRC, looked into  
the operation of the offshore financial advisory market and how and why customers in this 
market invest in offshore products. Part of its main findings were that there was a trend of 
such products being more likely to be used by HNW UK RND investors, for potential tax 
benefits that were more applicable to them than to UK Resident Domiciled investors; and 
that investment knowledge and experience held by such investors varied considerably, 
ranging from novice to an expert level understanding. 
Mr N appears to have been part of the trend mentioned in the above report. He disputes 
meeting notes compiled by the adviser prior to his investment, and I understand some of his 
reasons why (especially with regards to some of the KYC errors I have already 
acknowledged). However, in the circumstances of this case, it does not automatically follow 
that the entirety of those notes can be disregarded. Particular contents should be considered 
on merit. The notes refer to Mr N seeking to take advantage of his RND status through an offshore investment and this is consistent with references to the same (or to something 
broadly similar) in the product presentation document (that he received, considered and 
agreed with), in the application form he completed and in the suitability letter that was sent to 
him. On balance, with such an objective, given his HNW and RND status, and in the 
absence of evidence that he sought or required income from the investment, I am not 
persuaded that recommendation of an offshore setting for the portfolio was unsuitable. I 
understand the hypothetical scenarios he has referred to, in which he says the setting could 
have caused problems, but they appear to be no more than that  hypothetical scenarios  
and I have not seen evidence that Barclays was clearly informed, at the outset, of a need (or 
likely future need) to bring capital or income from the portfolio onshore. It is also noteworthy 
that Mr N had other assets outside the UK, so the portfolio was not an exception in this 
regard.
I accept that Mr N had no previous experience of an offshore investment portfolio. This does 
not automatically mean it was unsuitable for him. It is not uncommon for investors to embark 
upon a new type of investment for the first time. The points to consider are as I summarised 
in elements 1 to 4. On balance, I consider that elements 1, 2 and 3 have been established to 
support the conclusion that Barclays advice was not unsuitable, and in terms of element 4, I 
am satisfied with the balance of evidence that shows Mr N was properly informed about the 
nature and characteristics of the portfolio (and of the discretionary management associated 
with it, and about risks) prior to his investment. As such, whilst he had no previous 
experience of the offshore DPM portfolio, it was not unsuitable for him (as I have found) and 
he committed to it in an informed state.
Conclusion
Overall, on balance and for all the reasons given above, I consider that only Mr Ns 
complaint about suitability is within my remit to address and I conclude that the offshore 
DPM service and portfolio recommended to him by Barclays was not unsuitable for him.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Ns complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2022.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman