DRN-2771016
The complaint
Miss T didnt receive an email to defend a claim made by a third party to her insurers, Gefion 
Insurance A/S, trading as Woop Insurance (Woop). This meant it was settled despite not 
being her fault and she lost her no claims bonus. She would like her two years no claims 
bonus to be reinstated. 
What happened
Miss T was involved in a car accident in November 2019. She says the third party drove off 
without exchanging details. In April 2020 the third party made a claim to Woop, who passed 
the matter on to Cogent, its parent company, to deal with the claim. Cogent sent an email to 
Miss T but she says this was never received. Because Miss T didnt respond, Woop paid out 
the claim for £1,900 and Miss T has therefore lost her two years no claims bonus despite 
the fact she says the accident was not her fault. Miss Ts father acting on her behalf has 
queried why a letter wasnt sent through the post by Cogent, as this would have been 
received and she would have responded. The reason given was that the company was 
working from home during lockdown. Cogent sent an email responding to Miss Ts complaint 
and this went to Miss Ts fathers junk mail folder, so he assumes this must be what 
happened to the earlier email to Miss T. Miss T says the fact staff did not have printers at 
home was not her fault and sending an email from a company that she has never dealt with 
before is not sufficient for something as important as this. She says Woop should have done 
more to contact her so that she could have defended the claim.
Woop says that due to COVID-19 restrictions, its been standard for it to send more emails 
than letters due to its staff working from home, as not all staff have printers or are permitted 
to print externally to the office as it is unsecure. It says that followed the correct procedure in 
settling the third-party claim. It was Miss Ts responsibility to notify Woop of any incidents 
but, when this did not happen, it attempted to contact her. In relation to the contact going to 
Miss Ts junk email folder, Woop says that it is unable to control which folder these are sent 
to and it is the receiving inbox which determines this. It does not agree that it made an error 
in respect of the claim handling or contact methods used. However, it did offer Miss T £100 
compensation in respect of its delayed response to her complaint about this issue. 
Our investigator looked at this complaint and found that the communication method used by 
Woop was reasonable. She also believed that it was Miss Ts responsibility to inform Woop 
of the accident when it first happened, which would have meant it would already have had a 
statement on file to defend the third-party claim.
Miss T disagrees with this so the case has come to me to make a decision. He says that all 
important correspondence from Woop had been by post so there was no requirement to 
believe this would be any different with Cogent. He disagrees that two emails is sufficient 
correspondence when a letter could have been sent by post and believes Woop didnt take 
reasonable steps to get in touch.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the general conditions of Miss Ts policy. These set out that the policyholder 
must tell us as soon as possible about any incident which may lead to a claim under this 
policy and must give us any information and help we need in relation to any incident you or 
your car is involved in. The conditions also state that the insurer is entitled to take over and 
carry out the negotiation, defence or settlement of any claim in your name
It is accepted that Miss T didnt notify Woop about the incident in November 2019, which 
was contrary to the terms of the policy. Therefore, when the third party contacted Woop in 
April 2020, it attempted to contact Miss T in order to obtain further information about the 
incident. As Miss T didnt respond to the request for information, I think it was reasonable for 
Woop to settle the claim in line with its terms on the basis put forward by the third party. 
Ive gone on to consider what Miss T has said about not receiving the request for information 
and whether the steps taken by Woop to contact her were reasonable in the circumstances. 
I can see that Cogent contacted Miss T by email on 23 April 2020 setting out that it had been 
notified of an accident she was involved in the previous November and that the third party 
was claiming she was liable and looking for it to pay for damage to the vehicle. It stated that 
the company was acting on behalf of Woop and needed Miss T to call and confirm the full 
circumstances of the accident. The email also said that if it failed to hear back within seven 
days it would have to deal with the third-party claim which would affect Miss Ts policy. 
This email was chased this up by a further email on 15 June 2020, stating that Miss T had 
failed to respond to its previous email, setting out that a failure to report an incident goes 
against her policy terms and conditions and indicating that it would deal with the third-party 
claim if it didnt hear back within seven days.
Although Miss T says that she had not previously received emails from Cogent, I can see 
that Miss T was notified in November 2019 that Woop would transfer ownership of its car 
insurance business to Cogent. And the first email sent by Cogent indicated that it was acting 
on behalf of Woop. Whilst I note that Miss T says that these emails must have gone to her 
junk email folder, this is not something within Woop (or Cogents) control. I accept that 
Cogents email address may not have been in Miss Ts safe senders list, but it would be her 
responsibility to control her junk email folder settings and check the junk email inbox 
periodically to ensure it doesnt contain correspondence which shouldnt have been directed 
there. 
I can see that both emails were sent to the correct email address as set out in Miss Ts 
insurance documentation. And I havent seen anything to suggest that she asked not to be 
contacted by email or that she asked for all correspondence to be sent by post. Miss T 
suggests that a letter should have been sent by post. Whilst other correspondence may have 
been sent by post previously, this does not automatically mean that all and any 
correspondence should be expected to be sent by post. I also note that, given the ongoing 
COVID-19 pandemic, many businesses are continuing to operate predominantly by email 
and I dont think that this is unreasonable in the circumstances. It is therefore my view that 
Woops attempts to contact Miss T by email to obtain her account of the accident, followed 
up by a further chasing email, were reasonable.
I know my decision will come as a disappointment to Miss T, but I can't fairly say that Woop 
has acted unreasonably in the circumstances of this case and I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2021.
 
Rachel Ellis
Ombudsman