DRN-2826120
The complaint
A partnership which I refer to as G, complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC unfairly declined 
to process a number of its cheques which caused damage to its reputation.
 
One of the partners Mr R, brings the complaint on the partnerships behalf. 
What happened
 Around February 2019 Barclays began to decline payment of various cheques that G had 
drawn on its client account. Barclays said this was due to an IT software issue which 
affected cheque imagining across the banking sector. They paid £250 compensation to G 
and in March 2019 Barclays said they sent an email to G that it could share with its affected 
clients confirming it wasnt to blame for what had happened. Further cheques were declined 
throughout 2019, including between July and November. The cheque imaging issue 
remained a problem affecting cheques that were deposited using the banking app. So, from 
time to time those cheques were declined. 
More generally, in an attempt to try to solve the cheque imaging issue Barclays suggested G 
might advise their clients to pay their cheques in branch. That way the paper cheque would 
enter the clearing system for analysis. But its unclear whether that advice was passed on. 
But in one instance, however, in September 2019, Barclays acknowledged they were at fault 
for the decline of a £500 cheque G had drawn. They said their own system was responsible 
for distorting the cheque image, which in turn caused it to be declined. So, as compensation 
Barclays paid £100 to G. 
Overall, however, Barclays maintained Gs cheques were being declined legitimately 
because, according to the bank they hadnt been signed in accordance with Gs account 
mandate.  Throughout 2019 on the occasions they declined to pay a cheque Barclays sent a 
letter to G identifying the relevant cheque, the reason for its decline  typically the signature 
didnt match the mandate - and requested that G arranged to sign the cheque accordingly or 
make alternative arrangements for payment.   
 
G has acknowledged in a further attempt to mitigate the continuing problem Barclays 
suggested it should consider avoiding the use of cheques altogether, as the bank was able 
to offer alternative payment methods - including bank transfers. But G didnt think the banks 
suggestion was practical and continued using cheques. However, because the problem 
wasnt finally resolved G formally complained to Barclays. 
Apart from the decline of the £500 cheque in September 2019 and those that were affected 
by the IT software problem in early 2019, Barclays didnt think theyd done anything wrong. 
Unhappy with the banks response, G referred its complaint to this service. 
Whilst the complaint was with us, more particularly in 2020, G gave us a list of further 
cheques the bank had declined, and Barclays agreed to look into them as part of this 
investigation. But in relation to this also the bank concluded it had done nothing wrong. 
Barclays said the cheques were identified through their internal system as possibly 
fraudulent and for that reason they were not paid. 
But separately from the measures already noted which the bank suggested as a possible 
solution to the problem, G said it came to an agreement with Barclays whereby the bank 
undertook to contact it before declining any of its cheques. According to G, that way it had 
the opportunity to confirm whether or not the cheque in question was genuine and could 
therefore be paid. G said the bank was sporadic in its adherence to the agreement and in 
the circumstances when it didnt, acted unreasonably when it declined the cheques. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Gs complaint. With particular reference to the 2020 cheques 
he said that Barclays had in fact paid most of them. He observed that between August 2020 
and December 2020, for example, the banks cheque processing team had over 60 cheques 
that they had concerns about which they referred back to G. Of those, the vast majority were 
paid after reference G which left a smaller proportion that were returned because the bank 
wasnt able to speak to anyone at G who could authorise the cheque.
Overall, the investigator was satisfied that the cheques that went unpaid were considered by 
Barclays to be either duplicates or possibly fraudulent. And he was also satisfied that the 
bank had made enough effort to avoid declining to pay the cheques by trying, albeit 
unsuccessfully, to call G beforehand to check if the cheques were genuine.  
The investigator concluded that consistent with their obligation to prevent cheque fraud, 
Barclays not unreasonably erred on the side of caution and declined to pay the cheques 
when G couldnt be reached. 
G didnt accept the investigators conclusions. In particular, it challenged his conclusion that 
Barclays tried unsuccessfully to contact it before declining payment of certain cheques. So, 
G asked for details of the occasions when the bank purportedly tried unsuccessfully to 
contact G.  
Details of the relevant cheques were provided to G. There were eight and the investigator 
also shared Barclays internal records showing the notes the bank made at the time that it 
attempted to call G but was unsuccessful. G disputed the banks records, however, and has 
relied on its own which it maintains demonstrate that Barclays didnt try contacting it at all. 
More generally, G also made the following points  which I summarise:
Barclays breached their obligations to provide cheque services to G when, without 
good reason they declined to pay its cheques. 
The bank hasnt shown it had good reason for declining its cheques  which would 
include for example, insufficiency of funds, the death or insolvency of a customer.  
Barclays reasons for declining payment changed over time and included failure of 
the cheque imaging technology, failure of the cheque signatures to match the 
account mandate, as well as possible fraud. 
Above all, its records show that of the eight occasions the bank said it tried 
unsuccessfully to contact it, on seven occasions that was untrue. Its records show 
there was an attempt on 7 September 2020, but Mr R was unavailable to speak to 
the bank. And although Mr R returned the call, he was unable to reach anyone at the 
bank. 
The banks actions caused G to suffer financial loss and damage to its reputation. 
Therefore, Barclays should pay substantial compensation What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Before I come to that Ill set out briefly the scope of my review.  As explained by the 
investigator, G being a small business for the purposes of our rules, we are only able to 
consider an act or omission which occurred on or after 1 April 2019.
Turning then to the details of my review. I agree with G as a Barclays customer the provision 
of a cheque processing service is expected. Barclays say G relies heavily on the use of 
cheques and issues a large amount every month. That seems to be borne out by the broad 
numbers noted by the investigator that were of concern to the cheque processing team in 
the months between August and December 2020.  
That being said, the bank has told us the majority of Gs cheques were processed 
successfully. But a proportion were not. So, Ive considered whether Barclays had good 
reasons for not doing so contrary to what G believes to be the case. 
It is the banks position that the issue with cheques is that they have to go through a clearing 
cycle and are very much prone to fraud when compared to on-line payments for example. 
Therefore, the bank has to put extra control measures in place to make sure their customers 
accounts are protected.  
G is right that where its cheques were declined, Barclays have given a number of different 
reasons for that  including in 2019, that cheque signatures did not match its mandate, 
problems with the industry wide cheque imaging, the distortion of one of its cheques for 
which the bank did accept responsibility. For both the last two occurrences Barclays paid 
compensation to G. 
But other issues arose too in 2020 which caused various cheques to be declined  including 
signature mismatch. The bank has shared examples when there does indeed appear to be a 
marked difference in the signature on cheques when compared to that on the mandate. 
There were issues too arising from the simultaneous use of cheques drawn by G from 
Barclays chequebook and cheques drawn from Gs own printed cheque book. That meant 
cheque numbers were on occasions shown as duplicates. And there were issues also 
arising from the omission of the appropriate security code on Gs own printed cheques. 
So, these issues did raise the prospect of possible fraud which in turn caused certain 
cheques to be declined.  
Clause 4.13 of the terms and conditions of Gs account states:
4.13 Well do all we can to carry out legal instructions. However, we dont have to follow an          
instruction if: 
we reasonably think that a payment into or out of an account is connected to fraud or 
any other criminal activity 
So, in my opinion, it follows from the terms and conditions the bank isnt obliged to process 
cheque payments in circumstances where it suspects there might be fraud. G used many 
cheques. And given the heightened risk of fraud associated with their use, inevitably there 
was likely to be more cheques that caused the bank concern. And clearly, there were such 
concerns. Moreover, contrary to Gs position the concerns that have been highlighted by the 
bank do not seem to me to be for unreasonable reasons. It follows I have not been 
persuaded the only reasonable grounds for declining to pay Gs cheques were those it has 
asserted.   In addition to the solution Barclays suggested to G which were noted above, G has 
highlighted another solution both it and the bank agreed to help solve the problem it had 
been experiencing.  That is to say that the bank would call G if one of its cheques was 
identified for decline so that G could verify its authenticity and give approval for it to be paid. 
Barclays doesnt dispute this. It says when a cheque is flagged in the clearing cycle, the 
processing team will always try to contact the customer or the relationship team to confirm 
the validity of the cheque. 
But the bank has explained the system isnt foolproof. So for example in circumstances 
where a cheque is paid in using the payment app, which the bank says happened a lot with 
the 2019 cheques, then there is no physical cheque that passes through the clearing system 
that can be checked and dealt with within that arrangement. 
Nonetheless, the banks position is that in the majority of cases when cheques were 
identified for possible decline within the arrangement it had with G it did call G and managed 
to get its approval to pay the cheque. But there is clearly a dispute between G and the bank 
about whether certain calls were indeed made. So, Ive considered this very carefully with 
particular regard to the eight cheques the bank has told us were declined in 2020 after it 
tried unsuccessfully to contact G and which doesnt think happened. 
In explanation of its system Barclays have told us that when one of their employee calls a 
customer about a cheque they are minded to decline, the employee adds an entry on the 
customers notepad confirming the cheque number, the reason for the decline,  whether the 
staff was able to speak to the customer and the decision thats arrived at as to whether or 
not the cheque is to be paid. 
Ive looked at Barclays records which appear to confirm this. They do show in respect of all 
the eight cheques identified, that there is a corresponding entry confirming the bank 
attempted to call G but were unable to speak to anyone for their confirmation to pay the 
cheques. In one of the entries the bank records confirm thered been three unsuccessful 
attempts to call G.
 
G on the other hand says this is not supported by its own records. And it has referred me to 
a log that is maintained by an employee of its incoming and outgoing calls. G believes in 
respect of the eight cheques it only received a call on 7 September 2020 as shown in its log.  
Mr R says he returned the call later that morning but were unable to reach anyone at the 
bank. 
Furthermore, Mr R says hed contacted Gs relationship manager and one of her colleagues 
in October 2020 to complain about the banks decision to decline without first calling four of 
the eight identified cheques. And in its response Mr R says the bank didnt dispute his 
assertion that no phone calls were made prior to the decline of those cheques.
It is difficult for me to know with certainty what had happened. Clearly there are some calls 
that appear in both parties records but some only in the banks records. The banks records 
show attempts were made to call G. 
 And I cannot safely conclude the reason they didnt appear in Gs records was because the 
bank didnt make the calls on those occasions. 
I have thought about Gs case that it wrote to Barclays, drawing their attention to the 4 
cheques G says were declined without the bank calling it first and which the bank didnt deny 
in its response.It is true that Mr R did write to the bank. And I agree with Mr R that he mentioned in his 
complaint e-mail that he hadnt received any phone calls before the four cheques he 
highlighted were declined. But I do not consider the banks failure to dispute what Mr G said 
amounted to an acceptance that the bank didnt in fact call. The response of relationship 
manager to Mr R was simply to share the explanation received from the banks fraud 
detection team about why the cheques were declined. In effect that it was because the bank 
had concerns they may have been fraudulent. So, I do not find the nature of that response 
meant the bank accepted no phone calls were made about those specific cheques. 
   
In summary: 
These have been difficult and frustrating circumstances for G. I appreciate the decline of Gs 
cheques has been frustrating. Its explained powerfully that some of its client base means it 
prefers to use cheques. 
But cheques are susceptible to fraud. Therefore, banks have stricter controls in place in 
relation to them. In other words, they are subject to more scrutiny for the protection of the 
banks customers so many will be flagged as concerning. However, having regard for 
example to the cheques that were issued between August and November 2020 
the majority of the cheques seem to have been accepted and paid.  
And although a proportion were declined initially, they were eventually paid after the 
Barclays were able to contact G to verify the cheques were authentic and should be paid. A 
smaller portion went unpaid for a variety of reasons. But the bank has been able to show it 
had reasonable reasons for declining them. 
The reasons for the decline did change too, partly as new issues arose such as for example 
when cheques were being issued by G from its own printed cheque books alongside 
Barclays own cheque book which raised concerns regarding the lack of security codes and 
duplicate cheque numbers. 
Overall, and on balance it seems to me Barclays did try to work with G to find solutions 
especially as new issues emerged. I appreciate G did not find some of the banks 
suggestions acceptable  including the switch from reliance on cheques. But overall, I have 
not been persuaded the bank has treated G unfairly. For the most part their agreement 
worked in that Barclays called to get Gs approval to pay many of its cheques and did. In a 
small proportion of cases it would seem the B and G did not connect so that G could 
approve payment. But I have no way of knowing what happened there.
  
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive explained above I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Asher Gordon
Ombudsman