The complaint
Mr L complains about what happened when HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as First Direct 
decided to remove the overdraft on his account.
What happened
Mr L said First Direct had made mistakes, and closed his overdraft down without his 
knowledge. He said he was nearly fined and this would have affected his credit score. He 
also said the overdraft still hadnt been put back on. Mr L said that hed agreed with First 
Direct that it would send him secure messages and email if it wanted to get in touch, and it 
hadnt done that. 
Mr L said he wasnt over his overdraft limit or using it against First Directs terms and 
conditions, but it wrongfully closed the overdraft facility down. He said it did this so it could 
add charges to the account. 
Mr L said hed spoken to First Direct, and it had confirmed it had made mistakes. It had 
overlooked the requirement to send him secure messages, and it was also going to 
investigate how hed become overdrawn. He wanted First Direct to pay £250 in 
compensation to make up for what had gone wrong.
First Direct didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said that it does expect regular 
payments into an account, whether or not someones using their overdraft, or whether they 
have money in other accounts with First Direct. 
Mr Ls account had been overdrawn since May 2019. So First Direct had written to him in 
June and July to prompt him to make payments onto the account. And it had sent a text 
message and secure message on 30 July. It said that if it didnt hear from him, his overdraft 
would be removed. 
First Direct said it knew that Mr L thought that payments going between this account and 
savings accounts had been set up wrongly, and that had caused the overdraft. But it said it 
had checked, and this isnt what had gone wrong. The overdraft had been caused by other 
transactions hed made during the last 12 months.  
First Direct removed Mr Ls overdraft on 30 August. He responded to its messages about 
this on that day, and cleared the balance, so he wasnt charged any fees. 
First Direct said it knew Mr L preferred email contact, but it couldnt send detailed messages 
through email. It could only use email to ask him to get in touch. It was satisfied that it had 
tried all methods of contact on this occasion, including email. So it didnt think it had failed to 
notify him of what was happening on his account. First Direct has said Mr L can reapply for 
an overdraft if hed like that facility in future. And it paid Mr L £30 as a gesture of goodwill. It 
wouldnt pay him any more than that.
DRN-1606107Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said that overdrafts are 
provided on a conditional basis. Consumers are expected to maintain payments towards 
them, and banks reserve the right to withdraw them. Its good practice for banks to tell 
customers if an overdraft is going to be withdrawn. First Direct had written to Mr L in June 
and July to remind him to pay towards his overdraft balance. Our investigator knew Mr L had 
asked for important account information by secure message, but he said that First Direct 
sent Mr L a secure message and text asking him to contact it on 30 July too. That was 30 
days before the overdraft was due to be removed. 
Our investigator said no payment was made to the overdraft in the 30 days before it was due 
to be closed down, so he didnt think that the business had acted unreasonably in removing 
the overdraft. He said it wasnt unreasonable for banks to expect consumers to keep an eye 
on their accounts, and First Direct had given Mr L enough opportunity to learn about what 
action was needed on his account. So he didnt recommend First Direct take any further 
steps.  
Mr L didnt agree, and he didnt think that our service had reviewed his complaint in its 
entirety. This case was then passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms of Mr Ls account state that If we agree an arranged overdraft and you use it, 
youll need to make regular (at least monthly) payments into your account to reduce the 
amount you owe. And those terms also set out that its worth bearing in mind that all 
overdrafts are repayable on demand so we can ask for immediate repayment at any time 
although well usually give you advance notice. First Direct has shown our service that it 
usually writes to customers if they stop paying a monthly credit into their accounts.
Mr Ls account with First Direct was little used. He paid a monthly credit into it, which was 
enough to cover a monthly transfer to a savings account. He also used it very occasionally, 
generally for small items. The monthly credit into the account wasnt enough to cover these 
small purchases as well as the transfer to the savings account. So the account fell into debit. 
Mr L had a modest overdraft agreed on the account, which he was using. 
Mr Ls last monthly credit into his account was in early May 2019. So First Direct wrote to 
him after this. 
Mr L has said he doesnt receive his post, as he frequently works away from home. First 
Direct has noted its systems to record this, and it tries to get in touch with him using secure 
messages. I understand it messaged him on 30 July, and sent a text message too, asking 
him to get in touch. I wouldnt expect First Direct to send the contents of its letter about 
removing his overdraft to Mr L in an email, as it says it has security concerns about doing 
that. So I think First Direct took appropriate steps to let Mr L know that it had concerns about 
his overdraft. And I think its done what it agreed to do, which was seek to supplement its 
letters with secure messages to him. 
Mr L didnt contact First Direct until the day his overdraft was being removed. Fortunately he 
was able to pay in some money and bring the account into credit on the same day, and 
avoid any charges or any unpaid item notes on his credit file. 
I think that the action First Direct took on Mr Ls overdraft was in line with the terms of his 
account. And I dont think it had to reverse that decision when Mr L got in touch. I dont think First Direct made a mistake when it took this overdraft off Mr Ls account. I understand hes 
able to apply for a new overdraft now, if he wants one. I know Mr L will be disappointed, but I 
dont think this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2020.
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman