DRN-3930108
Complaint
Mr H has complained about a personal loan Zopa Limited (trading as Zopa) which he says 
it unfairly brought about for him. He says the loan was unaffordable and he had to take out 
another loan to repay this one.
Background
Zopa operated the electronic system in relation to lending which led to Mr H being provided 
with a loan for £3,000.00 in November 2019. This loan had an APR of 22.9% and the total 
amount to be repaid of £3,693.75, which included interest fees and charges of £693.75, was 
due to be repaid in 24 monthly instalments of around £153.
One of our investigators reviewed what Mr H and Zopa had told us. She thought that Zopa 
unfairly brought about this loan for Mr H and recommended that the complaint be upheld. 
Zopa disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
My provisional decision of 9 January 2023
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision  on 9 January 2023 - setting out why I wasnt intending to 
uphold Mr Hs complaint. I wont copy that decision in full, but I will instead provide a 
summary of my findings. 
I started by saying that weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and 
irresponsible lending on our website. And that I used this approach to help me decide Mr Hs 
complaint.
I went on to explain that Zopa operated an electronic system in relation to lending which 
resulted in Mr H being provided with a loan. In these circumstances, Zopa needed to take 
reasonable steps to ensure that this loan wasnt brought about irresponsibly. In practice, 
what this meant was that Zopa needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to 
understand whether Mr H could afford to make his repayments before arranging this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders (or P2P 
operator  such as Zopa here) checks were proportionate. Generally, we think its 
reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much information it 
gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the 
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of 
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect 
a P2P platform operator to be able to show that it didnt continue to arrange loans for a 
customer irresponsibly.
Zopa said that it approved Mr Hs application after he provided details of his monthly income 
and some information on his expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against information on 
a credit search it carried out which showed his existing his commitments were relatively well 
maintained at the time of the application. In Zopas view all of the information it gathered 
showed that Mr H could comfortably afford to make the repayments he was committing to. 
On the other hand, Mr H said he was already in difficulty and couldnt afford this loan.
I carefully thought about what Mr H and Zopa had said. 
I thought that it was clear Zopa did obtain a reasonable amount of information before it 
decided to proceed with Mr Hs application. And this information did appear to suggest that 
the loan repayments were affordable for Mr H. I accepted that Mr Hs actual circumstances 
may not have been fully reflected either in the information he provided, or the information 
Zopa obtained. And I saw that our investigator was concerned that Mr H could re-establish 
balances on his credit cards as they remained open after this loan was arranged. 
However, I was my view that Zopa could only make a reasonable decision based on the 
information it had available at the time. It wont have known whether Mr H would go on to re-
establish balances on his credit cards  all it could do was take reasonable steps and rely on 
assurances from Mr H that the balances would be repaid with these funds. So I was satisfied 
that the proceeds of this loan could and should have been used to clear Mr Hs existing 
credit balances at a cheaper interest rate. 
I also explained that Zopa couldnt close Mr Hs credit card accounts to prevent further 
spending because they were held with other providers. It was Mr Hs responsibility to close 
his credit card accounts once hed repaid them. And as this was a first loan Zopa was 
arranging for Mr H, there wasnt a history of Mr H obtaining funds and then failing to 
consolidate debts elsewhere in the way he committed to either. So I was satisfied that Zopa 
was reasonably entitled to believe that Mr H would be left in a better position.
I went on to explain that if Zopa had gone into the depth of checks Mr H appears to be 
saying it should have  such as obtaining bank statements  it was possible that it might 
have reached a different answer. But the key here thing was that I didnt think the 
circumstances of the lending here warranted obtaining bank statements. Zopa was arranging 
a loan for a relatively small sum  especially when compared to Mr Hs income. 
Given the circumstances, I would have expected Zopa to have had a reasonable idea of       
Mr Hs income and committed non-discretionary spending, which it did here, rather than 
complete a review of  Mr Hs finances. Furthermore, Mr H hadnt provided anything which 
clearly demonstrated that further checks would have shown the loan payments were clearly 
unaffordable either.
Equally, it was only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in circumstances where 
a firm did something wrong. Given the circumstances here, and the lack of obvious 
inconsistencies, I didnt think that reasonable and proportionate checks would have 
extended into the level of checks Mr H was suggesting. As this was the case, I didnt think 
that Zopa did anything wrong when arranging this loan for Mr H - it carried out proportionate 
checks and reasonably relied on what it found out which suggested the repayments were 
affordable. 
So overall and having considered everything, I concluded by saying that was minded to find 
that Zopa didnt treat Mr H unfairly or unreasonably when arranging this loan for him. And as 
a result it wasnt my intention to uphold Mr Hs complaint. Responses to my provisional decision
Zopa didnt provide anything further or request any additional time to do so. 
Mr H didnt provide anything further or request any additional time to do so either.
My findings 
Ive read and considered all the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in 
order to decide what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
case.
In my provisional decision, I set out in some detail why I wasnt intending to uphold Mr Hs 
complaint. And as neither party has provided any further evidence or arguments for me to 
consider, Ive not been persuaded to alter my conclusions. 
So I remain satisfied that Zopa didnt treat Mr M unfairly or unreasonably when arranging this 
loan. And Im still not upholding Mr Hs complaint. I appreciate this is likely to be very 
disappointing for Mr H  especially bearing in mind our investigators initial assessment said 
that he shouldnt have been provided with this loan. But I hope hell understand the reasons 
for my decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in my provisional decision of 9 January 2022, Im 
not upholding Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman