DRN-3866863
The complaint
Mr S complains about the way American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) dealt 
with a refund claim he attempted to make in relation to a card purchase.
What happened
Mr S used his American Express card to pay for accommodation he booked using the 
services of A, a company that provides a platform for property hosts (H) to advertise their 
properties. The accommodation is located overseas. He confirmed his booking in June 2021, 
but unfortunately, shortly after this the country he intended to travel to brought in travel 
restrictions due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Mr S says these restrictions were extended so 
that they ran over the date of his intended stay. He sought to cancel his booking and recover 
his payment.
A passed Mr S on to H, who said they would be willing to refund 70% of the amount Mr S 
had paid. Mr S felt this was unfair. Despite further exchanges neither party could reach 
agreement and Mr S contacted American Express to see if his claim could be resolved 
through its card dispute resolution service (commonly known as chargeback). However, this 
didnt achieve the result Mr S was looking for and he raised a complaint.
In response American Express said it raised a claim but this was defended by reference to 
Hs booking terms and cancellation policy, which only entitled Mr S to a full refund where a 
booking was cancelled within a limited time after booking. It said the agreement between Mr 
S and H entitled him to a 50% refund in the event of cancellation after that point. While Mr S 
hadnt actually cancelled his booking, H had offered a refund of 70% and in the 
circumstances, American Express didnt think proceeding with a chargeback claim would be 
successful. It felt it had done nothing wrong.
Mr S didnt agree and asked us to look into matters. Our investigator was satisfied with the 
steps American Express took to deal with the claim, and with the reasons it gave about why 
it was unsuccessful. She didnt think American Express needed to take any action to resolve 
the complaint.
Following further representations from Mr S, the investigator expanded on her conclusions. 
In summary, she didnt think American Express was responsible for resolving the dispute 
over Hs cancellation policy, and that in any event Mr S hadnt actually cancelled the 
booking. Further, although there were restrictions applicable to persons entering the country, 
the rules in place didnt prevent H from providing accommodation during the relevant time.
Mr S didnt accept the investigators conclusions and the matter has been passed to me for 
review. Hes maintained his position that:
Hs cancellation policy was in dispute  there was no basis in the agreement for the 
70% refund H had offered and as such a full refund was equally justifiable
He had expressed on several occasions in his correspondence a clear intention to 
cancel
It had been impossible for H to provide the service. His research showed that there 
had been no other bookings made with H over the particular two-month window in 
which hed intended to stay
it was for American Express to deal with the issue raised over the disputed 
cancellation and as a consumer, he shouldnt be penalised for As (and Hs) failure to 
have a suitable procedure in place
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand the points Mr S has sought to make here. But in light of his comments  
particularly those in response to our investigator  I think its worth explaining a bit more 
about the purpose of the chargeback process and the function our service provides.
Our role is to receive complaints about the businesses we cover, consider them and  where 
appropriate  say what we think needs to be done to resolve a dispute. While we have wide-
ranging powers to deal with many complaints about financial services and the organisations 
that provide them, there are some limits to those powers. For example, while I can look at a 
complaint about the way in which American Express as a card provider dealt with Mr Ss 
request, I cant deal with concerns he has about the rules or operation of the card scheme 
itself.
Chargeback can provide a mechanism for cardholders to recover payment in some  though 
not all  disputes they have with merchants. Its not guaranteed that a claim will be 
successful; the chargeback rules allow for a claim to be raised by a cardholder, but also to 
be defended by the retailer.
In this situation, American Expresss obligations towards Mr S were to consider the 
circumstances in which it might be liable to him, or able to assist him, over the recovery of 
the money he paid. Although in certain situations a cardholder can claim directly against a 
credit provider under connected lender liability provisions of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(CCA), this doesnt apply to the card agreement Mr S has with American Express. So the 
only mechanism under which American Express could look to assist Mr S in recovering 
funds was by chargeback. That doesnt make American Express liable to refund Mr S, but I 
would expect it to raise the claim on his behalf and inform him of any response received.
Ive looked at what American Express did in this respect. I can see it raised the claim under 
a valid reason in the card scheme rules, considered the information and correspondence 
both parties provided, and having done this determined that the claim had no realistic 
prospect of recovering more than H had already proposed. While I understand Mr S was 
unhappy with this position, none of the arguments hes put forward indicate that American 
Express did anything wrong in the way it dealt with his claim.
Even if I were to accept the position that Mr Ss correspondence amounted to a cancellation 
request, his agreement with H entitled him to a 50% refund if he cancelled more than 48 
hours after booking. So that would be as much as American Express would be able to 
recover under the chargeback. As H had offered Mr S more than this, I can see why 
American Express elected not to pursue matters further. Im not persuaded the fact that H 
offered to do more than the contract required obliges it to pay even more than that.
I dont consider theres persuasive evidence that the contract was frustrated such that H was 
under an obligation to return Mr Ss payment in full. The contention that H had no other bookings during that time is not conclusive in determining that H was unable to provide 
accommodation, and the restrictions in the destination country at the key time did not 
stipulate this.
However, if Mr S considers that he has a sound claim as to why he should be entitled to a 
greater sum than H offered, there is nothing Ive said here thats intended to prevent him 
from pursuing that claim against H by other means. He may wish to obtain independent legal 
advice before doing so; Im afraid Im not in a position to offer such advice.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2023.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman