DRN-3281942
The complaint
Mr A complains that OAKBROOK FINANCE LIMITED, trading as Likely Loans (Oakbrook), 
lent to him irresponsibly. 
What happened
Oakbrook approved Mr A for two loans, the second being taken to clear the balance on the 
first loan and an advance of further capital. A summary of those approved loans is set out 
here:
Loan 
endingDate taken Amount Term in 
monthsMonthly 
repaymentAmount 
receivedDate repaid
5690
589311/2/2017
5/9/2017£2,687.76
£4,993.2018
36£149.32
£138.70£2000.00
£2890.625/9/2017
Outstanding
Oakbrook has provided us with details of what it gathered and what it knew for each of 
Mr As applications before lending. 
Mr A says that the loans were approved without proper checks, they were unaffordable and 
the overall cost each month, with other credit, was unsustainable. 
One of our adjudicators asked Mr A for copy bank statements and most (not all) covering the 
lending period with Oakbrook were sent to us. They covered three different accounts: a 
standard saver into which Mr As salary was paid; an on-line saver and a Classic account. 
The latter was the most useful and I come back to these statements later in the decision.
Our adjudicator thought that Oakbrook had carried out proportionate checks for the first loan 
and did not think that it needed to do more. For the second loan she did think that Oakbrook 
needed to look a bit deeper into Mr As finances. Our adjudicator considered the bank 
statements and did not think that there was anything in those details which, if Oakbrook had 
seen them, would have led to it altering its decision to lend loan 2. 
Mr A disagreed and so the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Considering the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, I think the questions 
I need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did Oakbrook, each time it lent, complete reasonable and proportionate checks to 
satisfy itself that Mr A would be able to repay in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr A would have been able to do so?
The rules and regulations in place required Oakbrook to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr As  ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Oakbrook had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that the business had to 
ensure that making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Mr A undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That means he should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment he had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and 
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on his financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Oakbrook to simply think about the likelihood of it getting 
its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr A. Checks also 
had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications. 
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more 
thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr As complaint.
Loan 1
From what Mr A told Oakbrook when applying, it seems that Mr A had a monthly income of 
around £1,510. Mr A has not corrected this detail with us during the complaint and so it 
seems to have been correct. From what I have seen of the credit search Oakbrook did before approving loan 1, the credit 
commitments he had appeared to be relatively low. It has sent us evidence that its research 
showed Mr A had a total debt of around £1,000.00 and six active accounts of all kinds  not 
necessarily other loans. These likely included bank accounts and we know he has three 
bank accounts. And the monthly repayments which Mr A was making in relation to the 
accounts were modest each month. And so, the Oakbrook repayment figure of around £149 
a month would have looked affordable. I think that this was a low level of commitment 
revealed by Mr As credit file, about which Oakbrook knew.
I think the checks were proportionate in the circumstances of this case and didnt indicate 
that the repayments on the loan were likely to be unsustainable for Mr A. In summary, I dont 
find that Oakbrook did anything wrong when it provided this loan to Mr A.
Loan 2
Oakbrook carried out similar checks for Loan 2. It has sent us details to show that its 
research into his income meant it knew it had reduced to around £1,395 a month. And 
Oakbrooks credit research showed a total debt of £3,200.00 and five active accounts. So, 
I do agree that the picture was different seven months after approving loan 1. But there was 
little evidence of any adverse entries on Mr As credit file obtained by Oakbrook and so in 
that respect the overall picture may have altered, but not necessarily in a deleterious way. 
Loan 2 was going to absorb the outstanding balance on the first loan and provide a further 
£1,400 of capital for Mr A. And the debt was going to be extended for a further 36 months. 
The repayments were due to be less each month for loan 2.  
The need for repayments to be sustainable meant Oakbrook needed to ensure Mr A could 
meet any repayments without undue difficulty and without having to borrow further. Ive 
thought carefully about this and Mr As case is not one where I think it was obvious 
Oakbrook should have carried out further checks. Overall, I do think that some additional 
checks by Oakbrook were required which, in view of it already having a lot of information 
about his finances, likely would have centred on why his debt had increased over seven 
months and why his income had reduced. Reviewing Mr As bank statements would have 
been one way to achieve this but not the only way. 
Having reviewed all the bank statements for each of the accounts Mr A has sent in, there are 
a lot of transfers across the accounts and its rather difficult to keep track of what Mr As 
complete financial position was. His salary was paid into his standard saver account and the 
Oakbrook loan funds were paid into his Classic account. There were lots of transfers to and 
from the third account as well and I do not know why. 
The Classic account was the one which showed Mr A's outgoings which included rent and 
some payments to credit cards and some regular bills, and these did not appear to exceed 
his income. The £139 a month for loan 2 looked to have been affordable. And although 
I have seen that Mr A spent relatively large sums of money (more than half of his income) in 
the month leading up to loan 2 on non-essential spending (currency exchange web sites) 
that would have been a  matter of choice for Mr A and not one that would have impacted on 
Oakbrooks decision in my view. 
I noticed that Mr A makes a payment each to two other high cost short term lending 
companies. But these are small sums and in light of the relatively positive credit search 
results from Oakbrook, then even if Oakbrook had asked for and obtained all three sets of 
bank statements for the month leading up to loan 2, still I think that Oakbrook would have 
lent. I agree with the adjudicator that there are not any details in the statements such that 
Oakbrook may have considered it was irresponsible to lend. In the circumstances and having reviewed all that I have in relation to this complaint from 
both parties, I have decided not to uphold Mr As complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr As complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman