DRN-3766292
The complaint
Mr L complains that he was mis-sold a timeshare product and the credit facility used to pay 
for it. The credit facility was provided by Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, which trades 
as Barclays Partner Finance and which Ill refer to as BPF. Mr L is represented by a claims 
management business, which Ill call P. Where I refer to Mr Ls submissions, I include 
those made on his behalf. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs L were existing timeshare owners and members of Club Infiniti, a timeshare and 
holiday club.  
In August 2007 they upgraded their membership and converted it into a points-based 
product. They bought 8,000 points and traded in their timeshare for a further 32,500 points. 
This left a balance due of £4,950, which was paid with a £20,000 running credit facility 
provided to Mr L by BPF. BPF says its records show that the credit facility was settled in 
November 2007.  
In or about October 2019 Mr L made a data subject access request to BPF. Following 
receipt of information received as a result of that request, he contacted BPF again in 
December 2020. In that letter he asked what checks had been made to ensure he could 
afford the payments due under the credit facility. He said too that it appeared that the broker 
which arranged the facility had not been properly authorised at the time, with the result that 
the credit facility was not enforceable. 
In December 2021 P referred the matter to this service on Mr Ls behalf. It said, in summary, 
that the timeshare had been misrepresented to him, that the broker did not have the 
necessary authorisation to arrange credit and that the credit facility created an unfair 
relationship between Mr L and BPF. P said as well that BPF had not properly assessed 
whether the credit facility was affordable. 
BPF said that, given the time that had elapsed since the events complained of, this service 
had no power to consider the complaint. 
One of our investigators considered what had happened and issued a provisional 
assessment. That assessment did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. The 
investigator concluded that parts of it would be out of time under the Limitation Act 1980; 
credit brokers did not require authorisation from the regulator in August 2007; and there was 
no evidence that the facility was not affordable.  
Mr L did not accept the investigators conclusions and asked that an ombudsman review the 
case. 
I did that and issued a provisional decision, in which I said:
The complaint about suitability and the credit assessment
P says that BPF did not properly assess the affordability of the credit facility, but I have not 
been provided with any further information or evidence about that.  
Our own rules say that we cannot generally consider a complaint unless it is referred to us 
within six years of the event complained of or, if later, within three years of the date on which 
the complainant knew, or ought reasonably to have known, that he had cause for complaint.  
The event complained of in this case is the credit assessment that BPF carried out (or did 
not carry out) in August 2007. The facility was repaid within months, but no complaint was 
made until more than 13 years later  It is at least arguable therefore that this part of the 
complaint should have been referred to this service by no later than 9 August 2013  six 
years from the date the credit facility was opened and that, because it was not, we have no 
power to consider it. 
I have nevertheless considered the position on the basis that Mr L was not aware that he 
had cause for complaint  because he might not have known that BPF should have carried 
out checks. Even if that is the case, however, there is no evidence that Mr L had any 
difficulty making payments in the short period he used the facility. He has not explained 
either how or why he repaid it so quickly. I do note however that the facility included 
reference to an Interest Free Period (which applied to some facilities granted by BPF), so it 
is possible that it was repaid before any interest became payable. 
I note as well that P has referred extensively to the part of the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
Handbook which deals with consumer credit (known as CONC) in support of Mr Ls 
position. However, FCA did not become responsible for the regulation of consumer lending 
until some years after the events complained of here.
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  
One effect of section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act is that a customer who has a claim for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation against a supplier can, subject to certain conditions, 
bring that claim against a lender. Those conditions include:
that the lending financed the contract giving rise to the claim; and 
that the lending was provided under pre-existing arrangements or in contemplation of 
future arrangements between the lender and the supplier. 
It is clear in this case that the loan financed the purchase of the points and club membership. 
The seller is named in the timeshare contract as Albatros Ventas SL and in the credit facility 
as Royal Park Albatros. I assume that the latter is simply a trading style of the former and 
that section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act can therefore apply. I have therefore considered 
the effect of what Mr L has said about the sale itself. 
Misrepresentation and breach of contract
A misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of law or of fact, made by one party 
to a contract to the other, which is untrue and which induces the other party into the contract. 
A breach of contract occurs when one party to a contract does not fulfil its obligations to the 
other. That is, it does not do what it has agreed to do or does not provide what it has agreed 
to provide. 
However, under the Limitation Act 1980 an action (that is, court action) based on contract 
(which includes claims for misrepresentation) cannot generally be brought after six years 
from the date on which the cause of action accrued. Any statements which might have induced Mr L into the contract for the August 2007 
purchase of points were made on or before 9 August 2007; since he and Mrs L were already 
Club members, its possible that they relied on what they had been told or their own 
experiences even before that. They did not however raise any complaint with BPF until the 
end of 2020, more than 13 years later. I think it very likely therefore that a court would 
conclude that any claim for misrepresentation was made outside the time limit in the 
Limitation Act. 
Mr L has not alleged any specific breach of contract here. 
I stress that it is not for me to decide whether any underlying claim is now out of time under 
the Limitation Act. Rather, I must decide whether the response of BPF to the claim under 
section 75 was reasonable. Given the real possibility that a court would say that the claims 
are time-barred, I think it was. 
 Section 140A claims
Under section 140A and section 140B of the Consumer Credit Act a court has the power to 
consider whether a credit agreement creates an unfair relationship and, if it does, to make 
appropriate orders in respect of it. Those orders can include imposing different terms on the 
parties, refunding payments and re-opening an agreement which has come to an end. In 
considering whether a credit agreement creates and unfair relationship, a court can have 
regard to any connected agreement, which in this case could include the contract with 
Albatros Ventas SL. 
The usual time limit for these types of claims under the Limitation Act is six years from the 
time the relationship between the parties ended. The relationship between Mr L and BPF in 
this case ended when the credit facility was repaid in November 2007. 
Again, it is not for me to say whether a claim is time-barred under the Limitation Act but, 
given the delay in making the allegation that the facility created an unfair relationship, I think 
that BPFs response to it was reasonable. 
Authorisation of Albatros Ventas SL / Royal Park Albatros 
P says that the seller and/or broker was not authorised to arrange credit in August 2007, 
contrary to section 19 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA), and that the 
loan is therefore not enforceable.
At the relevant time, section 19 of FSMA said:
 19 The general prohibition.
(1) No person may carry on a regulated activity in the United Kingdom, or purport to do so, 
unless he is
(a) an authorised person; or
(b) an exempt person.
(2) The prohibition is referred to in this Act as the general prohibition.
Section 27 of FSMA provided:
27 Agreements made through unauthorised persons.
(1) An agreement made by an authorised person (the provider) (a) in the course of carrying on a regulated activity (not in contravention of the general 
prohibition), but
(b) in consequence of something said or done by another person (the third party) in the 
course of a regulated activity carried on by the third party in contravention of the general 
prohibition,
is unenforceable against the other party.
A regulated activity was an activity specified in The Financial Services and Markets Act 
2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 2001. It did not in August 2007 include consumer credit 
broking or consumer credit lending (although it now does). 
It follows that neither BPF nor Albatros Ventas SL / Royal Park Albatros was carrying out a 
regulated activity at the time. Neither therefore needed FCA (or FSA, as it then was) 
authorisation in August 2007. They would have needed a licence issued by the Office of Fair 
Trading, the body responsible for consumer credit at the time. 
Our records indicate that BPF had the necessary licence, since it was covered by our 
consumer credit jurisdiction at the time and remains subject to our compulsory jurisdiction.  
But whether the seller / broker had the necessary licence does not in my view make any 
difference to the outcome here. It would not affect the enforceability of the credit facility. 
I invited both parties to make further submissions, if they wanted to do so. Neither has 
however provided any more evidence or arguments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Mr L nor BPF has provided any more information for me to consider, I see no 
reason to reach a final decision which differs from that set out in my provisional decision.  
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ls complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2023. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman