DRN-4468505
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Aviva Insurance Limited declined a claim she made under home 
insurance policy for subsidence.
What happened
As the circumstances of this complaint arent in dispute, Ill summarise whats happened.
Mrs S got in touch with Aviva after noticing damage to the front of her home. Aviva 
appointed a loss adjuster who inspected it.
The loss adjuster said the nature of the damage suggested the cause was 
subsidence, most likely as a result of a water leak. They also said they thought the 
damage had been ongoing since 2008, based on photos.
Aviva declined the claim because it said the damage began before the policy did.
Our investigator didnt think Aviva had acted fairly. He said the policy term relating to 
pre-existing subsidence damage only applied if Mrs S knew about it  and there was 
no evidence to suggest she did. And since the problem was ongoing, he thought 
Aviva should reconsider the claim.
Mrs S agreed with this but Aviva didnt, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the position reached by the investigator. Ill explain why.
The policy covers damage to the building caused by subsidence, subject to a number 
of policy terms. It seems to be accepted the damage has been caused by 
subsidence.
Its not clear what policy term Aviva has relied on to decline the claim, which is 
disappointing. All its said is that the damage is pre-existing. Theres a policy term 
which says subsidence isnt covered if Mrs S knew when this policy started that any 
part of the buildings had already been damaged by subsidence.
For Aviva to rely on this policy term, it would need to show the following:
1. Subsidence damage began before the policy did, and
2. Mrs S knew about it, and
3. It would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances to rely on it.
Aviva accepts it hasnt carried out full investigations. For example, it hasnt surveyed 
the drains its loss adjuster thinks may be leaking. And whilst it says the damage has 
potentially been ongoing since 2008, it hasnt provided a professional report to 
clearly articulate its reasoning for this. Its provided a few photos which Im not 
satisfied support its position. Again, this is disappointing.
So Aviva hasnt identified the cause of the problem  or established that it has likely 
been ongoing prior to the start of the policy. Nor has it shown Mrs S was aware of the 
problem before the start of the policy.
So Im not satisfied Aviva has shown point 1 or point 2 apply here. That means it 
cant rely on the policy term to decline the claim outright.
Even if it had shown this, I would go on to consider whether relying on the policy term 
would treat Mrs S fairly and reasonably in the circumstances.
Bearing in mind the problem is ongoing, and the approach set out in the Association 
of British Insurers Domestic Subsidence Agreement, unless Aviva could show Mrs S 
had clearly been aware of the subsidence problem prior to the policy beginning, its 
unlikely Id find it had acted fairly and reasonably. Aviva ought to be aware of this 
agreement and it ought to have taken it into account when considering the claim.
Overall, Im very disappointed with the way Aviva has handled this claim. It hasnt 
shown any of the things it needed to show in order to decline the claim and doesnt 
seem to have considered a longstanding industry-wide approach.
As a result, its caused a significant delay investigating the claim  and thats left Mrs 
S to live with the damage and the uncertainty of how and when itll be resolved for 
longer than they should have been.
Im satisfied thats caused Mrs S avoidable distress. I consider Aviva should pay 
£500 compensation to put that right. To be clear, this amount is solely to recognise 
the non-financial impact on Mrs S  its not a payment towards the damage.
The next steps are for Aviva to reconsider the claim, subject to the terms and 
conditions of the policy, to decide whether its covered or not.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Aviva Insurance Limited to:
Reconsider the claim
Pay £500 compensation
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2024.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman