DRN-2925893
The complaint
Mr R complains about the service he received from HSBC UK Bank Plc, when attempting to 
make an online payment from his bank account. 
What happened
Mr R holds a bank account with HSBC. In January 2021 he attempted to transfer £5,000 to a 
third party. He initially transferred £100 to test whether the payment would go through, and it 
did; but when he transferred the remaining £4,900, the payment was blocked, along with his 
access to his internet banking. 
Mr R received a call from HSBC after this, but didnt feel comfortable in discussing his 
account on an incoming call, and agreed to call them back. He tried calling back, but wasnt 
prepared to wait on hold for an unknown length of time, so he terminated the calls and 
visited a branch a few days later. The branch completed the required checks; processed the 
payment; and restored his online access. But Mr R was still unhappy with the overall service 
he received, and the fact he felt he had to visit a branch during the Covid-19 pandemic, so 
he complained. 
HSBC said their regulatory requirements and account terms require them to carry out checks 
on transactions they perceive as unusual. And that this attempted payment breached a 
security parameter within their fraud detection system. So it was held back until they could 
undertake the required checks.
HSBC said they attempted to call Mr R to carry out the checks, and agreed for Mr R to call 
back on the number on his card, as he was understandably concerned about the legitimacy 
of their call. They acknowledged their call wait times were particularly high due to the Covid-
19 pandemic, but they said that by that evening no call had been received. So as they were 
unable to carry out the required checks, the payment was subsequently reversed, and online 
access was revoked in order to protect the account. They said they processed Mr Rs 
payment and restored online access after he visited the branch a few days later, having 
completed the necessary checks. They think they handled things fairly.
Unhappy with HSBCs response. Mr R brought his complaint to our service.  
An investigator considered Mr Rs complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He said that 
he felt HSBC acted in Mr Rs best interests in revoking online access when they thought a 
suspicious payment had been attempted from his account. He accepted the call wait times 
Mr R experienced were longer than ideal, but equally, he felt that given the Covid-19 
pandemic, even by January 2021, that it wasnt unusual or unreasonable to expect 
customers to have to wait longer than usual. He said he felt that had Mr R waited longer, its 
likely he wouldve been able to resolve the matter by phone, without visiting a branch. 
But Mr R remained unhappy, so the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Banks have measures in place to protect their customers accounts  this is not unusual. 
These will generally include, but are not limited to, things like; fraud prevention systems, and 
customer verification checks. 
HSBC said their fraud detection system highlighted Mr Rs transaction as a potential 
concern, so it was subsequently blocked in order to protect his account, until they were able 
to verify it was legitimate. I think this was reasonable. 
HSBC have shown that they called Mr R regarding the transaction, and Mr R accepts this. 
And they appreciate why Mr R was reluctant to give out information regarding his personal 
account, following an incoming call. But when Mr R called back, by his own admission, he 
generally waited on hold for around 20  30 minutes, before terminating the call each time. 
And he later emailed HSBC explaining that he felt it was unacceptable to have to wait for up 
to an hour to get through to someone to discuss his accounts. 
While I appreciate that waiting on hold for over half an hour may have been inconvenient for 
Mr R, in the current climate, against the backdrop of the global pandemic, banks are on the 
whole receiving a much higher volume of calls then they are generally used to. This is also 
at a time where they are having to adapt to new working practices, with many staff working 
from home. And while I appreciate this was not at the start of the pandemic, I still dont think 
its unreasonable to expect that Mr R may need to wait on hold for longer than half an hour 
to contact HSBC, around the time he called. 
Mr R has said the fact that this matter went on for several days, ultimately resulting in him 
having to visit the branch during a global pandemic, has caused him great distress. But I 
think that had Mr R waited on hold for longer than he did, its likely he would have been able 
to verify the transaction as legitimate; allowing the payment to be processed that day, and for 
any block to be removed from his online banking facility without needing to visit a branch. 
So, while I accept this may be disappointing for Mr R, I dont think HSBC were wrong to 
block the above payment, and revoke access to online banking, as I believe they had 
genuine concerns about the validity of the transaction. And, while frustrating, I dont think 
that having to wait for more than half an hour to speak with someone in the current climate is 
unreasonable. I think had Mr R done so, he wouldve been able to resolve the matter over 
the phone, without needing to visit the branch as he did. So, for these reasons, I wont be 
upholding Mr Rs complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2021.
 
Brad McIlquham
Ombudsman