DRN-2935817
The complaint
Mrs N says Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) has unfairly said it wont meet a claim 
she made for some jewellery that was stolen.
What happened
Mrs N went on holiday in August 2019 and says for safety hid some jewellery (four gold 
bangles) in her boiler room. The bangles were normally kept in her bedroom.
At the end of August two different contractors visited her home to repair the boiler. The first 
did a poor job and was on site for several hours on two occasions. The second called a 
couple of days later and repaired her boiler.
In late January 2021, nearly 18 months later, Mrs N realised her jewellery was missing. She 
contacted RSA about making a claim, saying she believed the first contractor stole the items. 
She also told the police about the theft and got a crime reference number for this, although 
the police arent looking into the crime.
RSA asked one of its specialists to look at the claim, and they estimated that the items might 
be worth about £2,000 each. They based that on the price Mrs N says her ex-husband paid 
for the bangles in 2000 and 2001  which was £500 per bangle.
RSA asked Mrs N to provide some proof of ownership. Mrs N sent photos  one of her 
wearing one bangle and another of an empty box. Her two children say they recall her 
owning four bangles.
RSA said it wouldnt pay the claim because Mrs N hadnt provided enough proof that she 
actually owned the lost items.
Mrs N complained but RSA didnt change its stance, so she asked to review her complaint.
Our investigator didnt think he could ask RSA to meet the claim without better evidence that 
Mrs N owned the items  so he didnt think the complaint could be upheld. During our 
review, RSA said it also wasnt convinced that a theft had actually taken place.
Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read everything Mrs N sent us, but Im not going to comment on every point shes made, 
and instead Ill concentrate on the key issues. I can assure her though that Ive thought 
carefully about what shes said.
Mrs Ns policy says she must provide RSA with any information or evidence it asks for to 
support the claim  and that includes evidence that she owned the jewellery shes claiming 
for, and reasonable evidence that a theft took place. This is a standard requirement of 
property insurance policies and ensure that insurers gain the cooperation of policyholders in 
verifying their claims. RSA says Mrs N hasnt done that.
In order to make a successful claim, a customer needs to show that an insured event has 
taken place. Having looked at Mrs Ns policy, it seems that Mrs N didnt have accidental loss 
cover for her possessions, so it seems theft is the only category RSA could have considered 
the claim under. 
RSA agreed to consider the claim and its specialist thought the bangles might be worth 
£2,000 each. So the whole claim would be about £8,000. Mrs N thinks RSA only began 
focussing on ownership and receipts etc after it realised the claim was at this level. I cant 
say RSA was wrong to do that. It will set its own processes for validating claims, and it 
seems reasonable to me that it would check more carefully if the claim was higher than 
expected.
RSA asked Mrs N for some evidence to show she owned the bangles. Mrs N says her ex-
husband bought them for her about twenty years ago  and paid about £500 each for them. 
There arent any receipts. The only evidence Mrs N could provide were some photos of her 
wearing one bangle. I believe the photos are dated, as Mrs N says she hasnt worn the 
bangles for at least this long. Both of her adult children have said they remember there being 
four bangles, but not anything else about them. The only other item of evidence is an empty 
jewellery box designed to hold one or more bangles.
I think Mrs N has most likely done enough to show she owned one bangle many years ago. 
But I cant say shes provided any compelling evidence about how much it was worth, or if it 
is one that was stolen. I can see that she described her bangles as being 8 cm thick  
which the bangle in the photos doesnt appear to be. That could be an understandable 
mistake on her part, but it does mean theres some inconsistencies in what shes told RSA. 
Im not persuaded shes shown that the bangle in the photos is likely one that was stolen, or 
indeed if it could be worth more than the excess (£200) shed have to pay before a claim 
was met. 
I think RSA acted fairly when it said it wouldnt meet the claim.
RSA has also told us it wasnt persuaded a theft actually took place  although hasnt said 
that to Mrs N, so it isnt a reason why it refused her claim. For completeness Ill comment on 
this.
The timeline for this claim is unusual: Mrs N says she didnt realise the items were missing 
for about 18 months after she hid them in the boiler room. But she also told us she moved 
them there as a precaution before she went on holiday  previously she kept them in her 
bedroom. 
I understand why Mrs N did this. But Id have thought that, as Mrs N was worried enough 
about her possessions to move them before leaving the house empty, that shed have likely 
checked they were safe on her return. She doesnt appear to have done that, nor checked 
after two workmen were in the room where shed hidden the items. 18 months is a very long 
time to leave something like this unchecked. 
I accept that this could have been an oversight  but it makes it very difficult to establish 
whether the bangles were stolen and if so, when. I understand they were in a cupboard 
containing bedding, but it is possible they could have been inadvertently moved and 
forgotten about, at any time between when Mrs N hid them and when she discovered the 
loss. And Mrs N does need to be able to show RSA with some certainty that the items were 
actually stolen. I appreciate that Mrs N says there were no other visitors to the house who 
went into the boiler room during the 18 months in question. But she does share her home 
with adult relatives, so Id expect there would be some coming and going over this period of 
time. 
Mrs N thinks the first contractor might have stolen the bangles  but theres no proof of that, 
and Mrs Ns suspicions seem mostly to be based on the facts that he didnt do a good job on 
the boiler and she left him unsupervised. It doesnt seem Mrs N had any doubts about his honesty at the time, as she didnt check her belongings were safe after he left. Its difficult to 
give much weight to suggestions based on hindsight so long after an event possibly took 
place. And although I can see Mrs N reported the theft to the police, they have said theyre 
not investigating. Thats likely a reflection of the uncertain timing of any theft and the difficulty 
in identifying a possible thief so long after the event.
I understand Mrs N has been upset by the loss of these items, but I cant say RSA has 
unfairly refused her claim, as she hasnt been able to show if or when the items were stolen 
or provided satisfactory proof of ownership or value
Mrs N has pointed out that other policies require her to get high value items re-valued every 
so often. And many do. But thats usually reserved for items listed specifically on a policy, 
and I dont think its relevant here. On the policy Mrs N had with RSA it asked her to list 
valuable items worth more than £2,000, as thats the maximum it would pay for an 
unspecified item. Jewellery is listed as a valuable. Thats reasonable, and it would have 
been Mrs Ns responsibility to check how much her jewellery was worth if she had any 
doubts on this point. I havent seen anything in RSAs written response that says this is a 
reason for not meeting the claim, so I dont think this point affects my decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above Im not upholding this complaint, and I do not require Royal & 
Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to take any further action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2021.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman