DRN-3819719
The complaint
Ms C is unhappy that Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd declined her 
claim on her pet insurance policy.
What happened
In November 2021 Ms C took out a policy with Casualty & General to cover her dog. In May 
2022 she took her dog to the vet as he wasnt interested in eating or walking and appeared 
generally unwell.
The vet carried out some tests and diagnosed renal failure, with treatment provided over the 
course of two days. Following this Ms C submitted a claim for costs incurred for the 
treatment but Casualty & General declined the claim.
They said the claim had been submitted for investigating inappetence and cough leading to 
kidney failure. As the dog had previously been investigated for inappetence and cough, and 
the 365 day period of cover had ended, no further cover would be provided under the policy 
in relation to any treatment for laryngeal paralysis.
Ms C brought a complaint to this service, our investigator felt that Casualty & Generally 
hadnt declined the claim fairly as the claim was for a new condition, and they should 
reconsider it. As Casualty & General disagreed, it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Casualty & General have a responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly and they 
shouldnt decline a claim unreasonably. The terms and conditions set out the agreement 
between Ms C and Casualty & General and it details what is and isnt covered.
Ms Cs policy was the essential cover which meant she can claim per condition up to the 
benefit limit as shown on her policy schedule for a maximum period of 12 months from the 
date of the first symptom and or clinical sign was noticed, or treatment started, whichever 
happens first. Once the 12 months passed, or the benefit limit has been reached, no further 
cover will be provided for that condition - even following future renewals. 
Ive considered whether Casualty & Generals decision to decline the claim on the basis that 
symptoms for the condition claimed for had been present for more than 12 months before 
the claim. 
The vet records show previous visits to the vet where the dogs symptoms were cough and 
lack of appetite. However, these symptoms led to a diagnosis of gastritis in 2016 and 
suspected laryngeal paralysis which the dog has received ongoing treatment for since 
February 2020. 
Ms C isnt looking to claim for treatment in respect of laryngeal paralysis or the respiratory 
system. Her dog was diagnosed with renal failure. Whilst I accept there was mention of 
cough and lack of appetite in previous visits, the underlying cause wasnt the same. 
Following the decline of the claim Ms C vet provided information to Casualty & General 
which said:
Our vet has checked the details of the clinical records and can confirm the treatment 
was indeed for the renal issues and that none of the treatment involves the condition 
laryngeal paralysis.
This supports that it is a separate illness, and I havent seen anything to suggest renal failure 
is linked to laryngeal paralysis. So based on what Ive seen I dont think Casualty & General 
have declined the claim fairly.
Casualty & General have said the early renal disease wouldnt have been identified if it had 
not been for the dogs suspected diagnosis of laryngeal paralysis. However, I dont agree. 
Ms C took her dog to the vets each time he was poorly. Irrespective of previous visits its 
evident Ms C wouldve consulted a vet if her dog was showing signs that he was unwell. In 
this instance, some of the symptoms were different as he had vomited with traces of blood.
The claim form completed by the vet detailed the condition as Investigations of inappetence 
& coughing led to diagnosis of kidney failure. However, this just explains the symptoms 
Ms Cs dog presented with when he was diagnosed with renal failure. It doesnt say these 
symptoms are linked to it and I can see these werent the only symptoms at the time.
Casualty & General have since referenced to an American website adding that Ms Cs dog 
experienced signs of lethargy, inappetence and vomiting, and weakness after walks which 
are signs of renal failure. I note they didnt reference this in their final response letter and 
declined the claim as there had been previous investigations for inappetence and cough.
I think it is clear from the medical records that Ms Cs dog was previously suspected of 
having and treated for Laryngeal Paralysis. With symptoms starting in February 2020. He 
then wasnt seen again until May 2021. The vet notes say:
Long history of presumed laryngeal paralysis though doesnt affect exercise ability. 
Cough/ retching much more frequentlydid vomit once after retching, is eating well 
and is bright
The medication prescribed following this was working which is evident from a prescription 
request from Ms C in December 2021. 
In February 2022 Ms C contacted the vet as her dog had been coughing more at night, it 
was noted he was eating and drinking ok and fine during the day. He was going on walks for 
30/40 minutes per day with no issues. But in the last few weeks he had recovered less after 
walks. The vet said it could be ongoing laryngeal paralysis and being made worse by a 
secondary infection such as aspiration pneumonia. The vet prescribed doxycycline, which is 
an antibiotic, along with his regular Loxicom. 
The dog was vomiting soon after he had begun the new medication, but this seemed to 
resolve itself until the end of May 2022. Ms C took her dog to the vet at this time as his 
breathing was laboured, he wasnt eating much and had been bringing up watery fluid with 
traces of blood. It was at this point the early renal disease was detected.
Casualty & General have suggested the medication Ms Cs dog had been prescribed by the 
vet could have led to the renal failure. They quoted:the side affects of taking loxicom include; side effects sometimes seen with other 
NSAIDs, such as loss of appetite, vomiting, diarrhoea, blood appearing in the stools, 
renal (kidney) failure and apathy (lack of vitality) are occasionally seen with 
Loxicom in dogs and cats. These generally occur within the first week of treatment 
and usually disappear once treatment has stopped. In very rare cases they may be 
serious or fatal.
And therefore they feel the cough and inappetence is linked to renal failure. 
Whilst I accept there are side effects to taking medications and that it says renal failure can 
be a side effect of taking Loxicom, it also says loss of appetite, vomiting and apathy can be. 
So those symptoms Ms Cs dog was experiencing such as vomiting and lethargy could also 
have been in relation to the medication as opposed to anything underlying. 
Additionally, Ms C had visited the vet with her dog on several occasions. Whilst the vet had 
noted that an examination of the back of throat would be useful, they noted it likely wouldnt 
change what they do next. Ms Cs dog proceeded with the medication as prescribed by the 
vet for suspected laryngeal paralysis. The vet didnt note the need to specify a blood test 
until the visit in May 2022 when the dog presented with additional symptoms such as 
laboured breathing, not eating and bringing up watery fluid with traces of blood.
I havent seen anything that persuades me that Ms Cs dogs symptoms of cough and 
inappetence were linked specifically to the diagnoses of early renal failure. The website 
information Casualty & General have provided are not specific to Ms Cs dogs medical 
records and history, rather its more general detail about how dogs can be affected. 
Additionally, whilst Casualty & General have provided further information in relation to 
lethargy, vomiting and weakness after walks being a potential sign of renal failure, Im not 
persuaded thats the case here. I say this because it isnt unusual for anyone to vomit after 
retching which is what happened to Ms Cs dog May 2021. He was eating well and had been 
able to exercise as expected with no issues. It was only in February 2022 that his health had 
gone downhill but the vet at that time still suspected the Laryngeal Paralysis along with a 
secondary infection, and renal function or issues were not noted as a concern until the point 
of claim.
Overall, Im more persuaded by the treating vets notes and comments on the basis that 
theyve seen Ms Cs dog and have treated it first-hand. The information Casualty & General 
seek to rely on is only from an internet search of these conditions, rather than from an actual 
vet. The onus is on them to demonstrate that an exclusion fairly applies here, and Im not 
satisfied they have.   
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and direct Casualty & General 
Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd to pay Ms Cs claim subject to the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy.
If Ms C has already paid her vet fees they should add interest of 8% simple per annum* from 
the date she paid the claim until the date its settled. 
*If Casualty & General considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Ms C how much its taken off. It should also give 
Ms C a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or reject my decision before 2 May 2023.
 
Karin Hutchinson
Ombudsman