DRN-3765691
The complaint
Ms G complains Aviva Insurance Limited didnt deal with her plumbing and heating cover 
fairly and reasonably. 
Aviva Insurance Limited, as the underwriter of the insurance contract, is responsible for this 
complaint. HomeServe administers the contract. For ease Ill refer to both their actions as 
Avivas actions.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here. 
Instead, I will focus on the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms G took out 12 months plumbing and heating cover with Aviva in December 2021. The 
terms set out a boiler health check (BHC) must be completed within 90 days of the cover 
start date. They go on to say if the check reveals pre-existing fault(s), boiler cover will be 
suspended to allow for the customer to arrange for the fault(s) to be fixed. If evidence is 
provided to show the fault(s) has been fixed within 28 days, the boiler cover is reinstated. 
These terms are common, and I find them clear. 
A BHC was completed at the end of December 2021. The engineer reported that the boiler 
passed, but there was a fault with the thermostat. Aviva considered this a pre-existing fault in 
need of fixing. Aviva wrote to Ms G on 13 January 2022. The letter explained the situation 
and what Ms G needed to do. It went on to say that if the fault wasnt fixed by 11 February 
2022 the boiler part of the cover would be cancelled. I find Avivas position here reasonable 
as a thermostat is a key part of a central heating system.
Ms G expressed her dissatisfied to Aviva in January 2022. She didnt consider Aviva had 
explained the situation properly and, as she didnt get the 13 January 2022 letter (which she 
noted was about two weeks after the engineers visit) until 20 January 2022, she thought she 
should be given an extension to the deadline to fix the fault. Aviva issued a final response in 
February 2022 explaining the situation. Ms G had the thermostat replaced at the start of 
March 2022 and provided evidence to Aviva. By this time, however, cover had been 
cancelled, seemingly because it hadnt been paid for. 
While I accept Ms G remained dissatisfied with what had happened to this point and 
continued to seek a resolution from Aviva, Im satisfied, in the round, Aviva acted fairly and 
reasonably. I say this because, as set out above, I find it was reasonable for it to consider 
the thermostat issue a pre-existing fault which needed fixing. And, ultimately, Aviva wasnt in 
a position to provide cover in the circumstances given a lack of payment. While frustrating 
for Ms G, things dont always go smoothly, and I can see in mid-March 2022 Aviva 
suggested she arrange for new cover with it. I find this was a pragmatic solution given by this 
point the thermostat had been fixed and cover could start afresh.  
In early May 2022 new cover was set up. This led to the need for a further BHC. I find this 
reasonable as the original BHC had shown a pre-existing fault and by this point the better 
part of six months had passed. In early June 2022, in line with previous commitments, Aviva 
agreed to waive the need for a BHC and remove the usual new cover exclusion. It asked 
Ms G to call it to reinstate the cover and to set up a new direct debit. I find Avivas actions 
here fair and reasonable as it provided a way forward and implemented Ms Gs requests. 
Ms G didnt call Aviva, the cover wasnt reinstated, a direct debit wasnt set up, and no 
payment was subsequently made. This led to the second cover being cancelled towards the 
end of June 2022. Cancelling due to non-payment is common practice and I consider it 
reasonable. Ms G later had a boiler problem which she had to pay to fix. While I can 
understand her frustration at this, she wasnt on cover with Aviva at the time, so I cant fairly 
require Aviva to reimburse her.
Overall, while I accept Ms G is disappointed with Aviva, Im not persuaded its done anything 
wrong to the extent I can fairly require it to reimburse her for the boiler repair or pay her 
compensation for any distress and inconvenience shes experienced.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2023.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman