DRN-1958314
The complaint
Mr P complains that his home emergency insurer, Aviva Insurance Limited, has unfairly 
declined his claim for damage to the drainage at his property under his landlord insurance 
policy.
What happened
Mr P holds commercial insurance for a block of flats that he owns. He said the drainage 
became blocked and he contacted Aviva who sent an engineer who cleared the blockage. 
He said the problem returned twice more and an engineer found that a drain had collapsed.
Mr P said contractors refused to accept the work of repairing the drain and at that point 
Aviva refused his claim. He said the water board told him the collapsed drain was within the 
boundary of his property and so was his responsibility to repair. 
Mr P said Aviva told him the blockage is in a common area of the drainage and so claims are 
excluded. He said this cant be correct as the whole block is covered by his insurance policy. 
Mr P said the collapsed drain is exterior to the building and not in a common area and so 
Aviva is liable for his claim. Mr P said hes paid for the repairs himself and now seeks a full 
refund of the cost.
Aviva told Mr P that his claim was declined under a term in his policy, if your property is a
flat, any issues relating to the external drainage and/or external water supply, will only be 
covered if you are solely responsible for maintaining it. Any issues within communal areas 
are not covered. Aviva apologised for giving Mr P conflicting information about his claim and 
not updating him and offered him £95 compensation. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said Avivas engineer 
identified that the problem is within a communal part of the drainage. She said it was quite 
clear from the policy that communal areas are not covered, and the policy Mr P has taken 
out is to cover the drainage within each individual flat. The investigator said the 
compensation paid to Mr P by Aviva for its poor service was fair.
Mr P disagreed with the investigator and requested an ombudsman review his complaint. He 
said the damage was external but should have been covered under the policy as it isnt a 
communal area. He said the policy wording is very confusing and Avivas staff were 
confused as they had told him his claim was covered. 
Mr P said he should have been told his claim wasnt covered after the engineers first visit, 
but Aviva sent out engineers as they thought it was covered under the policy. Mr P also said 
he had paid an excess of £30 to Aviva which it refused to refund as they paid him £95 
compensation. Mr P said he didnt understand why he had to pay them an excess if they 
hadnt completed the repair.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P said Aviva had accepted the claim and told him that it would be covered under the 
policy, but when it discovered the extent of the work required to address the repairs it then 
declined his claim. 
The work to address the damage to Mr Ps drainage shifted from clearing a blockage to 
repairing a collapsed drain. Work to deal with both of these problems is covered by his policy 
with Aviva, which states, The engineer will resolve the immediate problem by clearing 
blockages. 
When Avivas agents first responded to Mr Ps call for assistance they thought they were 
only dealing with a blockage, and on at least two occasions this was cleared. After this the 
underlying problem of the collapsed drain became apparent and Aviva has considered the 
cover available to Mr P under his policy.
Aviva said that Mr P hasnt taken out a policy to cover the block of flats, as it doesnt provide 
insurance policies of this kind. It said Mr P has taken out individual policies for each flat and 
the policy terms are clear that these cover what happens with the drainage in those flats but 
not any of the communal areas. 
Ive looked at Mr Ps policies and these are named for specific flats in the block he owns. Ive 
seen the exclusion clause for any issues within communal areas mentioned above. The 
drainage of the flats in the multiple dwelling that Mr P owns passes into the one drain that 
has been damaged and this is correctly considered to be a communal area. As well as the 
exclusion clause the policy schedule for each flats policy states, This policy meets the 
needs of landlords requiring assistance in the event of certain plumbing problems at their 
tenanted property. Within the policy definitions it states, If the property covered under this 
policy is a flat, communal or service duct areas are excluded. 
I think it was clear that the policies Mr P took out were for each individual flat within the 
block, and dont cover damage to the communal areas. This interpretation is supported by 
the exclusion clause that Aviva has relied upon to decline Mr Ps claim. Mr P would need to 
claim on his normal building insurance policy for the block of flats in order to have the cost of 
the damage met. Im not sure if he has done this but if not this is what I recommend him to 
do. 
I can understand Mr Ps disappointment at the decline of his claim given the work that had 
already been carried out. However, I havent seen anything to show that Aviva had told him it 
would be responsible for the repair of the collapsed drain. And I think its clear from the 
policy documents that damage within communal areas isnt covered. It follows that I consider 
it was reasonable for Aviva to decline Mr Ps claim.
I think the compensation paid to Mr P by Aviva for its poor service in handling his claim was 
fair. I also think it was fair for Aviva to charge the policy excess payment of £30 given the 
expense it incurred.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2021.
 Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman