DRN-3782894
The complaint
Mr T complains about delays by Scottish Equitable Plc trading as AEGON Scottish Equitable 
(Aegon) in the transfer of his pension plan to a Small Self-Administered Scheme (SSAS).
What happened
Mr T had a personal pension with Aegon. In September 2020 he contacted Aegon to check if 
he had the right form for requesting a transfer. On 2 November Aegon received a signed 
transfer discharge form requesting a transfer to the SSAS. The documents said the SSAS 
had been set up in September following a request from Mr T.
Aegon contacted Mr T saying the national insurance number quoted wasnt correct and 
asking him to confirm it, which he did. It also advised Mr T it may have to carry out some due 
diligence checks.
There was further email correspondence during November 2020. Aegon sent a 
questionnaire for completion together with information about pension scams. Mr T returned 
the form but some questions were not answered, so Aegon asked him to complete those. On 
19 November Mr T asked Aegon why things were taking so long. Aegon advised that due to 
the due diligence process there wasnt a precise timescale but said it would deal with the 
transfer as soon as possible.
In January 2021 Mr T emailed Aegon saying it had been three months since he made his 
request and he was missing out on investment opportunities. Aegon said it was still dealing 
with due diligence checks and asked for details of his employment. Mr T asked why this 
information hadnt been requested earlier. Aegon said the additional information was 
required under the relevant industry guidance and asked for it to be provided.
On 27 January 2021 Aegon sent a further email asking for a 'Declaration Discharge and 
Indemnity' form to be signed and returned. Mr T returned this on 29 January, together with 
the information requested in the previous email. The transfer funds were then sent to the 
administrators of the SSAS on 2 February 2021.
After Mr T complained about delays Aegon sent a final response saying:
it was appropriate to do the due diligence checks and the regulator allows 6 months 
to complete checks, though it could have dealt with this quicker;
the final piece of information was received on 29 January and the transfer was 
completed on 2 February;
it should deal with correspondence within five working days but didnt always do this 
and had identified a delay of three weeks and four working days;
investment decisions for the new pension were made by Mr T and to date he hadnt 
invested, so it couldnt confirm if there had been any impact on his pension;
if Mr T felt the delay did impact on his investments and potentially caused a loss, it 
would be happy to review any evidence of this.
Aegon apologised for the delay and paid compensation of £400 in respect of the distress 
and inconvenience caused by this. Mr T wasnt happy with the response and referred the 
complaint to this service. He said Aegon deliberately delayed the transfer and he lost several 
investment opportunities as he couldnt invest in commercial property without the funds.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. He said:
Aegon acknowledged there was a delay of around three weeks but he thought the 
delay was longer. In particular
- Aegons timescale was five working days from receipt of information for this to be 
passed to the team dealing with the due diligence process, and then a further 
five days from their requirements being determined to this being requested from 
Mr T. A more reasonable time for emails to be passed to the correct department 
would be two working days. 
- The additional information relating to the sponsoring employer of the SSAS could 
have been requested in November 2020.
Mr T invested some of the funds in his SSAS and he could have invested these funds 
around eight weeks earlier if there had been no delay.
Mr T had a preference for commercial property and was looking for opportunities. He 
was satisfied Mr T would have acted similarly had the funds been available in his 
SSAS in December 2020.
Aegon should carry out a calculation to see if there had been a loss due to the 
delayed investment and, if there had, should make a payment into the SSAS to make 
up for this (making an allowance for the effect of charges and any available tax 
relief).
Aegon did not agree with the recommendation and requested an ombudsmans decision. In 
summary, it said:
There was no calculation of loss in its final response because it had asked the SSAS 
provider for information on Mr Ts investments and he hadnt made any new 
investments, so the funds remained in cash.
The timescales suggested by the investigator were not timescales it worked to under 
its business process.
During the due diligence process, there are various stages where information is 
assessed and further questions are asked as appropriate  it doesnt condense the 
process to ask for everything at once, because the answers it receives may trigger 
different requests.
Even if the transfer had happened three weeks earlier, the funds would still have 
been in cash with the new provider until such time as Mr T made his investment 
choices. 
In February 2021, after the transfer completed, the new provider confirmed that Mr T 
had made no strategy with them at that point. If time was important for Mr T, it would 
have expected him to have notified the new provider of his investment choices in 
advance of the transfer completion, so the money could be invested promptly.
I issued a provisional decision saying I was minded to uphold the complaint, but I thought the 
avoidable delay was less than that suggested by our investigator. I set out my reasons as 
follows:
At the start of the process, Aegon explained to Mr T it had a duty to protect 
customers and look for early warning signs of whether a pension may be being 
transferred as part of a pension scam. It would follow the guidance provided by the 
industry-wide Combating Pension Scams: Code of Good Practice.
The code was relevant guidance for me to take into account. It says there should be 
reasonable, appropriate and proportionate due diligence, without unnecessarily 
blocking or  delaying a valid transfer. The FCAs principles and guidance would also 
be relevant, including COBS 2.1.1R which requires a firm to act honestly, fairly and 
professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client. The code sets out various checks to be done. And I took into account that single member occupational 
schemes (like Mr Ts SSAS) may be at risk of being used to avoid scrutiny. It was 
reasonable to investigate Mr Ts scheme carefully.
Mr T accepted the need for due diligence but said the process took too long. 
However, bearing in mind the possible risks involved and the requirements Aegon 
had to comply with, this wasnt a process that could be completed in a few weeks.
Aegon had explained the various processes it followed and the timescales involved 
and in my view Aegons timescales were reasonable. In view of the risks involved 
and Aegons duties under the FCA principles and guidance, and the code of practice, 
it was reasonable for Aegon to proceed with due care and not rush through the 
checks. In these circumstances, if it had proceeded in accordance with its 
procedures, I didnt think Aegon would be responsible for unnecessary delay.
Aegon had identified some occasions where it didnt comply with its timescales. That 
delay amounted to three weeks and four working days.
The transfer funds were sent on 2 February 2021. If there had been no delay, the 
funds could have moved to his SSAS three weeks and four days before this actually 
took place, which would have been on 6 January 2021.
After the transfer, Mr T invested around 50% of the funds in a property bond, with the 
remaining funds held in cash while he decided on further investments. He had 
provided  details of the investment, which showed an amount of £50,000 was 
invested in a loan agreement for the purpose of the construction of new build houses, 
with interest payable at 10% (simple) a year fixed throughout the term of the loan. 
Mr T had a preference for commercial property, and he was looking for investment 
opportunities  this was the reason for setting up the SSAS.
I was satisfied he would have acted similarly had the funds been available in 
January. So to put things right for him, it would be fair to look at what would have 
happened, if hed been able to make that investment three weeks and four working 
days earlier.
Mr T had said he lost out on other investment opportunities but he hadnt provided 
evidence that he suffered a financial loss suffered as a result, so I didnt propose to 
make any award in respect of that.
I said I intended to direct Aegon to carry out a calculation to see if Mr T had suffered a loss. 
If he had, it should pay compensation to put right any such financial loss suffered by Mr T. 
I acknowledged that the delays would have caused Mr T some distress and inconvenience. 
But given the unnecessary delay was a relatively short period of a few weeks I considered 
the compensation Aegon had paid of £400 was reasonable and did not propose any further 
payment in respect if this.
Replies to the provisional decision
Mr T did not reply to the provisional decision. Aegon replied, raising a number of points 
including:
It was pleased to note my view that it was reasonable to carry out the due diligence 
checks and that its timescales were fair. It had identified a delay of three weeks and 
four days due to fault on its part, so the transfer could have completed on 6 January 
2021.
Mr T hadnt made any investment decision when it requested information from the 
new provider in early February 2021; at that point Mr Ts transfer remained 
uninvested, so there had been no financial loss and the findings in its complaint 
response were fair at that time
The investment was effected on 1 March 2021. To put the provisional direction into 
place would mean the start date for the investment would be three weeks and four days before then  this would be 3 February 2021, which is the day after it paid the 
transfer across to the new provider.
The transfer remained in the cash fund for 28 days before Mr Ts investment choice 
was implemented, so it questioned why his investment choice wasnt made at the 
time the transfer was received by the SSAS provider, if I was satisfied he would have 
acted similarly had the funds been available in January.
I asked Mr T for his comments in response to these points, in particular about why the 
investment did not proceed until March. And, given the nature of the investment, I asked him 
to clarify how delaying the start of the loan by 3 weeks and 4 days would lead to a loss; 
since the term was still 48 months and interest would still be paid for that period, the interest 
earned would likely have been the same, whether the loan started on 3 February or 1 March 
2021.
Mr T did not reply to these points. In the absence of any further comments I proceeded to 
review the complaint on the basis of the information before me and  issued a second 
provisional decision saying I was now minded not to uphold the complaint, for the following 
reasons:
It remains my view that there was an avoidable delay of thee weeks and four working days. 
If Mr T has suffered a loss as a result of that delay, it would be fair for Aegon to compensate 
him for that. However, on further reflection I dont now consider it likely Mr T did suffer a loss 
as a result.
Even where a firm has made an error, its reasonable to expect someone to take reasonable 
steps to mitigate any loss they might suffer as a result. Mr T had the funds available to invest 
in early February 2021 but didnt proceed with the loan until 1 March. If he had been keen to 
invest and was concerned about delay, its not clear why Mr T didnt proceed as soon as he 
had the funds rather than waiting for another 28 days.
Even if it wasnt possible for Mr T to arrange his investment more quickly, that still leaves the 
question of whether there was any loss at all. This wasnt a situation where he missed the 
opportunity to invest in shares or funds that may have gone up in value during those few 
weeks. Mr Ts investment took the form of a loan on which he would receive interest 
payments. If the loan started a few weeks later than intended, it would still run for the same 
amount of time and presumably earn the same amount of interest. I asked him to explain 
why a short delay of a few weeks might affect the interest he would earn but he hasnt 
provided any further comment on this. Without any evidence to the contrary, it seems likely 
the interest earned would been the same, whether the loan started on 3 February or 1 March 
2021.
Taking all of this into account my view now is that, while there was an avoidable delay 
caused by Aegon, it was very short and theres no evidence that it did in fact cause a loss for 
Mr T. He would be entitled to some compensation for the distress caused and the 
inconvenience he was put to, but the compensation already paid is enough to reflect that. So 
I dont think there is any further action Aegon needs to take.
Replies to the second provisional decision
Aegon replied to say it had no further comments to add and would wait for the final decision. 
Mr T has not replied and so we have no further comments from him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have received no further comments from either party. I have reviewed the conclusions I 
reached in my second provisional decision and in the absence of any new comments or 
evidence, I see no reason to change those conclusions. So it remains my view that:
there was an avoidable delay of three weeks and four working days;
this delay was very short and there is no evidence it caused any loss for Mr T; 
he would be entitled to some compensation for the distress caused and the 
inconvenience he was put to, but the compensation already paid is enough to reflect 
that.
For these reasons it remains my view that the complaint should not be upheld.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2022.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman