DRN-4130612
The complaint
Mr A complains that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited declined part of his claim against a  
private medical insurance plan.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mr A has membership of a group, private medical insurance 
plan via his employer. In January 2022, Mr A saw a GP about his core strength. The GP 
suspected divarication of the recti  a gap between the two sides of the abdominal 
muscles. He referred Mr A to a general surgeon. 
Mr A made a claim against the plan. AXA authorised Mr As consultation with a general 
surgeon, and, subsequently, a CT scan which confirmed divarication of the recti and no 
hernia. The general surgeon said that he would review Mr A in a years time. 
Mr A wanted a second opinion and in June 2022, AXA authorised a consultation in 
relation to that. In August 2022, Mr A asked AXA to authorise a claim for surgery under 
code S1740 - large myocutaneous (muscular/cutaneous) flap 9cm2 or more (including 
closure of secondary defect) - by a surgeon Ill refer to as Mr W, and surgery under code 
T2780 - open component separation technique repair for complex abdominal hernia with 
mesh - by a doctor Ill refer to as Mr H.
AXA asked for further information and considered Mr Ws clinical letter of 20 June 2022. 
Mr W said that Mr A had a gradual increase in divarication which has been getting worse 
for over 20 years and no history of trauma. He suspected that Mr A will need a retro 
rectus mesh as well as divarication repair and this would be performed as a joint 
procedure with Mr H. Mr Hs clinic letter of 24 June 2022 said that Mr A had divarication 
and a moderate umbilical hernia. 
AXA declined Mr As claim in relation to divarication surgery. It said that divarication isnt 
a medical condition, as defined in the plan. AXA also said that the surgery Mr A 
requested wasnt on its schedule of procedures and fees. After further correspondence, 
in October 2022, AXA authorised surgery for the repair of umbilical hernia under code 
T2400. It told Mr A that thered be significant shortfalls if he went ahead with the surgery 
he planned.  
Mr A complained about AXAs decision in relation to his claim. He says that the surgery 
is medically necessary. Mr A wants AXA to approve his claim. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He didnt think that AXA had 
acted fairly in declining part of Mr As claim. The investigator said that AXA hadnt shown 
that divarication surgery wasnt eligible treatment or a medical condition. He said that it 
wasnt relying on any policy exclusion. The investigator said that it wasnt enough for 
AXA to say that Mr A is asking it to cover treatment for which it doesnt have a treatment 
code. 
The investigator noted that Mr As consultant advised that if the divarication surgery isnt 
done at the same time as the hernia repair, the latter is likely to fail soon after surgery. 
He said that it seemed unreasonable that Mr A is expected to go ahead with surgery 
thats likely to fail. 
The investigator recommended that AXA pay for the surgery Mr A requires and pay him 
compensation of £200 in relation to his trouble and upset. 
Mr A agreed with the investigator, but AXA didnt agree. It said, in summary:
Mr As employer agreed to the terms and conditions of the plan when it 
purchased cover for its employees. It relies on the terms and conditions in 
declining part of Mr As claim. 
Its only AXAs definition of a medical condition thats relevant here and thats any 
disease, illness or injury  divarication of the rectus muscles isnt a disease, 
illness or injury. 
One of the terms and conditions provides that surgical procedures must be listed 
in its schedule of procedures and fees. It doesnt list divarication repair in its 
schedule of procedures and fees. 
Just because a member is having symptoms doesnt mean that the claim for 
treatment is covered under the plan. 
Its role is to decide on the eligibility of treatment under the plan, which its done. It 
notes the advice Mr A has received about what might happen if the surgeries 
arent conducted together but its a clinical decision for Mr A and his surgeon 
how they wish to proceed.  
Its unreasonable to cover treatment thats ineligible under the terms and 
conditions of the plan. It has a duty to Mr As employer to cover only eligible 
treatment. 
In a previous complaint, an investigator said that diastasis recti isnt a disease, 
illness or injury and isnt covered by the plan. 
The schedule of procedures and fees referred to in the plan is based on work by 
the Clinical Coding and Schedule Development group (CCSD) and is the 
standard codes for procedures and diagnostic tests for the UK private healthcare 
sector. 
The divarication surgery the specialists want to perform isnt in the schedule of 
procedures. The procedure codes the specialists provided to Mr A were the 
nearest to what they wanted to do but neither code is the code for an umbilical 
hernia repair or divarication repair. 
Its not appropriate for this service to concentrate on whats most suitable for the 
member as all the evidence points to the surgery not being eligible.It will cover hernia repair under procedure code T2400  repair of 
umbilical/paraumbilical hernia  as Mr A has a very small hernia. It will pay the 
surgeon £300, the anaesthetist £220 and the hospital in line with its agreed rate 
for that procedure. If Mr A proceeds with the hernia repair and divarication 
surgery hes very likely to incur a significant shortfall in fees. 
AXA asked that an ombudsman consider the complaint, so it was passed to me to 
decide. 
My provisional decision 
On 25 April 2023, I sent both parties my provisional decision in this case. I indicated that I 
didnt intend to uphold the complaint. I said:
the relevant terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the plan, the relevant parts of which say as 
follows:
3.3> Eligible treatment
Your membership covers eligible treatment. 
You will need to read all sections of this handbook to understand whether treatment is 
eligible treatment.
Eligible treatment is treatment of a disease, illness or injury where that treatment:
falls within the benefits of this plan and is not excluded from cover by any term in this 
handbook; and
[].
medical condition  any disease, illness or injury [].
3.4 > Our cover for treatment and surgery
[]
Are there any additional requirements for surgical treatments?
If the treatment is a surgical procedure it must also be listed and identified in our schedule 
of procedures and fees. 
>>You can fine our schedule at axahealth.co.uk/fees or call us on [] and well send 
you a copy.
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that AXA has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. I dont intend to uphold       
Mr As complaint because I dont think that AXA treated him unfairly or unreasonably. I say 
that because.    
AXA has referred to a previous view by an investigator. Each case is considered on 
its own merits and we dont set legally binding precedents. So, Ive considered     
Mr As claim on its own facts. 
Insurance policies arent designed to cover every eventuality or situation. An 
insurer will decide what risks its willing to cover and set these out in the terms and 
conditions. The onus is on the consumer to show that the claim falls under one of 
the agreed areas of cover within the plan. In this decision, Im looking at whether AXA acted within the plan terms and 
conditions and fairly and reasonably. There may well be medically necessary 
surgical procedures recommended by specialists which are not covered by the 
plan.  
Subject to the plans terms, Mr As plan covers treatment of a disease, illness or 
injury. I dont think I need to decide whether Mr As divarication is a disease, illness 
or injury as it wouldnt alter the outcome of this complaint. Ill explain why. 
The plan provides that a surgical procedure must be listed and identified in the 
schedule of procedures and fees. The schedule of procedures and fees isnt an 
arbitrary list prepared by AXA. Its based on work by the CCSD and is standard for 
private healthcare in the UK. I think its reasonable for AXA to rely on the schedule 
of procedures and fees referred to in the plan. 
The schedule of procedures and fees doesnt include a code for repair of 
divarication of the recti. So, Mr As claim for repair of divarication of the recti 
doesnt meet the plans requirements in relation to surgical treatment. I dont think 
that AXA acted unfairly or unreasonably in declining this part of Mr As claim. 
In relation to Mr As hernia repair, the medical evidence supports AXAs conclusion 
that it will cover hernia repair under procedure code T2400  repair of 
umbilical/paraumbilical hernia. Mr Hs clinical letter of 24 June 2022 refers to a 
moderate umbilical hernia and the consultant radiologists review of the CT scan of 
8 February 2022 refers to a small umbilical hernia. 
AXA isnt obliged to accept the surgical codes suggested by Mr As specialists. 
Based on what Ive seen, AXA was entitled to decline Mr As claim in relation to 
repair for divarication of the recti and cover his umbilical hernia repair under a more 
appropriate code than the one suggested. 
Mr A experienced some service issues in making his claim. I appreciate that these 
issues are secondary to the outcome of the claim. I think that the compensation 
already paid by AXA in relation to the service issues is fair and reasonable in this 
case, so I dont propose to direct it to pay any more. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr A but, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont intend to 
uphold this complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision
AXA said that it had nothing further to add. We didnt receive a response from Mr A.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.As neither party has made any further substantive comments, I see no reason to depart from 
my provisional decision. For the reasons Ive explained, I dont think that AXA acted unfairly 
or unreasonably in declining Mr As claim in relation to repair for divarication of the recti and 
covering his umbilical hernia repair under a more appropriate code than the one suggested. I 
think that the compensation AXA has already paid in relation to service issues is fair and 
reasonable in this case. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2023.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman