DRN-3600028
The complaint
Mrs T is unhappy with the way in which Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) has handled a
claim made on her travel insurance policy.
Any references to URV include its claim handlers and costs containment agents.
What happened
Mrs T had the benefit of a single-trip travel insurance policy, underwritten by URV, which she
took out in 2016 (the policy).
In December 2016, whilst abroad in the USA, Mrs T was admitted to hospital and received
medical treatment. She was in hospital for many days. The medical facility invoiced Mrs T for
the medical care she received. She received two invoices: one in the sum of around $38,000
and the other around $200 (the invoices).
After returning to the UK, Mrs T made a claim on the policy to cover her medical costs and
URV accepted the claim. However, it didnt make any payment to the medical facility at that
stage. So, debt collectors instructed on behalf of the medical facility (the debt collectors)
started to chase Mrs T for the invoiced sums in early 2017.
URV made payment in mid-2017 but it didnt pay the invoices in full; it only paid just over
$15,700 leaving just over $22,435 outstanding (the outstanding amount). The debt
collectors then began chasing Mrs T for the outstanding amount.
Mrs T is unhappy that she has been chased for payment and that URV hasnt settled the
outstanding amount. She says shes been subjected to years of stress and anxiety as a
result of receiving numerous emails and letters from the medical facility and the debt
collectors. She says she lives with a medical condition and the unnecessary stress and
worry this has caused hasnt helped her manage her condition.
Its URVs position that invoiced amounts are excessive. It says its made a reasonable
payment to the medical facility. However, its more recently told Mrs T (in December 2020)
said that in view of her continuing to receive correspondence from  or on behalf of  the
medical facility historically and potentially into the future it would pay her £500 as
compensation. Mrs T would still like the outstanding amount to be paid.
Our investigator upheld Mrs Ts complaint. In the circumstances of this particular case, she
didnt think URV had acted fairly or reasonably by not paying the invoices in full. She
recommended URV pay 90% of the outstanding amount (around $18,825), taking into
account a 10% discount offered by the debt collectors. She agreed that the offer made by
URV in the sum of £500 for the distress and inconvenience it had caused Mrs T was fair and
reasonable.
URV didnt agree. Its provided some statistics showing the average charges, average cost
and average payment to treat the type of injury Mrs T had suffered, for which she was
treated. It said these statistics related to the medical facility Mrs T was treated at for the
years 2008  2020. The statistics reflect that, on average, the medical facility charged
around $42,304 for the treatment in 2016. Whereas, on average, the treatment cost them
around $11,280 and they were paid an average sum of just over $10,000 for each treatment.
URV says this supports that its paid a reasonable amount for the medical costs. Its also
provided the financial accounts of the medical facility which includes its net profit for various
years, including 2016.
This information didnt change our investigators opinion. So, Mrs Ts complaint was passed
to me to consider everything afresh and decide. I issued my provisional decision on 1 July 
2022 explaining in more detail why I was also intending to uphold Mrs Ts complaint. An 
extract of my provisional decision is set out below:
..
As a matter of general legal principle, URV is bound to indemnify Mrs T against losses
covered by the policy as and when the amount of her losses has been established (in this
case, the amount of Mrs Ts liability to the medical facility). That may be by agreement, by
court judgment or by arbitration. So URV has a commercial interest in being able to take
over the defence and settlement of such claims in Mrs Ts name.
The policy terms say URV can take over and deal with in your name the defence/settlement
of any claim made under the policy. But Im satisfied that URV still need to act fairly and
reasonably when exercising that term.
Legally, in situations where URVs interests conflict with Mrs Ts, URV has a responsibility to
act in good faith when it takes over the defence or settlement of a claim - having regard to
Mrs Ts interests as well as its own commercial interests. URV isnt entitled to act arbitrarily
in the way it goes about declining to pay the full amount of the invoice. And when deciding
whether - and how - to defend possible legal action against Mrs T, URV is required to base
its decisions on the circumstances of her individual case.
The relevant rules, regulations and industry guidance
The Principles for Businesses (Principles) are set out in the Financial Conduct Authority
(FCA) Handbook and URV is obliged to follow these.
Principle 6 says a firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them
fairly. And Principle 8 says a firm must manage conflicts of interest fairly, both between itself
and its customers and between a customer and another client.
ICOBS 8.1.1R says an insurer must handle claims promptly and fairly, provide reasonable
guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate and settle claims promptly
once settlement terms are agreed.
The Regulatory Guide, published by the FCA, entitled: The Responsibilities of Providers and
Distributors for the Fair Treatment of Customers (RPPD) includes the Regulators guidance
on what the combination of Principles and the detailed rules require providers and
distributors of financial services in certain circumstances to treat customers fairly. The RPPD
makes clear that firms should consider the impact of their actions, or inactions, on the
customer throughout the life cycle of the service being provided.
Ive also considered what I consider having been good industry practice at the time
of the claim. Thats for insurers - and their agents - to engage diligently with medical
facilities (and their agents) to try to resolve disputes over medical bills by actively
seeking a compromise or adjudication of their bills. And this includes actively engaging innegotiation.
Ill now consider what all this means in Mrs Ts particular complaint.
The amount paid by URV
The policy provides cover for emergency medical attention. It covers customary and
reasonable fees or charges for necessary and emergency medical treatment/charges up to
the policy limit which is ten million pounds. URV hasnt said Mrs T shouldnt have been 
charged for treatment  or that the invoice shouldnt be paid at all. So, Im satisfied that URV 
has ultimately accepted liability for sums properly due under the policy in respect of the 
medical attention Mrs T received whilst abroad in 2016.
URVs position is that the amounts charged by the medical facility are unreasonably
excessive. It says its paid reasonable fees for the medical care Mrs T received
and its sought to rely on information from different sources in support of its position.
URV says the Congress guidelines set out the suggested rates of payment for medical
procedures and treatment (the Congress rates). And that the amounts invoiced by the
medical facility are considerably higher than the Congress rates for the medical care and
treatment Mrs T received. I know from experience that Congress guidelines are issued
annually by the USA government and, as I understand, the Congress rates apply to certain
USA residents, who qualify for Medicare. URV says it uses Congress rates as a benchmark
when deciding whether the amounts charged are reasonable and then pays a certain
percentage above this (which its disclosed to our Service).
I havent been provided with the Congress rates for each item charged by the medical facility
relevant to the invoices. And I think thats because for inpatient cases there are no
individual codes for each service provided by the medical facility; the coding used is for the
entire admission. But even if I accepted that the Congress rates URV has used as the base
rate before adding a percentage uplift is accurate, I havent been shown anything to
convince me that the Congress rates applied in this case establish a valid benchmark for the
fair market value of services provided outside the US Medicare/Medicaid systems to which
they relate. So, Im not currently persuaded that for this reason alone the invoice is
unreasonably excessive or out of line with what might reasonably be charged for non-
American residents who dont have Medicare. Mrs Ts policy isnt a medical insurance policy
similar to the type of insurance that can be taken out in the USA to cover medical care and
treatment for people who are resident there; its a travel insurance policy.
Ive also taken into account the average amount charged by the medical facility, in 2016, to
treat the injury Mrs T experienced whilst in the USA, as put forward by URV, against the
average cost to the medical facility for such treatment. It looks like the average payment
received is much lower - at just over $10,000 per patient and I accept that URV has paid the
medical facility more than this.
In this case, the issue isnt what losses the average hospital makes when it treats a patient
on Medicare, nor how much URV considers to be an appropriate profit margin, but how
much a medical facility of the quality and location where Mrs T received treatment could be
expected to charge privately funded/insured patients for the treatment received. Im not
convinced the statistics provided by URV are relevant to this. The statistics might show the
average cost of the treatment and average payment but theres no analysis of how the
treatment received by Mrs T is similar to or differs from the other cases in 2016  or, for
example, whether the type of treatment Mrs T required was, comparatively, any more or less
complicated.So, whilst Ive taken the statistics into account, Ive placed less weight on what they reflect.
Further, even if the statistics do support URVs decision to not pay the outstanding amount,
Im not satisfied URV has acted fairly and reasonably in the way in which its taken over the
handling of Mrs Ts claim for reasons Ill now go on to explain.
URVs handling of Mrs Ts claim
Ive explained above that the policy does allow URV to take over, and deal with, the defence
and/or settlement of any claim made under the policy in Mrs Ts name but it must do so
having due regard to the law and relevant rules and regulations.
URV has a duty to deal with claims promptly and fairly, and its required to act with due skill,
care and diligence, paying due regard to Mrs Ts interests and treating her fairly, as its
customer. URV must also manage any conflicts of interest between itself and its customers
fairly. I dont think its done that here.
Given the amount in dispute in this case, I can understand why URV would want to
challenge it and why its in its commercial interests to do so. However, URV took the
unilateral decision to only pay part of the invoice. It didnt discuss its approach with Mrs T
before doing so.
In its communication to Mrs T in November 2020, URV said that medical providers often
attempt to charge excessive amounts for treatment so it adjusted the settlement to ensure
that only reasonable costs were paid to the medical facility under the policy. That might be
URVs position about the way in which the market works but URV should also
consider the individual issues of each specific case according to their own facts and, in this
case, having regard to the interests of Mrs T, as its policyholder, as well as its own.
I dont think its done that here especially as the debt collectors have indicated many times
that it was prepared to negotiate the outstanding amount on behalf of the medical facility and
it wasnt until mid-2021 that URV provided a substantive reply to the debt collectors, setting
out further reasons why it felt the invoices were inflated.
Negotiations with the debt collectors
Ive seen evidence that debt collectors had been chasing URV for payment of the
outstanding amount  as well as demanding payment from Mrs T for the outstanding amount
- throughout 2020 (if not before) but the debt collectors didnt receive a substantive reply
from URV.
In December 2020 (so shortly after Mrs T complained to URV about being chased for the
outstanding amount) URV wrote to the debt collector and said:
We are willing to enter into negotiation but plainly that does not mean doing nothing
more than accepting a standard discount on an unjustifiable original charge.
We know, and your clients know, what is a federally approved rate for the services
performed. Our payment reflects that sum with no less than a []% uplift.
We believe that is a reasonable sum and can see no obvious reason why it would be
considered otherwise.
Now it is your turn to explain why a bill that exceeds that rate by multiples should be
considered. We would need to understand what factors could justify any uplift, and
how it has been calculated.
The debt collectors replied in early February 2021 offering to reduce the outstanding amountby 10% as a gesture of goodwill to resolve matters. The debt collectors repeated this offer in
a communication to URV later in February 2021. And in March 2021, after receiving no reply
to either of those communications, the debt collector said:
As we have had no response from you, I have been instructed to direct my collection
back to the patient.
If at any point you are willing to negotiate and resolve the matter, please do not
hesitate to reach out to me directly.
URV promptly replied offering an additional 10% over the settlement it had already made
(just over $1,000) which was declined by the debt collectors  who made a counter-offer of
85% of the total charges.
The debt collectors chased for a reply in April and May 2021 and having not received a reply
it said it would again pursue Mrs T for the outstanding amount.
Two months later, in July 2021, URV responded pointing out the statistics Ive referred to
above and why it believed this supported its position that Mrs T hadnt been charged the fair
market value for the treatment received. It set out the medical facilitys net profit in 2016 and
reports that the medical facility accepted payments from all payers for all patients in 2016 at
25% of its billed charges. URV said it had paid more than this and had also offered another
10% on top to settle the outstanding amount.
URV concluded:
you have failed to provide any data or facts that might justify the total billed charges
you continue to claim are due. Instead, your position in essence is: pay these
charges or well pester your customerWe suggest.that rather than contacting our
customer, you provide us with a full response to the above facts (for example, asking
your client to verify or dispute those facts) and, as per our original request, provide us
with a justification of why the billed charges are reasonable, bearing in mind all the
foregoing. Alternatively please put our settlement offer to your client again.
URV has contacted the debt collectors for a response to its communication dated July 2021
several times since but URV has said that it hasnt received a response.
As a result, Im satisfied that negotiations have now reached an impasse with URV agreeing
to pay an additional 10% over the settlement it had already made (just over $1,000) and the
debt collector offering to accept 85% of the total amount in full and final settlement of the
outstanding amount.
Looking at the overall communications between URV and the debt collectors, I dont think
URVs handling of those discussions  up until July 2021 - were in line with treating Mrs T
fairly. I would normally expect to see an insurer explain and justify its position - by reference
to the particular items in dispute, take on board any response it receives, and advance
arguments addressed to the particular issues in dispute to try to persuade the medical facility
to accept the sum being offered, or reach a mutually acceptable compromise.
From the outset, URV simply paid a sum it says is reasonable, relying on the Congress rates
which are applicable to USA residents who have the benefit of Medicare. It then proceeded
to provide no substantive response when chased for payment and when it did reply, it only
sought to reiterate the same point  as it did its communication to the debt collectors dated
December 2020 which was prompted by Mrs Ts complaint to it.
So, overall, I think it failed to engage in meaningful negotiation in the spirit of reaching acompromise on the outstanding amount at that stage. If it had, given that the debt collectors
had offered two reductions in fees, I think its likely the dispute wouldve been promptly
resolved. Theres nothing to suggest that the medical facility/debt collectors wouldnt have
conducted negotiations in good faith.
Up until July 2021, Im also satisfied that URVs failure to explore meaningful negotiation in
this case isnt based on any detailed representations to the medical facility and/or the debt
collectors. And nor did it rely on any specific features of Mrs Ts claim. Its a reflection of a
general policy to pay the medical facility a certain percentage above the Congress rates for
the medical care and treatment Mrs T received in the USA.
Thats resulted in Mrs T being pursued by  and on behalf of - the medical facility. Its
unlikely that the issue of the outstanding amount will be resolved until Mrs T is
either sued over the outstanding amount by the medical facility or it stops pursuing the
outstanding amount and writes it off as a bad debt.
As Ive said, URV has a duty to fairly manage any conflicts between its own interests and
those of Mrs T. I dont think its had due regard to Mrs Ts interests here; its unreasonably
put its own commercial interests above Mrs Ts interests as someone who has paid for travel
cover and made a proper claim under it. Im satisfied that a consumer  such as Mrs T - who
takes out travel insurance to cover medical treatment abroad doesnt expect to be exposed,
without a very good reason, to continuing action from debt collectors many years after
visiting a medical facility abroad when theyve acted in accordance with the terms of the
policy and paid the relevant excess, as is the case here.
Putting things right
Payment of the outstanding balance
As the invoice hasnt been agreed or adjudicated on, Im satisfied that there isnt an
ascertained legal liability on Mrs T to pay the outstanding amount to the medical facility. So
URVs duty to indemnify her by paying the outstanding amount hasnt yet crystallised. But in
this particular case, and for reasons already mentioned, Im persuaded its fair and
reasonable for URV to make a further payment to the medical facility to the value of 85% of
the total of the invoices to settle them without further delay.
I dont think URV has acted fairly by paying the amount it has to settle the invoice and,
overall, the way it subsequently dealt with the issue of the outstanding amount with the
medical facility and/or its debt collectors.
When provisionally making this finding, Ive taken into account that it may now be possible
for URV to negotiate a further reduction in the amounts charged by the medical provider and
potentially agree a lessor amount. However, I think URV has had enough time do this, and
hasnt done so already. But Im conscious that there is nothing preventing it from trying to do
so during the time it has to respond to this provisional decision before the deadline to
respond expires.
Distress and inconvenience
Ive considered the impact this all has had on Mrs T in light of my findings that URV hasnt
acted fairly or reasonably when handling Mrs Ts claim. Even though URV has sought to
reassure Mrs T that she wont personally be liable for the outstanding amount  for example
in its communication with Mrs T in November 2020  I think its reasonable that Mrs T would
still be worried about being chased for the payment even though URV invited her to forward
all communications received from the medical facility or debt collectors directly to it (and tonot respond).
I can see that Mrs T was regularly chased for payment of the full invoiced amounts in early
2017 and then, again, for the outstanding amount once URV made part payment of the
invoices. Im satisfied URV has put Mrs T to considerable and unnecessary distress,
inconvenience and worry by initially being chased for the outstanding amounts, the length of
the process. Theres also no end date in sight for it being resolved. All in all, I think
compensation in the sum £500 fairly reflects what shes been through because of what URV
did wrong here, given her personal circumstances.
.
I invited both parties to provide any further comments or information in response to my 
provisional decision. Neither party replied. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so and considering that neither party has provided anything further for me to 
consider, my thoughts about this complaint remain the same. So, for the reasons set out in 
my provisional decision  an extract of which appears above - I uphold Mrs Ts complaint. 
Putting things right
Within 28 days from the date on which we tell URV that Mrs T accepts this final decision, I
direct URV to pay an amount equivalent to 85% of the total of the invoices to the
medical facility (if it hasnt already successfully negotiated a settlement of the outstanding
amount with/on behalf of the medical facility by then).
As URV has paid £500 compensation to Mrs T, it doesnt need to make any further payment
directly to her.
My final decision
I uphold Mrs Ts complaint. I direct Union Reiseversicherung AG to put things right by doing 
what Ive set out above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required 
to ask Mrs T to accept or reject my decision before 15 August 2022.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman