DRN-3394645
The complaint
Ms I complains about Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limiteds actions (MBFS) when 
her car finance agreement came to an end. 
What happened
In April 2017, Ms I entered into a 36 month personal contract purchase (PCP) agreement 
with MBFS for a new car. She was required to pay £499 followed by an optional final 
(balloon) payment of £18,875. The agreement was due to end on 24 April 2020.
Around the start of April 2020, Ms I sent MBFS an email explaining she wanted to part 
exchange the car or return it as she intended on getting a new one. However she explained 
she was unable to do so as the dealerships were closed due to the Covid-19 pandemic. 
On 17 April 2020, MBFS set out the options available to her which included purchasing the 
car by paying the balloon payment or extending the agreement up to three months. Ms I 
confirmed she wanted an extension. MBFS advised as the agreement was due to end 
imminently, she would have to reverse the balloon payment as they were unable to do so. 
Ms I made arrangements for the payment to be reversed which compromised of the balloon  
payment plus Aprils instalment meaning £19,374 was taken and then reversed. 
On 12 May 2020, MBFS sent a quote for a two month extension starting from May which 
Ms I accepted, she was required to pay £276 a month. She made a card payment for Mays 
instalment. 
The car was collected in July 2020 and inspected as part of MBFS returns process. Damage 
was found to three wheels and the permitted mileage had been exceeded. MBFS said Ms I 
needed to pay £255 for the damage and £854 for the excess mileage. 
Ms I complained to MBFS about a number of issues including the difficulties she 
experienced contacting them, the balloon payment being taken, the missed payments, the 
extension was initially set up incorrectly, etc. 
MBFS final response letter (dated June 2020) said the Covid pandemic had negatively 
impacted their service. They said they aimed to respond to queries within 10 working days 
but accepted this hadnt been met on all occasions. They apologised. They confirmed the 
extension had been set up and the balloon payment had been reversed. Lastly they said the 
direct debit needed to be reinstated and provided the contact details for Ms I to do so. They 
also confirmed April and Junes instalment needed to be paid. 
 
Unhappy with their response, Ms I referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator 
recommended the case wasnt upheld. They believed MBFS had acted fairly in the 
circumstances and they were entitled to charge for the damage and excess mileage. 
Ms I disagreed. She maintained her position and added:
- When the agreement ended, she tried on several occasions to call MBFS but without 
success;
- She arranged for her bank to reverse the balloon payment;
- Other car companies suspended the collection of balloon payments and MBFS 
shouldve done the same;
- They initially extended the agreement for three months, rather than two;
- MBFS hadnt contacted her about the missing two instalments and she later received 
demand letters which caused her upset;
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided MBFS has done enough to put things right. Ill explain why. 
The balloon payment
When considering this complaint, I must take into account the wider context of the Covid-19 
pandemic and its impact on financial businesses such as MBFS. This was an unprecedented 
event and I appreciate MBFS experienced increased queries from consumers trying to 
contact them. As a result, I can understand why they advised unless the query was urgent, 
to send an email rather than call so their advisors could help those most in need. 
Ive carefully considered MBFS contact notes including the emails to and from Ms I. From 
the outset, she said she tried on many occasions to call MBFS but without success. 
Although I havent been provided with evidence of the same, I have no reason to believe 
these call attempts werent made so I can understand her frustration of not being able to talk 
to MBFS directly.
The records show Ms I started corresponding by email to MBFS on 7 April and on 17 April, 
they outlined the available options. On 22 April, she confirmed she wanted an extension. 
However by this time, the end of the agreement was imminent as it was due to end on 24 
April. Accordingly, I can see MBFS sent the following email to her on 23 April:
I can confirm we have received this email, as your contract matures tomorrow you will need 
to stop the balloon payment coming out of your bank as we have billed for it and unable to 
stop it now this end, I will request a 2 month extension for you and someone will be in 
contact shortly.
Based on the above, its clear MBFS were making Ms I aware that the balloon payment 
would be taken and they were unable to put a stop to it. Given it was the day before the 
agreement ended (at which time the balloon payment wouldve become payable), I can 
understand why MBFS were unable to stop this payment. It was reasonable for them to 
advise Ms I to reverse the transaction.  
In my opinion, had MBFS responded to Ms I sooner following her earlier emails at the start 
of April they wouldve known she didnt intend to buy the car meaning its most likely they 
couldve prevented the balloon payment being taken. While I accept this to be the case, I 
dont consider the delay in them responding to be significant when taking into account the 
wider circumstances of the pandemic and the impact it was having on their operation. They 
promptly made Ms I aware this would happen and advised her to stop (reverse) the payment 
which I understand she was able to do and the money was returned within 24 hours.I can appreciate why Ms I was unhappy about this significant amount being taken from her 
account given she had made it clear to MBFS she didnt want to keep the car. I also 
acknowledge her efforts she had to make to reverse the payment. But taking everything into 
account, I cant say MBFS acted unfairly. I note Ms Is comments about the actions of other 
financial businesses and their decision to not take balloon payments but in this decision I 
can only comment on MBFS actions.
The extension
Based on the contact notes, Ms I requested a two month extension on 22 April but I can see 
the extension quote wasnt sent to her until 12 May. Its clear there was an approximate 
three week delay to provide the extension quote however for reasons as already explained 
above, I dont think these delays were unreasonable given the circumstances. I understand 
MBFS initially set it up as a three month extension rather than two months but this was 
rectified shortly afterwards so Im satisfied they put this right. 
Missing contractual payments
It would appear Aprils instalment was reversed as part of the balloon payment (£18,875 + 
£499) and Im satisfied Ms I was aware of the same. This meant this payment which was 
owed to MBFS was outstanding. 
In MBFS final response letter on 5 June 2020, they made it clear the direct debit needed to 
be reinstated and provided instructions how to do so. However there is no evidence Ms I set 
this up or made a manual payment meaning Junes instalment went unpaid. As April and 
Junes payments werent received as required by the terms of the agreement, demand 
letters were sent by MBFS in November and December 2020. Having reviewed these letters 
it made it clear payment needed to be received otherwise it may impact the credit file and it 
may be transferred to a third party debt company for recovery. While I understand Ms I was 
upset about receiving such letters, I dont find them threatening in nature nor can I say they 
were unexpected. I say this because Aprils payment had been reversed, Ms I had made a 
card payment for Mays instalment and the FRL made it clear the direct debit needed to be 
set up (for Junes instalment). On this basis, Im satisfied Ms I was aware these two 
instalments needed to be paid and to do so manually as it wouldnt be collected by direct 
debit. 
I understand Ms I believes these two instalments should be waived given MBFSs level of 
service however I disagree. I believe their level of service was reasonable given the 
circumstances and more importantly, she had use of the car during that time so its fair she 
pays to reflect that. 
I must stress all financial businesses, including MBFS have an obligation to record fair and 
accurate data on a consumers credit file. In this case, I havent been provided with enough 
evidence of what Ms Is credit file shows however if these instalments were missed and yet 
to be paid despite MBFS demand letters, it wouldnt be unreasonable for MBFS to reflect 
this on Ms Is credit file. 
Other
I understand MBFS also requires payments for damage and excess mileage. However these 
points dont appear subject to the initial complaint so I wont provide any further comment.
Summary Overall, while I accept there were delays in MBFS communicating with Ms I concerning the 
end of the agreement, I dont believe they were unreasonable given the impact of the 
pandemic. I recognise Ms I was caused worry and inconvenience by the situation but I 
believe MBFS has done enough to put things right so I wont be asking them to do anything 
more.
  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Is complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss I to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2022.
 
Simona Charles
Ombudsman