DRN-3175234
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that Zenith Insurance plc mishandled a claim on his motor insurance 
policy.
Where I refer to Zenith, I include claims-handlers and others insofar as I hold Zenith 
responsible for their acts and omissions.
What happened
The subject matter of the claim and complaint is an estate car first registered in 2013. It had 
a diesel engine and automatic transmission. Mr R bought the car in about 2016. For the year 
from March 2020, he had the car insured on a policy with Zenith. He was the policyholder 
and Mrs R was a named driver.
On 23 December 2020, Mrs R was driving the car when it and  a third partys car  were  
involved in an accident. Both vehicles suffered damage to the front. Mrs R was able to drive 
the car home.
After Christmas, Mr and Mrs R found that the car was juddering. A gearbox specialist said  
that the impact had caused engine coolant to contaminate the transmission fluid  damaging 
the gearbox.
Zenith provided a courtesy car for about 4 weeks. After Mr and Mrs R hired a car, the insurer 
reimbursed them and provided another courtesy car.
In March, Zenith said the impact hadnt caused the gearbox damage. Mr and Mrs R 
complained to Zenith about that. By a final response dated 25 March, Zenith apologised for 
delay and lack of communication. It offered £200.00 compensation. But it didnt change its 
decision about the gearbox. Mr and Mrs R brought their complaint to us in April 2021.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that it 
was unlikely that the fault Mr and Mrs R were claiming for occurred as a direct result of the 
incident Mrs R was involved in. 
Mr and Mrs R disagreed with the investigators opinion. They asked for an ombudsman to 
review the complaint. Mr R says, in summary, that:
They used the car regularly without any issues. It was always well maintained and 
serviced. If there had been any issue, they would have taken it to their local garage. 
The gearbox was running smoothly before the accident.
It was a substantial impact. Whilst their car sustained minimal external damage, a 
photo of the third partys car shows that it sustained a lot more damage. 
After the accident, Mrs R drove the car home and it then sat on their driveway over 
Christmas. 
The first time using the car after driving it home from the accident, they noticed the 
juddering. They took it to their local garage who advised that it was gearbox related. 
The car was towed to the gearbox specialists because at this point it was not 
roadworthy. 
The gearbox specialists firmly believe the fault is a result of the impact from the 
accident. This is because there were no symptoms before the accident and because 
of the sudden onset and severity of the fault. 
The insurer contacted the gearbox specialists but ignored their conclusion.
The gearbox specialists and another garage (specializing in this make of car) both 
say the fault is not a common fault and the damage was due to the impact of the 
accident.
The gearbox specialists also said that if the gearbox fault was due to wear and tear, 
there would have been problems long before it completely failed. This was not the 
case.
The insurers engineer incorrectly marked the engine coolant. 
The insurer didnt answer calls, emails or make any contact.
The insurer left them without a car knowing Mrs R is a keyworker and a car is 
essential for her to carry out her job. 
The insurer took so long to reach a decision based on inaccurate information and 
ignored the report of a gearbox specialist. On top of this the radiator wasnt opened 
up to do a thorough assessment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read the report from the gearbox specialists. I havent found it necessary to contact 
them.
In our final decision, we name the insurance company, but we dont identify any other party.
I accept that Mr and Mrs R hadnt noticed any issue before the accident. 
The photograph of the damage to the third partys car shows a crease on the offside front 
corner. And Mr and Mrs R did notice juddering soon after the accident. 
The gearbox specialists said that the impact had caused a rupture within the radiator.
However, the impact was not enough to cause much damage to the bodywork of Mr Rs car. 
Mrs R was able to drive it home. And there was no reported damage to the bumper impact 
beam which was in front of the radiator.
So I prefer the insurers engineering evidence that the gearbox issue is unlikely to relate to 
the accident. I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Zenith to treat the gearbox damage 
as caused by the accident.Zenith took longer than I wouldve expected to investigate and respond to the claim. And I 
dont doubt that the delay caused Mr and Mrs R some extra worry and put them to some 
extra trouble at an already difficult time for them. But Zenith apologised and paid £200.00. 
That is at least as much as I would otherwise have found fair. So I dont find it fair and 
reasonable to direct Zenith to pay any more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Zenith Insurance plc to do any more in response to this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 January 2022. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman