DRN-3092387
The complaint
Mr S complains about Barclays Bank UK PLC and the difficulties he faced when attempting 
to open a new business bank account.
What happened
Mr S had been banking with Barclays for several year when he decided he wanted to open a 
new business account in 2020.
Mr S says he tried to call Barclays on several occasions to arrange this but had been unable 
to speak to anyone. Hes said on one occasion, he had to wait on hold for over six hours 
before connecting to a call handler. He was told hed be able to apply for a new business 
account online but when he tried to do so, he received an error message. Barclays have 
explained this was because the information he provided differed with the information 
available on Companies House.
So, Mr S sent a secure message to Barclays, in order to avoid having to call them again. Mr 
S says he was given a phone number to call but this number sent him to the incorrect 
department. So, he had to make further calls to reach the right team to book an appointment 
in branch to set up the new account.
He attempted to book an appointment at the start of July 2020. And the nearest appointment 
Barclays could find for Mr S was in Bognor Regis in September, which wasnt soon enough 
for him. Mr S asked Barclays to search the United Kingdom for the soonest appointment and 
this was located in Glasgow for the 29 July. Mr S took this appointment and travelled to 
Glasgow where his account was set up. But Mr S wasnt happy about this, so he raised a 
complaint.
Mr S didnt think it was reasonable for Barclays to expect him to travel to Glasgow to set up 
his new account. So, he wanted his travel, accommodation and food costs refunded to him. 
He also wanted to be compensated for the amount of time hed spent attempting to call 
Barclays and the incorrect number he was provided through secure message.
Barclays responded, upholding Mr S complaint. They recognised Mr S had been given the 
incorrect number to call through secure message and appreciated this had led to Mr S 
needed to make further calls to find the right department. So, they offered Mr S £50 to 
recognise this. But they explaining call wait times had increased due to COVID-19 and the 
increased demand to talk to them. So, they didnt think this was something they could 
control. 
And they thought Mr S had taken the decision himself to travel to Glasgow and that he was 
aware of closer appointments that were available, just at a later date. So, they didnt think 
they should cover Mr S costs for this. They again explained branch appointment availability 
had been impacted by less staff being available due to COVID-19 and an increased demand 
for appointments as more people looked to take loans to cover financial shortfalls created by 
the pandemic. Mr S remained unhappy with this response, so he referred his complaint to 
us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She recognised the issues Mr 
S had faced when trying to call Barclays and the fact hed needed to make unnecessary 
calls due to the information he was provided. But she thought the £50 Barclays offered was 
a fair one to recognise the impact this had. And she didnt think Barclays needed to cover 
the costs of Mr S journey to Glasgow as she thought it was Mr S own decision to take that 
appointment. She recognised how the wait time for an appointment wouldve been frustrating 
for Mr S but she didnt think this was in Barclays control due to the effects of COVID-19. And 
she explained any decision to move staff to another area due to this pandemic was a 
business process implemented by Barclays which this service is unable to comment on. So, 
she didnt think Barclays needed to do anything more.
Mr S didnt agree. He explained he required the new account urgently in order to complete a 
purchase the account was intended for. So, he didnt think he had any choice other than to 
accept the appointment in Glasgow and because of this, felt Barclays should cover the costs 
of this. As Mr S didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint had on Mr S. I dont doubt Mr S 
testimony regarding the length of time he had to spend on hold trying to speak to Barclays. 
And I recognise the frustration this wouldve caused. And I recognise the time it wouldve 
taken, and costs it wouldve incurred, when Mr S travelled to Glasgow to attend an in-branch 
appointment to set up a new business account as it was the earliest appointment available 
and Mr S wanted the account created urgently. But for me to say Barclays need to do 
something more, Id need to be satisfied that the £50 theyve offered for the calls Mr S made 
and any delays he faced was unfair. Or, that Mr S was forced to travel to Glasgow for the 
appointment due to a mistake Barclays made or their failure to act appropriately to events 
within their control. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Ive first thought about the calls Mr S made and the wait times he experienced for those calls 
to be answered. Its not in dispute that customers of Barclays were subject to longer delays 
for their calls to be answered around the time Mr S tried to contact them. Barclays have 
explained this was due to an increased demand in their services as peoples finances were 
impacted by COVID-19. And Barclays own processes were affected due to staffing and the 
impact COVID-19 had on this. I think this is a reasonable explanation and I think it was one 
that was out of Barclays control due to the unprecedented pandemic the country was 
negotiating at the time. So, I dont think I can say theyve acted unfairly here.
But I do think they added to Mr S frustration by providing him with the incorrect phone 
number when he messaged them securely. And Barclays have accepted this mistake and 
offered Mr S £50 to recognise this and the time he lost needing to make further calls to 
source the correct department. I think this offer is a fair one and is in line with what I 
wouldve directed had it not been made. So, I dont think Barclays need to do anything more 
for this aspect of the complaint.
Ive then thought about Mr S journey to Glasgow for an in-branch appointment. Ive seen 
Barclays booked in three appointments for Mr S. Two of these were for September and they were in branches significantly closer to Mr S home address. Barclays have explained Mr S 
was unhappy with the delay for these appointments and asked them to search the entire 
United Kingdom for the next possible appointment. And having done so, they found an 
appointment in the Glasgow branch for the end of July.
I think its reasonable for me to assume Mr S did make this request, as I dont think its likely 
Barclays wouldve offered a customer this appointment in normal circumstances considering 
the distance between Mr S home address and the branch. So, I think it was Mr S own 
decision to consider travelling to a branch further away.
I recognise Mr S comments regarding the urgency of his situation and the need for a new 
business account. But I dont think travelling to Glasgow was his only option. Ive seen no 
evidence to show Mr S wouldve missed out on the purchase of the offices if the creation of 
the account had been delayed until September. And if this was the case, I think Mr S had the 
option of using another bank if necessary. Instead, Mr S chose to travel to Glasgow and 
when deciding this, I think it was clear hed incur costs for travel and accommodation due to 
the distance. I cant see that Mr S asked Barclays if theyd consider covering these costs 
before travelling. So, I think Mr S decided to incur them himself and because of this, I dont 
think I can fairly say that Barclays should cover them.
I do recognise the delays wont have been ideal for Mr S. And I do understand why Mr S 
believes Barclays were responsible for the staffing of branches and availability of 
appointments. But again, I think COVID-19 brought unpresented challenges to customers 
and banks and I cant say Barclays handled this unfairly, as any business decision they took 
would fall under their own business process, which Im unable to comment upon.
So, this follows onto Mr S comments about Barclays moving staff to certain areas of the 
business. Ive seen no evidence to show this is definitely the case, nor that Barclays profited 
from this. But even if this was the case, Barclays are entitled to alter their processes to 
address their demand and Im unable to comment on this or say it was unfair for them to do 
so.
So, I dont think Barclays need to do anything more on this occasion. I understand this isnt 
the outcome Mr S was hoping for and I recognise it doesnt reimburse him for the costs of 
his trip to Glasgow which was his main intention. But I hope this decision goes some way to 
explaining why I dont think Barclays made a mistake or acted unfairly in a way that forced 
Mr S to make this trip and incurring the associated costs. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr S complaint about Barclays Bank UK 
PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2021.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman