DRN-3868236
The complaint
Mrs J complains Great Lakes Insurance SE caused her late husband to be transferred to 
another hospital abroad, whilst very unwell. 
Mrs Js complaint is brought on her behalf by a representative, but for ease, I will refer to all 
submissions as having been made by Mrs J herself. And my references to Great Lakes will 
include its agents. 
What happened
Mrs J and her late husband held a single trip travel insurance policy with Great Lakes, and 
they travelled abroad in September 2021. 
While they were away, Mr J sustained an injury to his leg. The following day his leg was 
blistering, and he collapsed. An ambulance was called, and Mr J was taken to a local private 
hospital. The medical report from the hospital shows suspected cellulitis, reduced 
consciousness, low blood pressure and possible septic shock. 
Great Lakes was notified Mr J had been taken to hospital and it contacted the hospital by 
email, requesting a medical report, treatment plan and an estimation of the medical 
expenses. However the hospital responded to advise it was already in the process 
transferring Mr J to a public hospital. 
Mrs J said the hospital advised its decision to transfer Mr J, was based on its past 
experience of Great Lakes not paying medical bills. 
The policy states the following is covered within the section for Emergency Medical & 
Repatriation Expenses:
Medical expenses (including transportation to the nearest suitable hospital) for the 
immediate needs of an unforeseen medical emergency, when deemed necessary by 
a recognised doctor and agreed by our medical officer..
It states the following is not covered in relation to the above: treatment in a private hospital 
or clinic abroad where a suitable public or state facility is available. 
And under special conditions relating to claims: 
we reserve the right to relocate you from one hospital to another and arrange for 
your repatriation to the United Kingdom at any time during the trip. We will do this if 
the doctor in attendance and our medical officer agree you can be moved safely 
and/or travel safely to the United Kingdom to continue treatment.
Mr J was successfully transferred to a public hospital, although this was a significant 
distance away from the private hospital. Great Lakes has since reviewed the medical reports 
and has said it believes the transfer was medically safe, and was carried out with no issues. 
However, Mr J very sadly passed away two days later, at the public hospital. 
Mrs J complained to Great Lakes. And it said the policy provides cover for medical treatment 
in a private facility in an emergency only, or when no public facilities are available. It said it 
thought the private hospital would have been aware of this, which may have influenced its 
decision to transfer Mr J. 
Great Lakes said it had begun looking into alternative hospitals for Mr Js ongoing treatment, 
and would have arranged the transfer, however the private hospital had already initiated this, 
and it was completed within a couple of hours of the insurer being informed Mr J had been 
admitted to the first hospital. 
Unhappy with Great Lakes response, Mrs J brought her complaint to this service. An 
investigator here looked into what had happened. They said they thought Great Lakes hadnt 
done anything wrong and didnt uphold the complaint. 
Great Lakes made no comment on the investigators view. However Mrs J disagreed. In 
summary she said she still thought there had been haste from the private hospital in 
transferring Mr J, due to non-payment of past bills. And said this may have had an effect on 
Mr J passing away. She also referred to the time taken for Great Lakes to consider whether 
or not Mr Js claim would be covered under the policy, and referred to other expenses Mr Js 
son had incurred. 
As Mrs J asked for a decision from an ombudsman, the case has been passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive looked at the relevant rules and industry guidelines, which say Great Lakes has a 
responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly. 
Ive focussed on what I believe to be the main issues in this complaint, and the complaint 
points which Mrs J originally raised with Great Lakes. I understand there has been an 
additional claim for out of pocket expenses, which the insurer has turned down. However this 
has happened since Great Lakes issued its final response on this complaint, so its not 
something Ive considered here. 
I appreciate Mrs J and the late Mr Js family feel very strongly that the private hospital based 
its decision to transfer on a past history of Great Lakes refusing to pay medical bills. And I 
accept that this is what they were told by the hospital at the time. However, in this decision 
Ive reviewed the circumstances of this particular claim, so Ive not seen any evidence 
related to Great Lakes past settlements with the private hospital involved, and I dont think it 
would be appropriate for me to request this. There can of course be many valid reasons for 
an insurer turning down a claim for medical expenses incurred abroad, if the circumstances 
arent covered. 
Im satisfied the terms and conditions of the policy set out that private medical treatment is 
not covered, other than in the event of an emergency or when no public facilities are 
available. And that a patient can be moved between hospitals if its medically safe to do so. 
However, in this case, it wasnt Great Lakes who made the decision to transfer Mr J, so I 
cant fairly hold it responsible for that course of action.  Based on the evidence Ive seen, I 
dont think Great Lakes had any reasonable opportunity to intervene in Mr Js transfer. Its clear from the records and emails Ive seen, that the transfer was initiated and arranged by 
the private hospital, and this was already in progress when Great Lakes made contact to 
request details of Mr Js condition and treatment plan. And, asking the hospital for this 
information is what I would have expected the insurer to do in the circumstances.  Mrs J has 
made reference to potential delays caused by Great Lakes wanting to confirm cover, 
however I dont think it was unreasonable for the insurer to request this information, 
particularly as Mr J had chosen to exclude his pre-existing medical conditions from his cover. 
And, Im aware the private hospital was already progressing arrangements to transfer Mr J to 
another hospital, and that this was completed within just a few hours of Great Lakes being 
notified of the situation. 
As Ive explained above, Im persuaded there wasnt sufficient time or opportunity for Great 
Lakes to verify the transfer of Mr J was medically safe and appropriate, or to make its own 
arrangements, as the hospital had already progressed this independently. So I dont think 
there is anything more Great Lakes could reasonably be expected to have done.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint and I 
make no aware against Great Lakes Insurance SE.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 March 2023.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman