DRN-3080512
The complaint
Mr D and Mrs D have complained that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) recorded a claim that 
they didnt pursue under their home insurance policy.
What happened
In October 2018, Mr D and Mrs D contacted AXA to discuss a claim for an escape of water. 
They were told the excess would be £500 so they didnt proceed with the claim.
A while later, Mr D and Mrs D obtained quotes through a price comparison website to renew 
their home insurance policy. They then phoned one of the insurers to discuss the policy. The 
insurer then increased the premium because it said there was an incident in October 2018 
that had been recorded in their names.
Mr D and Mrs D were unhappy that the 2018 claim had been recorded by AXA and said they 
werent aware this was the case. They said theyd had to pay a higher premium as a result of 
the claim being recorded, which they wanted AXA to compensate them for.
When out investigator looked at the complaint, she didnt uphold it. She said AXA had been 
notified of a claim and it was standard for an insurer to record this. It had correctly noted the 
claim as information only and said this was what it would do. It had recorded the value of the 
claim as £0, which was also correct.
As Mr D and Mrs D didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Ive looked at the policy wording. This said:
When you tell us about an incident (such as fire, water damage or theft) which may or may 
not give rise to a claim, we will pass information relating to it to the register. You can ask us 
for more information about this.
Ive also listened to the phone call from October 2018 where Mrs D contacted AXA to 
discuss a claim for an escape of water. During the phone call, the claim handler explained 
that there was a £500 excess for an escape of water and asked Mrs D if she thought the 
cost of the repair would be more than that. Mrs D said she wasnt sure. So, the call handler 
said a couple of times that she would record the claim as information only and explained 
that Mrs D could get in touch if she decided she wanted to pursue the claim.
So, Im satisfied that AXA explained that it would pass on information about incidents even if 
they didnt give rise to a claim and that Mrs D was specifically advised that the escape of 
water incident would be noted.
Ive also looked at whether AXA recorded the information correctly. The incident was 
recorded on the Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE). Insurers who are signed up to 
CUE make a record of any incidents, whether or not a claim is then pursued. The CUE 
record showed the claim status as notify and with a claim value of £0. So, AXA correctly 
recorded the details of the incident and I dont have any reason to ask it to remove or amend 
the record.
Im aware that Mr D and Mrs D are concerned that a policy document includes a settlement 
figure for the October 2018 incident. However, I havent seen anything to suggest that this 
was down to the actions of AXA or how it recorded the incident. Mr D and Mrs D would need 
to raise this with the business that provided the policy documents.
So, thinking about all of the above, I dont uphold this complaint or require AXA to do 
anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 November 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman