DRN-2965648
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Ocaso SA, Compania de Seguros y Reaseguros (Ocaso) added an 
exclusion to his buildings and contents policy and refused to pay his claim for flood damage.
What happened
Mr S took out a buildings and contents policy with Ocaso through a price comparison site. 
His house flooded during a wet storm when drains in the surrounding roads were unable to 
cope with the volume of rainwater. Mr S claimed under his policy but Ocaso declined 
because hed incorrectly stated on his application through the online comparison site that his 
home was more than 400 metres from a river. 
While Mr S accepted hed made a mistake, he complained to Ocaso because the river 
wasnt the cause of the flood and he didnt think it was relevant to his claim. Ocaso explained 
that if it had been aware his home was close to a river, it wouldnt have provided flood cover. 
Ocaso considered this to be a careless qualifying misrepresentation, under the law on 
misrepresentation, which entitled it to add a flood exclusion to the policy retrospectively and 
decline his claim because of this.
Mr S brought his complaint to us because he thought Ocaso should consider his claim under 
storm cover. 
I issued a provisional decision in July 2021 explaining that I was intending to not uphold Mr 
Ss complaint. Heres what I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I understand this will come as a great disappointment to Mr S, but Ive provisionally decided 
not to uphold his complaint. Im genuinely sorry to hear of the damage to his home and the 
loss he and his family incurred. But I must be fair to both sides and I cant fairly say that 
Ocaso has done anything wrong by declining his claim for the reason it gave. Ill explain.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer must show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Ocaso thinks Mr S failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
said in his policy application that his home was more than 400m away from a river, and 
confirmed on his statement of fact that his home was over 200m away.
Ive looked at the evidence, including the questions asked, and Im satisfied that there are 
some points in the overall complaint which dont appear to be in dispute. So, Ive taken the 
following statements to be an accurate reflection of the circumstances:
Mr S suffered loss caused by rainwater flooding his home.
Mr Ss home is within 80 metres of a river. 
When Mr S took out the policy, he declared on his statement of fact that it wasnt 
within 200 metres of a river. 
Had Mr S made the correct statement, Ocaso wouldve applied a flood exclusion 
clause.
The river wasnt the cause of the flood.
Torrential rain caused surface water to overwhelm drains resulting in localised 
flooding.
Mr S said he didnt realise how close the river was to his home because it was obscured by 
a block of flats. So, he believed he was correct in saying on his application that his home 
was more than 400m from a river and, therefore, more than 200m as recorded on his 
statement of fact. However, Mr S was responsible for taking reasonable care to give 
accurate information, and Ocaso could reasonably expect Mr S to do so. By making this 
declaration, Im satisfied that Mr S carelessly misrepresented the facts.
Ocaso provided evidence of its underwriting criteria showing that if Mr S had told it his home 
was within 200m (occasionally reported as 400m) of a river, it wouldve still offered the 
policy. But it wouldve looked at whether his home was in an area designated as a flood risk 
by the relevant authority and, if so, applied an exclusion. 
This means the misrepresentation was a qualifying one  it wouldve made a difference to 
the policy offered. 
Im satisfied Mr Ss misrepresentation should be treated as careless, so Ive looked at the 
actions Ocaso can take in accordance with CIDRA. The law allows an insurer to act as it 
wouldve done had the consumer taken reasonable care not to misrepresent their 
circumstances. This includes treating the insurance policy as if it had been entered on the 
terms the insurer wouldve applied without the misrepresentation. 
As explained above, had Ocaso known about Mr Ss proximity to the river, it wouldve 
assessed the flood risk. Ocaso provided evidence from the relevant authoritys assessment 
that Mr Ss home was in a flood risk area before he took out the policy, so it applied the 
following exclusion:
The Flood Exclusion Clause - Endorsement 011  states: 
It is hereby agreed that Section One (Buildings) and Section Two (Contents) of this 
insurance do not cover: 
a) The escape of water from the normal confines of any natural or artificial watercourse, 
lake, reservoir, canal or dam; 
b) Inundation from the sea; Or 
c) Flood resulting from storm or tempest or any other peril other than escape of water from 
fixed water tanks, apparatus or pipes  
Ocaso said it wouldve added the flood exclusion on to the policy from the start and I think 
its fair that Ocaso assesses Mr Ss claim for flood damage with this exclusion taken into consideration. This means Im satisfied that Ocaso is acting reasonably by treating it as a 
careless qualifying misrepresentation and not paying Mr Ss claim for flood damage.
The dispute, then, arose because Ocaso declined Mr Ss claim under the above policy 
exclusion. But Mr S thinks Ocaso shouldve considered his claim under the terms for storm 
rather than flood cover. 
So, accepting that Ocaso wouldnt have covered Mr S for flood damage, Ive thought about 
whether his claim for storm damage is reasonable. His policy provides cover under Section 
One (Buildings) and Section Two (Contents) for: 3. Storm, Tempest or Flood, but the 
clause that Ocaso retrospectively applied to his policy specifically excludes flood resulting 
from storm. So, I cant see that the outcome of his claim wouldve been any different if 
Ocaso had considered it as storm damage.
Moving on, Ocaso said that Mr Ss claim shouldnt be accepted as a flood caused by an 
escape of water, and its here that I agree. The flood exclusion provides an exception for any 
flood caused by escape of water from fixed water tanks, apparatus or pipes, which is an 
insured peril under point 4, Section One and Section Two of the policy. Its clear to me that 
this isnt part of the exclusion because it covers floods caused by escape of water from 
within the home, unrelated to external weather conditions. I dont think its fair to interpret the 
escape of water peril to include floods caused by external drains which couldnt cope with 
the demand of torrential rainfall. The water was prevented from entering the drains due to its 
volume, which doesnt fall within a reasonable definition of escape of water. 
To simplify my reason for not upholding this complaint, Ive applied the but for test: but for 
the torrential rain (storm), the drains wouldnt have been overwhelmed and the house 
wouldnt have flooded. Therefore, Mr Ss house flooded because of a storm and the 
retrospective policy exclusion based on the proximity of the river applies here. Im satisfied 
that Ocaso handled the claim in line with the terms of the policy and I see no reason at 
present to ask it to pay the claim.
I said I was minded not to uphold the complaint and I asked both parties to send me any 
further comments and information they might want me to consider before I reached a final 
decision.
Ocaso had nothing further to add.
Mr S responded to say that the distance from the river to his house was irrelevant because 
the flood water didnt originate from the river.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand the point Mr S is making  the river didnt cause his home to flood so he doesnt 
see why damage caused by flooding from another source should be excluded. But the fact 
is, he didnt tell Ocaso when he took out the policy that his home was near a river. So Ocaso 
assessed the risk and sold the policy based on incorrect information. 
If Ocaso had received the correct information from Mr S and applied a condition excluding 
cover just for river flooding, then it mightve been reasonable to accept his claim for flooding 
caused by excessive surface water. But thats not the case. The condition Ocaso wouldve 
applied, and did apply retrospectively, excluded flood resulting from storm. I dont think theres any dispute that the surface rainwater was only there because of the torrential 
downpour  that is, a storm.
So, Im satisfied that Mr S wouldnt have been covered for the flood damage if hed provided 
the correct information when he bought the policy. Ocaso applied the exclusion 
retrospectively in line with the remedies available to it under CIDRA, and I see no reason 
why it should settle the claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Mr Ss 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman