DRN-4088578
The complaint
Mrs T brings a complaint on behalf of the estate of her father, the late Mr S. She says that 
Lloyds Bank Plc has failed to provide a reasonable service after she notified it of Mr S having 
passed away, which has caused her both upset and inconvenience.  
What happened
Mr S held an investment with Scottish Widows. He sadly passed away in early 2022. Mrs T 
submitted an online notification to Lloyds and received an acknowledgement letter the same 
day, dated 28 February 2022.  
On 15 March 2022, Mrs T sent Lloyds a required death certificate for Mr S. However, she 
heard nothing further.  
On 4 June 2022, she contacted Lloydss bereavement department and explained nobody 
had contacted her. As a result, she raised a verbal complaint. She was given details for 
Scottish Widows to contact it directly (something Lloyds could not do)  but Mrs T says these 
were incorrect. 
On 6 June 2022, Mrs T had to call Lloyds again to obtain the correct details for Scottish 
Widows. She then chased it again on 23 June 2022 for a response to her complaint.  
On 11 July 2022, Mrs T called Lloyds again to formalise her complaint. She confirmed that 
her concern was that Lloyds failed to escalate notification to Mr Ss death to other areas of 
the Lloyds Banking Group  and this caused her unnecessary stress. She was offered £174 
compensation to close the matter, but she declined. 
On 22 July 2022, Lloyds issued a written outcome to the complaint. It accepted that the 
process had failed because the late Mr S did not hold any active Lloyds products; so, it could 
not begin its internal processes, as these would usually involve linking correspondence to an 
active account. It had been able to work around this once Mrs T supplied a death certificate 
 but it appreciated this took longer than it should have. 
Lloyds again offered Mrs T £150 for the upset she was caused as well as £24 towards call 
costs. It said if Mrs T wanted to accept that offer, she could contact it to arrange payment.  
Mrs T refused the offer of compensation. Thereafter, she referred the complaint to our 
service. In the complaint form, Mrs T said that Lloyds had placed her under unnecessary 
emotional distress at what was already a hugely difficult time for her. She said that to resolve 
her complaint, she wanted Lloyds to provide a full and sincere apology. She also wanted it to 
give assurances that it has a bereavement service that is properly fit for purpose, so others 
could not be caused the same upset.
One of our investigators then reviewed the complaint. Though she believed that Lloydss 
service failures contributed to delays, she said that she did not believe it should do anything 
further. She reached that conclusion because Lloyds had reasonably compensated Mrs T for 
the upset she had been caused, and she wasnt able to propose additional compensation to 
Mrs T as a representative of the estate of the late Mr S.
Mrs T disagreed. She said that whilst she was the executor of her late fathers estate, she 
was also his daughter and a person in her own right. In her view, her personal distress ought 
not to be taken lightly. Mrs T also noted that the offer of compensation made by Lloyds was 
merely to close the complaint down  and it had since been withdrawn. Mrs T felt Lloyds had 
failed her by consequence of its poor service standards.  
Our investigator was not able to change her view on the complaint. Mrs T therefore asked for 
the matter to be referred for an ombudsmans decision.  
Lloyds didnt make any additional comments. The complaint has now been passed to me.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank the parties for their considerable patience whilst this matter has awaited referral for 
an ombudsmans decision. 
I was sorry to learn that Mr S had passed away last year, and I send my condolences to Mrs 
T and her family. I do not wish to cause Mrs T any additional upset, but for the reasons Ill go 
on to explain, I cannot uphold her complaint or make any award to her. 
It is clear that by submission of Mrs Ts bereavement notification, she intended to settle the 
late Mr Ss holdings with Scottish Widows. And though that business is part of the Lloyds 
Banking Group, she needed to liaise directly with Scottish Widows in order to do so.  
It is also clear that Lloyds failed in its accepted standards when providing a bereavement 
service  as that clearly ought to include assisting Mrs T in clarifying that she needed to 
contact Scottish Widows directly. For that reason, it has offered her £150 compensation, 
plus a further £24 for the time taken by Mrs T to chase matters via telephone.  
Mrs T remains unhappy with Lloyds  since the complaint has not been answered to her 
satisfaction. She believes further compensation, a commitment to improved services and an 
apology ought to be awarded by this service.  
However, even if I were to agree that an additional payment of compensation or other 
direction was appropriate, I couldnt propose any payment of the upset caused to Mrs T 
directly. That is not to say I dont recognise how distressing the notification process was for 
her on behalf of her father, but I do not have a free hand to make an award of that type 
directly to Mrs T. I can see that this seems confusing to her, but our rules do not allow it. Ill 
explain why that is. 
We are bound by the Dispute Resolution (DISP) rules which apply to this service, as set out 
in the Financial Conduct Authority Handbook. An ombudsman is not able to avoid the rules 
or apply discretion to certain rules. Complaints that are made to this service must be 
pursued by an eligible complainant (for example, a consumer or a micro-enterprise) and 
those complaints must be about acts or omissions by businesses when carrying out certain 
regulated activities  in this case, administration of the investment held by the late Mr S. 
A specific rule (DISP rule 2.7.2 R) allows a third party to bring a complaint on behalf of an 
eligible complainant (such as an investor) to this service, for example from an appointed 
representative or an executor of an estate for an eligible complainant that has since passed away. That applies here as Mrs T is the executor of Mr Ss estate. But that doesnt mean that 
she, as a representative, is an eligible complainant in their own right. 
Though this service can make further awards for the distress a business has caused in 
relation to a complaint (DISP 3.7.2 R), and whilst a complaint can be made to this service by 
a representative on behalf of the eligible complainant (or the estate of a complainant that has 
passed away), that does not confer the right to receive a money award to the representative. 
Consequently, I cannot make an award for distress or trouble caused to Mrs T as a 
representative for the late Mr S. I know that does not change how upset Mrs T feels  but 
our rules do not permit me to award compensation to a representative in the circumstances. 
In its submission to this service, Lloyds told us that its offer of £174 remains open to Mrs T, 
should she decide to accept it. I therefore leave Mrs T to contact Lloyds about that, should 
she wish to reconsider her rejection of the offer. 
My final decision
I realise my decision will be disappointing for Mrs T. But for the reasons given, I cannot 
uphold this complaint or make any award. I do not uphold this complaint or make any award.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr S 
to accept or reject my decision before 22 December 2023.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman