DRN-1773968
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
 
What happened
In 2003 Mr and Mrs B took out a mortgage with Halifax. At the same time, they took out a 
Total Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP). Mr and Mrs B paid a monthly premium for the 
TMPP. The plan included a PPI element. It also included life cover and critical illness cover. 
Ive only considered the PPI element of the plan here.
The PPI would have covered Mr and Mrs Bs monthly mortgage payments against accident, 
sickness and unemployment for up to 24 months per successful claim if Mr B had been off 
sick, or if hed lost his job.
Our adjudicator didn't uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs B disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion so the complaint was passed to me.
 
my provisional findings
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr and 
Mrs B and to Halifax on 20 March 2020. I summarise my findings:
I explained that where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive I need to decide 
what I thinks most likely to have happened, based on the information I have.
 
Mr and Mrs B have told us Halifaxs adviser strongly advised that they take out the 
PPI. They say they were told this was because it would pretty much guarantee that 
their mortgage application would be accepted, as it would be less risk to the bank. 
They say they asked what the likelihood of the mortgage application being rejected 
was if they didn't take the cover. And they say they were told that it was more likely to 
be declined, as there would be more risk to the bank. They've explained that they 
decided to take the policy as we wanted to ensure mortgage application would be 
approved.
 
It seemed to me from what Mr and Mrs B say that they realised that the PPI was 
optional. And I thought they decided to take it, knowing that they had a choice.
 Id borne in mind that Mr and Mrs B say they felt pressured by the adviser into taking 
the PPI. But while both parties agree that Halifax recommended the policy to Mr and 
Mrs B, pressure is another matter, and a serious allegation. It wouldn't be reasonable 
to expect Mr and Mrs B to remember exactly what was said so long ago. And without 
stronger evidence, I couldnt fairly conclude that they were pressured into taking the 
cover, based purely on their recollection of the conversation.
 
As Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs B, it had a responsibility to check 
that it was suitable for them. But it didnt look as if it was unsuitable, based on what 
I'd seen of their circumstances at the time.
 
Mr and Mrs B have told us that Mr B would have been entitled to 12 weeks full pay, 
followed by 12 weeks half pay from his employer at the time if hed been off sick. But 
the policy would have paid out in addition to any payments he received from his 
employer. And it would have paid out for up to 24 months, which is significantly 
longer than Mr Bs told us hed have been entitled to full sick pay for. Whats more, 
the policy would have paid out in addition to any payments Mr B received from his 
employer. So Mr and Mrs B could have used those to meet other day-to-day 
expenses.
 
I acknowledged that Mr and Mrs B have told us that they had significant savings 
when they took out the policy. But I commented that theyd chosen to protect those, 
rather than taking out a smaller mortgage. And having the PPI cover would have 
enabled them to keep their savings, or to use them to meet other expenses if Mr B 
had been off sick, or if hed lost his job.
 
Id borne in mind that Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage was a major financial commitment, 
due to run for a long period of time. Their home would have been at risk if they didn't 
keep their mortgage payments up to date. The PPI cover provided a dependable 
means of ensuring that their monthly mortgage repayments were protected if Mr B 
was off sick, or if he lost his job. So I thought it could have been useful for Mr and 
Mrs B.
 
I accepted that it was possible that Halifax could have explained the cost of the policy 
better than it did. But it was competitively priced, and apparently affordable. And 
since Mr and Mrs B were paying for it monthly, they could have cancelled it at any 
time without further cost if their circumstances changed, or if they decided they no 
longer wanted the cover. I noted that they did, in fact, cancel the cover in 2008.
 
It was possible Halifax didn't point out the main things the policy didn't cover (for 
example, unusual working arrangements or existing medical conditions). But from 
what theyve told us about their circumstances at the time, I thought it was unlikely Mr 
B would have been affected by any of these. So I thought it was unlikely that better 
information wold have put them off taking the PPI.
 
So having thought carefully about what Mr and Mrs B had said, I wasnt satisfied, on balance 
that Halifax had pressured them into taking the PPI. And I didnt find that it had been mis-
sold. This meant that I wasnt planning to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. 
further submissions
Mr and Mrs B disagree with my provisional decision. They say, in summary that they arent 
happy that my decision is purely based on whats most likely to have happened, and 
expressions such as it seems to me. And they believe that my decision is biased in favour 
of Halifax and that Ive taken its word against theirs. 
They reiterate that they took out PPI because Halifax pressured them into it to secure the 
mortgage.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Bs case.
Mr and Mrs B say that the suitability of the product, their sick pay entitlement and the 
savings they had at the time arent the issue. They say they were told that the only way they 
could guarantee that their application would be accepted was by taking out PPI. They accept 
that they cant prove this, but they point out that Halifax cant disprove it either. And they 
believe that the fact that Halifax was part of the financial scam that was PPI means that its 
more likely that it isnt telling the truth.
As I commented in my provisional decision, Mr and Mrs B told us that Halifax strongly 
advised them to take the policy. Ive borne in mind that the mortgage was a significant 
financial commitment, secured on Mr and Mrs Bs home. Given the potential benefits of the 
policy, I can see how Halifaxs adviser might have persuaded them that it would be a good 
idea to take out the cover. 
I can understand Mr and Mrs Bs frustration that neither they nor Halifax can prove 
categorically what was said at the time. But in order to find that Mr and Mrs B were 
effectively led to believe that not taking the PPI would jeopardise their mortgage application, 
Id need to consider it more likely than not that this happened. And I cant fairly do that, 
based only on Mr and Mrs Bs recollection of a discussion that took place around 17 years 
ago. And the fact that PPI may have been mis-sold in some other cases doesnt alter my 
decision in this case.
Mr and Mrs B have also commented that my conclusion that its unlikely that better 
information about the policy would have put them off taking out the PPI shows bias towards 
Halifax. 
But Ive considered everything that Mr and Mrs B have told us about their circumstances 
when they took out the mortgage and PPI. And Ive considered this alongside the terms and 
conditions of the policy. It looks as if Mr B was eligible for the policy, and it doesnt look as if 
there was anything about his circumstances at the time that would have prevented him from 
making a successful claim on the policy. It was competitively priced, and it would potentially 
have covered Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage payments for a significant period - up to 24 months - 
if Mr B had made a successful claim. So even if Halifax had given Mr and Mrs B more 
detailed information about the policys terms and conditions, I didnt think it would have put 
them off taking it. And this remains my view.I appreciate that Mr and Mrs B will be disappointed with my findings. However, my 
conclusion remains that the policy was not mis-sold.
 
 My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 June 2020.
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman