DRN-2089781
The complaint
Mr N complains about the way HSBC UK Bank Plc handled his queries after he deposited a
foreign currency cheque into his current account.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions are set out in my provisional 
decision dated 12 August 2020. In my provisional decision I explained why I intended to 
uphold Mr Ns complaint and how HSBC should resolve it. My provisional decision said:
What happened
Mr N receives quarterly dividend cheques and, over a period of around five years, has
deposited them in his HSBC current account. He says the cheques normally took around a
week to clear and the fee was £6. On 30 September 2019 Mr N paid in a cheque for $91.80
into his account and says he expected it to clear in line with his previous experience and to
be charged £6.
Over the following weeks, Mr N sent regular online messages to HSBC as his cheque funds
hadnt been credited to his current. On 1 November 2019 the cheque cleared into Mr Ns
account. He received £69.32 and was charged £28
.
On 4 November 2019 Mr N complained about the £28 fee he had been charged. On
11 November 2019 Mr N spoke with two call handlers at HSBC and asked why the fee he
had been charged had gone up. Neither person Mr N spoke with was able to explain why the
fee had changed.
Mr N spoke with HSBC again on 13 November 2019. The call handler explained that the
cheque had been sent for collection and that the £28 fee was correct. Mr N asked why the
fee had changed and why the cheque had taken so long to clear. The call handler told Mr N
the cheque had initially been returned to the issuer before clearing. The call handler didnt
say why Mr N had been charged £28 instead of the £6 fee he normally paid. HSBC agreed
to refund £22 of the £28 fee Mr N had been charged as a gesture of goodwill.
Mr N received another dividend cheque and contacted HSBC about the fees he was
charged. Mr N spoke with a call handler on 13 December 2019 who said the terms meant he
would be charged £28 for depositing a cheque in dollars. Mr N reiterated his confusion that
he had previously been charged £6. The call handler explained that HSBC had previously
negotiated the exchange rate which came with a £6 fee but had moved to a collection basis
and that the method of exchange was at the banks discretion.
Mr N asked when the process had changed and whos discretion at the bank is used to
decide how his cheques are processed. Mr N pointed out that HSBC had processed
cheques in the same way for a £6 fee over the last five years and had suddenly changed
without notice. The call handler raised a complaint for Mr N.
HSBC responded to Mr Ns complaint on 22 January 2020 and explained that in July 2019
its account terms and conditions changed. As a result, the way HSBC processes foreign
currency cheques changed and the fee increased to £28.
Mr N referred his complaint to our service and it was passed to an investigator. She thought
HSBCs offer to refund £22 of the fee Mr N was charged was fair and didnt ask it to do
anything else. Mr N asked to appeal. He said that, whilst the fee may have changed, he
received very confusing information from HSBC throughout the process and no one was
able to explain why the fee and processing time had gone up without notice. As Mr N asked
to appeal, his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I dont agree that the
way HSBC has dealt with this complaint is fair. Based on the information Ive seen so far, I
intend to uphold Mr Ns complaint and increase the award.
HSBC is entitled to process cheques in line with its commercial discretion. I can see the
move from negotiation to collection for some cheques has impacted Mr N and that, as a
result, the fee is now £28. But HSBC can decide what process to use and what fee to
charge, as long as they are set out in the terms. Ive checked the July 2019 terms and Im
satisfied HSBC processed Mr Ns cheque correctly.
Mr N doesnt appear to dispute HSBCs new fee structure now it has been pointed out to
him. In his response to the investigator, Mr N says he was given incorrect and misleading
information throughout the period in question by HSBC. Ive listened to Mr Ns calls and
reviewed his online messages with HSBC and I agree.
On 11 November 2019 Mr N spoke with at least two people at HSBC. After he was told the
fee was £28 he asked a simple question. Mr N asked why the fee had previously been £6
and jumped to £28. Neither call handler was able to answer Mr Ns question. Mr N spoke
with someone else at HSBC on 13 November 2019. They agreed to refund the £22
difference in fees. But they told Mr N that the difference in the fee may have been caused by
a change in the way the issuer processed the cheque. Later, the call handler incorrectly told
Mr N the cheque had initially been returned to the issuers bank which impacted the time it
took to clear.
On 13 December 2019 Mr N spoke with HSBC again as he had received another dividend
cheque to deposit. Whilst the person Mr N spoke with was able to identify the correct section
of the terms and conditions that set out how foreign currency cheques are processed, they
werent able to explain why the fee has increased from £6 to £28.
The first time Im able to see that HSBC adequately explained the changed in processing
arrangements, account terms and fees charged was in its final response on 22 January
2020. That was around three months after Mr N first asked. In my view, Mr N was asking a
reasonable question about the way HSBC works and how it processes cheques. Throughout
Mr Ns calls with HSBC he repeated that he wanted to understand the process and fees so
he could decide what to do with dividend cheques in the future. I think it should have been
much simpler for Mr N to obtain the correct response.
I also agree with Mr N that he was given the wrong information at points. Theres nothing to
show HSBC ever returned the cheque to the issuer for instance.
Im satisfied the information provided to Mr N over a reasonable period was unclear and, at
times, incorrect. I think HSBC should have been able to clearly explain changes to its terms
and the way it processes cheques to Mr N. Taking everything Ive seen into account, I dontagree that the £22 fee refund goes far enough.
I can see Mr N has spent lots of time on this query and has had to contact the cheque issuer
in a different country. I agree with Mr N that the service he received was poor and caused
inconvenience. Based on everything Ive seen to date, I intend to uphold Mr Ns complaint
and increase the award by an additional £100 to take into account the distress and
inconvenience caused by the way HSBC handled Mr Ns queries
.
Mr N and HSBC have until 11 September 2020 to send me any additional information or
comments they want me to consider before I make my final decision.
Mr N and HSBC have both responded and confirmed they are happy to proceed in line with 
my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr N and HSBC have both confirmed they are willing to proceed in line with the 
settlement I set out in my provisional decision I see no reason to change the conclusions I 
reached. I still think the fairest approach is to uphold Mr Ns complaint and increase the 
award by an additional £100 to recognise the distress and inconvenience caused. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay Mr N an 
additional £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 September 2020.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman