DRN-3270716
The complaint
Mr F has complained that he was unsuitably advised by Central Markets Investment 
Management Ltd (CMIM), as a trustee of his Small Self-Administered Scheme (SSAS), to 
invest in a Cape Verde hotel development of The Resort Group (TRG). Mr F is represented 
in this complaint by a claims management company (CMC).
What happened
In late 2013 Mr F was aged 54 and owned a mortgaged property, but had little else in the 
way of savings. Mr Fs CMC believes he was cold called as a result of a PPI claims firm 
having his details, and told he would receive great returns due to the regular use of the hotel 
property - much better returns than what his existing pension was capable of. It says he had 
a low attitude to risk.
Mr F can recall dealing with a firm with Money Matters in its name. A firm called Consumer 
Money Matters worked closely (and shared directors) with Your Choice Pensions (YCP) - 
and we know that CMIM had signed an introducer agreement with YCP. 
As part of the arrangements to transfer Mr Fs pension, on 15 October 2013 a new 
employing company was incorporated; named after the road in which he lives. And on 17 
October 2013 he signed terms of business agreeing that CMIM would provide a letter of 
advice in relation to TRG for the purposes of s.36 of the Pensions Act 1995 (PA95).
(For reference, s.36 of PA95 requires trustees of an occupational pension scheme such as 
a SSAS to obtain and consider written advice on the question whether the investment is 
satisfactory having regard to the requirements of regulations under subsection (1), so far as 
relating to the suitability of investments. s.36 also warns that the advice required under 
this section may constitute the carrying on of a regulated activity under the Financial 
Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA).)
CMIMs terms of business clarified the following:
- CMIM was a regulated firm, but that the service it would provide was not regulated, as it 
related to an unregulated investment.
- It was providing the service to trustees of a SSAS.
- No advice was being given on investments regulated under s.22 of FSMA and other 
than the Cape Verde investment.
- No individual suitability advicewhich takes into account your personal financial 
circumstances was being given.
Mr F also signed an (undated) indicative investment form, setting out how much of his 
pension he was looking to invest in TRG and how much in CMIMs discretionary fund 
management (DFM) service. He expressed an intention of investing 100% into TRG. 
However Mr F also has a copy of a CMIM application form for a DFM account on which it 
was proposed he invest £10,000. That application form refers to him being introduced to 
CMIM by YCP. 
On 16 December 2013 a SSAS was established by trust deed for Mr Fs new employer with 
him as sole trustee, and Cantwell Grove Ltd (CGL) as SSAS administrator. The fee to 
administer the SSAS was £500+VAT annually. In other cases weve seen where the clients 
were introduced to CMIM by YCP or its sister company (and the client has kept all 
correspondence), YCP sent them a covering letter itself enclosing written advice from 
CMIM on their chosen investment into commercial property in Cape Verde.
Mr F does not have his copy of this so-called dear Trustee letter, but I can see from its 
submissions that CMIM accepts it allowed the introducer to send this to mutual clients 
without further CMIM authorisation. It doesnt refer to the trustee by name and mentions that 
the business has been introduced by YCP. It repeats that CMIM is providing the trustee with 
advice that it understands to be unregulated, because a SSAS is not regulated (and 
furthermore, the TRG investment involves direct ownership in property). It goes on:
We have researched the commercial property investment, The Resort Group, the hotel operator 
(Melia Hotels International), and the wider aspects of ownership and security; and our conclusion 
is that it is an appropriate investment albeit when considered in the light of sensible diversification 
of a portfolio of an investor's overall wealth and that an effective "exit" strategy is planned in order 
to coincide with the needs of the investor. The Resort Group have cooperated with our research.
In the letter CMIM explained the reference to diversification meant that its advice would be to 
consider other investments alongside the property investment that were low risk and 
unconnected with it. And the reference to an exit strategy was that the trustee needed to 
plan ahead if they wanted to draw benefits from the SSAS  in particular purchasing an 
annuity. It went on to say (with my emphasis):
The investment is not suitable for a cautious investor who needs the protection of the UK investor 
compensation and regulatory environment, as both a SSAS and the overseas investment have no 
such regulatory protection. There are a range of risks that we have seen have been clearly 
documented to the investor and should be considered carefully: The value of any investment can 
fall as well as rise. Land or commercial property should not necessarily be considered as a liquid 
investment; it may therefore not be suitable should you need access to the capital at short notice 
or the timeframe desired by the trustee.
Commercial property investments tend to incur ongoing costs and charges, which may not always 
be covered by any possible rental returns. The value of rental returns is dependent on occupancy 
demand, which cannot be guaranteed. 
Investments held overseas may have additional risks such as currency fluctuations, which may 
impact on any returns when converted back into sterling; political risk to ownership and title; and 
commercial risk to the delivery and management of a property/resort. You may wish to take 
independent legal advice to ensure you understand all these issues
Our view is that the investment is appropriate but only as part of a diversified holding according to 
an investor's attitude to risk and capacity for withstanding loss.
You should ensure that you only invest what you can afford to loseWe believe as core principles 
that where an investor is looking to retire within ten years then no more than 50% of their 
investment should be invested directly within commercial property, and the remainder should be 
held in liquid investments. Our advice to investors is to consider the need for diversification
carefullyWe have not reviewed other overseas commercial property investment opportunities 
and accordingly are not providing you with advice as to the merits of the proposed investment as 
against other such investment opportunities. If you still have any doubts we recommend that you 
seek independent financial advice
The letter went on to propose CMIMs MVA Balanced Portfolio to provide the suggested 
diversification into other, lower risk investments  although in this case Mr F seems to have 
elected by completing a form in July 2014 to withdraw the amount he required the most 
liquidity for (the tax-free cash entitlement) and then invest the remainder in TRG.
On 17 January 2014 CGL requested the transfer of £37,513 from Mr Fs Sun Life pension 
using forms hed signed. It didnt receive the transfer proceeds until 11 September 2014, potentially due to the heightened checks providers were carrying out to prevent pensions 
liberation/scams. On 28 August 2014 Mr F had signed a letter confirming his instructions to 
invest in TRG were based on CMIMs advice. The standard wording in use by CGL at that time 
read as follows:
Prior to issuing this letter I have obtained and considered the advice letter [CMIM] has produced in 
relation to the Cape Verde investment opportunity. I believe [CMIM] to be an appropriately 
qualified advisor for the purposes of section 36 of the Pensions Act 1995, in relation to the 
question of whether that investment opportunity is satisfactory in terms of
( a ) its suitability as an investment in the SSAS, and
( b ) the need for diversification, in so far as is appropriate to the circumstances of the SSAS.
£25,831 of the transfer proceeds were invested in TRG with £9,378 paid out to Mr F as his 
tax-free cash sum and the remainder left as cash. CGL wrote to Mr F confirming this on 
4 June 2015, and it noted this again in his January 2016 annual statement. (Our investigator 
had the impression that Mr F didnt recall getting this sum; if that is correct, he is at liberty to 
query this with CGL himself.)
My understanding is that discounts were to be offered on the purchase, paid back to 
investors by monthly instalments at 7%pa until the resort opened. In Mr Fs case, he received 
a single payment back from TRG of £2,410 on 18 July 2016 (although £668 then seems to 
have been returned to TRG that November). Mr Fs recollection is that he would receive a 
guaranteed 5% return in the first year whilst the property was under construction only. From 
July 2017 onwards Mr Fs SSAS then started getting quarterly rental income from the resort 
(the first two payments being £201 and £118). 
The UK limited company via which Mr F invested into TRG had entered into separate 
contracts with developers to build the property, and to pay a third party to manage it. I gather 
these payments have since tailed off as the resort has proved unprofitable.
Mr Fs CMC complained to CMIM in November 2018 that the investment in TRG was wholly 
inappropriate for his SSAS. CMIM didnt respond to the complaint and it couldnt locate Mr F 
in its records when it was referred to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Subsequently it 
employed a legal representative to deal with the complaint.
Our investigator spoke to Mr F directly several times. He told our investigator that he was 
dissatisfied with the rate of growth on his existing Sun Life policy so he was looking around 
to do something different. He was attracted by the initial guaranteed rate of return on TRG, 
but was unaware of the attached costs and the problems hed face when trying to access it. 
He was led to believe (potentially by the introducer) that it was low risk. 
CMIM has made a number of submissions, both on this case and during the course of very
similar complaints for other individuals. I summarise all of its points below:
Much of CMIMs data was lost or corrupted following its IT migration to a new system 
following the decentralisation from its FX trading company in 2017.
It accepts that TRG appears to meet the legal definition of a collective investment 
scheme, albeit an unregulated one, following Asset Land v FCA [2016] UKSC 17), 
although it didnt realise this at the time.
CMIM was first approached by YCP in mid-2013 and knew customers were in the 
process of establishing CGL SSASs to invest in TRG. CMIMs only financial benefit 
arose out of the opportunity to promote its DFM service for the residualfunds. It 
attended numerous meetings with the marketers of the SSAS, including YCP.
At no point did CMIM recommend or influence cautious investors to invest in TRG. It 
concluded that TRG was risky and only appropriate when considered as part of a 
diverse portfolio where an effective exit strategy was planned. It promoted its DFM services as an alternative and/or as diversification  as it was a low risk portfolio of 
Exchange Traded Funds (ETFs) of major, liquid, equity indices and bonds.
CMIM had no interaction with Mr F or physical handling of any investment, except 
when it received instructions to allocate funds to DFM (which did not happen in this 
case). To the best of its knowledge all communications were routed through CGL.
The dates trustees received their dear Trustee letter appeared to be very close to the 
Trust Deed to establish the SSAS. This suggests that no reliance was placed on this 
letter as the trustees had already decided to invest in TRG, and they also had their 
own statutory duties as a trustee to invest prudently.
CGL had told them it would accept the investment (after presumably carrying out its 
own due diligence into TRG), and required them to sign a letter stating they had relied 
on CMIMs advice - without CMIM's knowledge. It deliberately misrepresented CMIM 
as the provider of investment advice that was regulated as a personal 
recommendation and subject to COBS 9 (suitability) in the FCA handbook.
If CMIM had been asked to provide such advice it would have declined, as it did not 
have an adviser suitably qualified to provide individual advice in relation to a SSAS. Its 
terms of business materially differed from those used in FCA-regulated advice.
YCP refers to CGL as its partner SSAS Administrator. [G]iven their declaration as 
experts in the field of SSAS pensions, Cantwell Groves lack of consideration of 
[inexperienced investors] as a suitable candidate for a SSAS Pension was both 
reckless and negligent.
We put some of CMIMs comments to CGL. It said the following:
- It disputes that it acted as a funnel for communications between CMIM and investors.
It believes CMIMs involvement was co-ordinated from the outset by YCP.
-Prior to consenting to investments, as the scheme administrator, we would fully expect 
that the trustee would consider advice. The investment advice wouldnt necessarily 
need to be obtained from a regulated firm, however, it should be from a person or firm 
that has the relevant knowledge and experience.
In summary, our investigator took the view that CMIM should have advised Mr F not to invest 
in TRG: firstly because it was unsuitable for him as an unsophisticated investor, but secondly 
because to do otherwise would constitute promotion of an unregulated collective investment 
scheme (UCIS) contrary to the restriction on such promotions. However, as Mr F was 
already looking to do something else with his pension, the investigator said hed likely still 
have changed provider, or funds at the least.
CMIM has responded by way of letters covering several complaints simultaneously. It didnt 
agree with the investigator. Some of the points it made reiterated its previous submissions. 
The following is a summary of its new points:
The only client relationship was between CGL, its intermediaries and the trustees, who 
received the dear Trustee letters hand-delivered to them in their homes. Naming 
CMIM gave the pension advice they were giving the intended air of credibility.
The terms of business between CMIM and the trustees was to ensure that they 
understood the purpose of the dear Trustee letter. It plainly was not contracting to 
provide advice that was regulated by the FCA, and denied all liability in such respects. 
So it was not necessary for CMIM to make itself aware of the personal and financial 
circumstances of the trustees or their attitude to risk, except for any DFM investment.
It is a fundamental premise in law that an act of providing negligent advice or 
information is not, in itself, sufficient to determine the cause(s) of financial loss incurred 
by the recipient of that advice. The courts must consider whether such breaches of 
duty of care were the causes of the trustees loss.
As in its view Mr F did not rely upon the dear Trustee letter, it might just as well have 
not existed. That was a view taken by another investigator and so this service was not 
being consistent in its approach.The dear Trustee letter was general in nature, not addressed to a named recipient 
and, most significantly, not specific as to the actual resort to be invested in or the 
amount of money involved. It contained ample warnings against investing. It was 
equally unreasonable to make a connection that anyone investing in TRG would not 
necessarily regard themselves as someone unneeding of easy access to liquid funds.
Before CMIM became involved, the trustees had already taken a series of positive 
actions to establishing an employer and SSAS under trust deed, and executing all the 
necessary agreements for the SSAS to operate. It cannot be argued that they were 
induced to take any of these actions by CMIM.
The people that promoted TRG to Mr F were the original introducers, and that also 
extended to CGL given the correspondence it prepared for Mr F to authorise the 
investment. It did not extend to CMIM, as its dear Trustee letter did not amount to a 
significant step in him making the investment given the warnings it contained. It also 
encouraged Mr F to seek independent advice from an IFA.
Considering all of the above it was wholly unfair and unjust to attribute Mr Fs loss 
100% to CMIM. CGL described themselves as specialists in the field of SSAS 
pensions, and should be held responsible for Mr Fs losses. They were complicit in 
every step necessary for Mr F to make the investment, and granted their consent to it, 
which it was in their interest to do as they received remuneration from the SSAS.
CMIM also made some observations on redress, which Ill address later.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The evidence linking Mr F to CMIM on this complaint is not substantial, but Im satisfied it is 
nonetheless sufficient to hold CMIM responsible for its role in facilitating the TRG 
investment. First, Mr F signed terms of business with CMIM that said he would receive 
advice on this investment. We know this advice was provided in other cases by way of the 
dear Trustee letter. It would not have been an onerous task for the introducer to send Mr F 
that letter, which seems to have been contemplated as a standard part of the sales process 
CMIM entered into with YCP.
A CMIM application form was at least initially completed indicating a £10,000 investment in 
the DFM service. It may be the case that this plan was shelved when Mr F chose to take the 
maximum 25% tax-free cash upfront from his SSAS instead (as he was approaching the 
minimum pension age of 55). That may explain why a copy of the terms of business Mr F 
signed didnt end up with CMIM, and he is missing from its records  but CMIM wasnt 
required to sign these terms to give effect to them. 
From the way the dear Trustee letter was written, CMIM clearly knew that the trustee had a 
legal obligation to refer to its advice on TRGs suitability  as the evidence demonstrates Mr 
F did - whether they chose to make a DFM investment or not. CMIM doesnt seem to have 
checked with its introducer which people had been given the TRG advice but had a 
particular reason - as Mr F did in this case - not to become a DFM client. That should not in 
my view count to Mr Fs disadvantage. On balance, Im satisfied that he went through the 
same sales process as other CMIM clients and received a dear Trustee letter.
Did CMIM make a personal recommendation for Mr F to invest in TRG?
Im satisfied that CMIM did carry out the regulated activity of advising on investments. This 
is defined in the FSMA 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 2001 (amongst other things) as 
advice on buying, selling, subscribing for or underwriting a particular investment which is a 
security or a relevant investment. (my emphasis)CMIM appears to be suggesting that the advice in this case was not specific enough 
because it didnt refer to the particular hotel, or the amount to be invested. But TRG had the 
characteristics of a UCIS  Mr F would be participating in a (named) pooled property scheme 
where the hotel resort (including shared facilities) would be operated as a whole. CMIM 
accepts this was a UCIS. It wasnt necessary for CMIM to refer to the number of the 
apartment that TRG denoted Mr Fs investment by to meet that definition.
I dont think there is a plausible argument here that in the dear Trustee letter CMIM wasnt, 
at least, carrying out the regulated activity of advising on investments. As CMIM said, it 
attended numerous preliminary meetings with YCP or CGL and reviewed detailed 
documentation regarding the investment to ensure it was suitable for SSAS investment and 
as to risk. However, advice given in 2014 that wasnt a personal recommendation wasnt 
caught by chapter 9 of COBS  the regulators rules governing suitability.
I agree CMIM didnt set out to make a personal recommendation. It said in the terms of 
business that it wasnt giving individual suitability advicewhich takes into account your 
personal financial circumstances. And its dear Trustee letter reminds Mr F that it hadnt 
assessed those circumstances.
The FCA definition of a personal recommendation, with my emphasis, is:
a recommendation that is advice on investments, or advice on a home finance transaction and 
is presented as suitable for the person to whom it is made, or is based on a consideration of 
the circumstances of that person.
A recommendation is not a personal recommendation if it is issued exclusively through 
distribution channels or to the public.
So, the part of the definition before the word or indicates its possible to make a personal 
recommendation without considering that persons specific circumstances - if it is presented 
in such a way that the recipient reasonably believes the firm is endorsing the investment as 
being suitable for them in particular. But if I approach this from Mr Fs position I have to take 
into account that CMIM told him it wasnt making a personal recommendation; he knew he 
hadnt met anyone from CMIM; and no fact finding had been done by it.
On balance, I think Mr F ought to have realised that the dear Trustee letter was a prompt for 
him to consider if he met the circumstances of the person being described in that letter as an 
appropriate investor into TRG. It left him to some of the work: was he cautious or more 
tolerant of risk? Did he require access to the funds during the expected duration of the 
investment? If Mr F felt he met those criteria I can see why CMIMs advice would have 
carried more weight to him than one issued to the public at large: after all, he had contracted 
with CMIM for it to provide this advice. But that doesnt of itself mean it was truly a personal 
recommendation, and Im not persuaded that it was.
If theres no personal recommendation, COBS 9 doesnt apply. But that also isnt the end of 
this complaint. CMIM has still given advice in the dear Trustee letter, which isnt negated by 
it, separately, encouraging him to seek further independent advice. If it thought he was better
off doing that then in my view it shouldnt have advised him at all. And its open to me to 
consider whether its advice is consistent with the regulators wider principles (set out at 
PRIN in the rulebook), and other COBS rules that arent in chapter 9. But first, its important 
to note that as TRG was a UCIS, the restrictions to promotion at s.238 FSMA would also 
apply.
Did CMIM promote the TRG investment to Mr F, ancillary to its advice?
The glossary definition of promotion is the FCA handbook is an invitation or inducement
to engage in investment activity that is communicated in the course of business. The words 
invitation or inducement are not defined in the glossary or under the corresponding s.21 of FSMA. Under the guidance at PERG 8.4.5G Im not satisfied CMIMs dear Trustee letter 
had the characteristics of an invitation, essentially because it seems other third parties had 
already invited Mr F to consider TRG as an investment. But at PERG 8.4.7G the FCA went 
on to say this about inducements, with my emphasis:
An inducement may be described as a link in a chain where the chain is intended to lead 
ultimately to an agreement to engage in investment activity. But this does not mean that all the 
links in the chain will be an inducement or that every inducement will be one to engage in 
investment activity. Only those that are a significant step in persuading or inciting or seeking to 
persuade or incite a recipient to engage in investment activity will be inducements under s.21.
I appreciate CMIM is arguing that Mr F had already decided to invest in TRG and says the 
dear Trustee letter would not have been pivotal in his thinking. Here, I dont think this is 
relevant to what CMIMs intent was, as highlighted above. The FCA clarified this further at 
PERG 8.4.4G, again with my emphasis:
The FCA considers that it is appropriate to apply an objective test to decide whether a 
communication is an invitation or an inducement. In the FCA's view, the essential elements of an 
invitation or an inducement under section 21 are that it must both have the purpose or intent of 
leading a person to engage in investment activity and be promotional in nature. So it must seek, on 
its face, to persuade or incite the recipient to engage in investment activity. The objective test may 
be summarised as follows. Would a reasonable observer, taking account of all the circumstances 
at the time the communication was made:
( 1 ) consider that the communicator intended the communication to persuade or incite the 
recipient to engage in investment activity or that that was its purpose; and
( 2 ) regard the communication as seeking to persuade or incite the recipient to engage in 
investment activity.
Its clear that the dear Trustee letter was intended to lead trustees to making an investment. 
A reasonable conclusion to be drawn was that only trustees who were cautious and/or 
needed short-term access to the money shouldnt invest. And I think CMIM would have 
known this was an unlikely conclusion for most of the recipients  and I count Mr F in that 
category  to draw. I say this in the context of:
- the advice being given on a pension, which is typically held for the long-term: here Mr F 
was accessing his tax-free cash but could potentially have left the other funds in place 
for some time yet;
- CMIM suggesting it was possible to mitigate the risks of TRG by diversifying: it 
recommended a DFM portfolio (albeit that here Mr F had separated out the tax-free 
cash which he was not going to invest instead);
- no indication being given to the trustee to understand whether they met this cautious 
definition.
In relation to the final point, CMIM says that was why it encouraged Mr F to take his own 
regulated advice. In my view that doesnt explain why it set out its letter in a way that allowed
him to infer that he could go ahead without that advice if he wasnt cautious or needing 
short-term access to funds. I also dont think its a coincidence that the dear Trustee letter 
was written in this way: CMIM stood to gain business from being able to provide DFM 
services, if a trustee went ahead with the TRG part of the investment.
It would have been apparent to CMIM at the time that third parties had quite a lot of influence 
over what the trustees did; this is the basis of much of its arguments now. So, it was unlikely 
to receive the DFM business if its advice tended to discourage the investment in TRG. I think 
that, given this clear intention, CMIMs dear Trustee letter was a significant step in 
persuading Mr F to make the investment. CGL expected Mr F to sign an instruction declaring 
that he had regard for it in making his investment decision. If CMIM didnt realise this is what 
would follow, then it should have done - given it said it was giving its advice for the purposes 
of PA95.Whether or not (in CMIMs view) Mr F was simply signing where a third party told him 
shouldnt have diminished that this was a highly significant step. It made CMIMs advice an 
inducement that meant it was promoting the investment. CMIM seems to have taken the 
view that both YCP and CGL were inducing Mr F to invest because of vested interests, yet it 
was not. That simply doesnt stand up to scrutiny.
My view that this was a promotion is underlined by the fact that on 1 January 2014 FCA 
revised the list of exemptions at COBS 4.12.4R to clarify that a personal recommendation 
on a non-mainstream pooled investment could, as a promotion, qualify for an exemption in 
certain circumstances. This demonstrates advising on (and not just personally 
recommending) an investment can also amount to a promotion: the very nature of promotion 
means that it does not have to be targeted to a specific individual. And thats what happened 
here: CMIM promoted and advised on the investment (even though YCP may also have 
promoted it originally, and even though CMIM didnt make a personal recommendation).
Did Mr F qualify for a relevant exemption from the restrictions on UCIS promotion? 
Mr F is unlikely to have qualified under the criteria set out in the FSMA (Promotion of
Collective Investment Schemes) (Exemptions) Order 2001, because he didnt appear to be a
high net worth or sophisticated investor. This was not established at the time by CMIM (as 
required under the regulations) and has not been suggested since.
Mr F didnt issue his investment instruction referring to CMIMs advice until August 2014, but 
I dont think that necessarily means hed only recently received the dear Trustee letter. That 
may have been due to the delay in Sun Life sending over the funds. So I think its possible 
the dear Trustee letter was sent to him before or after 1 January 2014  when the list of 
exemptions at COBS 4.12.1R changed - but in all likelihood before the transfer was made.
If it was before 1 January 2014, the only other relevant COBS exemption was a Category 2 
person, being both someone:
for whom the firm has taken reasonable steps to ensure that investment in the collective 
investment scheme is suitable; and
who is an 'established' or 'newly accepted' client of the firm or of a person in the same group 
as the firm
Mr F was not an established client of CMIM, and explanatory notes confirm that a newly 
accepted client required a written agreement relating to designated investment business (i.e. 
activities which were regulated by the FCA). His agreement with CMIM specifically excluded 
such regulated activities, so he could not have met the definition of a newly accepted client.
If it was after 1 January 2014, the new exemption for solicited advice only allowed a 
promotion where the communication met all of the following requirements:
(a) the communication only amounts to a financial promotion because it is a personal 
recommendation on a non-mainstream pooled investment;
(b) the personal recommendation is made following a specific request by that client for advice on 
the merits of investing in the non-mainstream pooled investment; and
(c) the client has not previously received a financial promotion or any other communication from 
the firm (or from a person connected to the firm) which is intended to influence the client in 
relation to that non-mainstream pooled investment. [See Note 3.]
Note 3 essentially said that anyone with a business relationship with the firm including an 
introducer or appointed representative, is connected to it. So its clear that YCPs introducer 
agreement with CMIM would always have made this exclusion unavailable too. And I also 
cant see that any of the other, unaltered, exemptions were available under COBS 4.12.1R  
not least because Mr F doesnt appear to have been a high net worth or sophisticated 
investor and didnt have any of the other professions or roles specified. The only reasonable conclusion I can therefore draw from this is that CMIM unlawfully 
promoted the TRG investment to Mr F, in contravention of s.238 of FSMA. Moreover it ought 
reasonably to have been aware that other parties who promoted the investment to Mr F 
previously were likely also in contravention of FSMA  because they were themselves 
unregulated and/or couldnt rely on a valid exemption either.
CMIMs position that Mr F paid no attention to or was misled by the dear Trustee letter
CMIM believes CGLs reference to the dear Trustee letter was intentionally misleading, as it 
encouraged Mr F to confirm that he believed CMIM to be an appropriately qualified adviser 
for the purposes of PA95  meaning that in effect Mr F thought hed received suitability 
advice. I dont find this misleading to the extent that it would materially alter CMIMs 
culpability, as this pre-supposes that Mr F would have understood the difference between 
advice and suitability advice.
Mr F was a lay-trustee, which CMIM knew, and unsophisticated in financial matters. So I 
think he the most he would have reasonably understood was that he was getting an 
appropriately qualified opinion on whether he should include TRG in his SSAS (or in 
laymans terms and as implied by s.36 of PA95, its suitability for his SSAS). I cant see that 
Mr F was misled if CMIM now considers it wasnt appropriately qualified to give that advice. 
And at a fundamental level, I dont think Mr Fs inclination (or otherwise) to read the dear 
Trustee letter materially alters the outcome because, as Ive set out above:
Whether something counts as an inducement depends in part on how it would be 
received by a reasonable person; not necessarily someone (Mr F) that CMIM 
considers wasnt inclined to read the letter.
Whether it was also a significant step in securing the investment is largely answered 
by the fact CGL required Mr F to take this advice, irrespective of the level of attention 
he paid to it.
So, its plainly wrong to say that this letter might just as well have not existed, as the 
investment in my view was promoted unlawfully - and that fundamentally affects the 
outcome of the complaint.
CMIM says its name was used to give the arrangements an air of credibility. But in my view 
it should have gone into this with its eyes open. It attended meetings with the other parties 
involved where a whole sales and marketing strategy was apparently discussed to attract 
new clients to invest in TRG. Yet it now says it should have been obvious to CGL that those 
clients were wholly inappropriate candidates for SSASs. These arguments actually serve to 
demonstrate very well why CMIM shouldnt have got involved in inducing Mr Fs investment 
into TRG at all. It knew that none of the other parties in the transaction were regulated by the 
FCA and it could not, as a result, expect them to share its duty of care to clients.
What should CMIM have done instead?
Its difficult to see how it was possible for advice that was stated in the terms of business to 
enable a trustee to make investment decisions for his SSAS under s.36 of PA95 not to be 
personalised to that trustee. PA95 itself makes references to suitability and diversification, 
and says other regulations may specify further criteria. Owing to its small size, most of the 
regulations in the secondary Occupational Pension Schemes (Investment) Regulations 2005 
dont cover Mr Fs SSAS. But regulation 7 does, and this states that:
the trustees of the scheme in exercising their powers of investment, and any fund manager to 
whom any discretion has been delegated under section 34 of the 1995 Act in exercising the 
discretion, must have regard to the need for diversification of investments, in so far as 
appropriate to the circumstances of the scheme.This precise wording was reflected in the investment instruction CGL required Mr F to sign. I 
cant fairly say it was possible for him to obtain advice on whether TRG was suitable, and 
provided adequate diversification for the circumstances of his SSAS, without a 
recommendation specifically in respect of the requirements and objectives of that SSAS.
CMIM was bound by COBS 2.1.1R (the client's best interests rule) and COBS 4.2.1R 
(ensuring a communication or a financial promotion is fair, clear and not misleading). These 
COBS rules were not part of chapter 9 (suitability) and still applied if CMIM was advising on 
investments. It was also bound by the following FCA Principles, to:
- conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence (Principle2);
- take reasonable care to organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, 
with adequate risk management systems (Principle 3);
- pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly (Principle 6);
- take reasonable care to ensure the suitability of its advice and discretionary 
decisions for any customer who is entitled to rely upon its judgment (Principle 9).
I have significant concerns about an arrangement CMIM entered into that effectively meant it 
could only track who the end recipients of its dear Trustee letter were if its introducer 
passed it a signed copy of its terms of business, or it later learned the client signed up for its 
DFM service (which didnt happen in this case). That calls into question whether CMIM was 
adhering to Principle 3. I also think Principle 9 is particularly apt here, as it refers to the care 
CMIM should take in formulating advice (whether thats a personal recommendation or not).
In observance of these principles and rules and the articulated s.36 purpose of its advice, I 
think there were only really two routes CMIM could reasonably take:
1 . Decline to get involved in the introducer-adviser relationship with YCP, and therefore 
come into contact with clients like Mr F at all;  or
2 . Agree to accept introductions from YCP, but proceed on a basis which was 
fundamentally different in a number of respects in order to ensure that it was 
complying with the principles and rules:
- Take reasonable care to make a personal recommendation to Mr F, which was 
tailored to his specific circumstances and thus was more likely to pay due regard 
to his best interests and treat him fairly.
- Note that if the recommendation was not to invest in TRG, this would not amount 
to promotion and so the restrictions on promotion wouldnt be breached.
- Ensure it issued that recommendation to Mr F directly, rather than supplying it via 
third parties (where there was potentially some doubt whether it would reach Mr F, 
if the advice didnt give a favourable impression of investing).
Ive carefully considered what the possible consequences of CMIM taking either of these two 
routes might have been. Clearly no third party could make CMIM give advice that was in 
favour of investing in TRG. So if CMIM declined to get involved or indicated it would make 
direct recommendations against investing, I accept its possible that those parties would 
have looked to tie up with a different adviser hoping to get a more favourable outcome.
However the wording of PA95 meant that the proper advice Mr F was required to take 
couldnt just be given by any adviser. s.36 states:
For the purposes of this section proper advice means
( a ) if the giving of the advice constitutes the carrying on, in the United Kingdom, of a regulated 
activity (within the meaning of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000), advice given 
by a person who may give it without contravening the prohibition imposed by section 19 of 
that Act (prohibition on carrying on regulated activities unless authorised or exempt);
( b ) in any other case, the advice of a person who is reasonably believed by the trustees to be 
qualified by his ability in and practical experience of financial matters and to have the 
appropriate knowledge and experience of the management of the investments of trust 
schemesWhether or not the other parties realised that any advice on TRG was a regulated activity, it 
wasnt surprising that typically the relevant knowledge and experience to give that advice 
was more likely to be found amongst regulated firms. And I would also expect any regulated 
adviser to be as mindful of the FCAs principles and rules as CMIM should have been. So 
they too should have considered the position on promotion; whether a personal 
recommendation would be expected; and the consequences giving advice in favour of 
investing that couldnt be supported by a valid exemption.
Ive also taken into account that CMIM had the option to refuse to get involved in advising 
Mr F at all, but it chose to give advice. So, I think its fair and reasonable that CMIM is held to 
the standard of the proper personal recommendation that it should have given to Mr F to 
satisfy the regulators expectations and those reasonably implied by PA95.
What would have happened if CMIM gave suitable advice?
As a regulated firm with permission to advise on investments, Im satisfied CMIM should 
have been aware of the regulators views on UCIS and other non-mainstream investments. It 
ought to have known that any investment in UCIS taking up a significant portion of a SSAS 
was plainly unsuitable for an inexperienced investor or one without a high attitude to risk. 
It should have been reasonably apparent that with his low capacity for loss, Mr F could ill 
afford even to invest 50% of his SSAS in TRG as per the dear Trustee letter. In my view 
Mr F is unlikely to have had the experience to appreciate this for himself - and thats 
important because when increasing his holding to 100%, I think Mr F had been misled as to 
the extent that TRG was appropriate for him at all.
There was nothing about TRG in particular  being an off-plan, offshore property 
development subject to a variety of currency, counterparty, construction and occupancy risks
 to counter the presumption of unsuitability for someone in Mr Fs circumstances. Its 
evident that the whole reason for the SSAS being introduced to Mr F by other parties was in 
order to invest in TRG. So I need to consider how Mr F would have acted, if CMIM had made 
a proper personal recommendation that didnt involve TRG.
I find it unlikely that the other parties involved would have been interested in him proceeding 
to transfer to the SSAS if that didnt entail a TRG investment. To secure that investment they 
needed advice in favour of it to fulfil Mr Fs PA95 obligations, and as I said above I think its 
reasonable to conclude that other regulated firms should also have advised against TRG.
CGL told this service the advice wouldnt necessarily need to come from a regulated adviser, 
but Im mindful that an unauthorised firm recommending a collective investment scheme 
would be committing an actionable offence under FSMA. That would in my view make such 
a firm difficult to find, and their advice would in any event carry less credibility. It would also 
have played further into the checks Sun Life was likely carrying out (hence the delay) to 
mitigate against pension liberation/scams.
As CMIM itself realises, its name was brought on board to legitimise the proposed 
investment in TRG. But CMIMs advice should have far from legitimised the investment. It 
should have made very clear that it was unsuitable for him. Once that opinion had been 
given I cant safely say it could easily have been undone by any attempts to refer Mr F to 
other advisers, such that he would then have still been prepared to invest in TRG after all. 
Ive taken into account that Mr F concedes he was looking to do something else with his 
pension. Im satisfied the more likely outcome is that Mr F would have had second thoughts 
about transferring to the CGL SSAS - or at least sought alternative advice on how to invest 
within the SSAS (or his existing Sun Life plan). It was not too late for him to abort the transfer altogether if he ultimately decided to do that.
Should I only apportion part of Mr Fs losses to CMIM?
CMIM says that CGL was reckless and negligent given its professed level of experience. I 
understand the argument that it should have been apparent to CGL that the dear Trustee 
letter couldnt satisfy the requirements (which it identified itself) of PA95. I didnt know 
whether Mr F intends to complain about CGLs actions as administrator, but occupational 
schemes arent within the Financial Ombudsman Services jurisdiction. In any case there is a 
higher bar against financial advisers, and this is reflected in the way they are regulated and 
rules they must follow. So its also understandable that Mr F has chosen to bring this 
complaint to us.
CMIM also says that Mr Fs own responsibilities as a trustee should be taken into account, 
but a trustee is just as entitled to appropriate advice as any consumer of financial services. 
CMIM was providing FCA-regulated advice to Mr F as the sole lay-trustee and, equally, had 
an opportunity to check for itself what the requirements of PA95 were. If it couldnt do that, it 
shouldnt have given the advice. I cant see a basis here on which it would be fair or 
reasonable for me allow CMIM to avoid the consequences of its own failings, even in part.
I agree that if I were satisfied that Mr F would have chosen to invest in TRG come what 
may, it wouldnt be fair for me apportion any responsibility for compensating him to CMIM. 
Its not that principle that is in dispute. Rather it is whether I can, in fact, fairly say that on the 
balance of probabilities Mr F would still have gone ahead with investing in TRG, had CMIM 
treated him fairly.
I think its likely Mr F would have heeded the proper advice he was told he would get, and 
was entitled to expect, from CMIM. Im persuaded on the balance of probabilities that he 
would have invested differently: either within the SSAS, his existing Sun Life plan or an 
alternative arrangement. We look at each complaint on its own merits  so if an investigator 
has taken a different view on causation on another complaint, then either party may refer 
that view to an ombudsman. I may not have agreed with that view.
Putting things right
My aim in awarding fair compensation is to put Mr F in the position he would have been in, 
had he made alternative investments to TRG that were appropriate for his attitude to risk -  
which his CMC claims was low. Neither Mr F nor the CMC has disputed the investigators 
view that an appropriate benchmark for this would be a 50% portion in the FTSE UK Private 
Investors Income Index on a Total Return basis and a 50% portion in line with the average 
return from fixed rate bonds. On the facts of this case, I agree with that view.
Central Markets Investment Management Limited must therefore calculate a fair value for 
the funds Mr F originally transferred to the SSAS as at the date of my final decision, as if 
they had increased in value in line with this benchmark - and the same amount of tax-free 
cash as on the CGL statements was taken. (CMIM may wish to check that no further income 
payments have been made as their gross value will also need to be accounted for.)
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair measure 
for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return. The average rate for 
the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who wanted to achieve a 
reasonable return without risk to his capital. I consider that Mr Fs risk profile was in 
between, in the sense that he was prepared to take a small level of risk to attain his 
investment objectives. So, the 50/50 combination would reasonably put him into that 
position.It doesnt mean that Mr F would have made investments that exactly mirrored the return on 
this benchmark. For that reason CMIM shouldnt be deducting investment costs or other 
charges from the benchmark. The view Im taking here is that the sort of funds Mr F would 
have chosen would typically have performed broadly in line with this benchmark; 
notwithstanding the charges (which would not necessarily even have been those of the 
SSAS, if hed switched within Sun Life or chosen a cheaper arrangement). It is a proxy that 
is being used for the purposes of compensation.
The actual value of Mr Fs CGL SSAS as at the date of my final decision should be deducted 
from this fair value to arrive at Mr Fs initial loss amount. (Any currently outstanding 
administration charges yet to be applied to the CGL SSAS should be removed from the 
actual value first.)
The actual value is difficult to determine where an investment is illiquid (meaning it cannot be 
readily sold on the open market). That appears to be the case with the TRG holding in the 
CGL SSAS. Therefore as part of calculating compensation:
CMIM should agree an amount with CGL SSAS as a commercial value for this 
investment, then pay the sum agreed to CGL SSAS plus any costs, and take 
ownership of the investment. The actual value used in the calculations should include 
anything CMIM has paid to the SSAS. The fractional ownership company through 
membership of which Mr F holds the TRG investment should be consulted to achieve 
this.
Alternatively, if CMIM is unable to buy the TRG investment from the CGL SSAS it 
should value it as nil, as part of determining the actual value. Its also fair that Mr F 
should not be disadvantaged while he is unable to close down the CGL SSAS and 
move to a potentially cheaper and more strongly regulated arrangement. Third parties 
are involved and we dont have the power to tell them what to do. So to provide 
certainty to all parties I think its fair that CMIM adds five years worth of future SSAS 
administration fees at the current tariff to the initial loss amount, to allow a reasonable 
period of time for the CGL SSAS to be closed.
CMIM has suggested to this service that it may be able to use independent valuers for the 
TRG investment, or agree a value with CGL (which is more than nil value), even if its not 
actually buying the investment from the SSAS. 
As there appears to be no market for the investment I dont consider its fair to use a value 
that is the opinion of someone who is not actually buying the investment from the SSAS. 
I also cannot anticipate whether TRG will be permitting changes of ownership because 
clearly legal processes would be involved. But to the extent that this is possible, CMIM will 
have benefited from the value it thinks is in the investment by buying it out of the SSAS. 
However, if CMIM is unable to take ownership of the investment, it may ask Mr F instead to 
provide an undertaking in return, to account to it for the net amount of any payment he may 
receive from the investment in future. The aim of this undertaking is to avoid double-recovery 
of Mr Fs losses. If CMIM wishes to do this the undertaking should be drawn up after 
compensation is paid  and CMIM will need to meet any associated costs. It is not my role to 
set the terms of the assignment and undertaking, but rather to explain its aim in achieving 
overall fairness for both parties. If CMIM asks Mr F to provide this undertaking, payment of 
the compensation awarded may be made dependent upon provision of that undertaking.
Payment of compensation
If there is an overall loss, CMIM should pay into the CGL SSAS, to increase its value by the 
amount of the initial loss amount. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. CMIM shouldnt pay into the CGL SSAS if this will conflict with any 
tax protections or allowances.
If CMIM is unable to pay the compensation into the CGL SSAS, it should make payment 
direct to Mr F. But had it been possible to add a sum into the CGL SSAS, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the initial loss amount should be reduced to notionally 
allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr Fs actual or expected marginal rate of 
tax at his selected retirement age. Here, its reasonable to assume that Mr F is likely to be a 
basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. 
CMIM must also pay Mr F £300 for distress and inconvenience in view of the disruption 
caused to his retirement planning.
Details of the calculation must be provided to Mr F in a clear, simple format.
In all of the circumstances above I think its fair and reasonable for me to hold CMIM 
responsible for 100% of Mr Fs loss. Its a matter for CMIM whether it wishes to attempt to 
recover any of the compensation Im requiring it to pay from other parties. It may take an 
assignment of Mr Fs rights to pursue those parties as a further part of the above-mentioned 
undertaking, if it wishes to do so.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Fs complaint and require Central Markets Investment Management Limited to 
pay him compensation as set out in the Putting things right section above. If Mr F accepts 
this decision and compensation is not paid within 28 days of CMIM being notified of his 
acceptance, interest must be added to my award at the rate of 8% per year simple from the 
date of the final decision to the date of payment.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2022.
 
Gideon Moore
Ombudsman