DRN-1933902
 
The complaint
Mrs A is unhappy that Assurant General Insurance Limited turned down a claim under her 
mobile phone insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs A made a claim when her son, who is covered under the policy, lost his mobile phone. 
Mrs A spoke with Assurant and gave them information about what happened. 
Assurant turned down the claim saying the information Mrs A gave them didnt match the 
phone usage records. 
Mrs A was unhappy with this so came to our service where one of our investigators looked 
into what happened. She thought Assurant acted reasonably when assessing the claim on 
the information Mrs A had given them. Mrs A disagreed so the complaint has come to me for 
a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When looking at an insurance claim my role is to see if I think Assurant applied the policy 
terms in a fair and reasonable way. Looking at what happened, Im satisfied they did.
As part of making the claim Mrs A gave Assurant information about how the loss happened. 
Because it was her son who lost the phone Assurant asked Mrs A if she wanted to double 
check the details with her son. Mrs A told Assurant she was happy for them to assess the 
claim on the information they had as she was sure it was correct. 
When making the claim Mrs A told Assurant that the sim card was in the handset when it 
was lost; but it wasnt, it was in a different handset at the time.
Mrs A also told Assurant that her son had got a replacement sim card the day after the 
phone was lost; but he hadnt.
Assurant considered the claim and applied the policy terms and conditions. One of those 
conditions says that if false or inaccurate information is provided then they will not honour 
the claim. 
All parties agree, as do I, that inaccurate information was provided by Mrs A when making 
the claim. The terms and conditions therefore allow Assurant to turn down the claim. But I 
must also think about whether the terms and conditions were applied in a fair and 
reasonable way. 
The whereabouts of the sim card is an important piece of information when an insurer 
considers a claim for a lost phone. Mrs A gave Assurant incorrect information about the 
whereabouts of the sim card.
I think its important that Assurant gave Mrs A the opportunity to check the information with 
her son before having the claim assessed. Assurant knew that it was Mrs As son who lost 
the phone so therefore the information she was giving about what happened was second 
hand, and it was also a few weeks after the loss happened. Mrs A declined this opportunity. 
Assurant then explained the claim would be assessed on the information provided. They 
again asked if Mrs A wanted to speak to her son first, which she again declined. 
Mrs A has said she felt pressured into answering straightaway, however Assurant offered 
twice for her to check the information. Mrs A might have felt pressured, but Im happy that 
Assurant did all they could to ensure she was providing accurate information. But this turned 
out not to be the case.
Considering all of the evidence Im satisfied Assurant applied the policy terms in a fair and 
reasonable way when turning down the claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 August 2020.
 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman