DRN-3189966
complaint
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1997. Mrs P says AXA France IARD mis-sold her PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mrs Ps 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mrs Ps representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Ps. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mrs Ps complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
I think AXA France made it clear that Mrs P didnt have to take out the PPI and she 
chose to take it out. I say this because Ive seen a copy of the store card application form 
that Mrs P filled in. The form had a separate section for PPI with a yes box that had to 
be ticked to request the policy. Mrs P has ticked the yes box to confirm that she wanted 
PPI. She could have left the box blank if she had not wanted it.
AXA France didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs P, so it didnt have to check that the PPI 
was right or suitable for her. But it did have to give Mrs P enough clear and timely 
information so she could decide for herself if it was right for her.
Its possible the information AXA France gave Mrs P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted 
this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mrs P. Although Mrs P has 
said she had only just started her job, the application form shows that she had been with 
her then employer for six years, so she was eligible for the policy. Although Mrs P says 
she had a medical condition some time before the policy was taken out, I dont think 
better information about the existing medical condition exclusion would have caused her 
to change her mind about taking out the policy. I say this because Mrs P had an some 
health issues in 1987 and although I understand it took her a long time to recuperate 
from an operation, there is no evidence to suggest that the issues were still causing her 
significant problems at the time of the sale in1997. It also looks like it was affordable  so 
it seems like it would have been useful for her if something went wrong. Because of this I 
dont think Mrs P would have declined the cover had AXA France done anything more.
While the policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions, in light of Mrs Ps circumstances at the time of sale and despite its limitations, 
the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. So I think she would have 
still thought she had some good reasons to take the policy out.
Overall, I consider that Mrs P would have still taken out PPI. The policy was sufficiently close 
to what its likely she thought she was getting and I think the policy could provide a useful 
benefit in a difficult time, given her circumstances at the time. And in those circumstances, I 
think that she would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mrs Ps representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; 
and the duty of utmost good faith meant AXA France should have disclosed the poor value 
and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Mrs Ps representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mrs Ps individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mrs Ps particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
This means AXA France doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ps complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs P to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 February 2022.
 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman