DRN-3863183
The complaint
Ms K says Coventry Building Society (CBS) unfairly charged her a penalty when she closed 
her ISA. 
What happened
On 3 May 2022 CBS wrote to Ms K setting out the maturity options for her ISA. It said if it 
didnt hear from Ms K by 1 June 2022 it would re-invest her funds, but that she had until 21 
June 2022 to withdraw her money without penalty. On 7 June 2022 it wrote to Ms K 
confirming it had reinvested her money as it had not heard from her. 
On 12 July 2022 Ms K closed her account and was charged a £105.22 penalty, in line with 
the terms of the account.
Ms K says when CBS moved her money to a new account she was not give any written 
notice, she did not receive either of the letters sent by post. She wants a refund of the 
penalty charge.
Our investigator did not uphold Ms Ks complaint. She said CBS had evidenced that it had 
sent Ms K letters about her maturing ISA setting out what would happen. And the penalty it 
charged was in line with the terms and conditions that Ms K had agreed to.
Ms K disagreed with this assessment and asked for an ombudsmans review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding Ms Ks complaint. I will explain why.
Ms K has told us she did not receive the pre-maturity letter or the post-maturity letter sent by 
CBS. But it has shown that it sent the letters to the correct address, and I cannot fairly hold it 
liable for the non-receipt. The letters are clear about what would happen in the case of non-
contact. And I have found no evidence to support Ms Ks claim that the letters may have only 
been drafted after she complained. 
As Ms K closed the account that CBS had re-invested the money into after the 21-day 
cancellation period the penalty was applied. This was in line with the terms and conditions of 
the account. It follows I have found no grounds to instruct CBS to refund it.  
My final decision
I am not upholding Ms Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman