DRN-4033820
The complaint
Mr B complains that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax didnt automatically issue a new 
debit card when he added an additional name to his account.
What happened
In July 2022, Mr B went into a local branch of Halifax and asked that the name of his account 
to be amended to include his full name. Mr B left the branch understanding that a new debit 
card would automatically be issued with his full name on it. Halifax didnt issue a new card 
with the full name on it and Mr B complained in August. Mr B made a data subject access 
request (DSAR) to Halifax in July 2022 and Halifax provided a response within a calendar 
month.
Mr B complained to Halifax that he hadnt received the new amended debit card. Halifax 
upheld the complaint and apologised. Halifax paid Mr B £30 for the inconvenience this may 
have cause and ordered a new card to be issued with the amended name. In the final 
response to the complaint, Halifax confirmed it had dealt with Mr Bs earlier DSAR and had 
issued a response within a calendar month.
When Mr B didnt receive the final response from Halifax, he brought his complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service after eight weeks had passed. One of our Investigators 
looked into things and thought that that the payment Halifax had made to Mr B was a fair 
and reasonable remedy and that hat Halifax it had issued the DSAR in good time.
Mr B asked that an Ombudsman decides his complaint and clarified his only complaint is 
that he didnt automatically receive an amended debit card as he believed he would.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr B will be disappointed, but for very much the same reasons as the 
Investigator, Ive decided that the payment of £30 made by Halifax was a fair and reasonable 
one in the circumstances of this complaint. I will now explain why.
Mr B says he didnt receive a final response to his complaint, but Ive seen a copy of the 
response Halifax posted to him dated 6 October 2022. I appreciate Mr B may not have 
received a final response, but Ive decided that its more likely than not Halifax sent it to him.  
Our Investigator has since provided a copy of the final response to Mr B, and Ive not seen 
any further comments from Mr B. So, its reasonable for me to conclude that Mr B more likely 
than not received a response from Halifax to his DSAR in good time - this is also supported 
by his comments that this isnt actually part of his complaint. But, for completeness, and 
because Halifax referred to this matter in its final response, I dont think Halifax needs to do 
anything else in this regard.
Mr B made it clear in his response to our Investigator that his only complaint relates to the 
failure of Halifax to automatically provide an amended debit card, so my final decision will 
focus on this matter.
Halifax accepts that things went wrong after Mr B told his local branch to amend the name 
on his debit card and that this request wasnt completed at the time. Theres no record of 
precisely what was said at this meeting, but Mr B left the meeting with an understanding that 
a new card would be issued automatically issued. Halifax apologised to Mr B that this didnt 
happen and paid him £30 for any inconvenience this had caused him. Halifax has confirmed 
that a change of name wouldnt have caused the card to be invalid and that it could still be 
used on the account. So, Im persuaded that the inconvenience to Mr B was relatively minor 
 it didnt stop him using the account and Ive not seen any evidence that Mr B experienced 
any difficulties in accessing his account using the debit card without his full name.
I acknowledge that this matter was frustrating for Mr B, but in the circumstances of this 
complaint Im satisfied the payment of £30 Halifax has already paid Mr B is a fair and 
reasonable one.
Mr B says that he hasnt yet received the amended debit card Halifax said it was going to 
issue in Mid-October 2022. Ive asked the Investigator to make Halifax aware that this is the 
case, but Mr B may also want to contact Halifax in this regard.
My final decision
Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax has already paid Mr B £30 and, as Ive decided that 
this was a fair and reasonable remedy, I wont be asking it to do anything else. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2023.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman