DRN-4202110
Complaint
Mr S has complained about a personal loan Oplo PL Ltd (Oplo) which he says was unfairly 
lent to him. 
He says the loan was unaffordable.
Background
Oplo provided Mr S with a loan for £4,000.00 in August 2022. This loan had an APR of 
43.81% and the total amount to be repaid of £5,713.64, which included interest fees and 
charges of £1,713.64, was due to be repaid in 24 monthly instalments of just under £240.
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr S and Oplo had told us. She thought that Oplo 
hadnt acted unfairly by providing this loan to Mr S and so didnt think that the complaint 
should be upheld. Mr S disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to take a look at his case.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr S complaint.
Oplo needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, 
what this means is that Oplo needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to 
understand whether Mr S could afford to make his repayments before providing this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the 
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of 
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect 
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to provide loans to a customer 
irresponsibly.
Oplo says it approved Mr S application after he provided details of his monthly income and 
some information on his expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against information on a 
credit search it carried out. 
In Oplos view all of the information it gathered showed that Mr S could comfortably afford to 
make the repayments he was committing to. On the other hand, Mr S has said he was 
already in difficulty and couldnt afford this loan.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr S and Oplo have said. 
Its clear that Oplo did obtain a reasonable amount of information before it decided to 
proceed with Mr S application. And this information does appear to suggest that the loan 
repayments were affordable for Mr S. I accept that Mr S actual circumstances may not have 
been fully reflected either in the information he provided, or the information Oplo obtained. 
Furthermore, I know that Mr S had some outstanding debts and had previous difficulties with 
credit. 
However, the information from the time suggests that Mr S was going to use some of the 
funds from this loan to settle other debts. I can see Mr S told Oplo that hed settle the 
outstanding balance on another loan and he went as far as obtaining a settlement figure on 
that loan as part of this application. 
I appreciate that Mr S may have gone on to take out further credit afterwards. But Oplo could 
only make a reasonable decision based on the information it had available at the time. It 
wont have known whether Mr S would go on to do this. And Im satisfied that the proceeds 
of this loan could and should have been used to clear the debts Mr S had committed to 
settling. 
Its also worth noting that as this was a first loan Oplo was providing to Mr S, there wasnt a 
history of Mr S obtaining funds and then failing to consolidate debts elsewhere in the way he 
committed to. So given the particular circumstances here, Oplo was reasonably entitled to 
believe that Mr S would be left in a better position after being provided with this loan. And it 
looks to me that this was the case until Mr S circumstances changed a few months after 
taking out the loan.
I accept that Mr S full circumstances may not be reflected in the information Oplo gathered 
or in the information he has since provided. But its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold 
a complaint in circumstances where a firm did something wrong. 
Given the circumstances here, and the lack of obvious inconsistencies, I dont think that 
Oplo did anything wrong when providing this loan to Mr S  I dont think that finding out more 
about Mr S credit repayments and living expenses would have shown the loan to be 
unaffordable. 
So overall and having considered everything, I dont think that Oplo acted unfairly or 
unreasonably when lending to Mr S. And Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate this is 
likely to be very disappointing for Mr S. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my 
decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
Although Im not upholding this complaint, Id like remind Oplo of its obligation to exercise 
forbearance and due consideration should it intend to collect on the outstanding balance on 
Mr S loan and it be the case that he is experiencing financial difficulty. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr S complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 July 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman