DRN-2925827
The complaint
Ms D is complaining EUI Limited cancelled her car insurance policy. Shes also unhappy it 
didnt assist her with keeping up her finance payments when she said she was in financial 
difficulties. 
What happened
In June 2020, Ms D took out a car insurance policy through EUI  a broker. The annual 
premium was around £1,000. Ms D wanted to pay this monthly so she entered into a credit 
agreement  provided by EUI  to enable her to do this. This meant EUI paid the annual 
premium on Ms Ds behalf and Ms D agreed to repay EUI in line with the terms of the 
finance agreement.
Ms D later changed the vehicle insured on the policy. The insurer said an additional premium 
of around £650 was payable and this was added to Ms Ds finance agreement, which 
increased her monthly payments. Ms D then reduced the level of cover from fully 
comprehensive to third party, fire and theft. This generated a small refund of around £75 
which was used to reduce the amount payable on the finance agreement.
Ms D complained that her monthly repayments had increased from around £90 per month to 
around £145 per month. She cancelled her direct debit as she said she couldnt afford the 
increase in the repayments. EUI contacted Ms D to say she was in arrears on her finance 
agreement and said it would cancel the insurance policy if she didnt reinstate the direct 
debit.
Ms D responded to ask EUI to maintain the original monthly repayment of around £90 while 
the complaint was being reviewed. EUI said it couldnt agree to that, it but offered to spread 
the arrears across the remaining monthly payments. And it asked her to respond by 
15 November 2020 to confirm whether she was happy for it to do that. 
Ms D responded on 15 November 2020 and agreed to have the repayments spread over the 
remaining monthly repayments. However, EUI didnt action this email and cancelled her 
insurance policy. Ms D complained EUI had cancelled the policy and referred it to her email. 
EUI said it could reinstate the insurance policy, but it said that shed have to pay off the 
outstanding arrears (around £329) before it could do so.
Ms D said she couldnt afford to pay the arrears so the policy remained cancelled. She 
ultimately took out a replacement insurance policy around a month later and said she had to 
take out a number of daily insurance policies before she could do so to enable her to use the 
car. Ms D also complained that EUI didnt allow her to have a payment holiday for the 
arrears on the insurance policy. 
EUI said Ms D contacted it in September 2020 to say she was unable to afford the monthly 
payment and asked for an alternative way to make the payment. EUI acknowledged it didnt 
process this request. But it said it offered to do this in November 2020. It also acknowledged 
that it shouldnt have cancelled the insurance policy when it did. However it didnt agree it 
didnt give her a payment holiday as she didnt make any monthly payments in September, 
October and November. 
However, EUI accepted it had caused Ms D some unfair distress and inconvenience and 
offered to pay her £150 in compensation.
Ms D remained unhappy with the outcome of her complaint and thought EUI should write off 
the outstanding balance on the finance agreement of around £550.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint as she thought EUIs compensation offer was 
fair.
Ms D didnt accept the investigators opinion. She reiterated it should have given her a 
payment holiday in line with regulator guidance. And she still said it was unfair EUI cancelled 
the insurance policy. So she thought it should pay her more compensation. 
Since then, her new insurer cancelled her insurance policy because she was unable to keep 
up with the monthly instalments. So she wanted EUI to arrange to have the policy it arranged 
reinstated. The investigator said it wasnt possible to reinstate the policy given so long had 
passed. She also highlighted the policy was due to end in June 2021, so it would have 
already ended. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive come to the same conclusion as the investigator for the same reasons and Ill now 
explain why.
I think it would firstly be helpful to set out EUIs responsibilities in this matter. Firstly EUI 
acted as an insurance broker where it arranged an insurance policy for Ms D. It also was 
responsible for the administration of the policy on behalf of the insurer. In addition to this, it 
acted as a credit provider whereby it provided a running-account credit agreement to enable 
her to pay the annual premium monthly.
Ms D has also raised a complaint about the insurer, but thats being considered in a 
separate complaint. 
Ms D has raised two main complaint points:
1. EUI didnt adequately support her when she was in financial difficulties; and
2. It shouldnt have cancelled her insurance policy.
I shall deal with each point separately.
EUIs handling of her financial difficulties
Ms D contacted EUI in September 2020 to say she couldnt afford to pay the increased 
monthly payments after the insurer increased the annual premium. She thinks EUI should 
have given her a payment holiday in line with regulator guidance. I can see EUI 
acknowledged her request but didnt action anything. However I need to think whether Ms D 
has lost out as a result of this.Where a consumer is in financial difficulties, regulator guidance required EUI to treat her 
positively and sympathetically  including considering a period of forbearance and payment 
holidays. But Ms D would still have to repay what she owed on the finance agreement. If she 
was offered a payment holiday for a few months, the payments she didnt make would have 
to be spread across the remaining monthly payments. And I think this would have put her 
into a worse financial situation.
In reality, it seems to me that Ms D couldnt afford to keep up with the increased monthly 
payments after the increase in premium. What I think should have happened is that EUI 
should have recognised this in September 2020 and it should have considered whether 
Ms D could afford to keep up with the monthly payments or whether it would be suitable to 
cancel the insurance policy to reduce the amount she owed. And I think it should have 
cancelled the insurance policy then.
I dont think Ms D would have suffered some of the distress and inconvenience she suffered 
had EUI done what it should have done. However, I think the majority of her upset was down 
to the fact the insurer increased her annual premium and this isnt something EUI is 
responsible for. And I think the £150 EUI has offered in compensation is in line with what I 
would have awarded. So I dont think it needs to pay anything further.
I note Ms D wants EUI to write off the outstanding balance on the finance agreement. But 
she owes this because she didnt make any payments towards the finance after August 2020 
but she did have full usage of the insurance policy. So I dont think its unfair she has to pay 
this.
Cancellation of the insurance policy
While I think EUI should have cancelled the policy in September 2020, I need to think about 
whether EUI treated Ms D fairly. As I said above, I think EUI was always going to cancel this 
insurance policy because its clear Ms D couldnt keep up with her monthly instalments. But 
EUI did give Ms D the option to spread the arrears on the finance agreement across the 
remaining payments and it gave her a deadline as to whether to agree to this or not. And she 
did respond in time. So EUI shouldnt have cancelled the insurance policy when it did. 
Ms D has said she had to take out a number of daily insurance policies and another 
insurance policy as a result of this. But, as I said above, its clear from what Ms D has told us 
and what has subsequently happened, that she couldnt afford to keep up with the monthly 
payments due to the increase in the annual premium. And the total amount she paid for the 
daily policies was less than the monthly instalment. So I dont think shes lost out in this 
respect, although I accept there would have been times she wouldnt have been able to use 
the car when she wanted to.
However, I think EUI would have still cancelled this insurance policy as I think it would have 
been in Ms Ds interests for it to do so as it would have enabled her to get a more cost-
effective policy. And she was ultimately able to take out an insurance policy with a lower 
annual premium.
Ms D has said her replacement policy was subsequently cancelled and wants EUI to 
reinstate the policy it cancelled. But any decision to reinstate an insurance policy would rest 
with the insurer. But, irrespective of this, the policy would have lapsed by the time the 
replacement policy was cancelled. And, also given the length of time that had passed, it 
wouldnt have been possible to reinstate the insurance policy. So I dont think EUI has 
treated Ms D unfairly in this respect.Summary
I naturally sympathise with the situation Ms D has found herself in. But it seems to me 
Ms Ds primary concern is about the impact the premium increase had on her. And, as I said 
above, the premium was increased by the insurer and wasnt as a result of anything EUI did 
wrong. 
I think EUI could have looked to help Ms D better than it did when she said she was in 
financial difficulties. But I think £150 is fair compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
this matter caused her. I accept EUI shouldnt have cancelled the policy when it did, but I 
think its likely it would have cancelled the policy shortly afterwards as Ms D has said she 
couldnt afford the monthly payments. And I think it would have been the fair thing to do to 
enable her to source a more cost-effective insurance policy. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I think EUI Limiteds 
compensation offer of £150 is fair for the distress and inconvenience it caused. It should pay 
this to Ms D directly if it hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2021. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman