DRN-3354771
The complaint
Mr A complains ClearBank Limited hasnt protected him against fraud as it has allowed a 
scammer to open and operate an account into which he was tricked into transferring funds 
for what he believed was a legitimate purchase.
I understand the recipient account is operated through a platform provided by ClearBanks 
business partner under the Tide brand. But for ease of reading, Ill refer to ClearBank 
throughout, but where relevant the reference should be understood as meaning Tide.
What happened
The detailed circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not 
repeat them all again here. But I will provide an overview of the relevant events below.
Around October 2020, Mr A found a motorhome advertised for sale through an online 
marketplace. He contacted the seller and a purchase price of £6,000 was agreed. Mr A 
transferred the money from his bank account with C to an account held with ClearBank. He 
says he was told by the seller that the payment was being made to a well-known payment 
processors escrow service  where the money would be held until hed received, inspected 
and agreed to keep the motorhome. When Mr A realised he mightve fallen victim to a scam 
he called the shipping company who confirmed they would not hold money in the way that 
Mr A had been told. Mr A reported the matter to C, who notified ClearBank, but no funds 
remained to be returned.
Mr A complained about both ClearBank and Cs actions.
C didnt uphold Mr As complaint. It said that it had sufficient fraud prevention measures in 
place but that Mr A failed to carry out sufficient checks before making the payment. It said it 
had tried to recover Mr As money from ClearBank, but no funds remained.
ClearBank also didnt uphold Mr As complaint. It provided assurances that the matter had 
been handled appropriately and in line with all relevant procedures and that the necessary 
actions had been taken towards the reported account. However, due to privacy laws, it said, 
it couldnt provide Mr A with any additional information regarding the account itself or its 
investigation. It also explained an accountholder can change their account name at any point 
(after application approval). And in these circumstances, it had carried out its due diligence 
appropriately and the recipient account had been opened correctly (and this was not in the 
well-known payment processors name).
Both complaints were referred to our service  albeit one (complaint against C) before the 
other (complaint against ClearBank).
One of our Investigators initially upheld Mr As complaint against C in full. C disagreed and 
asked that the complaint be reconsidered by an Ombudsman. A determination about Mr As 
complaint against C was made by another Ombudsman. He concluded Mr A should receive 
50% of his loss under the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(CRM) Code (which C is a signatory of) because it had failed to provide an effective 
warning to Mr A, but he also lacked a reasonable basis for belief in making the payment. 
Following this, one of our Investigators considered Mr As complaint against ClearBank. She 
explained that Mr A was an eligible complainant under DISP 2.7.6R(2B) and our service 
could look into his complaint. She concluded that whilst ClearBank hadnt failed in its due 
diligence when opening the account  and couldnt have prevented Mr As loss in this way. It 
ought to have done more and could have prevented his loss had it acted promptly upon 
notification (relating to another payment) that it had received prior to Mr As funds being 
spent. But she thought Mr As negligence had also contributed to his loss, so what was fair in 
all the circumstances was that he bears equal responsibility for the loss which he has 
suffered. And since Mr A had already received 50% of his loss from C, she didnt think 
ClearBank needed to pay anything further.
Mr A disagreed and asked for his complaint to be reconsidered. Ultimately, he didnt think it 
was right that he only recovers half of his loss and ClearBank has nothing to pay despite it 
failing to protect his money by not checking that the accountholders name matched on 
receipt of payment; and allowing his money to be spent when it was already on notice that 
the account was being used fraudulently.
On 9 March 2023 I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I intend on upholding this complaint in part. Ill explain why. Firstly, Mr A has 
received half of his total loss from C (his own bank), under the CRM code to which it (not 
ClearBank) is subscribed. So my consideration here is limited to making a determination 
about ClearBanks acts or omissions relating to Mr As remaining loss of £3,000.
I think it would be helpful for me to set out that where an account is found to have received 
funds as a result of a scam, this doesnt automatically entitle the victim who was tricked into 
sending funds to that account to a refund from the bank with which that account is held. Nor 
in these circumstances is there the option of a higher sum of reimbursement under 
the CRM code as ClearBank are not a signatory of it. So my considerations here are limited 
to deciding whether I can reasonably conclude that ClearBank failed to prevent Mr As 
outstanding loss or did something wrong where it would be fair to ask it to provide a refund.
I agree with our Investigator that ClearBank correctly followed its account opening 
procedures, carried out checks to verify the identity of the named accountholder and did its 
due diligence when opening its customers account (the recipient account). There wasnt 
anything at the time that I think reasonably couldve alerted ClearBank that the account it 
was opening would later be used fraudulently. So Im satisfied it didnt miss an opportunity to 
prevent Mr As loss when opening the account.Mr A says the named payee on his payment instruction was a well-known payment 
processor and this is who the payment was meant for  not the recipient accountholder who 
according to ClearBank was someone different. Based on this I can, of course, see why he 
feels that Clearbank missed an opportunity to prevent his loss by failing to check that the 
named payee on the payment instruction matched the accountholders name when 
processing the payment. But at the time the payment was made, the checking of the name 
given on the payment instruction against the name of the recipient accountholder was 
commonly not part of the payment process. To explain further, generally, the key information 
used by banks to route a payment is a unique identifier.
This is defined in the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the PSRs) as:
  unique identifier means a combination of letters, numbers or symbols specified to the
payment service user by the payment service provider and to be provided by the payment
service user in relation to a payment transaction in order to identify unambiguously one or
both of  (a) another payment service user who is a party to the payment transaction; (b)
the other payment service users payment account.
For UK payments this is typically the account number and sort code. If the funds are credited 
to the specified account number and sort-code (or IBAN) the payment is considered to have 
been executed correctly. So for these reasons, I cant fairly say, that ClearBank did anything 
wrong by not checking whether the payee name provided as part of the overall payment 
instruction matched that of the named accountholder at the time of processing the payment. 
But regulated financial businesses such as ClearBank have a general duty and ongoing 
obligations to ensure they have systems and processes in place to monitor their customer 
relationships and prevent financial fraud. I agree with ClearBank that these obligations might 
not look the same for all financial businesses. But I havent seen anything that persuades me 
that ClearBank (as it has suggested) at the time of Mr As payment (October 2020) didnt 
have obligations to ensure it had adequate account monitoring systems in place. So having 
looked at the activity on the recipient account since it was opened, I think it is reasonable to 
have expected ClearBank to have had concerns about the activity on the recipient account 
before Mr As funds were paid away. And based on these, I think an appropriate step 
wouldve been to block and investigate the use of its customers account. Had ClearBank 
done so, Im persuaded that all of Mr As money would have remained available for recovery.
I say this because the recipient account was newly opened, and these types of accounts do 
present a greater risk of being used in connection with fraud and scams. ClearBank would 
have also seen that the account activity followed a known fraudulent pattern  credits 
received (with beneficiary name mismatches) quickly being dispersed. And that the activity 
observed was not consistent with the accounts expected use, based on what ClearBank 
knew about its customer. I do note that ClearBank tried to contact its customer (after it had 
received notification of fraud)  and they did not respond. So I think its most likely that 
ClearBank would have received a similar response if it had tried to contact its customer at an 
earlier point. And shortly after this point it wouldve started to receive reports of fraud from 
the remitting banks.I appreciate at the point at which ClearBank blocked the account there were minimal funds 
remaining (under £10). So Ive thought about whether more money being available in the 
account at an earlier point of intervention wouldve been a motivating factor that wouldve 
resulted in the recipient accountholder responding to ClearBanks enquiries. But Im more 
persuaded by what did happen and on balance think its most likely ClearBanks customer 
would not have responded. And even if I were wrong about this, Im still not convinced it 
makes a difference as I dont think the recipient accountholder would have been able to 
provide a plausible and persuasive explanation of (or evidence to support) the observed 
account activity.
I know there is some disagreement about whether it is reasonable to have expected 
ClearBank to have taken as long as it did to respond to the notification it received before 
Mr As funds were spent. Our Investigator was of the view (which was shared by Mr A) that 
ClearBank ought to have blocked the account sooner than it did and this wouldve prevented 
Mr As loss. ClearBank disagrees. It explained the report was received out of hours and at 
the relevant time its operational capabilities meant that the earliest this wouldve been picked 
up was the following morning. I think its reasonable that the size and capability of a financial 
business is taken into account when considering what a reasonable expectation is with 
regard to how quickly it can act. And while I do think ClearBank ought to have acted sooner 
than it did (which was two days after the receipt of the report). In these specific 
circumstances, the earliest I could reasonably expect it to have reacted to the fraud report is 
the following morning, by which point none of Mr As funds remained in any case. 
I know Mr A feels strongly about this and naturally will be disappointed with what Ive 
concluded. Its not that I disagree with him that restricting money leaving a recipient account 
in a speedy manner is critical to supporting the return of monies to the payer, but as Ive said 
above, I must also have regard for the size and capability of each financial business and 
what can reasonably be expected. However, my findings in relation to this aspect of Mr As 
complaint do not change that for different reasons which Ive explained above, I still think 
ClearBank could have prevented Mr As outstanding loss.
Taking all the above together, I think that there has been a failure by ClearBank which has 
resulted in a loss to Mr A. So it follows that it would not be unreasonable to ask ClearBank to 
refund the loss it could have prevented  which is Mr As total outstanding loss of £3,000.
I know Mr A thinks he ought to receive this in full irrespective of his actions. But I dont 
agree. My role is to decide whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances and if Mr As 
actions contributed to the outstanding loss, I think it would be fair for him to bear part of that 
loss, given he was partially responsible for the fact he has suffered it. Ultimately, the amount 
of redress awarded against ClearBank needs to be fair.
This brings me to my next consideration, which is to decide what proportion (if at all) of the 
£3,000 Mr A should bear. Having considered Mr As actions I consider it fair and reasonable 
to say a 50% reduction is appropriate as Im satisfied that Mr As conduct played an equal 
role in causing the £3,000 outstanding loss.Ive reached this conclusion because initially Mr A wasnt comfortable with the methods of 
purchasing the motorhome the seller had proposed. He decided not to go ahead with the 
purchase. I dont think its unreasonable to say that a motorhome priced so competitively 
ought to have been snapped up relatively quickly. So I think when Mr A approached the 
seller again, it still being available and the sellers willingness to reduce the price further for a 
motorhome which was already priced significantly lower than it ought to have been should 
have raised alarm bells. I wouldve expected this to put Mr A on guard, and Im persuaded it 
did as Mr A asked the seller for photographic identification; allegedly took steps to 
independently contact the payment processor to confirm the legitimacy of the transaction; 
took photographs of the live chat conversation; and sought reassurance from C before 
making the payment. Based on this it is my opinion that Mr As actions surpassed those of a 
cautious buyer and surmounted to someone with serious reservations about the legitimacy 
of the seller who, ultimately, decided to proceed with the payment.
Mr A argues he hasnt been negligent. He says he couldnt travel to see the motorhome 
before purchasing it due to the pandemic and it was his honest belief that he was 
communicating with the genuine payment processor, and he was reassured by the response 
hed received. Ive thought about what Mr A says but not seeing the motorhome before 
making the payment is not the basis upon which I think a reduction in award should be 
made. And I agree with my colleague Ombudsmans findings on the linked complaint that 
Mr A hadnt taken the very steps he knew he ought to in order to protect himself, and that his 
belief that he was talking to the payment processor was not reasonable because in short, the 
evidence suggests, it was most likely that Mr A had clicked on a link in the sellers email  
and not visited the payment processors site directly and independently as he claimed, and 
knew he ought to have done.
Finally, Ive thought about whether interest should be payable on the financial award I intend 
on making. Mr A says hed borrowed the money he paid to ClearBanks accountholders 
account from his parents. He confirmed that he is only obligated to repay the principal 
amount of the loan. He provided evidence of the interest his parents have lost out on as a 
result of being without the money since the scam. However, as Mr A is the eligible 
complainant I can only award Mr As losses, not those of his parents. However, I have seen, 
in Mr As submissions, comments which suggest he was paying his parents back in small 
monthly payments. So if Mr A has paid these funds back, on the provision that he can 
provide evidence of the dates and the amounts he paid back to his parents, I think its fair to 
conclude that hes been deprived the use of those funds. So ClearBank should pay interest 
at 8% simple per annum from the date those funds were repaid by Mr A to his parents to the 
date of settlement. And in the absence of any evidence and/or if these havent been repaid 
then I think it wouldnt be fair to award interest.
My provisional decision
For the reasons outlined above, but subject to any further information I receive from either
Mr A or ClearBank Limited Im intending to uphold this complaint in part.
I intend on directing ClearBank Limited to pay Mr A:
-£1,500 (this represents his outstanding loss of £3,000, less a 50% reduction for Mr As 
contributory negligence).
-8% simple interest per annum as detailed above upon receipt of evidence from Mr A of 
these funds being repaid to his parents.
ClearBank did not respond to my provisional decision. Mr A did respond. He said that regardless of my opinion on whether the purchase was too 
good to be true, ClearBank ought to have taken action sooner. And had it done, he wouldnt 
have suffered a loss. He reiterated that hed done his checks, but if 50% is the best that he 
can get then he would have to accept that decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any new evidence or comments for me to consider, I see no 
reason to deviate from the outcome I reached in my provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
To put things right ClearBank Limited must pay Mr A: 
- £1,500 (this represents his outstanding loss of £3,000, less a 50% reduction for Mr As 
contributory negligence).
- 8% simple interest per annum as detailed above upon receipt of evidence from Mr A of 
these funds being repaid to his parents.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2023.
 
Sonal Matharu
Ombudsman