DRN-3001904
The complaint
Mr L complains about the way Vitality Health Limited administered his personal private 
medical insurance policy.
What happened
Mr L holds a personal private medical insurance policy. Cover under the policy began in 
2016. 
In late January 2020, Mr L got in touch with Vitality to make a claim on his policy. Thats 
because hed noticed a lump which had appeared on his chest. Vitality accepted Mr Ls 
claim and referred him to a specialist, who advised Mr L that he needed a biopsy. This was 
scheduled initially for February 2020 and then was pushed back to March 2020. 
On 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation declared Covid-19 to be a pandemic. 
Subsequently, on 16 March 2020, the UK government advised citizens to stop all 
nonessential travel and social contact. And on 23 March 2020, national lockdown was 
imposed by the UK government. Due to the large numbers of patients suffering from Covid-
19, private medical facilities and consultants were diverted to provide support to the NHS. 
Mr Ls policy renewed on 30 March 2020. His biopsy was postponed again. In June 2020, he 
spoke with Vitality because he still hadnt had the biopsy. During the call, Vitalitys call 
handler suggested that Mr L should try and get in touch with the specialist to chase things 
up. But it told him to get back in touch if he wasnt successful and it could ask its partner 
company to try and contact the specialist through its own channels.
In July 2020, Mr L contacted Vitality again to complain about the fact that he was paying full 
premiums for his policy, when services had been limited because of Covid-19. Vitality said 
the Covid-19 pandemic and lack of availability of services was beyond its control. But it said 
it was still offering some policy benefits, such as increased cash back for hospitalisation due 
to Covid-19. It offered Mr L the option to take up its Covid Premium Saver. This would have 
reduced Mr Ls premiums to 50% for a three-month period, with the loss of some policy 
benefits. However, Mr L didnt want to take up this option. 
Mr L ultimately underwent the biopsy in October 2020 and unfortunately, he was diagnosed 
with skin cancer. He remained unhappy with the way Vitality had administered his policy and 
so he asked us to look into his complaint.
Ultimately, our investigator didnt think Mr Ls complaint should be upheld. While he 
appreciated that the policy hadnt provided the cover Mr L had expected it to, he thought Mr 
L had have access to some benefits under the policy. These included remote GP and 
specialist services; talking therapies and remote physiotherapy. Itd also offered Mr L the 
option to take up the Covid Premium Saver, which he considered was fair. 
He also explained that hed expect Vitality to have provided more assistance to policyholders 
who needed urgent treatment. In this case, he was satisfied that when Mr L had let it know 
he was experiencing delays in undergoing the biopsy, Vitality had suggested a course of 
action, but also advised Mr L to call back if he wasnt successful in obtaining a new biopsy 
date. But Mr L hadnt done so. So he felt Vitality had taken reasonable steps to assist Mr L. 
Overall, he concluded Vitality had treated Mr L fairly.
Mr L disagreed and Ive summarised his responses to our investigator. He said that 
throughout lockdown, hed paid the full policy premium, despite not being provided with the 
services he needed. The price had also gone up in April 2020. After much persistence from 
him, hed arranged his own biopsy, received a diagnosis and had the lump removed. He said 
that aside from the call in June 2020, hed sent Vitality a number of emails and web-forms 
regarding the delay in treatment, which had been ignored. The specialist had told him in 
January 2020 that hed believed the lump to be cancer, but hed had to wait 10 months to 
confirm it. This had caused him fear, concern and anxiety and had impacted on his mental 
health. And he felt that as many other companies had frozen or reduced charges during the 
pandemic, it wouldve been reasonable for Vitality to have done the same.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr L, I think Vitality has treated him fairly. Ill 
explain why.
First, Im sorry to hear about Mr Ls diagnosis and I dont doubt how worrying and upsetting it 
mustve been while waiting for the biopsy and then undergoing treatment. I sympathise with 
his position. But when making my decision about what I think is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of Mr Ls complaint, I need to take into account, amongst other things, the 
terms and conditions of his contract with Vitality, as well as other relevant considerations 
such as the law, regulators rules and industry guidance. 
The terms and conditions of Mr Ls policy say his plan is for one year and that premiums 
must be paid for Vitality to provide cover during that year. Insurance policies are intended to 
cover the risk of an uncertain event happening over the duration of the contract. An insurer is 
entitled to retain the benefit of the premium paid to cover the risk during that time, even if no 
successful claim has been made under the policy. Vitality covered Mr L between March 2019 
until March 2020 and then between March 2020 and March 2021. As Ive set out above, its 
clear that Mr L did make successful claims under the policy. Even if he hadnt though, Vitality 
is entitled to retain the premium it charged to cover the risk of him making a claim while the 
policy was in force. 
And the terms of Mr Ls plan set out his cancellation rights under the contract. These say 
that if he cancelled his policy within 14 days of either receiving the policy documents, or the 
cover start date, hed be entitled to a full refund of his premiums (unless any claims had 
been made). If Mr L chose to cancel his policy at any point after 14 days, Vitality would 
refund the premiums hed paid after the date the cover ended.
Theres no term in the contract which entitles Mr L to a premium refund if hes unable to 
make use of all of the services he expected to be available. So I think it was fair for Vitality to 
tell Mr L that this option wasnt available to him. However, Vitality did offer Mr L the option to 
take up the Covid Premium Saver and pay 50% of his usual monthly price for a three-month 
period, if he accepted losing certain benefits for that period. I appreciate Mr L didnt want to 
take up this option, but nonetheless, I think it was a fair response from Vitality to the 
unprecedented circumstances surrounding Covid-19.I also dont think its accurate to say Mr Ls policy was unusable. Depending on the type of 
medical treatment or services he required, Vitality couldve pre-authorised treatment to be 
carried out at a later date. Mr L had access to, amongst other things, remote GP, specialist 
and physiotherapy services, as well as enhanced cash back if hed been hospitalised with 
Covid-19. I wouldnt ordinarily expect an insurer to refund premiums if medical treatment or 
medical services were unavailable due to circumstances outside of its control. Vitality 
doesnt own or operate the vast majority of the private facilities its members use and the 
requisitioning of insurer-approved private facilities for use by the NHS was something which 
was outside of Vitalitys control. 
So, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable in the circumstances of this case to require 
Vitality to refund all of the premiums Mr L paid. Id also add that it was down to each 
individual insurer to make a commercial decision as to how to respond to the Covid-19 
pandemic and what, if any, action to take. 
Ive next turned to consider whether Vitality acted reasonably and responded appropriately 
when Mr L told it that his biopsy had been delayed. Ive listened to the call between Mr L and 
the call handler. The call handler did tell Mr L that it would be best if he got in touch directly 
with the specialist or their secretary to chase up the referral. But he also told Mr L that if he 
had difficulties in getting in touch, to let Vitality know and it would get in touch with its partner 
company to see if it could move things along. I havent seen any evidence to suggest Mr L 
made a call to ask for such assistance. Based on the information it had, I think Vitality took 
reasonable steps here to try and assist Mr L in suggesting how he could progress getting the 
biopsy he needed.
Mr L says he emailed Vitality about this issue and filled-in webforms. Vitalitys records show 
Mr L emailed it a number of times about his premium complaint, but theres no reference to 
an email regarding the delay in getting a biopsy. An investigator asked Mr L to send us any 
emails he wanted me to look at, but he didnt send any copies of such emails by the deadline 
we gave. Vitality told us that Mr L hadnt previously complained to it about emails it hadnt 
responded to. But it said that if Mr L wished to make a new complaint to it about that specific 
issue; it would look into it for him. Its open to Mr L then to get in touch with Vitality to 
complain about any failure to respond to specific emails or web-forms should he choose to. If 
hes unhappy with the outcome of any new complaint, we may be able to potentially help 
with that issue alone.
Based on the totality of the evidence thats been provided to me though, Im satisfied that 
Vitality did try and assist Mr L and responded in an appropriate way in June 2020.
Overall while I sympathise with Mr Ls position, Im satisfied that Vitality treated him fairly.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman