DRN-4448756
The complaint
X complains Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited unfairly declined claims under 
a pet insurance policy. 
Any reference to Red Sands includes the actions of its agent. 
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ive summarised what 
happened. 
X has a pet insurance policy for their dog  who Ill refer to as D. It is underwritten by 
Red Sands. 
Following treatment an exclusion was added to the policy which said: Excludes 
cover on all claims with respect to the Digestive System with effect from March 
2021.
In December 2022, D began to be poorly after ingesting a glove. Red Sands settled 
the claim regarding the glove and added an exclusion which said: Excludes all cover 
on all claims with respect to anything to do with Foreign Body Glove Ingestion that 
occurred on 15 December 2022 and Resulting Conditions with effect from 7 March 
2023. 
In January 2023, X made a claim following investigations into D having diarrhoea.  
And subsequent claims were made regarding a gastric ulcer and pancreatitis. All 
three claims were declined by Red Sands - it said the conditions were in respect of 
the digestive system and so, were excluded. 
X complained to Red Sands about its decision, but it maintained its position. X 
remained unhappy about Red Sands decision to not cover the pancreatitis claim and 
so, brought a complaint to this Service. An Investigator considered it but didnt uphold 
it saying the exclusion had been applied fairly as the pancreas is part of the digestive 
system.
In response, X provided information from their vet which said: The ulcer and the IBD 
[inflammatory bowel disease] are unrelated to the pancreatitis and should be treated 
as such. 
The Investigator considered this information, but it didnt change his mind. Because X 
disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The issue to be decided here is whether Red Sands has applied the terms of the policy 
fairly. Red Sands is seeking to rely on the exclusion that claims in respect of the digestive 
system wont be covered  and it says pancreatitis is to do with the digestive system. 
It seems X has accepted the claims for the gastric ulcer and diarrhoea are related to the 
digestive system. For completeness, given the ulcer was on Ds stomach, and the diarrhoea 
was a symptom of inflammatory bowel disease, Im satisfied these conditions are to do with 
the digestive system and therefore, excluded. But X says the pancreatitis is unrelated to the 
digestive system and has provided evidence from their vet which they say shows the claim 
for pancreatitis shouldnt be considered part of the digestive system. 
Ive considered this information, but Im not persuaded it changes things. Notably, it simply 
says the pancreatitis is unrelated to the inflammatory bowel disease  not that the 
pancreatitis is not in respect of the digestive system  which is whats key here. 
From my own research, Im satisfied the pancreas is part of the digestive system, and so, 
Red Sands has reasonably considered pancreatitis as a claim in respect of the digestive 
system, and therefore, excluded under the policy. 
It follows therefore, that Im satisfied Red Sands decision to decline all three claims is fair in 
the circumstances. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 December 2023.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman