DRN-3825803
The complaint
Mr Ns unhappy with Forsakringsaktiebolaget Agria (publ)s, trading as Agria Forsakring 
(AF), decision to decline his claim made on a pet insurance policy.
What happened
Mr Ns annual policy for his pet dog started in October 2021. He contacted AF to make a 
claim for vets fees in May 2022 after his dog fell ill and needed treatment.
AF considered the claim but told him it wasnt prepared to pay it on the grounds that it felt 
the illness was pre-existing when the policy started. AF said that, when he took the cover, it 
was explained that the policy didnt pay out for costs resulting from pre-existing illness or 
injury.
Unhappy with AFs decision, on the grounds that he didnt believe the illness was pre-
existing, Mr H brought a complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into the complaint 
and recommended that it should be upheld.
The complaint was passed to me to consider afresh as AF wasnt prepared to accept the 
investigators findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
I think its important to start by explaining what the relevant policy terms and conditions say. 
They explain that, subject to certain exclusions, AF will pay the cost of vets fees for illness 
and injury. Those exclusions include costs resulting from pre-existing illness or injury.
Pre-existing illness or injury is defined in the policy as:
An injury that happened, or an illness or behavioural disorder that first 
showed clinical signs before your policy started; or 
an injury or illness that is the same as, or has the same diagnosis or clinical 
signs as an injury, illness or clinical sign your pet had before your policy 
started; or,
an injury or illness that is caused by, relates to, or results from, an injury, 
illness or clinical sign your pet had before your policy started;
no matter where the injury, illness or clinical sign(s) are noticed, or happen in, or 
on, your pets body. 
Clinical sign(s) is defined as Changes to your pets normal healthy state, its physical 
appearance, its bodily functions or behaviour. 
AF says the illness Mr H claimed for in May 2022  relating to a heart disorder  first arose in 
December 2020 (and possibly before). It says, for example, the vets clinical notes show a 
grade 2 heart murmur was detected following a visit to the vet in December 2020.
A further entry in the vets notes for February 2022 says examination revealed moderate 
heart murmur which had been diagnosed before. Then shortly before the time of the claim to 
AF in May 2022, the vet noted further concerns around Mr Hs dogs heart and that they had 
discussed their findings and potential treatment options with Mr H at that time. Soon 
afterwards, AF received the claim.
On the above grounds, AF says the costs claimed for in May 2022 arose from a pre-existing 
illness. 
Where an insurer declines a claim based on a policy exclusion, as in this case, wed typically 
expect it to demonstrate that the exclusion applies on the balance of the available evidence.
In the circumstances, I dont believe that its fair for AF to rely on the exclusion on this 
occasion. I say that because, for example, the treating vet has provided a further explanation 
of the medical history. In May 2022, the vet said it was possible the heart murmur detected 
in 2020 was related to the dogs recently diagnosed heart condition. But that it was difficult to 
be sure due to the limited information from 2020 and lack of investigation back then. Later 
that month, the vet added that the heart murmur found in 2020 wasnt considered to be 
clinically significant at the time. Further investigation wasnt warranted or recommended.  
I realise that AFs provided a desktop report from a vet advisor that would seem to contradict 
the findings of the treating vet. That said, Im mindful that Mr Hs treating vet was responsible 
for the dogs care and carried out physical examinations. The vet advisor, on the other hand, 
hadnt examined Mr Hs dog and provided a medical opinion based entirely on the available 
papers. As such, Ive placed greater emphasis on the opinions and findings of the treating 
vet as I believe they had greater insight into the issues Mr Hs dog experienced both before 
and after the start of the policy.   
So, I think its debatable that the illness discovered after the start of the policy was 
connected to the events that took place before it. But even if there was a proven link 
between them, I think its significant that Mr H was apparently unaware of the nature of the 
issues his dog experienced before the policy started in any event. 
Thats important because the established approach of this service to pre-existing medical 
exclusions is that, for an insurer to be able to rely on them to decline a claim, wed need to 
be satisfied the consumer knew something was wrong with their pet when they took out the 
policy. It wouldnt ordinarily be fair for an insurer to refuse a claim if the consumer couldnt 
reasonably have known there was a problem.   
On that issue, Mr H has repeatedly and consistently said he wasnt aware of the condition or 
clinical signs before the start of the policy. For example, in an email to AF of May 2022, Mr H 
said I wasnt aware that [my dog] had a heart murmur that far back. He went in that day 
because he had some kind of fit. He was given meds after an all clear check up.  In a 
further email to AF of June 2022, Mr H said, I wasnt aware of any heart murmur and if I was 
why would I have taken out a policy with you 10 months later?
In bringing his complaint to this service in late 2022, Mr H explained that COVID-19 
measures in place at the vets surgery in December 2020 meant only his dog went into the 
examination room with the vet that day. His dog had had some sort of fit but, the vet assured 
him the dog was fine and that there was nothing wrong. Medication was prescribed to treat 
the fit, but Mr H confirmed No [I wasnt] aware that he had a heart murmur.I find Mr Hs testimony on this point to be plausible in the circumstances especially in the 
light of the vets medical notes from that time and the additional information provided by the 
treating vet. Mr Hs vet has, as Ive already said, confirmed no further investigations were 
carried out in 2020. The vets notes dont suggest  as they do in some other entries  that 
the vets findings in relation to the murmur were discussed with Mr H in any detail or even at 
all in 2020.  
Whats more, AFs vet adviser seemingly conceded in their opinion of October 2022 that 
Mr H wasnt aware there were problems before the start of the policy: That [Mr H] was not 
advised of [the heart murmur] is beyond our control.  
Taking everything into account, Im not persuaded that Mr H was aware of any issues related 
to the condition giving rise to the claim before the start of the policy. It follows that I dont 
think it would be fair for AF to rely on the exclusion for pre-existing illness or injury to decline 
Mr Hs claim.
Putting things right
AF should pay Mr Hs claim in line with my findings above and the remaining policy terms 
and conditions. It should add interest to the payment at the simple annual rate of 8%, 
calculated from the date Mr H paid any relevant vets fees to the date of AFs payment to 
him. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AF to take off tax from this interest. AF must give Mr H a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided to uphold this complaint. I require Forakringsaktiebolaget 
Agria (publ) to put things right for Mr H as explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 February 2023.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman