DRN-3258258
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain about the way National House-Building Council (trading as NHBC) 
dealt with claims they made under their Buildmark policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs B made a claim for damage to their home when they discovered cracking in the 
external rendered wall of their property. They also made a claim about the rendering 
continuing to ground level, which Mr and Mrs B said didnt meet building standards, as the 
rendering should have stopped above the damp proof course.
NHBC considered both claims and said that as the policy was taken out in 2010 and the 
claims were made between 2017 and 2019, they would be considered under section three of 
the Buildmark policy, which covers structural problems with the property between years 
three to ten of the policy. 
NHBC investigated the cracks in the render, but following those investigations it said the 
most likely cause of the cracks was dry shrinkage. And that these didnt compromise the 
actual structure of the property, so there was no cover in place under section three of the 
Buildmark policy.
Mr and Mrs B disagreed and made a complaint to NHBC, saying they had mitigated the 
defect by continuing to regularly fill and repaint wherever there were cracks  but that the 
cracks kept appearing. They also said the NHBC standards required them to stop the render 
at the damp proof course, but as the render had continued to ground level, it had 
compromised the damp proof course, effectively making it useless. 
NHBC responded to the complaint, saying its structural engineer had assessed the damage 
and confirmed it had been caused by shrinkage, which isnt considered an issue that affects 
structural stability and is an aesthetic problem only. In relation to the render going down to 
ground level, it said the areas had been tested and there was no evidence of the render de-
bonding or moisture migrating up the wall.
Because Mr and Mrs B didnt agree with NHBCs response, they referred their complaint to 
this service.
Our investigator considered the issues and didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She 
said she thought NHBC had fairly applied the exclusions under the policy. She also said, in 
relation to the rendering, that NHBCs standards from 2010, when the property was built, 
didnt require them to stop the render at the damp proof course. 
As Mr and Mrs B didnt agree with our investigators assessment, the complaint has been 
referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im afraid I wont be upholding this complaint, for the same reasons given 
by our investigator. Ill explain why. But first Id like to make both parties aware that although 
numerous submissions have been made in this case, I wont refer to all the points that have 
been raised by the parties  only those that I consider to be the most relevant. No 
discourtesy is intended by this. It merely reflects the informal nature of this service. And Id 
like to reassure the parties that even though I wont be addressing all the points made, Ive 
considered carefully everything thats been provided. 
Ive looked closely at section three of the Buildmark Policy, and can see it covers the 
following:
1) We will pay you the full Cost, if it is more than £1,000 Indexed, of putting right any 
Damage in any of the following parts of the house, bungalow, maisonette or flat and its 
garage or other permanent outbuildings or its Common Parts:
a) foundations;
b) load-bearing walls;
c) non load-bearing partition walls;
d) wet-applied wall plaster;
e) external render and external vertical tile hanging;
f) load-bearing parts of the roof;
g) roof coverings;
h) ceilings;
i) load-bearing parts of the floors;
j) staircases and internal floor decking and screeds where these fail to support normal loads;
k) retaining walls necessary for the structural stability of the house, bungalow, flat or 
maisonette, its garage or other permanent outbuilding;
l) double-glazing or triple-glazing panes to external windows and doors;
m) below-ground drainage for which you are responsible.
Regarding the cover in place for external render, the Buildmark policy says it wont cover: 
3) Anything relating to:
a) shrinkage, thermal movement or movement between different types of materials;
b) cosmetic damage such as minor cracking, spalling or mortar erosion to brickwork, which 
does not impair the structural stability or weather tightness of your Home or which only 
affects decorations;
c) existing double-glazed or triple-glazed panes in converted properties unless they were 
newly installed at the time of conversion;
d) ceilings that are not in an enclosed part of your Home (for example, balcony ceilings);
e) water entry, dampness or condensation to underground garages, where the structural 
integrity of the garage is not affected;
f) sound transmission of any type;
g) any change in the colour or texture of, or any staining to, any external finish;
h) replacement of any solar roof tiles or panels solely due to failure to generate heat or 
electricity.
Ive also carefully considered the investigation report. This says that the nature of the cracks 
(that they are uniform and hairline in width) indicated that they were most likely as a result of 
dry shrinkage and mentioned that a structural engineer had confirmed these were unlikely to 
compromise the structural stability of the property. 
In the circumstances therefore, and based on the policy exclusion relating to shrinkage and thermal movement, I cant say Ive seen enough evidence to persuade me that the damage 
to Mr and Mrs Bs property should be covered under section three of their policy with NHBC. 
Theres also nothing to suggest the cracks are indicative of a structural defect. 
And, even if a defect had been found in relation to the render continuing to ground level, 
such a defect could only be considered under the policy if it had been raised in the first two 
years following completion of the build. This is because NHBC could only be liable to repair 
a defect that wasnt affecting the structural stability of the property within those first two 
years, if the builder refused to do so or had ceased trading.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs B have, understandably, found it frustrating to have to keep 
repairing cracks. But Im satisfied that the damage in this case isnt covered by section three 
of their policy, based on the findings of the investigation report and the structural engineers 
comments.
Ive considered the further points Mr and Mrs B have raised, such as telling us NHBC wasnt 
applying the correct policy terms because it had provided them with a different policy 
document, which they believe should override the policy document NHBC have used to 
decline their claims. But Im afraid this wasnt an issue that was raised with NHBC at the time 
Mr and Mrs B made their complaint. So, although our investigator has passed on details of 
that complaint to NHBC for it to now address, Im afraid its not something I can consider as 
part of this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 April 2022.
 
Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman