DRN-3950206
The complaint
Miss C complains that OneSavings Bank Plc  trading as Kent Reliance (KR) didnt give her 
sufficient time to decide on maturing accounts.
What happened
Miss C had two accounts which are the subject of her complaint:
- A two-year fixed rate ISA, interest rate 1.44%; maturity date 20 March 2022. KR sent 
a maturity instructions letter on 4 March 2022. On 21 March 2022, Miss C transferred 
the balance of the ISA (£5,919.97) to another provider.
- A one-year fixed rate bond, interest rate 0.55%; maturity date 11 March 2022. KR 
sent maturity instructions letter on 23 February 2022. On 11 March 2022, the balance 
(£1,000.49) was transferred to a new one-year fixed rate bond, rate 1.36%.
Miss C complained. She said that KRs maturity letters didnt give her enough time to decide 
what to do with the maturing deposits. She said she only had 1.5 days to make up her mind 
on the ISA, and five days for the fixed rate deposit. She said the options on KRs letters 
werent clear  there wasnt a telephone number which clearly said she could call; and she 
overlooked the reference to a 14-day cooling off period  as that wasnt clear either. She 
said her money (in the fixed rate bond) was now locked into a low-rate deposit. She wants 
penalty-free access to it and compensation for the time taken in sorting matters out.
KR said that the deposits were reinvested in the new fixed rate accounts because no 
maturity instructions were received from Miss C. These were in line with the accounts terms 
and conditions. Miss C couldve telephoned and this was in the letters. On the ISA, Miss C 
couldve telephoned, or by secure message. KR said they allowed 5-7 working days for 
maturity options letters to arrive. This meant that Miss C had five days to decide what to do.
KR also said that Miss C wouldve had a 14-day cooling off period if she was unhappy with 
the new fixed deposits  she could have changed her mind. KR noted that Miss C 
transferred her ISA to another provider on 21 March 2022. KR didnt uphold Miss Cs 
complaint.
Miss C brought her complaint to us. Our investigator didnt uphold it. If there were postal 
delays, he couldnt hold KR responsible for that. A telephone number was provided on the 
letters on page one and page two. And they also set out the 14-day cooling off period. That 
meant Miss C could retrieve her money if she wasnt happy with the new investments.
Miss C didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman look at her complaint. And so  it has 
come to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Allowing for KRs maximum delivery times of seven working days to receive the maturity 
letters  this means that Miss C wouldve got them on:
ISA (maturity 20 March 2022): receive by 15 March 2022 - Miss C confirmed that was when 
she got it.
Fixed rate bond (maturity 11 March 2022): receive by 4 March 2022. Miss C said she had 
five days to consider the fixed rate bond letter, so I assume she got it on 6 March 2022.
On the ISA, Miss C says she had 1.5 days to consider it  Im not sure how she worked that 
out as she wouldve had five days; and on the fixed deposit, she had five days also. 
Ive looked at KRs terms and conditions  and these say they would send out maturity 
letters 14 days ahead of maturity. Ive seen confirmation in KRs records that the letters were 
sent on 4 March 2022 (ISA) and 23 February 2022 (fixed deposit)  so they complied with 
the terms and conditions. And here  our investigator is correct  we cant hold KR 
responsible if there are any postal delays. But even allowing for that possibility  Miss C still 
had five days to consider her options, which I think was reasonable.
But   Miss Cs also says the communications werent clear  she says she wasnt aware 
she could have telephoned KR. I looked at the letters with this in mind. The letters for both 
the ISA and fixed deposit were the same. Each letter  was headed Your fixed term ISA is 
about to mature or Your fixed term bond is about to mature. Each one clearly gave the 
maturity date of either 20 March 2022 (ISA) and 11 March 2022 (fixed deposit). They go on 
to give maturity options:
Here are your options:
1. Return the enclosed options form to either reinvest in another account or request your 
funds to be returned to your nominated bank account.
2. Give us a call. To find out about our latest rates call us on XXXX. Alternatively, you can 
visit our website www.kentreliance.co.uk.
3. Do nothing. We will automatically transfer your full maturity proceeds into XXXXX the day 
after your maturity date.
I think the options are laid out clearly  and say that a customer can call KR to give 
instructions. Miss C argues that the phone number is only to ask about interest rates  but I 
think its reasonable to say that the text is saying the number is for both maturity instructions 
and interest rates. The phone number is quoted two other times in the body of the letters.
The letters also outline the 14-day cooling off period - on page 2, there is a heading 14 day 
cancellation period. And the text says, You will have 14 days from the date the bond  (or 
fixed rate ISA) is opened to reconsider your choice. . So  Miss C couldve changed her 
mind after the deposits had been invested into the alternative fixed term/rate accounts. 
Unfortunately, Miss C says she didnt see this.
I think KR set out the options clearly  which is what we would expect them to do.
As it was, Miss C transferred her ISA deposit to another provider on 21 March 2022  so I 
think its reasonable to assume she was happy with the return on that investment, and there 
was therefore no adverse impact on her. And  she couldve reinvested the fixed deposit 
(either with KR or with another provider) within the 14-day cooling off period  she didnt, but 
I cant hold KR responsible for that. Its unfortunate that Miss C found her deposit locked into a one-year fixed deposit on a rate 
she was unhappy with  but my decision is that KR acted reasonably and Im not going to 
ask the firm to do anything here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 June 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman