DRN-3129809
The complaint
 Mr B has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc continued charging him excessive amounts 
for his overdraft, contributing to his financial difficulties
What happened
 Mr B complained to HSBC about the overdraft charges and interest that were being applied 
to his account. He said the cycle of charges was making his overdraft more difficult to repay. 
HSBC didnt uphold the complaint. And as Mr B was dissatisfied, he referred the complaint 
to our service.
Mr Bs complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that HSBC ought 
to have realised that Mr B was experiencing financial difficulty by February 2016 and so 
shouldnt have added any more interest, fees and charges from this point onwards. HSBC 
disagreed so the case was passed to an ombudsman
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 HSBC will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im intending to find that HSBC acted 
unfairly when it continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees after February 
2016. By this point, it ought to have been clear that Mr B was in no position to sustainably 
repay what he owed within a reasonable period of time. 
By this point, Mr B was hardcore borrowing. In other, words he hadnt maintained a credit 
balance for an extended period of time  over 6 months. HSBCs own literature suggests 
that overdrafts are for unforeseen emergency borrowing not prolonged day-to-day 
expenditure. I acknowledge that Mr B did receive some large credits to his account in the 
years before (and after) 2016, but these were invariably used to repay existing debts he had 
elsewhere, placing his current account once again in an overdrawn position. This was not a 
sustainable way to manage his finances, and so I think that Mr Bs overdraft usage should 
still have prompted HSBC to have realised that he wasnt using his overdraft as intended 
and so it shouldnt have continued offering it on the same terms. As HSBC didnt react to 
Mr Bs overdraft usage and instead continued charging in the same way, I think it failed to 
act fairly and reasonably. 
Mr B ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on his overdraft and this ended 
up exacerbating difficulties he already had in trying to clear it. So I think that HSBC didnt 
treat Mr B fairly and he lost out because of what HSBC did wrong. And this means that it 
should put things right.
Putting things right
 Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Bs complaint for HSBC to put things right by:
Reworking Mr Bs current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it after February 2016 are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made HSBC should contact Mr B to arrange a suitable repayment plan for 
this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mr Bs credit 
file, it should reflect what would have been recorded had it started the process of 
taking corrective action on the overdraft in February 2016.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr B along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then HSBC 
should remove any adverse information from Mr Bs credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires HSBC to take off tax from this interest. HSBC must give 
Mr B a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Bs complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc should 
put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2021.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman