DRN-3858512
The complaint
Mr S1 and Mr S2 are business partners. They complain about the actions of National 
Westminster Bank Plc regarding the management of their loan accounts.
What happened
In June 2008 the partners took out three loans  which Ill call loans 1, 2 and 3  from 
NatWest in connection with their property business. Loan 1 was for £615,000 to be repaid 
over 20 years. Loan 2 was for about £1.5m to be repaid in two years. Loan 3 was for 
£289,100 to cover VAT on a property transaction, to be repaid in six months when the VAT 
refund was expected. In addition to the properties financed by these loans, the bank required 
two other properties to be given as additional security for the lending.
The partners had difficulty in meeting all the required payments. Early in 2009, after loan 3 
had expired, NatWest asked the partners for proposals for its repayment. The bank said loan 
1 was also in default. The bank raised the interest rate on both these loans. 
The difficulties continued and in December 2009 NatWest transferred the management of 
the partners accounts to its Global Restructuring Group (GRG).
In February 2010 the bank informed the partners that all the loans were in default and it 
wished to end the relationship. NatWest said that interest would continue at default rates and 
that monthly management fees would also now be charged. 
In April 2011, the bank received £1.43m from the sales of properties associated with the 
loans, leaving the outstanding debt at £970,680.
In the spring and summer of 2012, there were negotiations over a settlement of the debt. 
During this period the partners consulted an insolvency practitioner. In October 2012 the 
settlement was finally agreed, and the partners accounts were closed. NatWest received 
£260,000 in settlement and wrote off £772,190 of the debt.
Later, as part of NatWests general review of accounts managed by GRG, the bank made an 
automatic fee refund of £78,435, plus interest, in respect of account management fees. This 
was paid to the partners in August 2017. The banks further review of actions by GRG gave 
its conclusions in 2020 and didnt offer the partners any additional compensation. The 
partners didnt accept the outcome of the banks review and referred their complaint to this 
service.
The partners complained that the bank had acted unfairly by forcing them to sell assets for 
less than their true value, by asking them to raise finance from family and friends, and by 
charging unreasonable management fees. The partners also complained that the banks 
staff had acted in a threatening and bullying way.
After considering the evidence, our investigator didnt recommend that NatWest should be 
required to pay anything further. In summary, he gave the following reasons:
He understood that the banking relationship initially broke down because the partners 
had used their VAT refund to reduce outstanding debt with another lender, rather 
than repaying the NatWest loan 3 as agreed.
The partners were experiencing financial difficulty  they had other borrowing, 
including over £9m debt to another bank  and were unable to provide a reasonable 
strategy to repay the NatWest debt. They were unable to refinance with other lenders 
and were left with little option but to sell some of their assets. It appears that the 
decision to put the properties up for sale was something the partners considered 
even before the transfer to GRG. 
By mid-2010, loan 2 had expired and was in default. At the time, other businesses 
run by the partners had entered into administration. The partners acknowledged that 
they were unable to repay the NatWest debt and had advised that they would 
arrange for the sale of assets to provide repayment.
The bank didnt appoint receivers, but instead allowed the partners to retain control of 
the sale of the properties, and it wasnt until 2011 that the properties were sold.
The investigator hadnt seen any evidence that the bank put unreasonable pressure 
on the partners to sell their assets. It was clear the bank showed forbearance 
towards the partners over a number of years, by extending their facility
The investigator hadnt seen anything to suggest the bank had asked the partners to 
approach family members or friends for financial assistance. The partners did accept 
help from a family member towards the settlement payment in 2012, but the evidence 
indicated that the partners had suggested this.
The bank said that under the terms of the loans it was entitled to charge 
management fees when the lending was in default, but it agreed that the monthly 
management fees charged in 2010 werent appropriate to the circumstances. These 
were the fees refunded by the automatic fee refund in 2017.
The investigator considered whether the partners had suffered consequential losses 
as a result of paying the management fees in 2010 which were later refunded. He 
concluded that the partners hardship had resulted from wider difficulties which 
werent caused by NatWest. They faced problems trying to refinance the properties, 
to secure tenants after the property market crisis, and to sell properties. The partners 
also had larger debts with other lenders, some in default.
It wasnt unreasonable of the bank to charge interest on the lending at default levels, 
because the partners were in default of their loan obligations at the time. Its standard 
market practice to charge default interest.
Its possible that the impact of the banks messages regarding repayment of the 
outstanding debt may have been heightened by the stress and the financial 
difficulties the partners were going through. But looking at the written evidence, the 
investigator hadnt seen any evidence that the banks staff had been threatening or 
bullying.
The partners didnt agree with the investigators conclusions. On their behalf, their 
representative said the complexities of the complaint points hadnt been understood. She 
stressed that the core issues were the partners distress, the sale of assets, and the refund 
of charges and interest.After considering all the evidence and arguments, I issued a provisional decision in which I 
said that, for the most part, Id come to the same conclusions as the investigator, and for 
largely the same reasons. But I was minded to require the bank to compensate the partners 
for distress and upset suffered in relation to the inappropriate management fees. In my 
provisional decision I explained my reasoning as follows:
The background to these events was that the partners ran into financial difficulties 
when the 2008 financial crisis led to very challenging conditions in the property 
market. Their business struggled and they had substantial debts, mainly with lenders 
other than NatWest. 
After the first default, NatWest did seek proposals for repayment by the partners and, 
about a year later and after further defaults, the bank said it wished to end the 
relationship. Clearly NatWest was looking to the partners to say how they would 
repay the debt, which wasnt unreasonable in the circumstances. But Ive seen no 
evidence that the bank put any unfair pressure on them to sell their assets. Despite 
holding the properties as security, NatWest didnt bring in receivers and it left control 
of the assets in the hands of the partners. Moreover, the bank showed forbearance 
towards the partners and it wasnt until 2011 that properties were sold, and the final 
settlement was in 2012.
Similarly, Ive seen no evidence that NatWest put any pressure on the partners to 
raise funds from friends or family. It appears to have been suggested by the partners.
The bank charged default interest rates in line with the loan terms and conditions. I 
dont think it was unreasonable to charge default interest rates when the loans were 
in default. However, its common ground that the management fees were 
inappropriately charged in 2010. Those fees were refunded to the partners in 2017, 
with interest. 
I agree with the investigator that the management fees didnt cause any 
consequential losses. The fees were nearly all added to the loan debt at the time, so 
I cant see that they would have had a financial effect on the day-to-day running of 
the partners business. At the time, the partners faced far greater pressures from 
other financial liabilities, so I dont believe that there would have been a different 
outcome in the absence of the management fees.
Ive already noted that the bank showed forbearance over the repayment of the 
partners debt. I havent seen any communications with the partners in which bank 
representatives were rude or bullying. But I have thought carefully about the impact 
of the inappropriately charged management fees on the partners at a time of great 
financial difficulty. Initially, between February and April 2010, the fees were £2,625 
per month, but then rose to £11,760 per month for the next six months. In the GRG 
review, the bank said it couldnt see how the amounts had been calculated. Even 
though the fees simply piled up in the partners debts and therefore didnt impact their 
cashflow, and there were other and substantially larger problems elsewhere in the 
partners business, I believe that regular fees at this level would have added 
unnecessarily to the partners worries. 
At the time the partners business couldnt make ends meet  though Im satisfied 
that it wasnt the banks fault. But the business difficulties must have been a burden 
on the partners personally and, in my opinion, the banks inappropriate fees must 
have made things more distressing. NatWest has made good the financial loss 
caused by the fees, but I think the partners should also be compensated for the distress caused. Its not clear why GRG levied the fees  indeed, they seem at odds 
with the banks general forbearance when dealing with the partners difficulties  and 
after six months at the higher level the bank decided to halt them. In the 
circumstances, I think the fees would have caused considerable distress and upset 
over this period. For these reasons, Im minded to require the bank to pay the 
partners £750 compensation.
I invited the parties to send me any additional comments or evidence. 
In response, NatWest commented that the 8% interest already paid on the refunded 
management fees was partly a consequential loss payment. However, the bank went on to 
say that it accepts my provisional decision to make the £750 award. 
The partners disagreed with the provisional decision. Their representative made the 
following points, in summary:
The ombudsman should take a view of the consequential loss of the direct costs 
incurred in paying for refinancing properties and other costs such as legal and 
professional fees.
Loan 3 expired without payment to NatWest because funds were inadvertently routed 
to another lender.
The bank claimed the partners business was failing, despite all the evidence, spoken 
exchanges, valuations and several meetings to assure the contrary. 
The evidence also shows that the partnership continuously made efforts to get a 
better price for the sale of the property financed by loan 2. 
The evidence shows pressure and demands for payment and threats of being 
passed to recoveries if payments were not made, even under circumstances of ill 
health.
£750 is not enough for the distress and upset.
In support, the representative also submitted copies of a number of documents, letters and 
emails variously dated between 2008 and 2012.
The partners also said the banks GRG review process had been unsatisfactory, particularly 
regarding the consideration of consequential losses.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First I should say that Im unable to consider the partners complaints about the processes of 
the banks GRG review. The mechanisms of voluntary reviews conducted by banks are 
outside the legal scope of the Financial Ombudsman Service. However, we are able to 
consider complaints about the outcomes of such reviews, and thats what Ive done here. 
The partners disagreed with the outcome of NatWests GRG review, and in my decision Ive 
considered their substantive complaint about both direct losses and consequential losses.Ive carefully considered all of the partners arguments, including their recent points, about 
the banks handling of the loans and specifically the actions of GRG. Ive also read all the 
documents, letters and emails, including those recently submitted. Having done that, I 
havent changed my view from my provisional decision. Ill explain why.
Loan 3 expired without repayment, so I dont think NatWest acted unfairly or unreasonably 
when it regarded the loan as in default. The partners say the failure to repay loan 3 was a 
result of funds being applied to the debt with another bank because of the way their 
accounts with other parties were arranged. But even if that was the case, it wasnt the result 
of any action by NatWest, so I cant reasonably say NatWest was in error. 
I dont believe it was unfair or unreasonable for NatWest to warn the partners of the possible 
consequences of failure to make loan repayments, or to repeat those warnings. Nor was it 
unreasonable for the bank to issue reminders when repayments were due or overdue. In any 
event, the bank continued discussions with the partners and didnt issue formal demands for 
immediate repayment or put the properties in the hands of receivers. The discussions 
included consideration of refinancing proposals. This forbearance continued until the agreed 
settlement in October 2012, when the bank wrote off over £770,000 of the partners debt. 
Throughout these events, the properties and their sales were left in the hands of partners. I 
havent seen any evidence that the bank put unfair pressure on the partners to dispose of 
their assets.
The partners say they made efforts to sell the property financed by loan 2 at a better price, 
and I dont doubt that. In the end they were disappointed by the price they received on the 
market. It was a sale that the partners agreed directly with the buyer and I cant see that it 
involved any bank error. Nothing here changes my view of the complaint. 
None of the evidence Ive seen persuades me that the bank was unreasonable in regarding 
the partners business as being in difficulties. The partners have shown us a valuation report 
for the property financed by loan 2, which said it had the potential to increase in value, with 
development work and if a new thriving business were established within it. But this 
document dates from June 2008, which was before the events in this complaint. I dont see 
the report as evidence, either way, of the condition of the partners business from 2009 
onwards. I note that in the partners original complaint, they said that after the 2008 
recession, the property market collapsed, plus the decline in the consumer market made it 
difficult for us to secure any tenants and carry on servicing our debt. So I dont have any 
doubt that the partners were facing serious business difficulties at the time. 
The partners representative argues that NatWest should compensate them for losses which 
were the consequence of their efforts to refinance and for the loss in value of assets which 
they sold trying to meet their debts. But my finding is that the bank didnt act unfairly or 
unreasonably except in respect of the account management fees. So I cant reasonably 
require the bank to pay any compensation, either for direct losses or for consequential 
losses, for anything other than the account management fees. Those fees have already 
been refunded with interest and, as I said above, they caused no consequential losses 
because at the time they were absorbed into the partners debt.
I accept that the partners suffered stress and health problems during the period covered by 
the complaint. They were experiencing serious business difficulties, their other enterprises 
went into administration, and they had debts to other lenders which were much larger than 
their NatWest debt. I recognise that they had a wretched time. But, as I explained above, I 
find that NatWest didnt act unfairly or unreasonably except in respect of the account 
management fees, and those fees caused the partners no cash flow problems at the time. I 
do think the bank contributed to the partners distress by charging the fees, but the partners 
business and financial difficulties were almost all caused by factors which were no fault of NatWest, so the compensation that I award must be proportionate. Overall, taking a 
balanced view, I still think a compensation payment of £750 for the distress and upset 
caused by NatWest is a fair and reasonable outcome.
Putting things right
For all the above reasons, I dont depart from my provisional decision. I find that NatWest 
didnt unreasonably or unfairly cause the partners any financial losses other than the 
inappropriate management fees, which have already been refunded with interest. But I find 
that the charging of those fees caused considerable distress and upset, and the bank should 
therefore pay the partners £750 compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I require National Westminster Bank Plc to pay a total of £750 to 
Mr S1 and Mr S2 jointly for their distress and upset resulting from the banks actions while 
their loan accounts were managed by GRG.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S1 and Mr S2 
to accept or reject my decision before 13 January 2023.
 
Colin Brown
Ombudsman