DRN-1639738
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H say Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy in 2001.
What happened
In 2001 Mr and Mrs H applied for a loan over the telephone. At the same time they were sold 
a PPI policy. The loan was for £5,000 to be repaid over five years. The PPI covered Mr H 
against not being able to work due to an accident, sickness or unemployment. The PPI was 
funded with regular monthly premiums of £9.04.
In 2019 Mr and Mrs H complained to Nationwide about the way the PPI was sold to them. 
Nationwide did not agree the policy was mis-sold so Mr and Mrs H asked this service to step 
in.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be upheld. Nationwide disagreed with the 
adjudicators findings so the complaint has been passed to me.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Having done so I am upholding this complaint and Ill explain why:
Mr and Mrs H were sold the loan and the PPI during a telephone call.
Nationwide has given us a copy of a document which it says is its sales process for 
telephone sales. But I see it dates from 2003 some two years after the sale of the PPI. So I 
have not attached much weight to this document.
Nationwide has pointed to the loan agreement that Mr and Mrs H were sent after the 
telephone call.
I agree the loan agreement states that the PPI was optional. But the loan agreement doesnt 
give Mr and Mrs H the option to decline the PPI and return the loan agreement signed. 
There is no option given on the credit agreement to decline the PPI and no requirement for 
Mr and Mrs H to sign separately for the PPI.
So it isnt clear from the credit agreement what Mr and Mrs H needed to do if they wanted to 
decline the PPI. They would need to call Nationwide to ask for a new loan agreement which 
would have delayed them receiving the funds.In any event the PPI was sold during the telephone call and not when Mr and Mrs H received 
the credit agreement.
Taking all this into account, I dont think its most likely Mr and Mrs H were given a fair choice 
about whether to take the PPI. 
Putting things right
Nationwide should put Mr and Mrs H in the position they would be in now if they hadnt taken 
out PPI. So Nationwide should:
Pay Mr and Mrs H the amount they paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they gets it back. The rate 
of interest is and 8% a year .
If Mr H made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Nationwide can take off what he got 
for the claim from the amount it owes them.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Nationwide to take off tax from this interest. Nationwide 
must give Mr and Mrs H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint and direct Nationwide 
Building Society to pay Mr and Mrs H compensation as set out in this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 June 2020.
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman