DRN-3517442
The complaint
Mr B has complained that AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited (AA) cancelled his 
motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr B renewed a motor insurance policy with AA through a broker with his wife as a named 
driver. AA validated the policy and found that Mr B hadnt correctly declared his wifes 
motoring offences. 
AA cancelled his policy and returned the premiums hed already paid. When Mr B 
complained, it said hed answered the question hed been asked about previous motor 
convictions incorrectly. And that it considered this to be a careless qualifying 
misrepresentation, which entitled it to cancel his policy. 
Mr B brought his complaint to us and our Investigator didnt recommend it should be upheld. 
He agreed there had been a qualifying misrepresentation. And he didnt think this was 
deliberate or reckless. He believed it was careless. He said AA shouldnt have recorded the 
cancellation on Mr Bs record. 
Mr B doesnt agree with the Investigator and has asked for an ombudsmans decision. Mr B 
thought its question about previous convictions was unclear and unfair.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr B was also unhappy with the level of service provided by his broker in 
regard to his renewal. But I cant consider that here as its a separate business to AA. 
Instead, I will consider whether AA acted fairly and reasonably in cancelling his policy. 
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes - as a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. One of these is how clear and specific the insurers questions were. And 
the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether the qualifying 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless or careless. 
If the misrepresentation was reckless or deliberate and an insurer can show it would have at 
least offered the policy on different terms, it is entitled to avoid the consumers policy. If the 
misrepresentation was careless, then to avoid the policy, the insurer must show it would not 
have offered the policy at all if it wasnt for the misrepresentation. 
AA thinks Mr B failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
stated in his renewal that his wife had two motoring convictions within the past five years. 
And Ive looked at the questions he was asked when he renewed his policy and I agree he 
failed to take reasonable care. This is because he was asked to check the renewal 
documents for accuracy. And in the section on drivers histories, he was asked:
Have you or any person who will drive ever been convicted of (or have any pending 
prosecutions) any motoring offence or sustained any fixed penalty (on the spot fines) - in the 
last five years?
And I think this was a clear question asked by AA. 
Mr B told AA about two of his wifes convictions, but not a third one from 2018. He said that 
hed checked the DVLA database and saw that this conviction had expired and so he 
thought he need not declare it. 
But I think its clear that AA, in common with most other insurers from my experience, asked 
for convictions from the previous five years. And so I think Mr B answered the question 
incorrectly.  
And I think this means Mr B failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation 
when he said his wife had just two motoring convictions. 
AA has provided evidence from its underwriting guide which shows that if Mr B had not 
made this misrepresentation it wouldnt have offered cover at all. This means I am satisfied 
Mr Bs misrepresentation was a qualifying one under CIDRA.
I also think Mr Bs misrepresentation was a careless misrepresentation. This is because I 
think Mr B didnt intend to mislead AA but had incorrectly relied on information from the 
DVLA site.  
Therefore, Im satisfied AA was entitled to cancel Mr Bs policy in accordance with CIDRA. 
And  as CIDRA reflects our long-established approach to misrepresentation cases, I think 
allowing AA to rely on it to cancel Mr Bs policy produces the fair and reasonable outcome in 
this complaint. 
I can see that our Investigator has asked AA to confirm that this cancellation hasnt been 
recorded on the database, but AA hasnt responded. Cancellations arent recorded on the 
Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE) database. But its up to AA whether it decides to 
record the cancellation or share the information with other insurers. And Mr B would still 
need to declare the cancellation if asked by future insurers. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman