DRN-3388678
The complaint
Mr G has complained that Lendable Ltd (Lendable) provided him with an unaffordable 
loan.
What happened
Lendable provided Mr G with a loan of £7,500.00 in October 2020. This loan had a 12-month 
term with a monthly repayment amount of £764.96. This all meant the total amount 
repayable of £9160.22 was due to be repaid.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 25 January 2022. Both parties have 
received a copy of that provisional decision, but for completeness I include an extract from 
the decision below. I said;
Were Lendables checks reasonable and proportionate?
Lendable says that it carried out proportionate checks. It told us that it asked Mr G about his 
monthly income and he told it this was £6728. It said it verified this using an online 
verification tool. It then said it carried out a credit check and this didnt show any impairment 
such as defaults or missed payments. It says there were two accounts of note. These two 
being credit cards with small balances of £150 and £94. It says when it looked at Mr Gs 
income and considered his credit search results as well as what its verification tool and its 
indicators were telling it, it shows the loan repayment of £764.96 was affordable.
I can see why Lendable would draw the conclusions it has. Mr Gs verified monthly income 
was relatively high and the credit search that it carried out showed little. But from what it has 
told me, I think the checks it carried out here were in this instance not detailed enough. I say 
this as the monthly repayment was relatively high also. I think it ought to have wanted to 
obtain a bit more information to assure itself that Mr G was able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way. I think it should have at least asked some questions to Mr G about his 
essential expenditure such as his living costs, his accommodation and household bills. It 
could also have asked him about any other credit he may have more recently taken out. I 
cant see that it did this or assess what his disposable income would be and so I dont think it 
carried out proportionate checks in this instance.
In conclusion and for the reasons given above, I dont think that the checks Lendable carried 
out before providing Mr G with his loan were reasonable and proportionate.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have indicated to Lendable that Mr G would 
have been unable to repay this loan?
As reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out before this loan was provided, I 
cant say for sure what they wouldve shown. So, I need to decide whether it is more likely 
than not that a proportionate check would have told Lendable that Mr G would have been 
unable to sustainably repay this loan.
Mr G has provided our service with bank statements from the period of time before this loan 
was granted. Ive carefully considered the information provided within these statements. 
Having done so, I can see that Mr G had taken out two fairly large short-term loans shortly 
before he applied for this one. These two loans had not at the time Mr G requested this one, 
shown up on the credit search that Lendable carried out. The first was taken out on 24 
August 2020 and this was for around £6610. The second was only 4 weeks before the 
application for this loan on 02 October 2020 and was for £5000. In total Mr G would have 
taken out 2 short term loans for £11610 and was now requesting a third for £7725 from 
Lendable. I think on seeing this, Lendable ought to have had concerns about Mr Gs 
finances and the likelihood that he had become reliant on short term credit and was having 
problems with his finances. 
This conclusion is supported by transactions on Mr Gs statements to an offshore payment 
processing company. This Mr G has explained are payments to gambling sites. Mr G says 
he had problems with gambling at the time he asked for this loan and the others that he 
obtained shortly before this one also. He has pointed to this as the reason why he was 
requesting such a lot of short-term credit in a short space of time. I think on balance, when 
consider what Mr G has said about gambling and see his statements, I can see the loan 
amount being taken and also the many transactions to this payment processing company. I 
currently think he was having problems managing his finances here. And I think if Lendable 
had carried out further checks it would have seen this too. 
In these circumstances, it is apparent to me that further checks would have shown Lendable 
that Mr G was unlikely to have been able to repay this loan without borrowing further and 
experiencing further financial difficulty.
So, it follows that I currently think that Lendable needs to put things right.
I asked both parties to let me have any comments, or additional evidence, in response to 
my provisional decision. Mr G responded and had no further points to add. Lendable 
responded and raised some additional points. 
Lendable said although the monthly repayment may seem high in pounds and pence it 
represented a low proportion of Mr Gs income. It says the affordability checks it carried 
out were proportionate to the lending. It estimated that Mr G would be spending around 
11.4% of his monthly income on debt, allowing for 88.6% headroom for his living 
expenses. It says based on this, it feels it took reasonable and proportionate steps to 
assess the loan.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lendable said that it carried out proportionate checks and that Mr G could afford the loan. It 
said it could see that Mr G would be spending only 11.4% of his monthly income on serving 
the loan repayment and this would leave 88.6% of his income left for his living expenses. I 
acknowledge the comments Lendable has made and in particular about Mr Gs verified 
income. But I still think it should have carried out further checks. I say this because 
Lendable did not carry out an assessment on Mr Gs expenditure and I think it ought to 
have done so considering the size and length of the loan that Mr G was applying for with it. 
Its checks should have been borrower focussed and I think this would have meant it 
carrying out further checks to ensure Mr G was able to repay the loan repayments in a 
sustainable way over the 12-month term. On balance, I think Lendable should have carried out further checks, and if it had done so it 
would have seen that Mr G was having problems managing his finances for the reasons I 
have given in the provisional decision. 
With that being the case, I uphold Mr Gs complaint.  
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Gs complaint for Lendable to put things right by:
Removing all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan from the outset. The 
payments Mr G made, direct to Lendable, should be deducted from the new starting 
balance  the £7,500.00 originally lent. 
Mr G hasnt made any repayments. So, both parties should look to agree a payment 
plan. I would like to remind Lendable of its obligation to exercise forbearance when it 
does this.
Removing any adverse information about the loan from Mr Gs credit file.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Gs complaint. Lendable Ltd now needs to put things 
right as I have described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2022.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman