DRN-1121484
The complaint
Mr A complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard mis-sold him 
a monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy in 1997 when he 
applied for a credit card.
What happened
Mr A complained to this Service. He bought a PPI policy in 1997 by way of a postal 
application. He says he didnt know what PPI was and it wasnt explained to him; he also 
says it was part and parcel of having a credit card. He says he didnt need it as he was in a 
good job and had good employee benefits and savings. So he concludes it was mis-sold.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should not be upheld. Mr A disagreed with 
our adjudicator's view and asked for the whole matter to be looked at again.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr A's case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold Mr A's complaint. I know this will be 
a disappointing result, so Ill explain why.
I first looked at whether Barclays made it clear the policy was an optional product. Barclays 
produced a copy of Mr A's credit card application. I can see there was a separate section 
of the form headed Payment Protection Plan. I can see Mr A ticked Yes in this section 
to show he wanted it. He also entered his personal details and I noted he declined other 
offers on the form. So I think he completed the form diligently by choosing the products he 
wanted. I think his tick in the Yes box means Barclays probably made it clear enough that 
Mr A didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out  although I can 
understand why he may not now be able to remember this.
I noted Mr A was eligible to buy PPI. The policy wasn't recommended so Barclays had to 
make sure Mr A received enough information which was clear, fair and not misleading so 
he could make an informed decision about buying it. And it was up to Mr A to decide if the 
policy was right for him.
Its possible the information given to Mr A about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should
have been. But as I think he chose to take it out, it looks like he wanted this type of cover. 
And it seems like it would have been useful for him if something went wrong. He told us he 
had some savings and would get good employee benefits from his employer. But I think 
the PPI could still have been useful if he wasnt able to work or had lost his job because it 
could have paid out for longer than and in addition to his employee benefits  leaving his 
savings to cover other expenses. 
Barclays should also have pointed out the things the policy did not cover (the 
exclusions). I don't know how it did this, but it does not appear that Mr A was affected 
by the main exclusions. So - even if hed been given a full list of the exclusions - I dont 
think it would have put him off from buying the PPI.
Taking everything into account, I think the policy was most likely shown as optional and 
Mr A was probably given enough information to make an informed decision. So I am 
not going to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2020.
 
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman