DRN-2645988
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC gave access to their accounts to a third 
party.
What happened
Mrs H says she authorised Barclays to give someone access to one of her accounts. But 
Barclays allowed this person access to all 10 of her accounts. Mrs H says she spent a 
significant amount of time sorting this problem out and was concerned about the risk of 
fraud. She says Barclays didnt sort out the problem and that further problems occurred. Mrs 
H would like compensation for what took place and for the concern she was caused.
Barclays accepts it made a mistake and has apologised. It says it didnt sort out the 
problems immediately but says it has now done so. Barclays has paid a total of £300 
compensation for what took place.
Mrs H brought her complaint to us and our investigator upheld the complaint and 
recommended Barclays pay a further £200 compensation. The investigator didnt think it our 
role to decide if data protection rules had been breached but accepted Mrs H would have 
been concerned about her accounts and their security.
Mr and Mrs H dont accept that view, but Barclays says it will pay a further £200 
compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I uphold this complaint, and I agree with 
the investigators recommendation of compensation. I appreciate Mr and Mrs H will be 
disappointed by my decision.
There is no question here that Barclays made a series of mistakes about what ought to have 
been a straightforward matter of allowing Mrs Hs friend to have access to one of her 
accounts. I have no doubt Mr and Mrs H would have been concerned about their accounts 
and their integrity when they found out this person had access to all of the accounts not one. 
I also accept that Mrs H spent some time trying to sort matters out and that a further account 
access problem took place after Barclays said the problem had been sorted out.
The key issue here is the level of compensation that Barclays should pay for what I accept 
was a significant level of distress and inconvenience caused in particular to Mrs H. I make 
clear to Mrs H that we are not Barclays regulator and so its not our role to punish a business 
Im satisfied that Barclays has fairly apologised for its mistakes and that Mr and Mrs H didnt 
suffer a financial loss as a result of what took place. I also think Barclays sorted out the 
mistake in a relatively short time period. For those reasons Im satisfied that Barclays should 
pay a further £200 compensation, which I can see its fairly agreed to do. I find such an 
award fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Putting things right
I intend to order Barclays to increase its compensation offer by £200 to reflect the level of 
distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and order Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Mr 
and Mrs H a further £200 compensation making £500 in total. Mr and Mrs Hs acceptance of 
this decision would be in full and final settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 April 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman