DRN-3339511
The complaint
Ms N complains that AmTrust Europe Limited is responsible for mishandling a claim on her
central heating insurance policy.
Where I refer to AmTrust, I include contractors, engineers and others insofar as I hold
AmTrust responsible for their acts or omissions. 
What happened
For many years, Ms N had her central heating boiler insured. Since at least November 2020,
AmTrust was the insurance company responsible for dealing with claims.
During the pandemic, Ms N was working on a ward with Covid-19 patients. So she had more
than the usual need for hot water at home.
In March and April 2021, Ms N called for help under the policy. She complained that
AmTrust unfairly condemned her boiler after incorrectly saying that the policy would cover
the cost of a replacement. By a final response dated April 2021, AmTrust turned down the
complaint.
Ms N brought her complaint to us in late April 2021. She said she would like an impartial
second opinion and for AmTrust to continue to repair the boiler until she could replace it.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He didnt think that
AmTrust acted unfairly or unreasonably.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Ms N 
and to AmTrust on 1 February 2022. I summarise my findings:
I wouldnt expect AmTrust to have got a second opinion on an old boiler. And I 
wouldnt expect our investigator to arrange an inspection and report. I gave Ms N a 
final opportunity to ask her engineer or engineers to put in writing their assessment of 
her old boiler and, in particular, its main heat exchanger.
Unless and until Ms N could provide some written evidence from her engineer, I was 
persuaded by the evidence of AmTrusts engineer that  by April 2021  the boiler 
needed parts costing over £1,000.00 including a main heat exchanger. 
So  keeping in mind the policy claim limit and the exclusions  I wasnt minded to 
find that AmTrust treated Ms N unfairly by saying that its policy wouldnt cover the 
repair.
As the policy wouldnt cover the necessary repair  I wasnt minded to find that
AmTrust treated Ms N unfairly by saying that it had cancelled the policy.
Subject to any further information from Ms N or from AmTrust, my provisional decision was 
not to uphold this complaint . I didnt intend to direct AmTrust Europe Limited to do any more 
in response to this complaint.
AmTrust hasnt responded to the provisional decision.
Ms N disagreed with the provisional decision. She says, in summary, that:
She was expecting us to get an independent assessment from an engineer. Thats 
why she kept her condemned boiler for so long as she was expecting it to be 
required for evidence.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy terms included the following definition:
Beyond Economic Repair
The point at which parts are no longer available to repair Your boiler or an Authorised
Contractor estimates that:
o Your boiler has reached the end of its serviceable life (based on age and
condition) and/or
o The cost to repair Your boiler exceeds its current or replacement value
and/or
o The cost to repair Your boiler exceeds the claim limit
So there were several reasons for which a boiler might fall within that definition and become
BER. Those reasons included that spare parts were no longer available, that the boiler had
reached the end of its serviceable life, that the cost of repair exceeded the current value of
the boiler or that the cost of repair exceeded the claim limit.
The policy terms included the following:
The Insurer will meet the costs incurred by an Authorised Contractor up to £1,000
per claim (including VAT) to complete a Breakdown Repair to the Insured System
during the Period of Insurance. No payment will be made or work completed if the
estimated cost to repair the Insured System is above the claim limit or Your boiler is
deemed Beyond Economic Repair.
The policy terms listed the following exclusions:
4. Costs arising from any repair in the event that replacement parts are not readily
available and/or the replacement of boilers that are Beyond Economic Repair
5. Replacement of boiler primary heat exchanger if Your boiler is aged 7 years or
older.
So the policy didnt cover repair of the boiler if the estimated cost was over the claim limit of
£1,000.00 including VAT or if the boiler was BER for another reason. And the policy
excluded the costs of replacing a boiler that was BER. Also, the policy excluded the
replacement of a primary heat exchanger if the boiler was 7 years or older.Ms N told us that shed had the boiler insured for 13 years. So I find it likely that her boiler
was well over 7 years old.
On about 26 March 2021, AmTrust made a visit in response to a call the previous day. It
replaced the battery in the thermostat and topped up the system pressure. Ms N says that
AmTrust told her that it could fix her boiler for a as long as it could get the parts.
On 12 April 2021, AmTrust responded to another call. Ms N and AmTrust have differing
versions of what happened. Ms N says that  during a brief visit - the engineer said he had
made a telephone call and that  as she was covered for a new boiler - hed condemned her
old one. AmTrust says that its engineer reported that the boiler needed parts estimated to
cost (excluding labour) £1,000.00 including a new main heat exchanger.
From the call recording the next day, 13 April 2021, I find that Ms N has been consistent in
what she says. But AmTrust told her that her boiler was BER so AmTrust wouldnt repair or
replace it. AmTrust cancelled the policy.
Ive thought about whats more likely to have happened on 12 April 2021. And I dont find it
likely that either Ms N or the engineer (or anyone the engineer telephoned) thought the
policy would cover the replacement of an old boiler. So I dont find it likely that the engineer
said (or that Ms N believed) that AmTrust was going to replace her boiler free of charge
under the policy.
In any event, whatever he said to Ms N, I find that its likely that the engineer did his
job of assessing what work the boiler needed. He reported that the scope of that work
included a new heat exchanger and other parts that exceeded the claims limit of £1,000.00 
without any allowance for the cost of labour.
Ms N told us in June and again in September 2021 that she was using the boiler sparingly.
On 20 October 2020, Ms N told us that an independent gas engineer had assessed her
boiler and advised that it could be repaired with parts costing £600.00. But she had decided
to wait for the boiler to completely break down before replacing it.
In early December 2021, Ms N told us the following:
The situation has been resolved by myself by purchasing a new boiler
So I find it likely that the boiler had broken down between mid-October and early December
2021. And I find it likely that the engineer who assessed the boiler in October (or a different
engineer) had assessed the boiler before Ms N decided to replace it.
I wouldnt expect AmTrust to have got a second opinion on an old boiler. And I wouldnt
expect our investigator to arrange an inspection and report. Ms N hasnt taken the final 
opportunity to ask her engineer or engineers to put in writing their assessment of her old
boiler and, in particular, its main heat exchanger.
So Im persuaded by the evidence of AmTrusts engineer that  by April 2021  the boiler 
needed parts costing over £1,000.00 including a main heat exchanger. Keeping in mind the 
policy claim limit and the exclusions, I dont find that AmTrust treated Ms N unfairly by saying 
that its policy wouldnt cover the repair.
And  as the policy wouldnt cover the necessary repair  I dont find that AmTrust treated 
Ms N unfairly by saying that it had cancelled the policy.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct AmTrust Europe Limited to do any more in response to this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2022.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman