DRN-3192467
The complaint
Mrs A has complained that she was mis-sold credit card PPI by Marks & Spencer Financial
Services plc (M&S).
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on 12 November 2021. In that provisional decision I explained 
why I thought that the complaint should be upheld. Below is what I said in that decision 
Mrs A said she was sold the PPI at the same time as her credit card application in January
2002.
But M&S told us the sale took place in November 2003. It has given us a copy of the credit
card application and agreement which has been completed by hand and signed and dated
by Mrs A. That shows the application was made on 5 November 2003, so I am satisfied that
was the correct date of sale.
Because of this discrepancy our adjudicator who considered the complaint asked for further
information about Mrs As employment details at the date of the sale  and the number of
hours she worked  as she told us she worked part-time.
Our adjudicator didnt receive any response so rejected the complaint as there wasnt
anything to show that Mrs A wasnt eligible for the policy. Mrs A didnt agree so the complaint
has been passed to me for decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs As case.
On balance, Im proposing to uphold Mrs As complaint. Ill explain why.
What happened
When Mrs A brought her complaint to this service, she told us that when she applied for the
credit card and PPI, she was employed for a high street retailer as a customer adviser, had
been for 14 years and that she worked fewer than 16 hours a week.
On the credit card application and agreement Mrs A completed in 2003 she confirmed her
occupation as a sales adviser, worked for the same high street retailer she told us about and
had been for 15 years and one month. She ticked the box on the application to say she
worked part-time but there wasnt any reference to the number of hours worked.
To be eligible for the PPI policy Mrs A needed to be in work for at least 16 hours per
week
Because of the contradiction in the date of sale we asked Mrs A again about her
employment details from the time. And the hours worked to find out if she was eligible for the
policy.
In response Mrs A told us that because of the length of time since the sale she couldnt
honestly remember the number of hours she worked but because of childcare arrangements
it wouldnt have been more than 16 hours per week.
I find this answer compelling. While Mrs A couldnt remember the detail, I think her reference
to her childcare arrangements a sufficient detail for me to conclude that it was more likely
she didnt work for at least 16 hours per week. And Mrs A has been consistent with her
answer to this question, albeit at different dates of sale, and her employer and length of
employment are correct for both dates.
Because of the detail of Mrs As recollection about her childcare arrangements at the time of
the sale, and the implication this would have had on the hours she worked, I think it unlikely
Mrs A would have been eligible for the policy. As a result, my current conclusion is that the
complaint should be upheld.
In response to my provisional decision M&S said it had nothing further to add.
Mrs A replied. She explained that she had contacted her employer from 2002 but they werent able to 
supply a copy of her employment contract because of the time that had passed. She did provide a 
copy of her tax records showing the number of hours she worked per week  ten  but that was for a 
later year. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I said above, I do find Mrs As testimony compelling. And her recollections have been 
consistent throughout. So, I think it most likely that Mrs A was working less than at least 16 
hours per week and as such wouldnt have been eligible for the policy. And on this basis, I 
uphold her complaint that the policy was mis-sold to her.    
Putting things right
M&S should put Mrs A in the position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out the PPI. The
policy has been cancelled so M&S should:
Pay Mrs A the amount she paid each month for the PPI;

Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The
rate of interest is 8% a year
If Mrs A made a successful claim under the PPI policy, M&S can take off what she got for
the claim from the amount it owes her.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires M&S to take off tax from this interest. M&S must give Mrs A a
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs As complaint about the mis-sale of the PPI policy on 
her credit card. Marks & Spencer Financial Services plc should put the matter right by 
calculating the redress as I have set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2022.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman