DRN-2142216
The complaint
Mr S complains about the amount U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has offered to settle a claim 
on his pet insurance policy. 
 
What happened
In late 2018, Mr S took his dog to the vet as hed noticed she wasnt putting weight on her 
rear left leg. The vet initially prescribed medication and rest. But after six weeks things hadnt 
improved, so they made a referral to a specialist.
The specialist carried out an ultrasound and determined that it was scar tissue from a 
previous operation that was causing the problem. They recommended a programme of 
physiotherapy, hydrotherapy and exercises. After eight weeks of this, the dogs condition 
substantially improved, which avoided the need for a further operation.
Mr S made a claim for the vet and specialists fees. While his claim was accepted, UKI said 
there is a £45 limit for each consultation and £35 limit for each session of physiotherapy. 
Mr S has been charged £123.50 per consultation and £25.60 for physiotherapy. So hes 
been left with a shortfall for the consultations which he doesnt believe is fair. He brought a 
complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said the policy terms are clear that UKI will 
pay up to £45 towards consultation fees for each separate visit to the vet. So she didnt think 
it needed to pay any more than the amount offered.
Mr S didnt agree. He said the £45 limit was for consultations with the vets, but the 
consultations hes claimed for are with the specialists and these sessions are more in-depth 
than a standard vet consultation. So they would always be more expensive.
He also said UKI had confirmed that specialist vet treatment will be paid in full. And as the 
eight week treatment programme was with a specialist, which included a 40 minute 
consultation each week, he doesnt agree that the limit applies here. Because Mr S didnt 
agree with our investigator, the complaint was passed to me for a decision. 
I issued a provisional decision saying I intended to uphold the complaint. In summary, I said:
The policy provides cover for vets fees with a limit of £45 towards consultation fees 
for each separate visit to the vet. But the policy limits apply to the fees charged by 
the vet that Mr S would usually take his dog to; if his dog is referred to a specialist, a 
different fee structure would apply.
Mr S has provided invoices from the specialist vets. This isnt his usual veterinary 
surgery  its a clinic that his vet referred his dog to for a specialist treatment 
programme. So the £45 policy limit wouldnt apply here.
UKI has said it would pay the full cost of specialist treatment, but didnt think the 
charges were justified. 
It seemed to me the treatment was provided on the basis the fees would be paid. It 
wouldnt be reasonable to expect these sessions to cost the same as a consultation 
with a regular vet who would likely take around 10 minutes - this type of in-depth 
examination of the dog, on a weekly basis alongside other elements of her treatment 
programme, would fall within the specialist treatment fee structure, not the £45 limit 
as they werent carried out by Mr S normal vet, and followed a referral to a specialist 
vet for specialist treatment. 
So the £45 limit doesnt apply. And, taking everything into account, the fair thing to do 
is to pay the fees charged.
On this basis I intended to uphold the complaint and direct UKI to pay the claim in full subject 
to the remaining policy terms and conditions, and reimburse Mr S if he has already paid the 
specialist vets fees, with 8% simple interest added.
Replies to the provisional decision
Mr S accepted the provisional decision but UKI didnt. It has provided further comments
Amongst other things, UKI says the specialist vets notes show a detailed assessment was 
undertaken, including a discussion with the owner, a review of the pets pain management 
and medication, and manipulation and other assessment techniques. But its view is that 
these are all what would be expected to be undertaken by any qualified physiotherapist, and 
the main treatment documented is physiotherapy. So it disputes the amounts charged by the 
specialist practice.
UKI also says it agreed to pay more than it would to other qualified physiotherapists carrying 
out similar treatment. So it considers the amount it offered was fair.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy provides cover for vets fees with a limit of up to £45 for visits to Mr S normal vet. 
Where hes referred to a specialist vet for additional treatment, that limit doesnt apply. 
Mr S was referred to a different practice for specialist treatment so in this case the £45 limit 
shouldnt be applied. Its clear there is a disagreement between UKI and the specialist 
practice about the nature of the treatment carried out and how much should be charged for 
that. The practice says it carried out specialist treatment, UKI agrees to pay for such 
treatment, and so the fees should be paid. UKI says the treatment wasnt in reality any more 
than it would expect from a physiotherapy course, so it doesnt think the charges are 
reasonable.
I appreciate there is a dispute between UKI and the practice about the precise nature of the 
treatment and the cost of that. And UKI has referred to another case decided by this service 
where it says additional fees were not directed to be paid in similar circumstances. But from 
what Ive seen, that concerned a different policy and different circumstances. In any event, I 
have to decide this complaint on the basis of this policy wording and the individual 
circumstances of Mr S. 
He had no involvement in setting the charges and no way of knowing what UKIs view might 
be. As far as Mr S is concerned, he says hes witnessed the hands on approach by the vets 
in the specialist practice to all aspects of the rehabilitation programme and the benefits of 
that treatment, as supported by his own vet - his dogs condition improved a lot and this 
avoided the need for a further operation (which would have been more expensive).  He says 
he acted in good faith and followed the vets recommendations, only to find he would be left out of pocket. 
Taking into account what hes said about the treatment and the outcome of that, Im satisfied 
this wasnt something that would be done by his normal vet  which was why he was 
referred to the other practice. The dog went for weekly appointments, each of which included 
a 40-minute consultation. These were part of the specialist treatment programme. And it 
doesnt seem fair to me that he should be left out of pocket when hes followed the 
recommendations of the vets, acting on the basis that specialist treatment would be covered 
under the policy terms.
In the circumstances of this case, I dont think it would be fair to Mr S if these fees are not 
paid. So it remains my view that the fair outcome is for UKI to pay his claim.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct U K Insurance Limited to pay the 
claim in full subject to the remaining policy terms and conditions, and reimburse Mr S if he 
has already paid the specialist vets fees, with 8% simple interest added from the date he 
paid the fees to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2021.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman