DRN-2201504
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with the way PayPal Europe Sarl & Cie, SCA handled his dispute. He says 
he spent too much time communicating, chasing and trying to assist PayPal with the dispute 
and when he raised his complaint. He would like more compensation than the £50 PayPal 
has offered. 
What happened
Our investigator felt the complaint should be upheld. She said PayPal had fairly resolved 
Mr Ss dispute but it had caused him distress and inconvenience due to its processes and 
the way it handled the issue. She felt it should increase its offer to £70 to recognise the 
additional impact this situation had on Mr S. 
Mr S was very disappointed with the investigators opinion and has asked for his complaint 
to be reviewed by an Ombudsman. He said he spent almost two working weeks trying to 
resolve the issue with PayPal and that the processes it has in place to raise a dispute and a 
complaint are completely impossible for a member of the public to complete. He added that 
the £70 suggested by the Investigator doesnt do anything to make PayPal take notice of its 
serious and fundamental failings. 
PayPal accepted the Investigators findings. And it added that its terms and conditions state 
that an individual using a guest account isnt eligible to use its buyer protection policy or any 
other benefits. So, it was necessary for an additional account to be created so the dispute 
could be raised. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I know Mr S feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a 
disappointment to him, so Ill explain why.
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is 
the right outcome.
I completely understand the points Mr S has made about the trouble he had raising his 
dispute and complaint with PayPal. And Ive noted this took time to try and resolve. But its 
not the role of this service to ask PayPal to pay enough compensation to Mr S so that it 
changes the way it operates and communicates with its customers. We consider complaints 
on a case by case basis and any award we do make is made in line with our approach and 
similar cases. 
I note Mr S has said PayPal failed to resolve his dispute in a timely manner and that the 
service he received is nothing like the service he would receive when returning an item to a 
shop or merchant himself. I understand the point he is making but PayPal must make sure it 
follows the guidelines it has set out when raising a dispute to make sure it treats buyers and 
sellers fairly. So, its unlikely to resolve a dispute as quickly as it would take to walk into a 
store or merchant and ask for your money back. After considering the timeline, I think the 
dispute didnt take an unreasonable amount of time to resolve here. 
So, Im sure this whole episode did cause Mr S frustration. But I dont think the 
circumstances mean he should be paid hundreds of pounds in compensation. I note PayPal 
has apologised to him and said feedback will be given to its staff about the way it handled 
his dispute and his complaint. The Investigator has also asked it to pay £70 to recognise the 
issues it had when communicating with Mr S during the dispute and the complaint. I would 
expect either a buyer or seller to experience some inconvenience when raising a dispute and 
then a complaint with PayPal. But I also think PayPal failed to communicate clearly with Mr S 
and there were issues when he spoke to its staff about this matter. 
 
Putting things right
I believe the apology, feedback and the £70 for the distress and inconvenience is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. PayPal Europe Sarl & Cie, SCA should pay 
Mr S £70. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2020.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman