DRN-2083959
The complaint
Mr K complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax unfairly declined his loan 
application.
What happened
Mr K applied for a loan with Halifax in February 2020. The loan was for £10,000, repayable 
over 24 months. Following its internal checks, Halifax declined Mr Ks application. Mr K was 
unhappy about this and called Halifax to understand why his application had been declined. 
He says he spoke to a call handler who was rude to him during their conversation. So, Mr K 
complained to Halifax about the call hed had, as well as its decision to decline his 
application.  
Halifax looked into Mr Ks complaint and said it couldnt provide the exact criteria it used to 
review loan applications, as it was business sensitive information. But it did give Mr K some 
reasons why his application was declined. It said he had a high income to debt ratio, he 
regularly used and increased his overall debt, and he was heavily reliant on existing credit 
facilities. In relation to his customer service complaint, Halifax said it couldnt find the call   
Mr K was referring to, but offered him £30 as an apology for the poor service he said hed 
received.
Mr K remained unhappy with Halifaxs response and brought his complaint to our service. He 
explained that he didnt feel Halifax had followed regulations properly or treated him fairly. 
One of our investigators looked into things. Having reviewed the information provided by 
Halifax, he thought the correct checks had been completed and didnt agree that the bank 
was wrong to decline his application. Mr K disagreed with the investigator and repeated his 
earlier points. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ks complaint. I understand this will come as 
a disappointment to him, so Ill explain my reasons why. 
Since his complaint has been with this service, Mr K has confirmed he is no longer 
complaining about the service received during the call with one of Halifaxs call handlers. So, 
in this decision, Ill only comment on his complaint about his declined loan application.
Mr K applied for a £10,000 loan. This was to be repaid over 24 months, at about £475 a 
month. Thats a considerable commitment. When deciding whether to approve the 
application Halifax was responsible for ensuring Mr K could repay the loan in an affordable 
and sustainable way. I can see it did this by considering the income and expenditure 
information provided by Mr K, as well as other things such as what it knew of Mr Ks financial 
circumstances from his existing banking relationship with Halifax. Ultimately Halifax decided, 
based on what it had considered, to decline his application. I think this was reasonable. 
Mr K has said his personal circumstances werent taken into account and he wasnt treated 
fairly. As Ive already explained, his personal circumstances were taken into account. And 
his application was made online, so he went through the same process and was held to the 
same criteria as any other applicant. I recognise Mr K wanted the loan and feels hes lost out 
from not getting it. But having a loan application declined isnt - in and of itself - an 
unfairness. I also understand Mr K would like to know the specifics of why his application 
was declined. Halifax has given Mr K the broad reasons for its decision. There is no 
requirement for it do more than this. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2020.
 
Hana Yousef
Ombudsman