DRN-3377925
The complaint
Mr L complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC will not refund the money he lost when he fell 
victim to a scam. 
What happened
In summer 2017, Mr L received an email out of the blue from an individual, who Ill refer to as 
K. K claimed to be a relative. Mr L recalls that K knew a lot about the members of the family. 
K said she had been married to Mr Ls eldest cousin before he had died. Mr L thought this 
was plausible as the details aligned with Mr Ls late cousins lifestyle and K seemed to know 
things that only a family member would know. 
Mr L explains that he spoke to K on the phone and she told him that she was about to 
embark upon a business trip abroad to buy precious stones for a client. Mr L told me that his 
father had connections in the jewellery industry and what K was saying resonated with him 
and his wider family connection to the trade. 
For around a six-month period from October 2017 and into March 2018, Mr L sent around 
£250,000 from his Barclays account to accounts at Ks request. It is likely Mr Ls total losses 
from the scam far exceed this as initially Mr L was sending funds to K using a money 
transfer service until the transfer service rejected an attempted payment of £11,000 that Mr L 
wanted to make.
Mr L recalls that initially K asked him if he could send her £250 to pay a hotel bill because 
shed hit the limit on her credit cards. She then asked for Mr Ls assistance paying a hospital 
bill following a road accident. Then she asked Mr L if he could help her to buy precious 
stones because her client had added to their order. Mr L explains that he made the 
payments as he thought he was loaning money to help out a family member. He recalls that 
K provided him with a bank statement showing that she held an account in Spain with a 
considerable balance. He explains that all of the reasons K had told him for needing money, 
such as the requirement to pay export taxes when taking precious stones out of the country, 
tallied up. 
Mr L recalls that he received a phone call from the Police in October 2017 and they asked 
him if he was satisfied that he was sending the money to someone that he knew. Mr L 
recalls that he told the Police that K was effectively family, as he thought she was, and then 
the call ended. He suggests the call lasted for no more than a few minutes and that the 
Police never mentioned that they thought he may be at risk of harm from fraud. He feels this 
was an important omission and one that would have changed the course of events.
Mr L says that the very first time that the possibility of fraud was mentioned was around 
November 2018 when he was visited by the Police. Mr L explains that a finance company 
had raised concerns as he was trying to borrow money against property. 
In January 2019, Mr L contacted Barclays to flag up that he had fallen victim to a scam. 
When he did not hear anything further, he chased the bank and referred to the Lending 
Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code) to support his claim 
for a refund. Barclays said it was unable to consider Mr Ls claim under the CRM Code as it 
does not apply retrospectively to scams occurring before 28 May 2019. 
Mr L then made a complaint. As part of Barclays investigation, it spoke to the area of the 
business that managed Mr Ls relationship with the bank. It said that in October 2017 Mr L 
had applied for a large loan and told the bank it was to pay medical bills for his sister in law. 
The relationship team explained Mr L was asked for invoices to prove the expenses due to 
concern the transaction was not genuine. The banks notes of that conversation record that 
Mr L was unable to provide proof of the hospital bills or the precious stones. The bank says it 
did not approve the loan application and spoke to Mr L about financial scams. It adds that it 
asked the Police to contact him to discuss the loan application and scams. The banks 
records from the time say that the police have spoken to the account holder and it is 
genuine.
Barclays issued its final response to Mr Ls complaint in August 2019. It concluded Mr L was 
confident he was making genuine payments and wanted to continue to make them even 
after being contacted by the Police. It did try to recover the funds, but ultimately none 
remained. The bank offered Mr L £100 compensation as it acknowledged it had provided 
him poor service when logging his scam claim.  
Mr L didnt agree with the banks position and referred his complaint to this service for an 
independent review. He says the bank should have done more to warn him. He points out 
that the bank didnt ask any questions when he was sending huge sums of money abroad 
and failed to protect him when he was vulnerable. Mr L had lost his wife in January 2017. He 
explains he had no option but to leave the home they had shared together. He has provided 
details of considerable strife in the wider family following her death, which resulted in Mr L 
experiencing housing, financial and significant health problems. 
Barclays ultimately agreed that we could consider this complaint even though it was referred 
to us late. It accepted that the delay was a result of exceptional circumstances befalling 
Mr L. 
Our Investigator considered the matter but didnt think Barclays could have prevented Mr L 
from making the payments even if it had done more. She thought Mr L had been able to 
convince the Police that he wasnt falling victim to a scam so felt any further information or 
intervention from the bank would not have changed Mr Ls mind about making the payments. 
Mr L didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be looked at again. He did not dispute that 
the Police made contact with him after being referred by Barclays, but said the officer only 
asked him if he was satisfied with the identity of the person he was sending money to and 
did not suggest it was potentially fraud. He felt Barclays should have ensured that the Police 
voiced concerns in plain English. He said the Police were acting as agents for Barclays 
because they had been instructed by the bank and the onus is now on banks to investigate 
fraud. He added that the banks fraud prevention systems did not kick in to stop any of the 
payments from being made. He felt Barclays had failed him and obvious red flags had been 
missed. 
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint was referred to me.
After reviewing the complaint papers in outline, I contacted both parties. Mr L explained the 
scam to me in his own words and highlighted factual inaccuracies in the banks timeline of 
events. 
I then contacted Barclays to ensure the bank had taken into account the correct details when 
assessing Mr Ls claim. I outlined the reasons why Mr L had been very vulnerable after his late wife had passed away. I pointed out that Mr L had been diagnosed with an adjustment 
disorder at that time and had been grappling with a stress related emotional response to life 
altering events. I acknowledged that there is no legal obligation for the bank to reimburse 
authorised international payments, but suggested that it is good practice for the bank to at 
least consider reimbursement on a case by case basis where it is clear that the customer 
has been a victim of fraud.
Barclays responded and acknowledged the difficult situation Mr L had been in but ultimately 
decided there was nothing further it could do. It said Mr L was convinced this individual was 
genuine even after he spoke with Police. It said the transactions were within the account 
limits for Premier customers and that the transactions were not covered by the CRM Code.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at what I think is the heart of the matter here, being; should Barclays have 
recognised Mr Ls payments as being suspicious and intervened, and if it had done so, 
would it have made a difference to what happened. If theres something Ive not mentioned, 
it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every 
individual point or argument to be able to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable 
outcome. Our rules allow me to do this. This reflects the informal nature of our service as a 
free alternative to the courts. 
Having considered whether Barclays could, or should, have done more to stop Mr L making 
the payments he did, I dont think I can fairly or reasonably ask Barclays to take 
responsibility to refund the money Mr L has lost. I can understand this will be a very 
disappointing outcome for Mr L, so I will explain why. 
I accept that Mr L has been the victim of a protracted and cruel scam. Its clear that losing 
such a large amount of money to the scam had a significant impact on Mr Ls life at a time 
when he was already had a lot to deal with following the death of his wife. I dont 
underestimate the emotional burden he has had to carry. But when considering if the bank is 
responsible for reimbursing any of the money lost, I have to consider whether it should have 
done any more to prevent the scam from taking place and whether that intervention would 
have been enough for Mr L to have realised what was happening and stop sending money. 
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that its customer authorises it to make. It is not in dispute that at the time 
Mr L sent the money, he authorised the payments and wanted them to be made. Although 
he did not intend for the money to go to a fraudster, under the Payment Services 
Regulations 2009 and the Payment Services Regulations 2017 which apply to the payments 
he made, and the general terms and conditions of bank accounts, Mr L is presumed liable 
for the loss in the first instance.
But, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, any relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant times, 
I consider Barclays should fairly and reasonably: 
 Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter various 
risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, and preventing 
fraud and scams.  Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might 
indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is particularly so 
given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, which banks are 
generally more familiar with than the average customer. 
 In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken additional 
steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases declined 
to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial 
harm from fraud. 
Barclays should have been on the lookout for out of character transactions. It is difficult to 
get a sense of whether the way Mr Ls accounts ran in the lead up to the scam were typical 
for him. Barclays has provided copies of Mr Ls account statements from March 2017 
onwards. From my observations, it is clear that this was a time of change in Mr Ls life. There 
are payments into the account which appear to be from life assurance providers and there is 
a very high monthly turnover of funds. When I spoke to Mr L about his finances at this time, 
he described his position as being comfortable and explained that he had a large amount 
saved with the bank. This is something that the account statements broadly support. 
Barclays has said that Mr L was a Premier customer and that he had higher transaction 
limits on his account as a result of this. I can appreciate that it is potentially harder for a bank 
to spot payments that stand out as being unusual or suspicious in comparison to usual 
account activity for customers that frequently make larger payments. 
Mr L considers that Barclays missed clear indicators that he might have been at risk of 
financial harm and points out that it didnt ask him any questions about the payments he was 
making. There is a delicate balance to be struck. There are many millions of payments made 
each day and it would not be possible or reasonable to expect a bank to check each one. 
But Im also mindful that a bank should seek to prevent its bank accounts from being used to 
further financial crime and there is no debate that Mr L was making large international 
payments to new payees without being questioned. Mr L was only questioned when he tried 
to borrow money from the bank. 
Even if I conclude that Barclays ought to have done more than it did and that the bank 
missed clear opportunities to intervene, this in and of itself isnt enough for me to say that 
Barclays should refund some or all of the money Mr L lost. I also need to be persuaded that 
its further intervention would have made a significant difference and ultimately prevented 
additional payments from being made. Mr L says that it would have done. 
When making my decision, I have to base my findings on the balance of probability  that is, 
what I think is more likely to have happened, taking into account what I know from the 
information that is available to me. Ive thought about whether further interaction with 
Barclays would have broken the spell of the scam for Mr L. And, on balance, Im not 
persuaded further interaction with the bank would have been enough to stop Mr L from 
sending the money.
Although Barclays didnt intervene at the point Mr L sent the funds, it did ask questions about 
the nature and purpose of the loan application that Mr L wanted to make. The notes from the 
time record that the bank wasnt persuaded by what Mr L was saying about needing to 
borrow money to pay medical bills and suggest that it spoke to him about financial scams. The notes say:
The transaction is for a loan of 20k. I have explained financial scams to the customer. 
Customer looking at taking a 20k loan for his sister in laws medical bill as she is in hospital 
in south africa customer has already transferred over 40k to the 3 different accounts. 
Customer has advised that he will look at re mortgaging his property if we cannot lend him 
the funds. Have asked customer for proof of hospital bills cannot provide these, also want to 
see proof of diamonds. She is getting 1 million back. [sic]
The bank was so concerned that it alerted the Police. I think this was a proportionate and 
appropriate action for Barclays to take at that point in time. It is what I would expect a bank 
to do when there is a risk of financial harm and it is not reassured by what its customer said. 
There is no dispute that the Police contacted Mr L. Mr L considers the Police didnt make it 
clear enough that the concern was because the bank suspected fraud. My understanding is 
that Mr L went on to make a further 11 payments after speaking to the Police. But by being 
able to satisfy the Police that the payment purpose was genuine, it allayed Barclays 
concerns about the wider situation. The bank has an obligation to process payments at 
Mr Ls request. By involving the Police, it did act upon its concern that he could be falling 
victim to a scam. It is very difficult for me to fairly expect Barclays to have done more. I dont 
think it was unfair for Barclays to rely on what the Police said about the situation being 
genuine. On balance, I am not persuaded further enquiries by Barclays would have stopped 
Mr L from sending further funds. He felt so strongly about the situation that he had stopped 
using the money transfer service to send funds after it rejected a payment request and he 
was willing to explore mortgaging property to raise funds. I am mindful that another finance 
provider raised concerns with the Police in November 2018. I think this supports the position 
that Mr L was very invested in the situation. 
Mr L genuinely thought this person was a member of his extended family. They had spoken 
on the phone and K had been able to build a connection with Mr L. There is no doubt in my 
mind that Mr L has been the victim of a crime and that he was manipulated by a fraudster at 
a time in his life when he was incredibly vulnerable. It is evident to me that Mr L was trying to 
come to terms with the death of his late wife and that he had been isolated from a potential 
support network as a result of upset in the wider family stemming from the administration of 
his late wifes affairs. Mr L wasnt able to make good decisions at that point in his life through 
no fault of his own. He describes the situation he was in at the time he fell victim to the scam 
as a perfect storm of life events that he could see no way out of.
But I can only compel Barclays to refund money if it is responsible for the loss incurred. The 
transactions were made before the CRM Code came into force. As the CRM Code is not 
retrospective, it cannot be applied in this case. Ive thought very carefully about whether 
Barclays has made a mistake or acted incorrectly and caused Mr L to incur a financial loss. 
But as I dont think Mr L would have done anything differently even if the bank had further 
challenged the payments he wanted to make, I cant fairly hold Barclays responsible and 
direct it to return the money that Mr L went on to send. I am unable to make any order or 
award in circumstances where a banks action or inaction has not directly resulted in a 
financial loss.
There is no legal obligation for Barclays to reimburse the funds. But it remains good practice 
for Barclays to investigate what has happened and to consider whether it would be 
appropriate to reimburse some or all of the money on a case by case basis, especially in 
situations where it is clear that its customer was vulnerable. Barclays has considered the difficult situation Mr L was in at the time he made the payments 
but concluded not to do anything further in this particular case. I have to be fair and 
reasonable to both sides in a complaint. I cannot fairly compel Barclays to do more when the 
relevant law, rules, codes and good practice do not mandate that it should. I am sorry to 
have to deliver this news to Mr L. I know he will find it hard that Barclays has no 
responsibility for the difficult financial situation he found himself in. 
I am mindful this wasnt the answer Mr L was hoping for. I cant even begin to imagine how 
difficult the last few years have been for him. Its clear that the loss of this money has had a 
profound impact on his wellbeing and quality of life and will continue to do so. 
For completeness, I have to mention that Barclays made an offer to pay £100 compensation 
to acknowledge the poor service it provided when logging Mr Ls scam claim. The bank is 
still willing to honour this offer if Mr L would like to accept it. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay 
the £100 compensation it has previously offered if Mr L now wishes to accept it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2022.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman