DRN-2692038
The complaint
Mr G has complained about the way Admiral Insurance Company Limited intends to deal 
with a claim he made for repairs under his car insurance policy.
What happened
Mr G was involved in an incident with another vehicle and he made a claim for the damage 
to his car to be repaired by his insurer, Admiral. 
Mr G nominated a dealership approved garage to carry out the repairs and they provided an 
estimate to Admiral. Within the estimate Mr G says there was a quote to replace one of the 
alloy wheels. Admiral reviewed the estimate and said the alloy was repairable rather than 
needing replacement. It approved the costs of the repairs on this basis. 
Mr G had concerns about the quality of the repair to the alloy and paintwork to the car. He 
did some research and sought advice. Mr G is concerned that the repairs may invalidate his 
warranty. Unhappy with Admirals approach, he complained. And as he remains dissatisfied, 
he asked us to look at things for him.
Our investigator understood Mr Gs concerns. But he thought it was fair to allow Admiral the 
opportunity to deal with his claim as it was allowed to under the terms of the policy. And as 
Mr G had chosen a dealership approved garage, the repairs should be of a suitable 
standard. If however after the repairs were done, Mr G was entitled to raise a new complaint 
and for his concerns  if he had any  to be investigated. 
Mr G didnt agree and so hed like an ombudsman to decide. He wants Admiral to meet the 
costs to have his entire car resprayed so that it will match. And he wants it to meet the costs 
to replace rather than repair the alloy. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Gs concerns about the repairs being carried out to his car. Ive 
considered what his policy with Admiral provides for in the event of a claim  and whether I 
think its approach has been fair and reasonable. 
Mr Gs policy with Admiral says it can decide whether to repair Mr Gs car or pay the market 
value of it if it is uneconomical to repair. Admiral is responsible for repairing incident related 
damage only. It told Mr G that if he chose to have repairs carried out by an Approved 
Repairer, those repairs would be guaranteed for life. 
Mr G provided an extract of a document which lists when an alloy rim can be repaired and 
when it should be replaced. It isnt enough to show that Admirals decision to approve a 
repair to the alloy rather than replacement was unreasonable. This document doesnt 
indicate where it is from, or for what make of car. Our investigator asked for a complete 
document from the dealership approved garage, but it didnt reply.
Mr G has provided clear detailed photos of the alloy wheel after repair by his preferred 
dealership approved garage and says he isnt happy with it. He says there is a noticeable 
difference in the appearance, texture and the measurements. Mr G said he appreciates it is 
difficult to tell from the photos.
Ive looked at the photos  as did the investigator  and Im afraid I cannot see any 
difference between the existing alloy wheels/pre incident and the refurbished alloy. 
Mr G says the dealership approved garage told him it wont be able to match the paint on 
repair to the rest of the car, even though Mr Gs car was only two years old. Mr G provided a 
copy letter from a solicitor which says he might have lost value in his car as a result of the 
incidental damage. Mr G is very upset about the way his claim has been handled and the 
fact that he wasnt at fault for the incident, which I can understand. 
But - as repairs to the paintwork havent been carried out, there is no evidence that this will 
result in a mismatch. Admiral agreed to meet the estimate provided by Mr Gs preferred 
garage where the works are approved by the brand make of his car. Admiral said that  
given Mr Gs concerns about a paint mismatch  it would like one of its approved repairers to 
inspect Mr Gs car. Mr G didnt agree and believed this would only lengthen the process. 
I cannot criticise Admiral for a potential fault with repairs where either the repairs havent 
been carried out  or where there isnt sufficient evidence to show the repairs have caused a 
loss of value to the car, or any impact on any warranty Mr G had. 
So taking everything into account, I dont think Admiral has dealt with Mr Gs claim for 
repairs to the paintwork and alloy in an unreasonable way. I realise Mr G will be very 
disappointed with my decision. But this means Im not asking Admiral to do things differently. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman