DRN-3118373
The complaint
Mr E is unhappy that National Saving and Investments made updates to their website that 
reduced the functionality of the site.
What happened
Mr Es complaint is about the design and functionality of NS&Is new website. Mr E explained 
that on the old website he was able to see a list of his winning premium bonds for each 
month, but that this isnt possible on the new website as it only displays a list of the high 
value winners.
Mr E is also unhappy that he was asked to provide bank account details to receive future 
premium bond prizes, but that he couldnt do this on the new website, and that the new 
website appeared to lack the option to log-out of the site.
NS&I looked at Mr Es complaint. They explained that they had updated their website to 
comply with regulatory requirements and because of this they didnt uphold Mr Es 
complaint. However, they did provide Mr E with information to enable him to check if he had 
won any premium bond prizes on a month to month basis.
Mr E wasnt satisfied with NS&Is response, so he referred his complaint to this service. One 
of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they also noted that NS&I had update their 
website for reasons of regulatory compliance, and that Mr E hadnt incurred any financial 
loss because of what had happened. So, they also didnt uphold Mr Es complaint.
Mr E remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how it must have been frustrating for Mr E to have experiencing functionality 
issues following NS&I updating their website. However, I feel its important to note that it isnt 
within the remit of this service to comment on how a business elects to structure its website. 
Instead, this would be the role of the regulator  in this case, the Financial Conduct 
Authority. What this service can look at is whether an unfair outcome has arisen here as a 
result of what has taken place.
In this instance, Im not convinced that an unfair outcome has taken place here. And I say 
this because, ultimately, from the perspective of this service, its up to NS&I as to how they 
want to structure their website. In addition, NS&I have confirmed that the updates they made 
to their website were undertaken to comply with regulatory requirements. 
This seems reasonable to me, and while I can appreciate that Mr E may have been 
inconvenienced during the time that the updates were being implemented, I dont feel that 
the amount of inconvenience incurred by E was excessive and beyond that which might 
reasonably be expected when an update such as the one in question is being implemented, 
or that I can fairly or reasonably censure NS&I for making the changes to their website that 
they did.
Additionally, I note that the issues about which Mr E was unhappy appear to have been 
resolved and that Mr E has been informed as to where the information he is seeking on 
NS&Is website can be found. I also note that Mr E hasnt incurred any form of financial 
detriment because of what has taken place.
Im aware that Mr E would have liked NS&I to apologise for the inconvenience hes incurred 
trying to resolve this matter, and indeed, in his correspondence with this service Mr E has 
confirmed that if he had received such an apology then he wouldnt have escalated his 
complaint to this service. I agree that some form of apology from NS&I specifically about the 
inconvenience that Mr E has incurred would have been ideal here, but I dont feel that 
NS&Is not making such an apology warrants any form of compensation in this instance. 
Finally, Mr E has expressed his dissatisfaction that NS&Is complaint response letter didnt 
provide him the full six months referral rights to this service to which he was entitled. 
However, given that Mr E did refer his complaint to this service well within the stated 
timeframe such that it has been considered and assessed by this service, I dont feel that an 
unfair outcome has arisen because of this.
All of which means that I find it difficult to conclude that NS&I has treated Mr E unreasonably 
or unfairly here, and it follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing 
NS&I to take any further action at this time. 
I realise that this might not be the outcome that Mr E was wanting, but I hope that hell 
understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman