DRN-4077953
The complaint
The estate of Mr Y has complained that TSB Bank plc (TSB) removed a third-party 
authorisation (TPA) on the late Mr Ys account. This led to Mr Y and his representative 
experiencing difficulties in downgrading the packaged account. 
The representative was later able to transfer £14,000 from the late Mr Ys account, but this 
led to a block being placed on the account. 
The estate of Mr Y is also unhappy that TSB did not register a Power of Attorney (POA) after 
the relevant documents were presented to TSB. This led to Mr Y and his representative 
being unable to access his account.  
The estate of Mr Y has said TSBs contradictory advice and poor systems have been 
unacceptable. 
As a result of the block placed on the late Mr Ys account, he was unable to access the 
funds from his pension which hed use to transfer to another account and make bill 
payments.
What happened
The representative of Mr Y was given TPA over Mr Ys account from 5 September 2014. 
However, that authority was removed in error by TSB due to a system migration in 2018.
TSB informed the representative on 1 July 2022 that they were no longer listed as a 
nominated third party on Mr Ys account.
On 2 September 2022, the representative made a payment from Mr Ys account for £14,000. 
This was authorised, but then TSB placed a block on the account after that to ensure no 
further funds were removed until it could confirm with Mr Y that the account movements 
were authorised by him.
TSB explained to the representative on 26 October 2022 that as the representative no longer 
had TPA over the account due to the system migration, and as a block had been placed on 
the account, TSB was unable to reinstate the TPA until it could speak with Mr Y. 
TSB also explained that it could add the representative as a POA once the necessary 
documents were presented in branch with a form of ID. TSB paid £150 into the account for 
the inconvenience caused by removing the representative as a nominated third party.
The representative explained to TSB on 2 November 2022 that Mr Y was in hospital, and he 
was unable to call the fraud team to get the block removed. This meant Mr Y was still unable 
to access his pension to cover bills and day to day expenses.
On 14 November 2022, TSB explained that it had still not received a POA document and 
confirmed that the named representative, not a solicitor, would need to go to branch with ID 
for the POA document to be registered. TSB explained that this could be done in a branch of 
the representatives choice or through an online appointment. TSB also confirmed that trying 
to remove most of the funds from the account was what had triggered the block to be placed 
on the account and that it could be removed by the representative once the POA was 
registered with TSB. 
The representative asked TSB to provide call transcripts. TSB responded and said that as 
the representative was not a TSB Customer, TSB would not send call recordings directly to 
the representative. TSB explained that they would need to be collected from a branch of the 
representatives choice  although said that the representative will need to bring ID with her 
to be able to collect them. 
The representative provided TSB with POA documents on 23 November 2022. However, 
because they were granted outside of the UK, TSB explained that the representative will 
need to get a POA granted within the UK "in accordance with section 10 of the POA act 
1971", for it to be valid.
The representative then referred the complaint to us on 25 November 2022.
I note that the estate of Mr Y has complained about the difficulties they had trying to 
downgrade the account and they have also complained about the sale of the packaged 
account as well. As explained by the adjudicator, those matters would be treated as 
separate complaints to this one. As such, this decision will only address the issues 
concerning the removal of the third-party authority and the difficulties in getting the POA 
added to the account.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed everything, I dont think that TSB needs to do anything more than what it 
has already agreed to do in relation to this matter. I will explain why.
Who we can award compensation to?
Having looked through everything that has been provided, I can see that the estate of Mr Y 
does not believe the £150 compensation already paid by TSB for the incorrect removal of 
the third-party authority, reasonably reflects the impact this matter has had on her.
Having considered everything that the representative has told us, I do appreciate that 
dealing with this matter has been very difficult and upsetting for her. I can see she has had 
to direct a large amount of time and effort into communicating with TSB to re-establish 
access on Mr Ys account. And I also recognise that it wouldve been distressing for her to 
have to deal with such technicalities in the last few months of Mr Ys life, and then after he 
had passed away. 
However, as the adjudicator explained, it is unfortunately the case that I cant award any 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience that the representative faced.
The reason for this is because this complaint is specifically about TSBs handling of Mr Ys 
account. That means, for the purposes of this complaint, the eligible complainant here is the 
late Mr Y  not his representative.
This is an important distinction to make, because we can only award compensation (if its 
warranted) to eligible complainants. But we cant generally make any awards of 
compensation for any distress or inconvenience experienced by a representative (or other 
family members) of an eligible complainant. 
So, as explained by the adjudicator, it is the case that I cannot award any compensation for 
any distress or inconvenience caused to the representative (even if I thought some was 
warranted) in relation to this matter, as she is not an eligible complainant. And from 
everything I have seen, it does seem that most of the distress and inconvenience caused by 
this matter was experienced by the representative, rather than Mr Y.
This means Im limited to only consider what impact, if any, this matter has had on the late 
Mr Y directly.Removal of the third-party authority
I can see that the representative thought that the attempt to downgrade was also linked to 
the removal of the TPA that had been registered on the account. However, TSB has 
provided evidence to show that the TPA was in fact removed in April 2018  and not in 2022 
as the representative believes. Indeed, TSB has acknowledged that it mayve spoken to the 
representative about Mr Ys account even though it should not have done so, due to it no 
longer having the TPA registered on the account.
Nevertheless, it seems that TSB had realised by July 2022 that the TPA had been removed. 
In the circumstances (and bearing in mind that the block applied to the account was only 
added later on in September 2022), I do think that TSB couldve done more in July 2022 to 
rectify the situation. For example, it couldve sent a new TPA form for Mr Y to sign so as to 
add the representative back onto to the account with the necessary authorisations. 
But having said that, the representative was still able to make payments from the account 
after this date (for example the £14,000 in September 2022), so I cant reasonably say that 
this had much of an impact on Mr Y directly. And it seems that the later difficulties the 
representative had accessing the account were caused by the block that had been placed on 
the account, rather than because of the lack of a TPA being registered on the account.
So taking everything into account, its clear that the removal of the third-party authority did 
have some impact on Mr Y. I say this because, the representative says that Mr Y was initially 
aware of the problems that had occurred on his account. And this caused him some 
concern, knowing that his account could not be accessed by his representative. However, 
Im also mindful that the representative shielded Mr Y from much of the difficulties and as 
outlined above, payments were still made from Mr Ys account up until September 2022 and 
it is the case that I cant consider the impact this matter had on the representative.
As such, I think that TSBs award of £150 reasonably reflects the distress and inconvenience 
that the removal of the TPA had caused Mr Y.
Block applied to the account
I understand that a payment of £14,000 was made from Mr Ys account in September 2022 
and, due to the size of the amount transferred, this triggered a block to be applied to the 
account on 2 September 2022. This in turn meant that Mr Y was not able to access his 
pension money from his account.
TSB has explained that it has a duty to protect its customers from fraud and the block was 
applied to the account until Mr Y was able to confirm that the payment was genuine. 
Unfortunately, due to Mr Ys ill health by that stage, I appreciate that Mr Y was not in a 
position to deal with the matter. 
I can see that this block did place Mr Y and his representative in a difficult situation. But Im 
also mindful that TSB only applied the block as it was acting in the best interests of Mr Y. As 
such, I cant reasonably say that TSB was being unreasonable by applying the block 
pending verification that the payment was genuine and therefore to allow further payments to 
be made from the account. Im also satisfied that it is the case that the block would likely still 
have been applied to the account, even if Mr Ys representative still had TPA on the account 
at the time. I say this because the amount transferred exceeded the daily limit on the amount 
that someone with third-party authority could transfer from the account.
Power of Attorney
When addressing the block that was applied to the account, the representative explained 
she had already been granted as a POA for Mr Y. However, the POA documents had not 
been sent to TSB by that stage, presumably because the representative thought she still had 
TPA over the account. But this meant that the POA hadnt been set up on Mr Ys account and so TSB could not have treated the representative as having POA rights over Mr Y, 
without first seeing the necessary documentation. 
To resolve the matter concerning the block on the account, TSB explained that if the POA 
documents could be provided, this would then allow TSB to liaise with the representative 
directly and to get the block removed. In my view, the fact that TSB suggested the 
representative do this does indicates that TSB was genuinely trying to resolve matters for Mr 
Y and his representative.
Unfortunately, it is the case that the POA that had been granted for Mr Y was done so under 
Irish law, rather than under English law. So, when TSB subsequently received the 
documents, it said that it could not accept the POA and said that it would require a POA 
granted under English law for it to be recognised as valid. I appreciate that this caused 
further frustration to Mr Ys representative. But ultimately, I cant say that TSBs request was 
unreasonable in the circumstances, given that TSB (and Mr Ys account) operates in the UK 
and is therefore subject to the laws of England and Wales and Scotland for its respective 
customers. 
Turning now to a specific issue relating to the POA, the representative says TSB said that 
she would be required to attend a branch with ID and with a solicitor present, to be able to 
get a POA registered with TSB. This clearly caused the representative a great deal of 
consternation. However, it looks like the representative had misunderstood what TSB said. 
When TSB said that the attorney will need to attend branch, TSB was not referring to a 
solicitor but was in fact referring to Mr Ys representative (acting in the capacity of attorney 
for Mr Y) attending branch. TSB did clarify this misunderstanding with the representative. 
And it explained that doing this meant that Mr Y would not need to attend, which due to Mr 
Ys declining health and inability to attend branch by that stage, seems to have been a 
reasonable solution to rectify matters.
DSAR
During the course of this complaint, the representative submitted a Data Subject Access 
Request (DSAR)  specifically asking for call transcripts. The representative took exception 
to TSBs response to this because firstly, it said it wont send them directly to her but would 
instead send them to a branch and required that she provide ID. And secondly, the 
representative was unhappy that call recordings, rather than transcripts were provided.
As the representative was not a customer of TSB, TSB said it could not post the call 
recordings out and said that they would be sent to a branch of the representatives choice 
(where shed need to provide ID for them to be released). 
I can see that this wouldve been inconvenient for the representative, given where she lives. 
But at the same time, TSB had this process in place so that it adhered to the same data 
protection laws that the representative was relying on to obtain the personal data that TSB 
held. So I cant say that TSB was being unreasonable in doing this. 
I understand the reasons why the representative has asked for the calls to be in a transcript 
format, rather than the original call recordings. But TSB has provided the data it held (call 
recordings) in their original format i.e. audio files. So I cant say that TSB has acted 
incorrectly by disclosing the personal data that was requested, just because the 
representative would rather them in an alternative format. 
Additionally, the representative has raised other points about matters that have happened 
since contacting our service. But for the reasons that the adjudicator gave, I cant address 
them here - they would need to be addressed separately, because as the representative 
acknowledged previously, TSB needs to be given an opportunity to resolve things first before 
our service can get involved. Although I can see that the adjudicator has tried to help out 
informally where possible, by communicating the representatives concerns to TSB. I would also like to remind the estate of Mr Y that this decision only relates to the removal of 
the third-party authority, the block that was applied to Mr Ys account, the DSAR and the 
refusal of TSB to accept the POA documents that were submitted. As such, any impact 
relating to the difficulties downgrading and also whether the account was mis-sold in the first 
place would be considered separately to this complaint. I therefore havent commented on 
those matters here.
So, in summary, although I can see that TSB had made an error when the third-party 
authority was removed, I think that the £150 compensation paid to Mr Y reasonably reflected 
the impact this matter had on the late Mr Y directly. And it is the case that, whilst Im really 
sorry to hear about the difficulties the representative has experienced, all whilst having to 
care for her late father and then having to administer his estate, for the reasons outlined 
above, I cant make any award for the impact that this matter has had on her. 
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont think that TSB Bank PLC needs to do anything 
more than what it has already done to put matters right in this case. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr Y 
to accept or reject my decision before 14 July 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman