DRN-2556216
The complaint
Mr M, through a claims management company (CMC), has complained about an endowment 
savings plan he took out following advice from Zurich Assurance Ltd (Zurich). The CMC has 
said the plan wasnt suitable for Mr M because he didnt need anything that provided life 
cover, his attitude to risk wasnt assessed and alternatives werent offered.
What happened
Mr M took out the savings plan in 1997. The point of sale documents recorded that his 
objective for investing was to save regularly to provide a cash sum in the future. The plan 
had a term of ten years and a sum assured was £4,210 with a premium of £25 a month.
Mr M stopped paying into the plan in 1998 having paid in a total of just under £400. He has 
said he doesnt remember why he did this other than he had other insurance policies in 
place which he felt were more important to him.
The complaint was assessed by one of our investigators who felt it should be upheld. He 
was concerned with the predicted rate of growth on the plan after deductions for providing 
the life cover and other costs were made. So he didnt think the plan had a good enough 
prospect of actually making any growth.
Zurich didnt agree with the assessment. It said there was no evidence that a savings plan 
over ten years wasnt suitable. It also stated that Mr M had a balanced attitude to risk so the 
investment element of the plan was suitable for him. And also he was presented with all the 
information including growth rates at the time of the sale and he went ahead with it anyway, 
therefore he must have been happy with this.
The investigator considered the points Zurich raised but wasnt persuaded to change his 
initial outcome.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the investigator that the complaint should be upheld.
As already mentioned, this was an endowment savings plan so its aim was to build a lump 
sum that would be paid at the point of maturity. Minimal life cover is usually included as 
standard with these sorts of plans to make the maturity payment qualifying for tax purposes. 
So while it may be the case that Mr M didnt have a need for life cover, if he wanted this type 
of savings plan there was always going to be a life cover element included otherwise he 
would have been taxed upon receipt of the maturity payment. Furthermore, the fund into 
which the plan was invested was towards the lower end of the risk spectrum which in my 
view doesnt seem unsuitable for Mr M given he was investing to make some growth. So I 
dont think these elements of the plan made it unsuitable for Mr M.
However, similar to the investigator, I have concerns with how effective a savings plan this 
actually was. The projected growth as stated on the plans illustrations was 7.5%. However, 
when the cost of providing the life cover along with any other charges were deducted this 
growth rate decreased to 2.4%. So in other words, the actual growth rate was 2.4% rather 
than 7.5%. In my view I dont think this would have allowed the plan to grow in value over 
and above the sum assured, and it also seems likely the sum assured may not have been 
met at the point of maturity. To me, this seems to be at odds with Mr Ms objective for 
investing.
I therefore think that having taken account of what Mr M wanted to do with his money and 
what his needs were at the time, Zurich could have explored other methods of investing that 
were more likely to meet his objectives. I know that in 1997 bank savings accounts were 
achieving higher levels of growth than the plan  around 6% and this continued for quite a 
long time. So there were clearly other ways for Mr M to invest in 1997 to achieve his 
objectives than just taking out this plan but I cant see this was discussed with Mr M at the 
time of the sale. 
Overall, in my view the actual growth rate that it was predicted this plan would achieve was 
too low to make this plan a suitable savings vehicle. I cant see Zurich discussed any other 
method of saving with Mr M at the time and I think had Zurich done this, as well as 
explaining properly the actual growth this plan could achieve, its likely Mr M would have 
taken a different course of action. And while I know Zurich has said Mr M was given full 
information about the plan at the time this doesnt convince me that Mr M understood the 
proper workings of the plan nor would it have ensured he was fully informed of the 
alternative ways he could have met his objectives.
Putting things right
To settle the complaint Zurich Assurance Ltd must:
Refund any payments made into the plan to the point of cancellation, plus interest on 
each premium.
Pay 8% simple interest from cancellation of the pan until settlement.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
Zurich Assurance Ltd must pay Mr M redress as detailed above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2021.
 
Ayshea Khan
Ombudsman