DRN-3751836
The complaint
Mr B complained that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) unfairly settled his claim for water 
damage under his home insurance policy.
What happened
In 2017 Mr B claimed for damage to his kitchen units following a water leak. Aviva appointed 
a loss adjuster to review the damage, but at the time it was thought Mr B had breached his 
policy conditions as the property had been left empty. Therefore, Aviva declined the claim.
In 2020, Mr B presented Aviva with new information in relation to the original claim. Aviva 
decided it should cover the claim. Time had passed and Mr B wasnt able to provide Aviva 
access to his property due to limitations on him because of the Covid pandemic. So, Aviva 
tried to complete a desktop evaluation of the claim. It used photos taken in the 2017 visit and 
information that was provided by Mr B, which included two quotes for a complete re-fit of the 
kitchen.
A significant amount of correspondence was made between the parties to try and reach an 
amicable settlement. However, after Avivas final offer, a stalemate was reached as Mr B felt 
unable to accept what had been offered.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. He didnt see evidence that Avivas 
settlement offer was unreasonable. As the repairs had yet to be arranged, our investigator 
thought the fairest way to proceed was to allow Aviva to re-visit and inspect the damage 
before providing a response on the claim.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this on 15 September 2022. I said:
My decision has only focused upon the complaint Mr B made to Aviva - his unhappiness at 
the settlement offer he was made. I cant look at what happened in 2017 as I dont have 
jurisdiction - this wasnt raised by Mr B when he complained to Aviva. So, if Mr B does have 
issue with what happened then, he would have to raise this separately with Aviva to allow it 
the opportunity to provide a final response on this matter.
I have looked at whether I think Aviva has been fair in the settlement offered to Mr B 
following the 2020 claim. I can see this has been a difficult claim journey, which has been 
caused primarily by the restrictions placed around the world to control the Covid-19 
pandemic. Mr B was unable to provide Aviva access to his home, so to try and move the 
claim forward Aviva carried out a desktop validation of the claim. I think this was reasonable 
in the circumstances to try and reach and agree a settlement.
Unfortunately, whilst both parties have invested a lot of time and sent a significant amount of 
information and correspondence, I can see its not been possible to agree on a settlement 
that both parties think is fair. I can see many points of the settlement have been discussed at 
length and this led to the settlement value been increased, however, Aviva hasnt offered a 
value that has met Mr Bs expectations. 
I dont think there is much benefit analysing the points of difference  as I dont think all the 
information exists for me to comment on this. The evidence from the survey in 2017 is 
minimal as the loss adjuster had concluded the claim shouldve been declined due to an 
underwriting issue. Therefore, I think the validation of the damage was limited, as it was 
thought at the time it wasnt required. Information has been provided by Mr B since, but 
without Aviva been able to inspect the damage, I think its difficult for them to increase its 
offer.
I understand repairs to the property are still to be arranged. Therefore, given the 
circumstances, I think the fairest way to proceed is for Aviva to re-visit the property - allowing 
Aviva the opportunity to re-inspect the damage with the mindset the claim is to be covered. 
This would allow Aviva to re-visit its offer and to consider Mr Bs points having properly 
assessed the claim, as well as ensuring the settlement allows for the current cost of labour 
and materials. 
I appreciate Aviva did ask to visit the property, but this wasnt possible at the time. However, 
as its final response stated its final position and offer, Im required to write this as a 
provisional decision. So, I intend to uphold this complaint. I intend to require Aviva to re-visit 
the property and re-consider the claim in line with the terms and conditions, to ensure it has 
been properly validated and the settlement made is a fair one.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr B didnt have anything further to add. He didnt specifically say whether he accepted my 
provisional decision.
Aviva said I am unsure as to why the decision has been made in favour of Mr B when we 
have asked to visit the property a number of times either with the policy holder or
his representative if he was unavailable. We have also left this option open for him to call our 
surveyor when he returned to the UK. I did not include the offer in my letter as I felt this was 
not acceptable to Mr B due to the number of times he had declined or not responded to this 
offer.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate what Aviva has said and that it has made offers to visit the property previously. 
However, as I said in my provisional decision, Avivas final response was an offer to Mr B  it 
didnt mention the option of re-visiting the property. Therefore, I felt I needed to reinforce this 
option as part of my decision, as well as setting out the settlement needs to allow for the 
current cost of labour and materials.
Given neither party has provided any new information, I see no reason to change my 
provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Aviva Insurance Limited to re-visit 
the property and re-consider the claim in line with the terms and conditions, ensuring the 
settlement allows for the current cost of labour and materials.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2022.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman