DRN-2775412
The complaint
Mr O is a sole trader. He complains that Santander UK plc unfairly recalled his Bounce Back 
Loan after agreeing his application. 
What happened
Mr O had an existing account with Santander. In early May 2020, Mr O applied for a Bounce 
Back Loan of £45,000. Due to a system issue, Mr Os application was submitted twice, but 
he was able to clarify the position with Santander and the loan was agreed 
Shortly after Mr O had received the loan, he had a problem paying one of his suppliers as 
his accounts had been frozen by Santander. So Mr O contacted Santander who said theyd 
be writing to Mr O, but they needed some more information from him to support the Bounce 
Back Loan application hed submitted. 
Mr O was upset by this as he dealt with perishable goods which would now be destroyed as 
hed lost his consignment but would still have to pay for this. Mr O waited for the letter from 
Santander, but when he didnt receive it in the timescale, hed been given he made a 
complaint. 
Santander didnt uphold Mr Os complaint. The bank said they had taken the decision to 
withdraw all Mr Os banking facilities. They said Mr O had resigned from the limited company 
specified on the application form and therefore wasnt eligible for a Bounce Back Loan.   
Santander then closed Mr Os accounts and used any credit balances in the accounts to 
offset the amount against the part of the Bounce Back Loan Mr O had already used. This left 
an outstanding balance of around £5,000.
Shortly after this, Mr O complained to Santander again. He said he felt they should have 
carried out their checks before lending to him, as withdrawing it had left him in financial 
difficulty as theyd withdrawn it. He also said he felt hed been treated unfairly by Santander 
just because hed applied for the Bounce Back Loan and theyd now closed his accounts. 
Mr O said Santander had also made mistakes when dealing with his information as theyd 
told him hed applied for a loan as a limited company, but hed said on his application he was 
a sole trader.  
Santander upheld the complaint in part. They said their original decision to withdraw the 
Bounce Back Loan was because Mr Os turnover didnt match the figure hed declared in his 
application  and that theyre decision remained unchanged. So they asked that Mr O make 
arrangements to repay the money hed already used from the loan. 
However, Santander acknowledged Mr O was a sole trader and had not applied on behalf of 
a limited company. The bank apologised for saying this and paid him £100 compensation for 
this mistake in their final response letter. Mr O didnt agree so he asked this service to look 
into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He said Santander had acted in 
line with the terms and conditions of Mr Os account when blocking it so they could fulfil their 
regulatory obligations. Regarding the loan, he said the application Mr O had completed said 
that Santander could cancel the loan facility and demand repayment in some circumstances 
 such as where inaccurate information had been given. He thought Santander had 
reasonably cancelled the loan as the turnover figure Mr O had declared wasnt accurate. 
The investigator also said Santander had given Mr O the opportunity to provide supporting 
evidence of his turnover, including his tax return  but hed not sent this to the bank and the 
other information hed provided wasnt sufficient. He also felt the £100 Santander had given 
Mr O for their mistake in the final response letter was fair. 
Mr O didnt agree. He said hed now been left in a difficult position with his suppliers and his 
reputation had been damaged. So he asked for an ombudsman to look into his complaint. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
The British Business Bank website explains that the checks a borrower will be subject to 
when applying for a loan from any lender included, customer fraud, Anti-Money Laundering 
(AML) and Know Your Customer (KYC) checks. I recognise why Mr O feels it was unfair he 
was given the money before Santander had completed their checks. However, under the 
scheme rules, the applications are self-declared by the potential borrower, so the lending 
bank, is able to rely on the information declared on the within the application to allow them to 
provide the loan. 
In this case, Santander then carried out their checks on the application to verify the 
information Mr O had provided showed he was eligible for the Bounce Back Loan. I 
acknowledge this has caused difficulty for Mr O, but the bank is allowed to carry out checks 
once the loan has been provided to satisfy themselves a borrower meets the scheme rules. 
So I cant reasonably say theyve done anything wrong here.
I acknowledge Mr O says he feels like hes been treated unfairly because he applied for the 
scheme and then Santander withdrew the loan and closed his accounts. So Ive looked at 
the evidence Mr O provided to show the turnover figure hed declared. And based on this 
evidence, Im persuaded Santander made a reasonable decision to say it wasnt sufficient. 
I say this because Ive seen that Mr O sent a screen shot of a spreadsheet which Santander 
couldnt verify as relating to Mr Os turnover based on the information contained within it. 
There was also nothing linked to Mr O on the spreadsheet or anything such as an 
accountant statement or tax return that could verify this information was correct. 
Mr O also provided evidence from another apparently unrelated limited company. I recognise 
this showed that he was receiving funds from the company, but again it didnt say what this 
was for, how long or how much was owed. And none of the information Mr O provided 
showed evidence of the £210,000 turnover hed declared on the Bounce Back Loan 
application. 
I appreciate Mr O now finds himself in a very difficult position. However, he was unable to 
evidence the turnover hed declared which would support the amount he applied for under the Bounce Back Loan scheme. Ive looked at the application form Mr O completed, and Ive 
seen it says I/We recognise that by providing information that is inaccurate or incomplete in 
any material particular, I/we may be regarded as attempting to gain, or gaining, a financial 
advantage dishonestly [leading to] the forfeiture of all loan proceeds.
Given that the amount of money Mr O could borrow under the scheme was up to 25% of his 
business turnover to a maximum of £50,000, it was really important the turnover he declared 
was accurate - as Mr O may not have been eligible for the amount hed borrowed. 
Ive seen that Santander did speak to Mr O before withdrawing the loan and explained the 
importance of him providing the evidence of his turnover and why it was needed but he didnt 
provide this so his accounts were frozen, and the remaining loan facility was withdrawn. So 
based on this, I think it was reasonable for Santander to have doubts about the accuracy of 
the information Mr O had provided and decide to withdraw the loan facility on this basis.
Mr O told us he didnt understand why his other accounts with Santander had been affected 
by his Bounce Back Loan application, and I recognise this must have been frustrating for 
him. But as Santander had concerns about the accuracy of the information Mr O had given 
them on the Bounce Back Loan application, they closed his other accounts with immediate 
effect. 
Ive looked at Santanders account terms and conditions and Ive seen that under the 
Cancellation and closing your account section it says, We may [..] close your account at 
any time without notice where we are aware that keeping your account open would be 
unlawful or cause us to be in breach of any of our legal or regulatory requirements. 
As Mr O didnt provide Santander with the information, they needed to verify his turnover, the 
bank didnt feel they were able to comply with the regulatory requirements and closed Mr Os 
accounts. So I cant reasonably say Santander treated Mr O unfairly here. 
Mr O also told us he was unhappy that Santander referred to a limited company in their first 
final response letter and he felt their information was incorrect. I acknowledge this would 
have been concerning for Mr O as he felt Santanders decision may have been based on the 
wrong business. But Ive seen Santander apologised for this mistake, gave Mr O £100 
compensation and confirmed their decision was based on Mr Os sole trader business. So 
Im satisfied Santander have done enough to put things right.   
I recognise that Mr O feels strongly about this and hell be disappointed with my decision. 
But based on everything Ive seen, I think Santander have acted reasonably and in line with 
the scheme rules. So, I wont be asking them to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2021.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman