Complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out with a credit 
card in 2006. Mr M says HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold him the PPI.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ms case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
When selling the PPI, HSBC had to make it clear to Mr M that he had a choice about it. But 
Mr M says it wasnt made clear to him that the policy was optional.
Mr M and HSBC havent been able to say how the policy was sold. But HSBC has sent us 
samples of the forms it says wouldve been filled in for each of the possible sales channels. 
And I think these forms make it clear that the PPI is optional.
Based on what I understand about HSBCs sales practices at the time, I think its likely that 
Mr M wouldve been required to sign a form like the ones Ive seen, and that HSBC wouldnt 
have added the PPI if Mr M hadnt indicated on the form that he wanted to take it out. So I 
think its likely HSBC did make it clear to Mr M that he had a choice about the PPI, and that 
Mr M chose to take it, knowing he didnt have to.
Mr M and HSBC also havent been able to say if HSBC recommended the PPI to Mr M. If 
HSBC had recommended the PPI, it wouldve had more responsibilities during the sale, 
which would be to Mr Ms benefit. So, as neither Mr M nor HSBC can be sure, Ive assessed 
the complaint as if HSBC did recommend the PPI. This means HSBC had to check that the 
PPI was right for Mr M.
Based on what Ive seen of Mr Ms circumstances at the time though, I think that it was right 
for him. For example, he doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the exclusions to or 
limits on the PPI cover. And the policy couldve paid out for longer than hes told us he 
wouldve been entitled to sick pay from his employer.
As well as checking it was right for him, HSBC had to give Mr M clear information about the 
policy. Its possible the information it gave him wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. But, for 
the same reasons I think it was right for him, it seems like the PPI would have been useful 
for Mr M if something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put Mr M off taking it out.
DRN-1114679Which means HSBC doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But HSBC has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr M because:
 HSBC got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI
premium) - so it should have told Mr M about that. Because HSBC didnt tell Mr M,
that was unfair.
 To put that right, HSBC has paid back the amount of commission and profit share
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so HSBC UK Bank Plc doesnt have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But HSBC UK Bank Plc does have to pay back to Mr M any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2020.
Alan Millward
Ombudsman