DRN-2434378
The complaint
Mr C complains that Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited (Sun Life) 
unfairly denied him the opportunity to exercise a Guaranteed Annuity Rate (GAR) on his 
pension plan. 
What happened
In February 1987, Mr C started a pension plan with Confederation Life (which was 
subsequently acquired by Sun Life). He selected his 65th birthday on 14 September 2019 
(the Pension Date) as the date he wished to draw benefits from the plan. The policy 
schedule confirmed that at the Pension Date his accumulated plan value would be converted 
to provide pension income based on the higher of the standard annuity rate offered by 
Confederation Life (later Sun Life) or a GAR of 10.08%.
Between February and September 2019 (the relevant period), Sun Life wrote to Mr C on 
four separate occasions about his plan. All these communications mentioned the GAR, the 
nature of the benefit and the deadline to exercise it. The correspondence provided different 
deadlines of 14 September and 13 October 2019.
Mr C confirmed to this service that he received the correspondence and intended to exercise 
the GAR but was delayed from contacting Sun Life until 21 October 2019 due to personal 
circumstances. He explained that he was the primary carer for his mother and brother who 
were both living in the same household and experiencing life-threatening conditions during 
the relevant period. He said caring for them involved dealing with appointments, hospital 
visits and generally being responsible for all necessary arrangements concerning them, as 
well as having responsibilities for his own family and business.
Sun Life told Mr C that he was unable to exercise the GAR because he had missed the 
deadline of 13 October 2019. Mr C was unhappy with this and complained. Sun Life didnt 
uphold Mr Cs complaint because it was satisfied it had provided to him, during the relevant 
period, adequate information about the GAR, the nature of the benefit and the deadline to 
exercise it.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint for essentially the same reasons as Sun Life. 
She confirmed to Mr C that she had sympathy for his circumstances but, overall, didnt think 
this prevented him from contacting Sun Life before the deadline of 13 October 2019. She 
explained that in reaching her conclusion she had to be fair to both parties. And that it 
wouldnt be fair or reasonable to uphold this complaint against Sun Life when she was 
satisfied it had repeatedly and clearly told Mr C about the GAR and the deadline to exercise 
it.
Mr C didnt accept our investigators opinion and requested an ombudsmans decision. He 
provided, in summary, the following points for my consideration:
The policy schedule provided to him when he started the plan in 1987 doesnt specify 
a deadline for him to exercise the GAR and so, in his view, it remains available 
despite what Sun Life says;
Our investigator misinterpreted his complaint to be about the correspondence he 
received during the relevant period and had ignored basic legal principles concerning 
the contractual position between him and Sun Life, as set out in the policy schedule;
It was his intention to exercise the GAR, but his personal circumstances delayed him 
from contacting Sun Life before the deadline it imposed;
Sun Life shouldve exercised its discretion in his favour and ought to have known he 
would exercise the GAR given its relative value compared to standard annuity rates;
The correspondence provided by Sun Life during the relevant period was confusing 
and not sufficiently clear that hed lose the GAR if he didnt exercise it by the 
deadline;
Its grossly unfair for Sun Life to deny him the GAR after hed regularly contributed to 
the plan for 32 years; and
To put things right he wants Sun Life to honour the GAR and pay him compensation 
to put him into the correct financial position
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see from the correspondence that Mr Cs brother recently passed away. Before going 
any further, Id like to offer my sincere condolences to Mr C and his family for their loss at 
what I understand must be a difficult time for them.
Our approach to deciding complaints
The rules governing this services handling of complaints require me to determine this 
complaint by reference to what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable. In deciding whats fair 
and reasonable, I take account of relevant law, regulation, guidance and what I consider to 
be good industry practice. In doing so, I must consider all the circumstances including 
consideration of the actions and responsibilities of all parties involved. 
So, while Im required to consider relevant law when reaching my decision, I dont have to 
apply the strict legal position if I conclude this would be contrary to what I think is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. The reason I make this point is because Mr C has 
placed a great deal of weight on his contractual relationship with Sun Life. He says the policy 
schedule issued to him in 1987 by Confederation Life sets out the contractual position and 
that this essentially trumps any correspondence he subsequently received from Sun Life 
regarding the deadline to exercise the GAR. Mr C says that because the policy schedule 
doesnt specify a deadline, Sun Life cannot enforce one.
The policy schedule
Ive reviewed the policy schedule issued to Mr C. This confirms that at the Pension Date of 
14 September 2019 his accumulated plan value would be converted to provide pension 
income based on the higher of the standard annuity rate offered by Confederation Life (later 
Sun Life) or a GAR of 10.08%. I agree that the policy schedule doesnt refer to a deadline to 
exercise the GAR. Rather, it refers only to the Pension Date as being the date benefits are paid, whether that is based on the GAR rate or a standard rate. Therefore, on the strict 
application of the terms of the plan, Mr C wouldve had to tell Sun Life of his intention to 
exercise the GAR immediately before his 65th birthday.
Grace period to exercise the GAR
Standard annuity rates have fallen significantly since Mr C started his plan in 1987. 
Therefore, the GAR of 10.08% on his plan became increasingly valuable over the                
32-year term to his 65th birthday. By 2019, it was significantly higher than standard rates.
Sun Life has explained to this service that it recognises the relative value of the GAR rate on 
customers plans and so informally offers a grace period of up to 29 days after the Pension 
Date to allow some leeway to exercise the GAR. I think this is fair. For Mr C, this meant the 
deadline to exercise the GAR was 13 October 2019 which was 29 days after his 65th 
birthday. Since the provision of the grace period is an informal arrangement, its not 
mentioned in the policy schedule. I dont think the fact the grace period isnt mentioned in the 
policy schedule is as relevant as Mr C considers. He started the plan in 1987 and, given the 
passage of time that had elapsed over the period to 2019, may have forgotten about the 
GAR and any deadline if one was stipulated in the policy schedule. In my view, what matters 
in determining this complaint is whether Sun Life acted fairly in its communications with Mr C 
during the relevant period leading up to his Pension Date.
Sun Lifes communications with Mr C
During the relevant period, Sun Life wrote to Mr C on four separate occasions about his 
plan. All these communications mention the GAR. Mr C doesnt deny receiving the four 
documents but has expressed conflicting views on the content. In making this complaint he 
said he had received from Sun Life in April 2019 information that showed he would receive 
almost double the income by exercising the GAR compared to the standard annuity rate and 
made the point that this shouldve been repeated closer to his 65th birthday to emphasise the 
point. But then in other correspondence to this service he says the information provided by 
Sun Life was confusing and not sufficiently clear.
Ive reviewed the four documents and have copied below some relevant excerpts.
Feb 2019 annual benefit statement
The statement confirmed:
Your plan has a Guaranteed Annuity Rate. This could mean you get a higher income than 
you would without a guarantee. This option will end on 13/10/2019.
A Guaranteed Annuity Rate means you know in advance how much income you could get 
in return for each pound of your pension savings. This could mean you get a higher income 
than you would without a guarantee. You will only get this Guaranteed Annuity Rate if you 
buy your annuity within 29 days of 14/09/2019. If you take your pension as cash or transfer 
your pension savings to another pension provider you lose your Guaranteed Annuity Rate.
15 April 2019 letter
This was a five-page letter titled From 14/09/2019 you can access your pension savings. 
The first four pages set out the options available to Mr C on his 65th birthday. In reference to 
the GAR, it confirmed on page four: 
Guaranteed Annuity RatesYour plan has a Guaranteed Annuity Rate. You will only use this Guaranteed Annuity Rate if 
you buy your annuity within 29 days of 14/09/2019. This could mean you get a higher 
income than you would without a guarantee. Please see the Guaranteed Annuity Rate 
[enclosed] factsheet for more information.
Page five was the enclosed factsheet which stated:
Your plan comes with a Guaranteed Annuity Rate. This guarantees a certain annuity rate, 
even if the market rate is lower. This could mean a bigger income for life. If you take your 
pension as a cash lump sum, you will lose your Guaranteed Annuity Rate.
You can only get your Guaranteed Annuity Rate if you buy an annuity from our pension 
partner, Legal & General. You can buy an annuity from any other provider but you will lose 
your Guaranteed Annuity Rate.
To see the difference this could make, we have calculated how a fund of £50,000 with your 
Guaranteed Annuity Rate would compare with the best annuity income available in the 
market in November 2018.
There followed a table that showed the GAR would provide significantly enhanced income 
compared to the standard annuity rate alternative, as Mr C has already acknowledged.
5 August 2019 letter
This repeated the information provided in the five-page letter issued on 15 April 2019.
2 September 2019 letter
This was a one-page letter, issued approximately two weeks before Mr Cs 65th birthday, and 
confirmed:
Your plan has a valuable guarantee
We wrote to you recently about accessing your pension savings, but we have not heard from 
you.
You can use the money in your plan to buy an income for life - called an annuity - from an 
insurance company. The amount of annuity you get depends on your age and health. It 
usually depends on the insurance companys rates too. These are not guaranteed and can 
change frequently.
Your plan has a Guaranteed Annuity Rate which means your income will be based on the 
rate your plan promises, even if the market rate is lower. This could mean you get a bigger 
income for life.
Your Guaranteed Annuity Rate is only available until 14/09/2019
When you started your pension plan you told us when you would like to retire. Your 
Guaranteed Annuity Rate is linked to the date you chose. We really need to hear from you 
by 14/09/2019 if you want to take advantage of your guarantee.
If we do not hear from you, you will lose your guaranteed rate. You will still be able to access 
your pension savings later. But if you choose to buy an annuity it will be based on market 
rates. It is likely you will get less for your money. Based on these documents, Ive concluded that Sun Life repeatedly explained to Mr C in a 
clear, fair and not misleading way the nature of the GAR and its relative value compared to 
standard annuity rates. The documents mention different deadlines of 14 September and 13 
October 2019, but this is because the letter of 2 September 2019 didnt mention the grace 
period of 29 days.  In my view, based on these documents, Mr C ought to have realised he 
shouldve contacted Sun Life before 13 October 2019 if he wanted to exercise the GAR. I 
cannot see how he would have thought otherwise. Therefore, I dont agree with his view that 
the information he received from Sun Life about the GAR was confusing and not sufficiently 
clear.
Mr Cs reasons for the delay in exercising the GAR
Mr C contacted Sun Life on 21 October 2019 to tell it of his intention to exercise the GAR. 
This was after the deadline of 13 October 2019 had passed. Mr C says he didnt contact Sun 
Life before the deadline due to personal circumstances, as explained earlier in this decision. 
I can understand that Mr Cs situation during the relevant period meant that dealing with his 
plan may not have been a priority for him. I have sympathy for Mr C and recognise that 
caring for his brother and mother  together with his other responsibilities  must have been 
difficult for him. But, on balance, Im not persuaded his personal circumstances completely 
prevented him from telling Sun Life until 21 October 2019 that he wanted to exercise the 
GAR. 
Should Sun Life have assumed Mr C would exercise the GAR?
Mr C says Sun Life shouldve exercised its discretion in his favour and ought to have known 
he would exercise the GAR given its relative value compared to standard annuity rates. I 
disagree. It wasnt Sun Lifes responsibility to make assumptions about Mr Cs 
circumstances and decide, without his input, that he would want to exercise the GAR and set 
up an annuity on this basis. It was for Mr C to make that decision. Had Sun Life done what 
Mr C is suggesting, this could have been unsuitable for his circumstances, for example if he 
was in serious ill-health. So, I dont think Sun Life is at fault on this point.
Summary
I know this will come as a severe disappointment to Mr C, but I dont think Sun Life has done 
anything wrong or treated him unfairly. The information Sun Life provided during the relevant 
period, which hes acknowledged receiving, was clear and sent in good time before the 
deadline of 13 October 2019. As Ive stated above, the fact the policy schedule doesnt 
stipulate a deadline is, in my view, irrelevant. It wasnt Sun Lifes responsibility to ensure that 
its requirements to exercise the GAR  as set out clearly in those four documents issued 
during the relevant period  were met. Sun Life cannot be considered responsible for the 
delay in Mr C contacting it to exercise the GAR option. So, I dont consider it would be fair or 
reasonable in these circumstances for me to require Sun Life to allow Mr C to exercise the 
GAR  or to take any further action in response to this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 
25 February 2021.
 
Clint Penfold
Ombudsman