DRN-4240836
The complaint
Mr J complains that Wesleyan Assurance Society misinformed him about taking benefits 
from his pension, causing him to be subject to the Money Purchase Annual Allowance 
(MPAA).
What happened
Mr J had a Wesleyan pension plan and in October 2021 he contacted them about accessing 
pension funds.
On 18 October 2021 Wesleyan wrote to Mr J with a valuation for his pension of £9,972.59. 
The letter explained that the options that he had with his pension plan depended on the 
features of the plan hed chosen. It directed him to the policy documents for his plan. And 
said, if you decide that you want to access your pension savings in a way that is not 
available under your Wesleyan pension plan you may still be able to access your savings in 
the way you want by transferring them to a new pension with a different provider, or to 
another Wesleyan plan. 
Wesleyans letter also contained retirement risk warnings and the Money Advice Service 
Guide Your pension: your choices. In the retirement risk warnings was an explanation 
about how the amount that could be paid into a pension could be affected by taking an 
uncrystallised funds pension lump sum (UFPLS). And this was also explained in more detail 
in the Money Advice Service Guide.
On 23 October 2021 Mr J wrote to Wesleyan asking to take 25% of his pension pot.
On 26 October 2021 Wesleyan called Mr J regarding his request. In that call Mr J explained 
that he wanted to take 25% tax free cash from his pension. But the call taker told him that he 
wouldnt be able to do that because he couldnt put his pension into flexi-access drawdown. 
He was told that his fund size needed to be £30,000 for Wesleyan to be able to put his fund 
into flexi-access drawdown. The call taker explained that taking a lump sum would mean that 
25% of that would be tax free and the rest taxed at an emergency tax rate. 
On 1 November 2021 Wesleyan wrote to Mr J again. It provided an application form as well 
as a further Key Risk Summary, the Money Advice Service booklet, and illustrations of his 
pension. The Key Risk Summary had a section about continuing to pay into a personal 
pension. It explained the MPAA and said the MPAA is triggered if you take any benefits in 
the form of a taxable lump sum. The letter said, please do not send in your application 
form unless you are absolutely sure you understand the risks that relate to this option as 
there are no cancellation rights.
Mr J submitted the application form to take a £5,000 cash sum from his pension. There was 
a warning on the first page that explained that choosing to withdraw money from the pension 
plan may restrict the amount that could be paid into a money purchase pension (without 
incurring a tax charge) in the future. It explained that if the application was successful 
Wesleyan would inform Mr J if the MPAA applied to him. Mr J signed the declaration on the 
application form. It included the declaration that hed read and understood the information 
provided about the MPAA.
Mr Js application was processed. He received an income payment, with 75% of his 
withdrawal being taxed. And was informed that he was subject to the MPAA that limited the 
amount he could contribute to money purchase pensions. 
Mr J complained to Wesleyan. He said that the information he was provided was misleading. 
He said that his pension was a small pot pension being under £10,000. He said that the 
booklet he was provided indicated that the MPAA wouldnt be triggered if the pension pot 
was less than £10,000. And that he had no idea what the MPAA was. No one from 
Wesleyan explained MPAA to him. 
Wesleyan investigated Mr Js complaint and didnt uphold it. It explained that the risks had 
been explained to Mr J in its correspondence and itd provided all of the information that it 
needed to. It said that the documentation made it clear that a small pot pension could be 
taken as a whole pot. But that wasnt the request that Mr J made. So it wasnt necessary to 
contact him to let him know that his pension fund had gone above £10,000 at the point the 
payment was made.
Mr Js case was referred to our service and was looked into by one of our investigators. Our 
investigator was unable to resolve the complaint to the agreement of either party and the 
case was referred for an ombudsmans decision.
I issued a provisional decision to both parties explaining that I didnt think Mr Js complaint 
should be upheld. I explained my reasons, pointing out Wesleyans obligations and how I 
thought the information it provided met those.
Wesleyan acknowledged and accepted what Id said in my provisional decision. Mr J was 
understandably disappointed with my suggested outcome. He was still of the opinion that 
information about the MPAA wasnt clear and nobody at Wesleyan asked him if he 
understood it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive not been provided with any further evidence or arguments that I had not previously 
considered in reaching my provisional decision. And, having considered the circumstances a 
final time, my final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Js complaint. I understand that Mr J 
has ended up in an unfortunate position where he has been unable to make the 
contributions to his pension that he wanted to after this pension withdrawal. Ive not 
underestimated the impact of that on him. But for the following reasons I dont think this was 
down to any error on Wesleyans part. These reasons follow the same reasoning that both 
parties have already seen in my provisional decision.
I would start by explaining that Wesleyan were the administrators of Mr Js personal pension. 
They were not engaged to provide him with financial advice. So I am not considering the 
rules about providing suitable recommendations. Of significance in a case like this are the 
Overarching Principles of business that the regulator has set out under the PRIN section of 
its handbook. Of particular relevance are:
Principle 2  a firm must conduct itself with due skill, care and diligencePrinciple 6  a firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat 
them fairly
Principle 7  a firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients and 
communicate in formation to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading
I have looked at all of the information that Wesleyan provided Mr J. I understand that there 
was quite a bit of material that Mr J was sent. But I dont think that was unfair. Pensions are 
not simple financial products. The rules around them are complicated and there were a 
number of options each with relative merits or risks dependant on customer circumstances. 
Wesleyan were not advising Mr J on the most suitable option for him. So didnt need to fully 
understand his specific requirements. But it did need to provide him with the information to 
be able to make his own decision. And to signpost him to advice.
I would expect Wesleyan to direct Mr J to the Pension Wise service. Which it did. I would 
expect Wesleyan to provide Mr J with the Money Advice Service guide that it did. Again, I 
appreciate that this is over twenty pages. But it is an independent document that I consider 
provides clear information of the options available.
I think that there was an unfortunate misunderstanding in this case. Mr J requested that he 
take 25% from his pension. Which Wesleyan say they took to mean he wanted to make a 
partial UFPLS. Which wasnt unreasonable. But I dont think it mattered that Mr J wasnt 
clearer on this point. I say this because when he spoke with Wesleyan on the phone he 
made it clear that he just wanted to take 25% of his pension as a tax free lump sum. This is 
an option that is sometimes available for pension products. But Wesleyan explained to Mr J 
on the phone that he wouldnt be able to do that with that pension.
Wesleyans call handler asked if Mr J had contacted Pension Wise and Mr J said he had. 
And hed been told he could take 25% tax free. In response to that Wesleyans call handler 
explained that Mr Js pension plan didnt allow flexi-access drawdown. In order to transfer to 
Wesleyans flexi-access drawdown plan his pension would need to be over £30,000. He was 
told he could take the full amount or could take a part of his fund. It was made clear that 75% 
of any amount taken would be taxed at an emergency tax rate. Mr J chose to take £5,000. 
Mr J believes that he was told that he could only take £5,000. But that isnt reflected in the 
call recording I have listened to with Wesleyan.
Wesleyan have said that the information it provided Mr J after its phone call with him was 
tailored to his responses. It said that the summary of risks information included specific 
information about the MPAA because hed said he had other pensions. I think that was 
reasonable. Again, Wesleyan wasnt giving Mr J a personal recommendation so it didnt 
have to explore the pension contributions he intended to make in the future.
Ive looked at the information that Wesleyan sent Mr J. I quoted part of it above when 
explaining what happened. I think it made it clear that the MPAA would be triggered by 
taking a taxable lump sum. And I think that the phone call Mr J had with Wesleyan ought to 
have made it clear that the option he was choosing would be taxable. The letter Wesleyan 
sent him on 18 October 2021 explained that he may be able to access his benefits in the 
way he wanted with another provider if it wasnt available under his Wesleyan pension plan. 
Which I think was fair.
Overall, I think that the information that Mr J was given was fair, accurate and not 
misleading. The rules around MPAA arent set by Wesleyan. But it did everything I would 
expect to treat Mr J fairly. Im sorry that Mr J thinks that he didnt really understand his 
options. But I think that Wesleyan provided him with the information he needed to make a decision as well as directing him to independent advice. For these reasons Im not intending 
to uphold Mr Js complaint.
I understand that Mr J thought that he should have been exempt from the MPAA because he 
held a small pot. But the information he was given didnt say that. Instead it explained that a 
small pot pension (less than £10,000) could be taken as a whole lump sum. In that 
circumstance the MPAA wouldnt have been triggered. But that wasnt the type of withdrawal 
that Mr J asked Wesleyan to make. If he had, I would have expected Wesleyan to have 
contacted him prior to processing his application when his fund size went over £10,000. But, 
as Mr J applied for a partial UFPLS, his £5,000 income request was always going to trigger 
the MPAA. The fact that Mr Js pension fund exceeded the amount to qualify as a small pot 
didnt make a difference in this case.
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im not upholding Mr Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2023.
 
Gary Lane
Ombudsman