DRN-2251306
The complaint
Ms M complains about end of contract charges when her agreement with Mercedes-Benz 
Financial Services UK Limited ended.
 
What happened
In April 2016 Ms M was supplied with a car and entered into a finance agreement with 
MBFS.
At the end of the agreement the car was inspected. Following this, MBFS asked Ms M to pay 
damage charges.
Ms M disputed the charges. She said shed had the car serviced and the paintwork touched 
up before returning it. She didnt think the charges were fair.
In response, MBFS said the damage exceeded fair wear and tear and that the charges were 
payable.
Ms M was unhappy with the response and brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He thought MBFS had done enough to show 
that the damage was outside of the fair wear and tear guidance. He also said it was 
reasonable for MBS to have inspected the car a second time. 
Ms M didnt agree so Ive been asked to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of the agreement say that Ms M must return the car in good 
condition and that any damage which exceeds fair wear and tear is the customers 
responsibility.
Fair wear and tear guidelines have been issued by the BVLRA and these are accepted as an 
industry standard when deciding whether damage exceeds fair wear and tear.
Ive looked at the first inspection report. This identifies damage to three of the wheels and 
one of the tyres.
Ive also looked at the second inspection report. This identifies additional damage to the 
bumper, the door, the door handle and the wing, as well as damage to the wheels and tyres 
which was previously identified.
Based on what Ive seen and taking the relevant fair wear and tear guidelines into account, 
Im satisfied that all of the damage identified in the second inspection report goes beyond fair 
wear and tear. Because of this, Im unable to say that MBFS has acted unfairly in asking Ms 
M to pay charges.
I appreciate that Ms M doesnt think it was fair for MBFS to carry out a second inspection. 
Shes explained that the first inspection lasted 45 minutes, which she thinks was long 
enough to identify all the damage.
MBFS has said that the first inspection wasnt complete due to adverse weather. I can see 
that Ms M was provided with an Intentions Pack soon after she entered into the agreement. 
This says that if weather conditions are poor, only a partial inspection will be carried out and 
a full inspection will take place later. I can see from the pictures in the first inspection that it 
was raining quite heavily, and I think its likely that this impacted on the inspectors ability to 
carry out a full inspection. The rain makes it difficult tom see some of the exterior damage. In 
the circumstances, I dont think it was unreasonable for MBFS to carry out a second 
inspection.
I can see that the second inspection took place 3 days after the first one. I havent seen 
anything to suggest that any additional damage occurred in between the first and second 
inspections. 
I understand that Ms M is disappointed because she had the car serviced and the paintwork 
touched up before she handed the car back. However, based on the inspection reports, and 
taking the fair wear and tear guidelines into account, Im satisfied that MBFS has acted fairly 
in applying the charges.
Based on everything Ive seen, Im unable to say that MBFS has done anything wrong, or 
applied the charges unfairly.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman