DRN-2925113
The complaint
Mr M complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc has behaved unreasonably in relation to two Tax 
Exempt Savings Plans, taken out in 2009. Specifically, he says he cannot access the 
proceeds of one of the policies, even though he took it out and paid the money into it. 
What happened
The policies are operated by Family Assurance Friendly Society Limited, trading as 
OneFamily. They were taken out through Engage Mutual Assurance which is a part of 
Clydesdale  though Mr M did not receive any advice about them. 
Mr M says he wanted to take out one policy into which he would pay a £50 monthly 
premium. However, he says he wasnt allowed to do this due to a maximum monthly 
premium applying of £25. He therefore applied for two policies in December 2019, one in his 
name and one in his sons name.  
In 2019, the policies matured. Mr M approached OneFamily about receipt of each policys 
maturity value. He explained that he is sadly no longer in contact with his son. However, 
OneFamily refused to pay the maturity value to Mr M, as he was not the named policyholder.  
Mr M complained to this service about Clydesdale. His complaint was considered by one of 
our investigators. Though he understood Mr Ms frustration, he didnt think Clydesdale had 
done anything wrong. Clydesdale did not advise Mr M in respect of taking out the policies, so 
he didnt think it behaved unreasonably on that basis or misled Mr M in any way. 
Further, he said though Mr M had paid the monthly contributions into the savings policy, it 
was set up for the benefit of his son. He didnt believe Engage had acted inappropriately by 
setting up the policy for Mr Ms son  it was permissible for a different person to make the 
contributions and have the savings policy paid to a beneficiary at the end of the ten years.  
Mr M disagreed. He said he had never been told that he couldnt access the money in the 
policy personally. He therefore asked for the matter to be passed to an ombudsman. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed all of the information carefully, I dont believe this complaint should 
succeed. I recognise this wont be the outcome Mr M hoped for, but I will nonetheless 
explain my conclusions for the parties below.  
Clydesdale isnt responsible for OneFamilys operation of the policies. What I can consider in 
the context of this complaint is whether Engage (for which Clydesdale takes responsibility) 
misled Mr M in any way as to his ability to access the funds set up for the benefit of his son. 
In the circumstances, Engage had no responsibility to make sure the policies were suitable 
for Mr C or his son  the policies were sold on a non-advised basis. It did, however, have a 
responsibility to ensure the documentation it provided about the bonds was clear and not 
misleading. 
The documentation issued to Mr M at the time of the sale makes clear that the policy was a 
qualifying one meaning if it followed particular provisions, the policy proceeds would be 
exempt from personal taxation. The policy had a fixed premium of £25, and no variation of 
this could be made. It is for this reason that Mr M says he took out two policies.  
Be that as it may, Mr M wasnt advised when he took out the policies. It was entirely possible 
for a person to take out the policy for the intent of a child or family member  and the policies 
were marketed on that basis. It was for Mr M to choose if he wished to go ahead with them.. 
There is no clear evidence that Elevate misled Mr M into believing he was the policyholder 
for his sons policy. In fact, the information from the time of the sale provides evidence to the 
contrary. On Mr Ms application form, he gave his own personal details, then his further bank 
details for the nominated account from which the £25 monthly payment would be taken.  
On his sons application form, it is set out that Mr M was to complete your friend or family 
members details along with the same nominated bank information. I believe this is 
sufficiently clear that the second policy was taken out for the benefit of someone else, and 
that if that person was an adult, they would be the beneficiary of the maturity value.
My final decision
Since the evidence Ive seen sets out that Mr M set up the savings policies on a non-advised 
basis, and Clydesdale provided clear information about the nature of the policies in respect 
of policyholders, I am unable to uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2021.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman