DRN-3806705
The complaint
Mr J complains Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited unfairly refused a claim and 
cancelled his home insurance policy. 
What happened
In February 2021 Mr J made a claim on his Admiral home insurance policy for two lost rings. 
He reported that his wife, Mrs J, lost them on the way to a pre-booked maintenance 
appointment with a jeweller. In May 2021 Admiral declined the claim and cancelled the cover 
from the date of the claim. It said it was relying on a fraud term in the policy to do so. 
Admiral said Mr J had failed to alleviate its concerns over discrepancies in the circumstances 
of the claim. Essentially it felt there hadnt really been a loss and there wasnt really an 
appointment with the jeweller.   
In June 2021 Admiral responded to a complaint from Mr J. It apologised and paid £25 
compensation for initially set the claim up against Mr Js mothers policy. It didnt accept it 
had provided poor customer service. 
Admiral said its decision to decline the claim and cancel Mr Js policy for fraud was correct. It 
provided an additional reason for feeling the loss to be fabricated. It said the jeweller had 
confirmed a post-loss valuation, commissioned by Mr or Mrs J, had been made with the 
rings present. Mr J wasnt satisfied, so came to this service. He says hes suffered 
emotionally by being accused of acting fraudulently. He wants the claim to be reconsidered. 
In June 2022 our investigator said he didnt think Admirals decision to rely on the fraud term 
to refuse the claim and cancel the policy was reasonable. So he recommended it remove 
any fraud markers, reconsider Mr Js claim and pay him £200 compensation. Admiral didnt 
accept the assessment, so the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As this is an informal service Im not going to address or detail here every piece of
information or evidence provided by Mr J and Admiral. Instead Ive focused on what I
consider the most significant and pertinent. But Id like to reassure both that Ive
considered everything provided.
Mr Js policy terms allow Admiral to refuse a claim and cancel the cover if he or another 
insured person (including his spouse) provides false, exaggerated or misleading information.  
Fraud is a serious accusation that can have a significant impact beyond the decline of an 
insurance claim. So for me to feel its fair for Admiral to rely on the fraud term Id expect it to 
have reasonable evidence to support its position.
Admirals given three or four key reasons for the position its taken. I can understand why its 
had concerns about the claim and why its asked questions about the circumstances. 
Theres been some inconsistencies. Some aspects have lacked clarity, particularly Mrs Js 
arrangements with the jeweller. 
I accept it was unclear if there was an appointment with the jeweller. But the proprietor at the 
jeweller has since explained the situation. He said the appointment was made on an informal 
basis with no record. Admiral also highlighted a failure to report the loss to the police, 
despite Mr J having been advised to. I note hes given different explanations for that. But as 
far as Im aware a police report has now been made. 
Admiral stated that in its call with the jeweller, the proprietor confirmed he was in-sight of 
the rings... on the day he provided the post-loss valuation.  Its pointed to this as further 
evidence the claim wasnt genuine. But having listened to the call I dont think its reasonable 
to say the jeweller confirmed he was in-sight of the rings. 
Instead hes unsure throughout the call, explaining his records arent at the standard of a 
retailer. Ultimately, he couldnt recall for certain if he did or didnt have the items in 
possession. He suspected, based on the absence of the words post-loss on the 
valuations, that he had sight of the rings.  
As Ive said, I understand why Admiral had some concerns about the claim. But considering 
the above, particularly the jeweller only suspecting rather than confirming, Im not 
persuaded Admiral has shown its fair for it to rely on the fraud term. To be clear, Im not 
saying here that it needs to pay the claim. Instead Im finding it cant rely on the fraud term to 
cancel the policy and decline the claim. So it will need to reinstate the cover (and remove 
any fraud markers or records of it cancelling the policy) and consider the claim against the 
remaining terms of the policy. 
In the claim decline letter Admiral referred to an endorsement in the policy. It requires an 
annual inspection on any specified item of jewellery. I havent considered here if Admiral can 
fairly apply it to decline any aspect of the claim. Thats because it seems to have been given 
as an additional decline reason without full consideration or fair opportunity for Mr J to 
respond to. In addition, based on an email from the jeweller, Mr J may be able to provide 
evidence of inspections. 
It does seem likely Mr Js experienced some distress because of the unfair reliance on the 
fraud term. So I agree with the investigator that compensation should be paid in recognition. 
His recommendation of £200 seems fair to me.   
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited will need to reinstate 
Mr Js policy and consider the claim against the remaining terms. It should also remove any 
fraud markers and record of it having cancelled the cover and pay Mr J £200 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2022.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman