DRN-3135554
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Aviva Insurance Limited has unfairly applied its fee structure under the
private medical insurance policy he and his family have the benefit of. As a result, Mr M has
been left with a shortfall to pay in respect of certain medical consultations.
Mr M is also unhappy with the changes Aviva made to the private medical insurance policy
in or around January 2017.
What happened
Mr M and his three children have the benefit of a healthier solutions medical insurance
policy, underwritten by Aviva (the policy). Mr M opted for Avivas Trust hospital list.
Mr M is unhappy that four claims made under the policy between June 2018 and early 2019
 for initial and follow-up consultations with certain medical specialists - werent paid in full
by Aviva.
Mr M was sent statements of account by Aviva on the following dates, reflecting that Aviva
had made its contribution to the specialists fees  leaving Mr M with a shortfall (to pay the
specialist) each time:
-18 June 2018 for a consultation on 6 June 2019 (£71 shortfall);
-13 August 2018 for a consultation on 20 June 2018 (£49.22 shortfall);
-17 August 2018 for a consultation on 3 July 2018 (£26 shortfall);
-23 April 2019 for a consultation on 29 January 2019 (£206 shortfall).
Mr M didnt think that was fair, so he complained to Aviva.
Aviva didnt uphold his complaint. Relying on the terms and conditions of the policy, it said it
had paid the consultation fees for which it was liable  as per the fee structure in place.
Unhappy, Mr M complained to our Service. He didnt think Aviva had fairly relied on the
policy terms. He also said Aviva unreasonably changed the way in which it paid specialists 
and had unreasonably introduced a fee structure for consultations.
To resolve his complaint, he wanted Aviva to reimburse him for the shortfall in specialists
fees already incurred. Hed also like Aviva to meet, in full, the costs of any medical
consultations covered under the policy going forwards.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. Mr M didnt agree and, by way of a letter
dated December 2019, he raised several points in reply.
I issued my provisional decision on 1 October 2021 explaining why I wasnt intending to 
uphold Mr Ms complaint. An extract of which is set out below:
The relevant rules and industry guidelines:
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook sets out a number of Principles for
Businesses (Principles), which Aviva must follow, including:
Principle 6 - A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat
them fairly.
Principle 8 - A firm must manage conflicts of interest fairly, both between itself and
its customers and between a customer and another client.
The FCAs Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) requires insurers to:
-act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its
customer;
- give customers appropriate information about a policy in good time and in a way 
that is easy to understand. This is so a customer can make an informed decision 
about the arrangements proposed.
The Regulatory Guide, published by the FCA, entitled: The Responsibilities of Providers and
Distributors for the Fair Treatment of Customers (RPPD) includes the Regulators guidance
on what the combination of Principles and the detailed rules require providers and
distributors of financial services in certain circumstances to treat customers fairly.
The RPPD explains that firms should consider the impact of their actions, or inactions, on
the customer throughout the life-cycle of the service being provided.
The 2015 policy terms and conditions:
Page 26 sets out when the parties can make changes to cover. It says Aviva may:
change the terms and conditions of the policy at the renewal date. If there are
changes to the policy, we will let you know before the next renewal date. If you
decide to cancel the policy as a result of such changes, you must let us know in
writing.
Page 12 of the policy confirms Aviva will:
cover specialists fees up to the limits in our fee schedule. If the fee is higher than
the limit in our fee schedule, it is your responsibility to pay the specialist the
difference.
You can view the fee schedule online at  or call our customer service helpline
on..
Specialist is defined as a registered medical practitioner who:
-has at any time held and is not precluded from holding a substantive consultant
appointment in an NHS hospital, or
-holds a Certificate of Higher Specialist Training issued by the Higher Specialist
Training Committee of the relevant Royal College or faculty, or
-is included in the Specialist Register kept by the General Medical Council and who is
recognised by us to provide the treatment you require for your condition.The update dated September 2016 regarding changes to the policy:
This sets out a summary of the main policy changes effective from the next policy renewal
date  which in Mr Ms case was when the policy renewed in or around January 2017.
On page 2 (of 4) it says:
At Aviva we are constantly reviewing our products to ensure they continue to meet
your needs. We are making a number of changes to your Healthier Solutions policy
that will apply from your renewal date so please read the information below carefully.
Full details of all the changes listed here can be found in your terms and conditions
booklet. If you have any questions about these changes, please contact us.
This included changes to consultation fees.
It said:
Consultation fees
Were working with specialists and other treatment providers to ensure that our
customers have fast access to the appropriate treatment at a sustainable price. Your
Healthier Solutions policy includes cover in full for consultations with specialists or
other practitioners who are recognised by us and who have agreed to our guidelines
for consultation fees. We call these specialists/practitioners fee approved.
If you have an eligible consultation with a specialist or other practitioner who is fee
approved then we will pay in full. However, if you have an eligible consultation with a
specialist/practitioner who isnt fee approved we will only pay up to the limits we pay
our fee approved providers. This could leave you with a shortfall that the policy does
not cover.
The policy terms and conditions dated March 2018 (relevant to the dates on which claims
were made under the policy):
Consultation fees
We will pay in full for consultations with a fee approved specialist or other fee
approved practitioner. If you have an eligible consultation with a specialist or other
practitioner who is not fee approved we will only pay up to the limits we pay our fee
approved providers. This could leave you with a shortfall that the policy does not
cover. If the actual cost of the consultation is less than the amount we would have
paid to a fee approved provider, we will pay for the consultation in full.
Fee approved is defined as:
A specialist or other practitioner who at the time of your treatment:
 is recognised by us, and
 has agreed to our guidelines for consultation fees.
Specialist is defined as:
A registered medical practitioner who:
 has at any time held and is not precluded from holding a substantive consultant
appointment in an NHS hospital;
 holds a Certificate of Higher Specialist Training issued by the Higher Specialist
Training Committee of the relevant Royal College or faculty; or is included in the Specialist Register kept by the General Medical Council and who
is recognised by us to provide the treatment you require for your condition.
Ill now explain what this all means for Mr Ms complaint.
Did Aviva act fairly and reasonably by changing the basis on which it would pay consultants
fees under Mr Ms policy in or around 2017?
Looking at the policy terms from 2015, specialists fees were capped at rates set out in
Avivas fee structure.
Thats supported by what Aviva has told us. Its said that prior to 2017, some specialists
were still charging higher than its maximum fees after attending consultations with
policyholders and Aviva had been paying those fees in full. From what Ive seen, Im
satisfied Aviva had taken the commercial decision not to advise customers of this at
consultation stage and to cover any additional amount charged by specialists regardless.
However, Ive seen the review that was carried out by Aviva in 2015 which included a review
of the specialist fees it had incurred relating to consultations that it had been paying in full.
Mr M would like to see the review carried out by Aviva. And I can understand why he would
want to. But the FCAs Dispute Resolution: Complaints Sourcebook (DISP), which sets out
how complaints should be handled, says at DISP 3.5.9 (2) and 3.5.10 that our Service can
accept certain information in confidence. Im satisfied that the review document Aviva has
given us is genuinely commercially sensitive and can be accepted - and considered by us -
in confidence.
Im satisfied that the review document supports that Aviva had undertaken a review of the
private medical insurance market which included looking at the fee structures other insurers
had in place for certain procedures and specialist fees. The review reflects that one
particular insurer had a fee structure in place with lower agreed rates, for initial and follow up
consultations, than the fee structure ultimately adopted by Aviva.
Mr M was notified before renewing his policy in January 2017 that:
If you have an eligible consultation with a specialist or other practitioner who is fee
approved then we will pay in full. However, if you have an eligible consultation with a
specialist/practitioner who isnt fee approved we will only pay up to the limits we pay
our fee approved providers.
That may have been different to what hed experienced before but I think the information he
was given is clearly set out.
Although Aviva made a unilateral change to the terms and conditions, this was a commercial
decision for it to make based on the review it had carried out. And nothing Ive seen
suggests that the decision taken was arbitrarily made or inherently unfair.
Im also satisfied that Mr M had sufficient time to query this if he was unsure what this would
mean for him and his family. And, ultimately, if he didnt agree to that term, he was free not
to renew the policy.
When making this provisional finding, Ive thought about what Mr M has said about being
restricted in his choice about whether to end the policy with Aviva and to take out private
medical insurance with another provider. Particularly as new policies typically exclude pre-
existing medical conditions or are underwritten on a moratorium basis. I understand the pointMr M makes. But in my experience, its not unusual for private medical insurers to have a
fee structure in place for specialists and there is often a disparity between the permitted fees
depending on which medical facility he/she operates from and/or a list of approved
specialists, whose fees they will cover in full. So, even if he had taken a policy with another
provider, his preferred consultants fees may not have been covered  or covered in full.
Ive also taken on board what Mr M says about it being impossible for a prospective insured
person to know the cover actually provided because Aviva doesnt provide information as to
how they set fees for specialists. However, the policy terms do refer to the fee structure
which Mr M  and other policyholders  are able to access. So, Im persuaded that they have
access to information about the amounts Aviva has agreed to pay for consultations before
proceeding with treatment. Theres no regulatory or legal requirement for customers to know
the basis on which an insurer has decided to set specialist fees at the level it has  or for it to
publish the data about how it sets approved specialist fees.
Nor am I persuaded that the imposition of a specialist fee structure resulted in an
unreasonable and significant shift in the parties rights and obligations in favour of Aviva.
And I dont think Aviva acted unfairly.
As Ive gone on to explain below, based on initial and follow-up consultations which took
place between June 2018 and January 2019, Im currently persuaded that there were
specialists available within a reasonable distance of where Mr M and his family lived who
they couldve chosen to see  given the hospital list Mr M had opted for. And whose fees
wouldve been met in full by Aviva as theyd agreed to Avivas fee structure.
So, I think this also supports that Mr M and his family havent been prejudiced  or treated
unfairly - by where they live. Its possible that Mr M is right; that specialists typically charge
more for consultations in that area of the UK he and his family live, given the specialisms of
certain hospitals and the specialists who work there. But Ive seen nothing to else to support
that, due to the fee structure Aviva has in place for specialists, the policy provides less
effective cover because of where Mr M and his family live.
The policy might not cover the fees of his (and/or his familys) specialist of choice in full. But
that doesnt mean that he or his family wouldnt be able to see a suitably qualified specialist
when required, within a reasonable distance from where they live and at a medical facility on
the Trust hospital list. And I dont think thats unreasonable in this particular case. Thats the
nature of medical insurance policies and depends on the level of cover, the specialists
approved by each insurer and extent of the hospital list a policyholder opts for.
Did Aviva act fairly and reasonably by limiting the amount it paid for consultants fees in this
case?
As set out above, the policy terms dated March 2018 allow Aviva to limit fees paid to
consultants as per its fees schedule. And Im currently satisfied that Aviva has fairly and
reasonably relied on the terms of the policy to limit its contribution to the fees for the
consultations which took place between June 2018 and January 2019. I dont think this left
Mr M in an unfair position.
Aviva has provided us a list of specialists whod agreed to its fee structure and were
qualified and experienced in the same area of medicine of the consultants Mr M arranged to
see on 20 June 2018, 3 July 2018 and 29 January 2019. There were five dermatologists,
and 27 orthopaedic specialists, based at medical facilities in Central London/Greater London
covered under the Trust hospital list Mr M had opted for. So, Im persuaded that there were
specialists within the relevant medical fields required by Mr M within a reasonable distance
from where he and his family lived, who had agreed to Avivas fee structure. And so, Mr Mwouldnt have needed to contribute to the cost of those three consultations.
Aviva has told us that it has a standard procedure when customers make contact to
authorise a claim under the policy. It says customers are advised of Avivas fee guidelines
for specialists and that if the specialist the customer wants to see, hasnt agreed to its fee
structure, customers are told that there may be a shortfall that the policy does not cover. And
if the customer is unhappy with this, it offers to find another suitable specialist for them.
Overall, Im satisfied that Mr M was aware that there would be a shortfall if he proceeded to
see a specialist who hadnt agreed to Avivas fee structure. Apart from the fee structure that
was available to view and referred to in the policy terms, Aviva has also provided our Service
with an internal system note dated 20 June 2019 which indicates that Mr M was told about
the average cost it would pay towards first, and follow up, consultations.
Mr M also arranged to see a general medicine specialist on 6 June 2018. Aviva hasnt been
able to confirm how many general medicine specialists had agreed to its fee structure,
located within a reasonable distance to where Mr M and his family lived. It says it can only
provide this information if it knew of the consultants sub-specialty  for example, respiratory
or geriatric. And it doesnt know the underlying reason for the consultation which took place
on 6 June 2018.
But based on the number of dermatologists and orthopaedic specialists who were available
within a reasonable distance from where Mr M and his family lived, I currently think its likely
that there wouldve also been general medical specialists available for Mr M to see on 6
June 2018 whod agreed to Avivas fee structure.
Ive also listened to a recording of a call which took place between Mr M and the Avivas
representative when pre-authorising the consultation on 6 June 2018. Mr M was told that the
specialist he wanted to see hadnt agreed to Avivas fee structure and so Mr M would be
responsible for the shortfall. Mr M was told that he should pay for the consultation up front
and claim back a contribution from Aviva  capped at the rate of its fee structure. Mr M
didnt contest this. If he had, Ive seen nothing to suggest that Aviva wouldnt have given him
the details of other suitable specialists to choose from, who had agreed to Avivas fee
structure.
If Mr M preferred to use a specialist who hadnt agreed to Avivas fee structure thats, of
course, a choice for him. But given the fees incurred in this particular complaint, I dont think
Aviva has acted unfairly by asking Mr M to pay the balance of the specialists fees which are
the subject of this complaint  and were incurred between June 2018 and January 2019.
Further, Aviva has confirmed that it does vary consultation fees by specialty depending on
the complexity of the area of medicine. It also says it does have an uplift process in place
which means that if a case is more complex, it will review with the clinical records and
remunerate accordingly. Ive seen nothing to make me doubt what Aviva says about that.
And nor have I seen any evidence that the consultations Aviva agreed to cover between
June 2018 and January 2019 (capped at the fees set out in its fee structure) were of
sufficient complexity to warrant reviewing the fee it had agreed to contribute.
Response to my provisional decision:
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional decision, and to provide any further
information they felt was relevant. But neither party responded.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has made any new arguments or presented any new evidence theres no 
reason for me to reach different conclusions to those set out in my provisional decision. 
So, for the reasons already set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2021.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman