DRN-4047047
The complaint
Miss S complains that Tandem Motor Finance Limited trading as 1st Stop Car Finance 
irresponsibly granted her a hire purchase agreement she couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In December 2018, Miss S acquired a used car financed by a hire purchase agreement from 
1st Stop Car Finance. Miss S made an advance payment of £1,000 and was required to 
make 47 monthly repayments of around £221 and a final instalment of around £241 if she 
wanted to keep the car. The total repayable under the agreement was around £11,623.
Miss S says that 1st Stop Car Finance didnt complete adequate affordability checks. She 
says she was consistently in her overdraft at the time of the agreement and that she was 
making use of payday lenders. Miss S says she struggled to make the repayments and had 
to take out more loans. 1st Stop Car Finance said that it carried out a thorough assessment 
which included creditworthiness and affordability checks. It said that it validated Miss S 
income through receipt of a payslip and considered the results of her credit check. 1st Stop 
Car Finance said that the credit check showed no defaults, county court judgments or 
delinquent accounts and that Miss S had total borrowing of £999. It said its checks 
suggested the repayments would be affordable for Miss S.  
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought 1st Stop Car 
Finance didnt act unfairly or unreasonably by approving the finance agreement.
Miss S didnt agree and said that she was only earning around £600 in the months leading 
up to the agreement.
The case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
1st Stop Car Finance will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice 
we consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
Before granting the finance, I think 1st Stop Car Finance acted reasonably by verifying 
Miss S income. It also carried out a credit check. I have looked at the credit check results 
and while there are a few missed payments, I do not find that the results raised concerns 
that would have meant the lending shouldnt have been provided or that additional checks 
were required. However, I cant see that 1st Stop Car Finance asked Miss S about her 
expenditure. Although it did complete a credit check, this wont have indicated what Miss S 
regular living expenses were. Without knowing what Miss S regular committed expenditure 
was 1st Stop Car Finance wouldnt have got a reasonable understanding of whether the 
agreement was affordable or not. It therefore didnt complete proportionate checks.
I cant be certain what Miss S would have told 1st Stop Car Finance had it asked about her 
regular expenditure. I dont think 1st Stop Car Finance needed to request bank statements, 
but in the absence of anything else, Ive placed significant weight on the information 
contained in Miss S statements as an indication of what would most likely have been 
disclosed. 
Ive reviewed three months of bank statements prior to the application. These show that 
Miss S regular committed monthly expenditure at the time was around £600. In calculating 
this figure, Ive included costs for insurance, breakdown cover, subscriptions, her phone and 
the payments she was making to support her child. Miss S has explained she was living with 
family at the time and made weekly payments to another family member to cover the costs 
of looking after her child. I note Miss S comment about her income at the time but her 
statements show she was paid fortnightly, and her monthly income was around £1,250. 
Additional to this she received benefits and working tax credits which increased her income 
to around £1,680 which was in line with the amount verified by 1st Stop Car Finance. Taking 
these figures into account, it appears to show the agreement was affordable to Miss S. For 
this reason, Im not persuaded that 1st Stop Car Finance acted unfairly in approving the 
finance. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 May 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman