DRN-2963250
The complaint
Miss F complained that UK Credit Limited lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
Miss F was given loans by UK Credit as follows:
Date Amount Term Monthly 
repayment
Loan 1 05/10/17 £2,000 36 months £95.96
Loan 2 28/06/18 £2,500 60 months £96.51
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. She didnt think UK Credit should have 
provided Miss F with loan 2 and she asked UK Credit to put things right. UK Credit didnt 
agree with the investigators assessment. 
In summary, over the course of an exchange of correspondence, UK Credit mainly said that 
our investigators view wasnt fair and balanced taking account of all the relevant information. 
It said our investigator had relied on an unproven assumption about Miss Fs future financial 
situation and failed to respond to the points UK Credit had asked our investigator to address.
 
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
I think there are some overarching questions I need to consider in order to decide whats 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this particular complaint:
 Did UK Credit complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss F
would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way? If not, what would reasonable and 
proportionate checks have shown at the time?
 Ultimately, did UK Credit make a fair lending decision?
 Did UK Credit act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
UK Credit needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend to Miss F 
irresponsibly. 
It was required to carry out a borrower focussed assessment or affordability check. The 
checks had to be borrower focussed  so UK Credit had to think about whether repaying 
the loan sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Miss F. 
UK Credit had to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss F 
would be able repay her loan sustainably. There was no set list of checks that UK Credit had 
to do, but it could consider a number of different things such as the loan amount, the length 
of the loan term, the repayment amounts, and the borrowers overall financial circumstances.
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more
thorough:
 the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income)
 the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income)
 the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is likely to 
be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an extended period).
UK Credit was required to establish whether Miss F could sustainably repay her loan  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. Of 
course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer 
could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case.
This is because the regulations define sustainable as being without undue difficulties and in 
particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. And 
it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Fs complaint.
Im sorry UK Credit feels our investigator hasnt properly responded to all the points it has 
raised. Id like to reassure UK Credit that Ive looked at the complaint afresh  and Ive 
independently reached the same conclusions as our adjudicator. I would also just repeat 
here that Ive read and considered the whole file, which includes everything UK Credit has 
said, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is relevant to my decision. So I wont 
be commenting on everything UK Credit has said during the course of this complaint where 
theres nothing more I can usefully add to what our investigator has said already. I will deal 
with all the main points that have an impact on the outcome of this complaint. I must look at 
all the available information and decide what I think is most likely. This means making some 
reasonable assumptions where necessary. And I must be impartial. 
As far as I can see, Miss F hasnt objected to what our investigator said with respect to not 
upholding her complaint about loan 1. So I dont think I need to say more about loan 1 
except that Ive reviewed this loan and independently reached the same conclusion as our 
investigator. I think the checks UK Credit did before providing this loan were broadly 
proportionate and I dont think these revealed enough to say that UK Credit shouldnt have 
provided this loan  so Im not upholding this part of Miss Fs complaint.   
But I dont think UK Credit shouldve provided loan 2. Ill explain why I say this.
UK Credit asked Miss F for information about her income and expenditure and obtained a 
credit report. It checked her declared income and assessed her monthly take home pay as 
£2016.62. It allowed for Miss F spending around £1,809 on her living costs, rent and existing 
credit commitments and worked out that after making the monthly repayments on this loan, 
she would still have around £110 left over.From what Ive seen, I think the checks that UK Credit carried out before it agreed to lend to 
Miss F were, broadly speaking, reasonable and proportionate in these circumstances. The 
credit information UK Credit saw didnt suggest that Miss F was over-reliant on expensive 
credit or that she was having any serious problems managing her money. And she had 
answered UK Credits questions about items shown on her payslip and in her credit report. 
So, in the absence of anything in the information it had gathered that seriously contradicted 
what Miss F had told it about her financial situation, I think UK Credit was reasonably entitled 
to accept what Miss F was saying at face value at this early stage in their lending 
relationship. 
But, I dont think that UK Credit made a fair lending decision on this occasion when it 
assessed affordability on the basis that Miss F would have around £110 disposable income 
once she had taken out loan 2.
She had signed up to repay the loan by making 60 payments over a five year term. I dont 
think it was realistic for UK Credit to rely on Miss F being able to afford these repayments 
sustainably over the loan term with only this limited amount of disposable income. UK Credit 
was aware of the extent of her existing outgoings. I think it was clear that money was tight 
and her finances were already stretched. Although this loan was used in part to repay loan 1, 
this didnt leave Miss F any better off as the monthly repayments for loan 2 were much the 
same as she had been paying for loan 1. 
I think UK Credit ought reasonably to have been aware that taking this further costly lending 
was unlikely to help Miss F make sufficient inroads into her overall existing debt position - 
and in fact it potentially increased her indebtedness over the longer term. And working on 
the figures it assessed, I think UK Credit ought to have realised this loan would most likely 
have left Miss F with insufficient money each month to enable her to meet unexpected 
emergencies or one-off costs she was likely to face for herself and her dependent children 
over the next five years. So it shouldnt have provided this loan.  
In coming to my decision, Ive thought carefully about UK Credits argument that Miss F was 
expecting her financial situation to improve in the near future  she had told UK Credit that 
she was expecting to boost her income (by around £500 each month) from a second job. 
And she had other income which UK Credit hadnt factored into its lending decision including 
board and lodging payments from one of her children and child maintenance. She was also 
expecting an increase in her housing benefit. UK Credit was led to understand also that 
deductions being taken off Miss Fs take home pay would cease in a couple of months time. 
But none of this was within Miss Fs direct control and these things were uncertain and/or 
potentially subject to change at short notice. So I dont think it would be fair and reasonable 
to base a lending decision on any of these things. 
I also think its fair to say that it seems unlikely to me that Miss F wouldve chosen to take out 
this expensive borrowing with UK Credit if her financial situation was due to improve within 
the next month to the extent she suggested to UK Credit. 
Overall, I think UK Credit ought fairly to have realised that Miss F was most likely going find 
it very difficult to manage her financial position and that it was unlikely that she would be 
able to sustainably repay her loan over the extended loan term. 
I think in these circumstances, UK Credit should reasonably have concluded that it was not 
appropriate to provide loan 2 to Miss F.
So, I am upholding Miss Fs complaint that she should not have been given the loan.I havent seen anything which makes me think that UK Credit acted unfairly or unreasonably 
towards Miss F in some other way. But taking everything into account, I dont think UK Credit 
should have agreed to provide the loan to Miss F. So UK Credit needs to put things right.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Miss F has confirned she has nothing further to add.
UK Credit has asked me to consider again what it said previously about the fact that Ms Fs 
income was potentially going to increase over the next few months as it assessed 
affordability on the worst case scenario. It said that in order to reach a fair decision I should 
find out more about Ms Fs actual financial situation after the loan completed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our 
website and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint.
Ive taken carefully into account everything thats been said in response to my provisional 
decision. Id like to assure UK Credit that I've thought carefully about everything again before 
coming to my final decision. 
UK Credit hasnt provided me with any new information that changes what I think about this 
case. Id already considered all the main points mentioned above when thinking about my 
provisional decision and addressed in my provisional decision all the points which have a 
bearing on the outcome. 
I would just mention that I have seen some further information about Ms Fs financial 
situation after this loan completed. I think its fair to say that this demonstrates no 
improvement in her finances despite what she told UK Credit. Ms F continued to make use 
of high cost credit, including taking out further high cost lending, so that makes me think it 
very unlikely that she had the amount of disposable income UK Credit assumed she would 
be able to rely on. She also still received working tax credit which doesnt suggest to me that 
her earnings improved substantially. 
I appreciate that UK Credit may still take a different view to me but I still think its fair to 
uphold this complaint for the reasons I explained more fully in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Miss F to repay the principal amount that she borrowed, 
because she had the benefit of that lending. But she has had to pay interest and charges on 
a loan that shouldnt have been provided to her.
If the loan is still outstanding, UK Credit should try to agree an affordable repayment 
arrangement with Miss F - bearing in mind the need to treat her positively and 
sympathetically in those discussions.
If UK Credit has sold outstanding debt it should buy it back, if its able to do so and then take 
the following steps. Otherwise, UK Credit should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve 
the results outlined below.UK Credit should:
 Remove all interest, fees and charges on loan 2 and treat all the payments Miss F made as 
payments towards the capital.
 If reworking Miss Fs loan account results in her having effectively made payments above 
the original capital borrowed, then UK Credit should refund these overpayments with 8% 
simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have 
arisen, to the date the complaint is settled*.
 If an outstanding balance remains, then UK Credit should try to agree an affordable 
repayment plan with Miss F.
 Remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Fs credit file in relation to loan 2.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires UK Credit to deduct tax from this interest. UK Credit 
should give Miss F a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
I partly uphold this complaint and direct UK Credit Limited to put things right for Miss F as set 
out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman