DRN-2967528
The complaint
Ms B has complained that Loans 2 Go Limited was irresponsible in lending to her.
What happened
In February 2018 Loans 2 Go provided Ms B with a loan of £500 repayable over 18 months 
at an APR of 990.1%. The monthly repayments were £113.28.
Ms B fell into arrears with the repayments and complained that Loans 2 Go hadnt properly 
checked she could afford the loan.
Loans 2 Go looked into her complaint and didnt uphold it. It said the checks had been 
properly carried out and it thought the loan was sustainable. Ms B referred her complaint to 
us. 
Our adjudicator upheld Ms Bs complaint. As Loans 2 Go disagreed, the complaint has been 
passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions 
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Ms Bs complaint. These two 
questions are:
1. Did Loans 2 Go complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Ms B 
would be able to repay the loans without experiencing significant adverse consequences?
If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
If not, would those checks have shown that Ms B wouldve been able to do so?
2. Did Loans 2 Go act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required Loans 2 Go to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Ms Bs ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Loans 2 Go had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that the business had to 
ensure that making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Ms B undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That means she should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment she had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and 
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on her financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Loans 2 Go to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Ms B. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Ms Bs complaint.
Ms B told Loans 2 Go when she applied for the loan that her monthly income was £2,800 
and she spent £275 on living costs. To check that, Loans 2 Go carried out a credit search 
and verified her income. Loans 2 Go said it found that Ms B had a minimum monthly income 
of £1,767.96 and it calculated that she had living costs and credit commitments of 
£1,442.08. It said it added a buffer of 10% to her expenditure. On those figures she would 
have had a disposable income of £68.40 after making the new loan repayment to Loans 2 
Go.
Loan 2 Go also carried out a credit search before granting the loan. This showed that Ms B 
had had opened six credit accounts in the last twelve months, including ones in each month 
from August to December 2017. In January 2018 she had failed to make a repayment on 
two credit accounts and had failed to make two repayments on another. She was just over 
the credit limit on one credit card and near the limit on two others. Her existing credit 
commitments would have swallowed up about half of her net monthly income.
I think Loan 2 Gos checks were proportionate for this loan. But simply performing 
proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs to react appropriately to the 
information shown by those checks. I think it should have been obvious to Loans 2 Go that 
Ms B was already finding it hard to keep up with her existing credit commitments and that 
shed probably struggle even more to keep up with the repayments of a new loan. So I dont 
think that Loans 2 Go treated Ms B fairly when it agreed to lend to her as it was likely that 
giving her more credit would simply add to her indebtedness.Ive also thought about whether Loans 2 Go acted unfairly in some other way and I havent 
seen any evidence that it did.
Putting things right
To put things right Loans 2 Go should:
remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan;
treat any payments made by Ms B as payments towards the capital amount of £500;
if Ms B has paid more than the capital then any overpayments should be refunded to 
her with 8%* simple interest from the date they were paid to the date of settlement,
but if theres still an outstanding balance, Loans 2 Go should come to a reasonable 
repayment plan with Ms B; and
remove any negative information about the loan from Ms Bs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go to take off tax from this interest. Loans 2 Go 
must give Ms B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Ms Bs complaint. Loans 2 Go Limited should 
put things right for Ms B as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2022.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman