DRN-1868614
The complaint
Mr B complains that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) overcharged 
him for excess mileage when he returned his car.
What happened
In May 2014 Mr B acquired a car funded by a hire purchase agreement. He has told this 
service that he has had many similar agreements with MBFS and knew the saleswoman 
reasonably well. He says he explained he needed an agreement that allowed for an annual 
mileage of 15,000 just as his previous ones had done. He says he was given the pre-
contract agreement which contained no mileage details and he took this home and reviewed 
it. 
He then signed the final agreement without noticing the mileage quoted was 10,000. When 
the agreement came to an end in early 2018 Mr B agreed an extension and a further one in 
March 2019. The agreement finally terminated in July 2019. Shortly afterwards MBFS 
charged him £2,473.74 for excess mileage. Mr B said he had contacted MBFS throughout 
the agreement to ask if he would get credit as he was doing less than 15,000 miles a year, 
but no reference was made to the 10,000 figure.
MBFS rejected his complaint and said he had signed an agreement with a 10,000-mile 
allowance.  Mr B brought his complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators who recommend it be upheld in part. He regarded Mr Bs testimony as credible 
and he thought that he had been misled by the pre-contract agreement which made no 
reference to the mileage. He thought Mr B had simply presumed the final contract included 
what he had agreed verbally with the saleswoman. 
However, he thought Mr B had some responsibility in ensuring he had been satisfied with the 
final agreement and so he recommended that the agreement be rewritten to allow for a 
mileage of 15,000 and that Mr B pay any outstanding sum.
MBFS didnt agree and said it wasnt possible to make that calculation. The investigator 
suggested that the excess charge be reduced by half and that Mr B be allowed time to pay. 
MBFS didnt agree and said that Mr B had signed the agreement and it was his responsibility 
to make sure it met his requirements. He effectively had the benefit of reduced monthly 
payments since a 15,000-mile agreement would have been more expensive.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have looked at all the evidence which includes the testimony of Mr B which had been both 
consistent and credible. He has maintained his explanation from the outset when he first 
queried the charges in 2019.
I am satisfied that Mr B has had a series of agreements with a 15,000-mile limit. It was with 
that background he entered into a new agreement. I have not seen any evidence from MBFS 
or the dealer which runs counter to that. I am satisfied that he thought he was taking out an 
agreement which allowed him an annual mileage of 15,000. It seems fairly clear that was 
what he was expecting.
I also believe he presumed the agreement he signed allowed for 15,000 miles a year. I have 
noted that the pre contract paperwork given to him in 2019 is laid out differently and sets out 
the proposed mileage. It is not clear why this wasnt the case in 2014. MBFS has placed all 
the onus on Mr B to have ensured he had read the contract. However, since the mileage 
was such a key element of the agreement, I find it odd that it wasnt in the pre-contract 
agreement and it wasnt raised as an issue with Mr B before he signed. I believe both parties 
had a responsibility in this matter.
I have also noted that the agreement was extended twice and no reference was made on the 
documentation to the annual mileage. I find that odd. MBFS regard it, rightly, as a key 
element of the agreement and so I would have thought it would be included. Mr B also says 
that he spoke with MBFS on several occasions about a rebate due to him not using up the 
full allowed mileage, but says he got no meaningful response. MBFS has no record of this.
Putting things right
I think our investigators suggestion that the agreement be re-worked with a 15,000-mile limit 
was fair, but as MBFS is unable to do this then I believe the cost should be shared. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited to reduce the charge for excess mileage to £1,236.87 and to accept 
payments by instalments of up to 12 months.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 November 2020.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman