DRN-3922198
The complaint
Mr C complains about the handing of a claim under his legal expenses insurance policy by 
Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA).
Where I refer to RSA, this includes its agents and claims handlers.
What happened
In approximately 2019, Mr C made a claim on his legal expenses insurance policy to pursue 
a plumbing company who had carried out work in his home. RSA accepted the claim and 
appointed a panel firm of solicitors. 
Mr C has raised previous complaints about the way RSA has handled this claim, but Im only 
looking at whats happened since August 2021. So Ill only summarise the key events from 
this point onwards.
In August 2021, Mr C asked RSA if he could use a different solicitor to the panel firm 
appointed. I understand that at this time, Mr C was acting as a litigant in person with the 
assistance of the panel solicitor. 
In September 2021, RSA said that it was only covering proportionate funding of the claim, 
which had been valued at £7,500. It said costs incurred to date were £4,895 inclusive of 
VAT, which only left £2,605 of proportionate indemnity left. It raised concerns that a change 
of solicitor could increase the costs which would reduce the amount of cover Mr C would 
benefit from, but it asked him to clarify which solicitor he wanted to use. 
In December 2021, Mr C responded that the solicitor he wanted to use was unable to take 
on his case. He asked that the previous panel solicitor pay his claim due to their ineffectual 
work but, failing that, he was willing for another panel firm to be instructed. RSA confirmed it 
would appoint another firm but highlighted to Mr C that the new solicitor would need to 
undertake their own assessment of the claim in the first instance, which would be paid out of 
the indemnity. It asked Mr C if he was happy to proceed.
In January 2022, Mr C informed RSA that hed received an offer from the plumbing company 
for approximately half the value of the claim. Theyd threatened that if he didnt accept this 
and failed to beat the offer in court, he would be liable for their legal costs. Mr C asked RSA 
for legal advice. He followed this up with a call to RSA and was promised a call back, but he 
didnt hear anything.
Four working days later, RSA responded to Mr C. It said the new panel solicitors would need 
to assess the claim before it could do any work on the case, so it suggested Mr C contact 
the legal helpline attached to his policy for advice given the time constraints. But Mr C 
responded the same day to say that hed negotiated a higher offer and settled his claim at 
just over £4,200. 
Mr C complains that due to RSAs handling of his claim and its failure to respond in a timely 
manner, he was left without legal guidance and as a result, he was left with no choice but to 
settle his claim for less than it was worth. In addition, the court fees and expert report costs 
will need to be deducted from the settlement. He says the best help hes had is the informal 
advice received from his family solicitor who didnt think the panel firm had handled the claim 
appropriately. 
RSA upheld the complaint. It apologised for failing to return Mr Cs call and it offered £50 
compensation in recognition of its poor service. In addition, it offered to reimburse the legal 
costs hed incurred on receipt of proof of payment and evidence of the settlement but 
stipulated that this didnt include Mr Cs own time spent as a litigant in person. Mr C wasnt 
happy with this, he wants RSA to pay him the remaining indemnity of £2,605. He brought his 
complaint to our service. 
Our Investigator didnt think RSA needed to do more than it had already offered. He said 
even if RSA had returned Mr Cs call, it had already told him that the solicitors needed to 
review the claim before any advice could be given so he didnt think the poor service had 
made an impact. But Mr C doesnt agree. He says our Investigator hasnt considered the 
consequences of failing to return his call. Furthermore, it has offered to reimburse his legal 
costs, but he didnt incur any as he was acting for himself. 
As Mr C didnt accept our Investigators findings, the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr Cs insurance policy says that it will cover legal expenses 
defined as: 
Your representatives fees, costs and disbursements which we have agreed or the 
costs of any other people involved in the legal proceedings if you have to pay those 
costs. This includes costs following an out-of-court settlement to which we have 
agreed. This does not include any damages, fines or penalties that you have to pay.
The policy has the following exclusion:
What is not coveredlegal proceedings where a reasonable estimate of your total 
legal expenses is greater than the amount in dispute.
I understand that Mr Cs claim was valued at £7,500. As such, funding under the policy was 
limited to proportionate costs of no more than this amount. 
A proportionality clause is common in legal expenses insurance policies, and I dont consider 
it to be unfair. Court action can be expensive. A privately paying customer wouldnt want to 
bear the cost if advised they will recover less than the amount theyd pay in legal fees. And I 
wouldnt expect a legal expenses insurer to either. 
So it follows that I dont think RSA has acted unfairly in putting limited funding in place for the 
claim. 
When Mr C asked to change solicitors, RSA reminded Mr C that it would only pay 
proportionate costs and there was only £2,605 left of proportionate funding. Mr C says it 
basically told [him] that the money left would only allow for [the new solicitor] to read into the 
case but would not stretch to them advising him]. But I dont agree. I think it was reasonable for RSA to make Mr C aware of the cost implications of changing solicitors and I havent 
seen anything to suggest that it implied the costs wouldnt extend beyond an assessment  
nor have I seen that Mr C asked if it would. 
Whilst there may not have been enough funding to see this case through to conclusion at 
court, there was enough for Mr C to see further benefit of the policy cover. The offer to 
instruct the alternative solicitors was on the table from September 2021, but I cant see that 
Mr C accepted this offer. 
When Mr C returned to RSA in January 2022, an offer from the plumbing company was on 
the table with a deadline and a threat of costs. Mr C wanted RSA to give him legal advice but 
there was no solicitor instructed for him under the policy at this time and RSA is not a legal 
advisor  its an insurer. So its not reasonable to expect it to be able to guide Mr C on what 
to do.
I agree that RSAs failure to return Mr Cs call was below the level of service Id expect an 
insurer to provide. But I also agree with our Investigator that the impact of this was minimal 
as RSA wouldnt have been able to give advice. Its likely any conversation wouldve been 
along the same lines of their email response sent four working days later. 
Im satisfied that referring Mr C to the legal helpline was the right thing to do here. Im also 
aware that he was in receipt of legal advice from his family solicitor. And whilst they were 
unable to act for him, it seems that theyd been able to answer Mr Cs previous questions 
and comment on the panel firms handling of the claim, so I think its likely they wouldve 
been able to answer Mr Cs question of whether what the plumbing company had threatened 
was correct.
RSA upheld this complaint and offered to pay Mr Cs legal expenses. I appreciate Mr C feels 
this was a disingenuous offer as hed carried out the work himself. But I can see hes 
incurred court fees and the cost of an expert report, which has been deducted from his 
settlement. These disbursements fall within the definition of legal expenses under the policy, 
so I think this was a reasonable offer for RSA to make. 
I appreciate Mr C wants to be paid the remaining limit of indemnity, but this isnt how the 
policy works. It only covers legal expenses not the claim itself. And whilst Mr C believes he 
couldve obtained a settlement of £7,500 had RSA provided better service, he made the 
decision to negotiate a settlement with the plumbing company outside of the policy cover. 
And there is nothing to show me that he wouldve beaten this amount in court or that he 
wouldve been awarded the full amount hed claimed. 
Taking this into account, Im satisfied the offer of £50 compensation plus Mr Cs legal 
expenses up to £2,605 inclusive of VAT (subject to proof of payment) is fair in all the 
circumstances of the complaint.
My final decision
Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited has already made an offer to pay £50 compensation 
plus Mr Cs legal expenses to settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the 
circumstances.
So my decision is that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited should pay £50 plus the legal 
expenses incurred on this claim subject to proof of payment being provided directly to the 
business. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 21 February 2023.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman