DRN-3396468
The complaint
Miss M says TSB Bank plc unfairly restricted access to her current account which ultimately 
led to her landlord serving her with notice of the termination of her tenancy agreement.
What happened
In early July 2020, TSB became suspicious of an online bill payment of £3,500 that was 
unsuccessfully attempted from Miss Ms account. Miss M spoke to TSB by phone that day to 
make the payment and was asked what the payment was for and to send documents to 
verify her identification (ID) before it could be made. TSBs records show Miss M chose not 
to explain or verify her ID, so TSB blocked online access to the account.
Several months later, in February 2021, Miss M visited a branch of TSB where staff offered 
to call its fraud team while she waited so the account restrictions could be removed. But 
Miss M didnt have the necessary ID documentation to proceed and said shed return 
another time when she needed to use its online banking services.
In June 2021, Miss M again visited a branch of TSB, this time to vary the amount of rent she 
was paying by standing order (SO). Staff there said her account was still showing on its 
systems as restricted due to potential fraud, so it was unable to vary the SO. TSBs notes 
show Miss M was told she could speak to TSBs fraud team by phone while in branch but 
refused as she preferred to speak to them from home. Miss M raised a complaint with TSB 
about the restrictions added to her account.
TSB investigated Miss Ms concerns but didnt uphold her complaint. It said measures were 
taken to protect her account and that the restrictions added to her online banking could have 
been removed had she returned to one of its branches with the relevant ID. It offered to 
consider paying compensation for the expenses shed incurred, such as for fuel and parking, 
in visiting its branches. 
Unhappy with TSBs response, Miss M brought her complaint to this service. She said TSB 
stopping her from varying the SO paid to her landlord for rent had led to them starting the 
eviction process against her. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt recommend that it should be upheld. 
They felt TSB had responded appropriately to suspicious activity on the account by 
restricting access to the account online, despite the inconvenience unfortunately caused to 
Miss M. They believed TSB was entitled to have proof of ID before removing the account 
restrictions and that this hadnt been provided by the time her landlord had written to her. 
The investigator also noted TSB had offered to consider reimbursing Miss M for her travel 
costs. So, the investigator didnt think TSB needed to do anything else.
As Miss M was unhappy with the investigators findings, the complaint was passed to me to 
review afresh and reach a decision. Miss M said the investigator had made several 
assumptions in reaching their conclusions and failed to address all the issues shed raised.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that Miss Ms raised a number of concerns about TSB and has asked for answers 
to several questions. Id like to assure Miss M that Ive thought about everything shes told us 
and asked us. But Im not required to address each and every issue thats been raised. Nor 
do I think that would be particularly helpful. Instead, this decision focusses solely on the 
issues that I consider go to the heart of the complaint. 
Firstly, let me say that I recognise how frustrating it must have been for Miss M to discover 
she couldnt access her account online due to the restrictions TSB had added. I gather 
Miss M had banked online before these issues arose. 
That said, Im mindful that banks owe certain duties to their customers. For example, at a 
high level the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) requires financial businesses to conduct 
their business with due skill, care and diligence. They must also take reasonable care to 
organise and control affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management 
systems.
Miss M says TSBs response to the suspected fraud caused her undue inconvenience in 
trying to use her account as she usually would and had done in the past. I understand the 
point Miss M makes here. After all, the funds within the account were under her control and 
she expected to have reasonable access to them.
Having said that, the attempt to pay a third-party a significant sum of money meant there 
was doubt for a time as to who in fact was trying to access Miss Ms account online from July 
2020 onwards. I think its fair to expect that TSB would look to take extra precautions to 
safeguard Miss Ms account and her money in response to that unusual activity.
Ive also reviewed the account terms and conditions to see whether they support TSBs 
response. They refer to TSB stopping security details in the event that it thinks theyre being 
used by someone else or if it suspects fraud is happening, and if its not provided with ID to 
allow it to verify identity within a reasonable time. The terms and conditions go on to say 
TSB might refuse to make a payment from an account if its not provided with the necessary 
ID within a reasonable time after it was requested.
While understandably inconvenient, the visits Miss M made to her branch potentially allowed 
TSB to safely remove the restrictions that were placed on the online account. The possible 
consequences of TSB not increasing security around the account as it did were very serious 
for Miss M. Especially as, by then, TSB had reasonable cause to suspect that fraudulent 
activity on the account might have occurred. 
I also think the restrictions added to Miss Ms account were made clear to her and were 
proportionate to the risk TSB felt was posed. For example, TSBs record of its face-to-face 
conversations with Miss M in February 2021 indicate to me that shed been made aware her 
internet banking would remain restricted until it had verified her ID. But it confirmed that 
other types of activity on the account were still permitted.
Indeed, while the online banking restrictions were in place, I can see from the copy bank 
statements weve received that Miss M was still able to use the account in other ways. For 
example, by making payments using her debit card or withdrawing cash.I recognise that Miss M feels she was inconvenienced by the account restrictions added by 
TSB and by her failed attempts to restore the account in-branch. But I can see that TSBs 
already agreed to consider reimbursing her for some of the costs she incurred in visiting its 
branches.
Miss M says she took no further action following TSBs letter of 16 July 2020 as she 
understood from it that the account blocks had been removed. Ive reviewed the letter and 
can see it went on to say blocks were removed allowing her to make payments via chip and 
PIN (personal identification number) and contactless. I dont believe TSB implied all 
restrictions  including those relating to online banking  had been removed. While Miss M 
may have misunderstood this, I dont think that was TSBs fault. 
As such, I think it was open for Miss M to have had the restrictions removed from her 
account well before her landlord provided her with notice of the termination of her tenancy 
agreement in the summer of 2021.  
Overall, I dont believe TSB acted unfairly in the circumstances in adding the account 
restrictions when it did. So, I dont require TSB to pay Miss M any further compensation or to 
compensate her regarding her tenancy agreement.
My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 July 2022.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman