DRN-3436003
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y 
Reaseguros, SA. (Mapfre) increased his travel insurance premium.
What happened
Mr W received renewal documents for his annual travel insurance policy, underwritten by 
Mapfre. He complained to Mapfre as his premiums had more than doubled. Unhappy with its 
response, he referred his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think Mapfre had done anything wrong. 
He said were not able to tell Mapfre how it should assess risk or what price it should charge 
to cover that risk. And he said Mapfre hadnt treated Mr W differently to any other customer 
in the same position as him.
Mr W disagreed and says Mapfres calculation of premiums is ageist. 
And so the case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr W, I dont think this complaint should be 
upheld. And largely for the same reasons as already explained by our investigator. 
Id like to reassure Mr W that Ive carefully considered everything he has said even if I dont 
comment on every point hes raised. Instead, Ive focused on what I consider to be key to my 
decision.
Our investigator has already explained in some detail that an insurer can decide how much it 
charges for its policies. Mapfre is entitled to decide whether or not it wants to offer insurance, 
and what price it needs to charge for that. I can look at whether Mr W has been treated in 
the same way as other customers in similar circumstances and hasnt been singled out. 
Mapfre has provided comments from its underwriting team and has explained it considers 
the following risk factors when deciding on premiums: destination, duration, age and medical 
score. It has said age is a factor and when a customer reaches a certain age, it considers 
they fall into a higher risk category. So it charges higher premiums. 
Mr W has said he is healthier and fitter than other customers younger than him and Mapfre 
is discriminating against all of its customers who reach a certain age. But insurers can 
charge more if they consider there is a higher risk for a specific category, as in this example. 
An insurer can decide how risk averse it wants to be. This isnt something I can interfere with 
as were not the industry regulator. I havent seen any evidence that Mr W was treated 
differently to others in similar circumstances to him. And so I cant say Mapfre has treated 
him unfairly. 
Mr W has also complained about the way Mapfre dealt with his complaint  as it responded 
to a complaint which was potentially from another customer. Complaints handling isnt a 
regulated activity and so I cant comment on that. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2022.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman