DRN-4203016
The complaint
Mrs W complains AutoProtect (MBI) Ltd mis-sold her a mechanical breakdown insurance 
policy.
What happened
In 2021, Mrs W bought a 12-month mechanical breakdown insurance policy through 
AutoProtect. When she bought the policy, her car had covered over 78,000 miles and was 8 
years old.
In July 2022, Mrs W renewed her policy on the phone. At this point, her car had around 
84,000 on the clock and was now 9 years old.
In December 2022, Mrs Ws car developed a fault, so she contacted the insurer to claim on 
her policy. The insurer said itd need a report from the garage who had looked at the car to 
decide if the claim was covered. After this had been done, the insurer said the fault was due 
to wear and tear and declined Mrs Ws claim. This is because her car was over 6 years old 
and had done more than 60,000 miles and AutoProtect said the policy didnt cover any wear 
and tear for a vehicle like this. 
Mrs W wasnt happy about this and complained. So, whilst accepting the policy doesnt 
cover wear and tear for cars over 6 years old or with more than 60,000 miles on the clock, 
she says the policy must have been mis-sold to her because it was never going to pay for 
repairs in her situation. She said if shed known this, she wouldnt have bought the policy. 
This left her with a car that had been stripped down to send the report to the insurer (which 
included a video) and a substantial repair bill to fix it and put it back together.
Mrs W complained to AutoProtect. It said it couldnt find any evidence shed been misled into 
believing that wear and tear would be covered. Mrs W brought her complaint to this service. 
The Investigator considered the sale of this policy and didnt think it was fit for the intended 
purpose. This is because Mrs Ws car was already over six years old and had done more 
than 60,000 miles when the policy was sold and so wear and tear wouldnt have ever been 
covered. The Investigator upheld Mrs Ws complaint and asked AutoProtect to refund all 
policy premiums Mrs W paid with 8% simple interest.
Mrs W agrees but AutoProtect hasnt responded so this matter has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think the investigator has reached a fair outcome here. So, I uphold Mrs 
Ws complaint in this matter. Ill explain why.
AutoProtect sold Mrs W her policy on the phone in an advised sale in 2021 and it was 
renewed on the phone in an advised sale in 2022. As this was an advised sale in both 2021 
and 2022, AutoProtect needed to ensure any policy it recommended was suitable for Mrs 
Ws circumstances. It also needed to give Mrs W information about the policy which was 
clear, fair and not misleading. 
Based on what Ive seen about Mrs Ws car at the time, I dont think it was a suitable 
recommendation in 2021 nor 2022. I say this because, looking at the terms of the policy, the 
circumstances in which a person who has a car which is over 6 years old or has more than 
60,000 miles on the clock could make a breakdown claim were limited as anything caused 
by wear and tear was excluded. And, as Mrs W had a car which was over 6 years old and 
had more than 60,000 miles on the clock when she took the mechanical breakdown policy 
out in 2021 and renewed it in 2022, this wouldve made a difference to her. 
Ive therefore thought about what Mrs W would have done if shed been given the right 
advice. 
Having done so, I dont think it likely this policy wouldve been recommended to her for the 
reasons set out above. Even if it had, Mrs W said she wouldnt have bought the policy if 
shed known about this term. She explains, given the age of the car and miles it had done 
when she took out the policy, most repairs would fall into this category in her view. So, she 
wouldnt have bought it as shed feel as though AutoProtect would use this reason to avoid 
paying for any repairs. I note Mrs W also hasnt made a successful claim because of this 
term. 
So, I dont think this policy wouldve been recommended and Im persuaded by Mrs Ws 
testimony she wouldnt have bought it. Because of this AutoProtect should put Mrs W back 
in the position she would have been in if the advice had been suitable and information had 
been clear. To do this, it should refund her the premium of £299 from 2021 and 2022. It 
should also add 8% simple interest to compensate Mrs W for not having the money.
Putting things right
AutoProtect (MBI) Ltd must pay Mrs W £598. It should add 8% simple interest per year to 
her instalments from the date she paid until the date AutoProtect makes payment.
If AutoProtect (MBI) Ltd considers its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from the interest, it should tell Mrs W how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mrs W a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs, if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mrs Ws complaint and so AutoProtect (MBI) Ltd 
needs to put things right by following the steps outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 August 2023.
 
Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman