DRN-2237867
The complaint
Mr T complained about what happened when he asked Paragon Bank Plc to send him a 
paper statement for his recently closed account.
What happened
Mr T sent Paragon a message on 16 June, when his fixed rate savings account matured. He 
asked for a statement showing interest earned on a monthly basis. Hes told us he wanted to 
check interest had been applied correctly to the account, and he wasnt able to check that for 
over a month. He said when he finally got the statement, the interest was fine. 
Paragon accepted that it hadnt responded to Mr Ts secure message. It initially referred to 
this as a delay, but later accepted that it had actually archived Mr Ts message without 
responding to it.
Mr T called Paragon on 29 June. It said then that a closing statement had been sent to him 
on 26 June. But it hadnt.
Paragon said it emails its customers when an account is closing, and tells them how to 
access the closing statement online. It appreciated that Mr T found this difficult, and said it 
would note his feedback on that. 
Paragon called Mr T in early July, and said sorry that it hadnt responded to his secure 
message. It arranged for a paper statement to be sent to Mr T by post. Paragon said it would 
pay Mr T £30 to apologise for everything that had gone wrong. 
Our investigator thought this complaint should be upheld. He didnt think the offer that 
Paragon had made was quite enough to make up for what had gone wrong in this case. He 
said Mr T had to wait for around three weeks before he got the information he wanted, and 
our investigator thought Paragon shouldve been able to respond to Mr T within a day or two. 
Our investigator also thought Paragon provided Mr T with a poor service when he 
complained. So our investigator said Paragon should pay Mr T £100.
Mr T disagreed, he said Paragon had written to him to say there was a delay in responding 
to his secure messages, but in fact it had never replied at all. And Paragon also replied, 
setting out further information. It wanted clarification of how our investigator had come to this 
figure, and summarised where it thought it had gone wrong. It said that it had a large number 
of customers seeking help at the time when Mr T send his secure message, and it told Mr T 
then that unfortunately there would be a delay in getting back to him. Paragon said that the 
information Mr T wanted was always available to him online. 
Our investigator didnt change his mind. He said that hed considered Paragons failure to 
respond in reaching his previous conclusion. And he still didnt think Paragon had provided 
an adequate service, even if it was under operational pressure at this time. He notedthat 
Paragon had confirmed it had archived Mr Ts message without replying to it, because it 
wrongly assumed he would already have received a statement. And even if the information 
Mr T wanted was available online, it was apparent that Mr T found it difficult to locate that. 
Our investigator still thought Paragon should pay Mr T £100 in total.
Paragon agreed, and sent Mr T the further £70 our investigator recommended. But Mr T 
didnt agree. He still wanted £150. 
Our investigator didnt change his mind. He still thought £100 was fair. Mr T wanted his 
complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on tis complaint as our investigator. 
Paragon has argued that it was particularly busy at the time Mr T made his request, and so it 
wasnt able to respond promptly. If that was the reason why Mr T didnt receive a response, I 
would have considered this. But it isnt. Paragon had wrongly archived Mr Ts request 
without responding to it, because it thought he would already have received a paper 
statement. Paragon overlooked that it no longer routinely issues these. 
Paragon has also said Mr T could always have looked at his statements online. But Mr T 
says that he wanted one overarching statement for his account in paper copy. He wasnt 
able to access that online until Paragon talked him through this, some time after hed made 
his request.
I think Mr T received poor service from Paragon. It didnt respond to his message, and then 
when he contacted it, it reassured him that the statement he wanted was in the post, when it 
wasnt. I think our investigator was right to say that £30 isnt quite the right amount to make 
up for that. He suggested a total of £100, and thats the amount I would also propose in this 
case.
Mr T said that he thought Paragon should pay £150. But I dont agree. I appreciate that its 
been frustrating for Mr T dealing with Paragon. But aside from that, I think the impact on him 
has otherwise been limited. He does now have the document he wanted, and hes been able 
to confirm that interest was applied properly. And, although he wasnt able to access the 
information in the format he wanted until Paragon replied to him, that information was always 
available to him. So I still think £100 is a fair and reasonable amount to resolve this 
complaint. 
I know that Paragon has already paid Mr T this money. This complaint will still be upheld, 
because our service has asked Paragon to do more than it had done before Mr T 
complained to us. But Ill allow Paragon to offset the money it has paid Mr T against my 
award. So if it has paid Mr T a total of £100 for this complaint, then it doesnt have to pay any 
more now. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Paragon Bank Plc should pay Mr T a total of £100 in compensation. 
It can offset against my award any money it has already paid Mr T for this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2020. Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman