DRN-2853456
The complaint
Mr A complains that Ferratum UK Ltd lent to him irresponsibly. He said that they did not
carry out proper checks and got his date of birth wrong on one credit search it did.
Mr A also complains that Ferratum did not consider his health issues at the time the loans
were approved. 
What happened
Using information Ferratum has sent to us, here is a brief loan table. 
Loan Approved Amount Interest paid Paid back term
1* 17 October
2018£500 £84 8 November 2018 3 months in two 
payments
2* 7 January
2019£300 £34 (rounded) 21 January 2019 25 days
3* 22 January
2019£100 £2 (rounded) 25 January 2019 10 days
4 26 January
2019£100 Unpaid unpaid 34 days
*repaid early.
After Mr A had complained, Ferratum sent to him its final response letter (FRL), in which it
said it would uphold his complaint in part. That meant that Ferratum was willing to remove
the interest due on loan 4 (around £76) which meant Mr A would have had an interest free
loan. The £100 principal sum remained outstanding.
Mr A rejected this outcome and referred his complaint to this Service.
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and did not think that Ferratum needed to do
anything to put things right.
Mr A was not content with that and asked that it be reviewed. He explained that he had not
been in work since 2016, was in receipt of DWP benefits and had mental health problems.
I issued a provisional decision on 21 May 2021 and that is duplicated in this final decision 
and is in italics to differentiate it. In that provisional decision I said I was planning to uphold 
the complaint in relation to loans 3 and 4, and to go further in relation to the redress by 
directing that Ferratum write off the whole of loan 4. I gave my findings in relation to Mr As 
mental health submissions, and on other matters which I know had caused Mr A concern.
Ferratum agreed to that. Mr A is not content and I address these responses later in this final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We have set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Ferratum needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it did not lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr A
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could include several different
things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers
income and expenditure.
In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be
reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr A should
fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the
consumer.
These factors include:
having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of time 
(reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had 
become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ferratum was required to establish whether Mr A could sustainably repay his loans  not just
whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This
is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being the
ability to repay without undue difficulties. The customer should be able to make repayments
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments, and without having to borrow to meet
the repayments.
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a
borrower will not be able to make their repayments sustainably if they need to borrow further
in order to do that.
I have carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Mr As complaint.My provisional decision findings dated 21 May 2021
I wrote to Ferratum to ask about the credit search history. I was sent a credit search set of
results for October 2018 which seems to dovetail with Mr As first loan application. I refer to
this later in the decision.
And I asked Ferratum about the loan 4 offer set out in its FRL. I understood it to have been
withdrawn after Mr A had brought his complaint to this Service. The latest information from
Ferratum is not entirely clear as to whether that loan 4 interest free offer is still available. But
this is largely irrelevant considering my provisional findings here.
Before loan 1 was approved, Ferratum had carried out a credit check. That does appear to
show that Mr A had a historic County Court Judgement or Judgments (CCJ) and one or both
may have been for around £715. Having looked at the credit search results it seems that this
(or these) likely pre-dated Mr As loan 1 application by some time as the report also indicates
that his last default had been 56 months earlier  over four years before. Theres no date
stipulated for the CCJs.
I have thought carefully about these CCJs in Mr As past, but that report about his credit
situation did not reveal much other debt. And Ferratum had been informed by Mr A that he
was earning £1,500 a month. And overall, I have provisionally decided that the checks it
carried out for Mr A as a new customer in October 2018 were proportionate. So, I do not
plan to uphold Mr As complaint for loan 1.
For loan 2, all I have said for loan 1 is repeated here. It was a smaller loan, applied for two
months after Mr A had successfully repaid loan 1 and so I think that Ferratum carried out
proportionate checks and for loan 2. I would not have expected it to do more.
Loan 3 was for £100, which was much smaller than the other two loans, but was applied for
just two weeks after he had needed credit with loan 2, and one day after he had repaid
loan 2. I think that additional checks to see if Mr A had any other short term loans or other
credit commitments ought to have been carried out, despite it being for a smaller amount.
Ive very little evidence about that loan. I do not have a copy of the application by Mr A, nor
any credit search which may have been done. And so, I have used the information I do have
from Mr A to see what Ferratum may have discovered if it had carried out additional checks
before approving the third loan.
Mr A has sent to us partial screenshots of some of his bank statements for late November 
2018 through to late January 2019. These are not ideal as they are not statements which 
cover all those months - only odd weeks. From those I can see that Mr A was receiving 
around £218 DWP EESA (enhanced employment and support allowance).
These usually are paid every two weeks. There are other credits into his account but I am
not clear what they are. So, I cannot come to any firm conclusions as to Mr As income in
total over a given month.
The partial bank statements do indicate that he took a £400 high cost short term loan from
one lender on 12 January 2019, another for £200 from a different lender on 19 January 2019
and then a further £400 from the first lender on 21 January 2019. This translates into £1,000
in 9 days from other lenders, as well as the loans he had applied for with Ferratum. Its likely
that any credit searches done may well have captured that Mr A was taking these additional
loans and so, had Ferratum seen this, I think it likely would have reconsidered whether
lending to Mr A for a third time on 22 January 2019 was responsible.On current evidence I think that Ferratum ought not to have lent to Mr A for loan 3 and so
I am planning to uphold his complaint on that part.
Loan 4 was for a small sum of £100 but this would have been his fourth loan and the third
within 19 days. And so, the evidence I have from Mr A, albeit patchy, does lead me to reach
the same conclusions as I did for loan 3.
On current evidence I think that Ferratum ought not to have approved loan 4 for Mr A and so
I am planning to uphold his complaint on that part.
Mental health Guidance CONC 2.10
Mr A has provided us with some documentation to show the extent of his mental health 
issues and I am sorry to see that Mr A is having to deal with this in his life. This evidence
dates from February 2020 and I acknowledge it post-dates the loan applications Mr A was
making with Ferratum. But I have no reason to doubt Mr A when he says that these issues
have been long term. So, I think its fair to Mr A to address this part of his complaint. It has
not been addressed before and is one of the reasons I have issued a provisional decision.
My review of the mental capacity element of Mr As complaint has led me to consider the
statutes relating to mental capacity and the Code of Practice linked with that legislation. In
relation to a complaint against a lender for irresponsible lending, then the Financial Conduct
Authority (FCA) CONC Guidelines chapter 2.10 on Mental Capacity Guidance is the relevant
set of provisions. I have considered whether Ferratum had complied with it. And reviewing
these, together with the evidence I have been sent by Ferratum, I do not have enough to be
able to make a provisional finding that there was a breach.
A firm when granting a consumer credit agreement should consider the customer's
individual circumstances.
The starting point is set out in CONC 2.10.4 of the Guidance which states that
A firm should assume a customer has mental capacity at the time the decision has to
be made, unless the firm knows, or is told by a person it reasonably believes should
know, or reasonably suspects, that the customer lacks capacity.
And the FCA Guide lists some behavioural indicators which, if the lender observes any, may
lead to the firm having reasonable grounds to suspect that a customer may have some form
of mental capacity limitation. These are in CONC 2.10.8 and are a guide list. They are too
numerous to set out here. Having reviewed the sorts of flags and behavioural indicators the
FCA has listed in CONC 2.10.8 then I have no evidence to indicate that Ferratum knew, or
reasonably suspected, that Mr A lacked capacity.
And even if it did have any grounds, CONC 2.10.7 guidance states this does not
necessarily mean that the customer does not have the mental capacity to make an informed
borrowing decision.
As I have outlined earlier, I do not have enough to be able to make a provisional finding that
there was a breach. So, on current evidence I do not uphold this part of Mr As complaint.Date of birth on a credit report
Mr A is concerned that one of his credit report screenshots he has sent to us indicates that
Ferratum did report the lending to the credit reference agencies but used his incorrect date
of birth. He is concerned that this would have made a material difference.
Having received one full set of credit search results (referred to earlier in this decision) and
having looked carefully, I can see that the incorrect date of birth was used originally but this
appears to have been corrected to the correct date later in the result report. And other 
details like the specific flat Mr A lives in, at the address we (and Ferratum) have for him was
all correct. So, on balance I do not think that this has made any material difference to Mr As
lending relationship with Ferratum.
Loan 4 outstanding sum
Having been made aware of Mr As current circumstances, both financially and his health
situation, then I have decided that its unlikely Mr A will be able to repay loan 4 easily, and
possibly not at all. To have this debt remaining with the possibility of missed payments and
default reports to his credit file, which will only add to his stress, then I have decided to take
it a little further.
Ferratum has indicated that it wishes to assist Mr A and in the recent past has said it would
concede the interest on loan 4. My provisional decision is that I am planning to direct that
Ferratum writes loan 4 off completely and alleviates the need for Mr A to have to repay the 
principal sum. This is reflected in the redress section below. 
My final decision 
Ferratum has agreed with my provisional decision. It has sent to us some calculations to 
give an indication on the redress figures. 
The interest paid by Mr A on loan 3 was around £2, which means that the refund due on it is 
very low  less than £3. And I was content for Ferratum to use it to set-off against the unpaid 
£100 loan 4. And Ferratum has agreed to write off all of loan 4, and has gone further by 
saying it will remove the history of loans 3 and 4 from Mr As credit file. This means that Mr A 
has nothing else to pay to Ferratum.
Mr As response to my provisional decision was: 
they will remove loan 4 from my credit file with no financial offer for loan 3 which 
I paid in full with interest can you please let the ombudsman know about it as I am 
not happy with Ferratum offer.
I need to make it clear to Mr A that this is not an offer, but is Ferratum doing what I said it 
ought to do in order to put things right for Mr A. 
In relation to Loan 3, its not usually the case that the principal sum lent  here £100  is 
refunded on a successful complaint. Usually we direct that the interest and charges are 
refunded plus an additional level of interest on top. And Mr A needs to understand that as he 
paid about £2 in interest on loan 3 that is all thats in the calculations for that loan. 
And in relation to Loan 4, Mr A has received the £100 principal sum when he took the loan in 
January 2019, and  Ferratum has agreed to write of that The net result is that Mr A owes no 
more to Ferratum and that the £100 principal sum he received with loan 4 is his to keep. His 
credit file will be amended to remove the credit history in relation to loans 3 and 4. I appreciate that Mr A may be disappointed not to be receiving some sort of pay-out from 
Ferratum but the total write-off for loan 4, which Ferratum has agreed to do, is just as 
valuable to Mr A. I hope that he understands the outcome. 
In any event, Mr As response does not provide for me anything further which is likely to alter 
my provisional decision findings in relation to any of his complaint. 
I see no reason to depart from the findings I reached in the provisional decision and uphold 
Mr As complaint in part for the same reasons I did before and which are set out in italics 
earlier in this decision. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Ferratum should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened had it stopped lending to Mr A from loan 3, as Im satisfied it ought to
have. 
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Mr A may have simply left matters there, not
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative 
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to now accurately reconstruct.
From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real
and substantial chance that a new lender would have been able to lend to Mr A in a
compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable
to conclude that Mr A would more likely than not have taken up any one of these options.
So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Mr As liability in this case for what Im satisfied it has
done wrong and should put right.
Ferratum ought to do as follows:
refund all interest and charges on loan 3; and
pay interest of 8% simple a year* on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement; and
write off loan 4 completely; and
Ferratum has agreed to remove loans 3 and 4 from Mr As credit file completely and 
I endorse that. Ferratum can use the refund on loan 3 to carry out a set-off with the debt owed on loan 4. If
Ferratum wants to do this it must do it after tax has been accounted for. I realise that these
are small sums as the interest paid on loan 3 was about £2. 
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Ferratum to take off tax from this interest. It must give
Mr A a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr As complaint in part and direct that Ferratum UK Ltd 
does as I have outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 July 2021.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman