DRN-3225760
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that they unknowingly underinsured their property because of the 
way their buildings policy was sold by Highworth Insurance Limited (HIghworth). They say 
this had led to a substantial loss following a fire at the property.
What happened
Highworth is a financial intermediary that researches insurance policies and sells them to 
members of the public. Highworth has used a representative to help with its responses, but 
for ease of reading Ill simply refer to Highworth from now on.  
In late 2017 Mr and Mrs C bought insurance through Highworth for a holiday home they had 
bought a few months earlier.
In June 2019 the property was devastated by a fire, and Mr and Mrs C approached the 
insurer to claim. The insurer accepted the claim, but said it thought Mr and Mrs Cs property 
was under-insured, as the rebuild value was much higher than the figure theyd used when 
insuring the property.
The insurer said it would only pay a percentage of the claim  leaving Mr and Mrs C to find 
about £100,000 towards the cost of re-instating the property.
Mr and Mrs C contacted Highworth and complained, saying Mr C had asked about whether 
the rebuild figure was the purchase price when he called to arrange the insurance in 2017, 
and based on the response he got had used that figure. Unfortunately, because the property 
was built in a very traditional manner, and is also a grade two listed building, the rebuild 
figure turned out to be much higher.
Highworth said it hadnt done anything wrong, so Mr and Mrs C asked us to review their 
complaint.
Our investigator looked at the script Highworth uses when discussing rebuild values and 
didnt think it prompted Mr and Mrs C to consider the unusual nature of the property when 
deciding what a rebuild figure should be. Nor did she think there was any evidence that 
Highworth pointed out the problems that could arise if the building was under insured.
She recommended Highworth pay Mr and Mrs C the difference between the total amount of 
their claim and the payment they got from the insurer, and £200 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience theyve suffered.
Highworth objected, saying Mr and Mrs C cant have been unaware of the rebuild cost as 
theyd had the property valued and that figure would be included in the report. When we 
shared a copy of the valuation, which didnt include a rebuild cost, Highworth said it was still 
clear, in both the valuation and the paperwork it had sent to Mr and Mrs C, that this figure 
would or could be different from the purchase price. It had also reminded them to check that 
the information their insurance was based on was accurate. Highworth says, essentially, that 
it was Mr and Mrs Cs own fault that theyd underinsured the property.
Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is no doubt that this property was under insured. Thats clear from the way the insurer 
has met the claim  which has left Mr and Mrs C in the position that theyve decided to sell 
the stripped out property, as they cant afford to pay for full restoration out of their own 
pocket.
That must be very upsetting for them, and goes some way to show the level of impact under-
insuring a property can have.
The key question here is whether Highworth conducted the sale of the insurance in a way 
that meant Mr and Mrs C were clear about how to assess the rebuild figure for the property 
and the potential impact of not getting that figure right.
Like our investigator, Ive looked at the script Highworth says it uses for this part of a 
property insurance sale over the phone. The only question about rebuild value is What is 
the rebuild value of the property.
This question comes some time after Mr and Mrs C were asked to confirm the construction 
of the building. So by the time the rebuild question is asked, Highworth knew this was a very 
old building with a partly thatched roof. We know Mr and Mrs C answered questions about 
the construction clearly, because their insurance schedule reflects that. 
Id expect any broker, when selling a policy, to tell a customer about questions that, if 
answered incorrectly, could have a serious impact on any potential claim. And in the case of 
a rebuild value, we normally say its fair to expect brokers to point customers towards a 
means of checking that theyve got the rebuild figure correct. Theres no evidence that this 
was done by Highworth. I think thats an error, especially as Highworth knew this was a 
property with an unusual construction, which could lead to more expensive rebuild costs 
than is normally the case. And Im also taking into account that its Highworth whos the 
expert in selling policies  not Mr and Mrs C. Mr C says he asked, when answering the 
rebuild value question, if that meant the purchase price. I dont have any reason to doubt he 
asked the question, nor that he relied on the answer he got when giving his estimation of the 
rebuild value. 
Highworth has suggested in its latest comments that this meant Mr and Mrs C paid less for 
their insurance. Theres no evidence to support this statement, so I cant give this much, if 
any weight. And Ive seen that when asked to increase the level of cover in a later renewal 
Mr and Mrs C did that, which suggests they did want to cover the property at the appropriate 
level, even if that was too late to affect their ongoing claim. So Im not persuaded they 
wouldnt have bought the higher level of cover at the outset if Highworth had done all it 
should during the sale.  
Highworth raised some other points. One of its main arguments  that Mr and Mrs C must 
have been given a rebuild figure in the valuation report  fell away once the report was 
shared. However, Highworth insists Mr and Mrs C must have known the importance of the 
rebuild cost figure from both the wording in the valuation and the paperwork it sent by email 
after the sale. Im not persuaded either of those arguments removes Highworths 
responsibility for explaining, during the sale, how to get an accurate rebuild value and the 
impact of getting the figure wrong.
I say that because, from what Ive seen, the valuation paperwork describes what a rebuild 
valuation is  but I dont think that means Mr and Mrs C must therefore have known that, for 
their particular house, there might be a marked difference between the purchase price and the rebuild cost. And of course no rebuild cost was provided  so I dont think its reasonable 
to conclude Mr and Mrs C must have been aware there was actually a large difference in the 
two figures. The same applies to the paperwork Highworth sent. Simply asking a customer to 
confirm if figures are correct, doesnt mean Mr and Mrs C were alerted to the fact that there 
was a difference between purchase and rebuild costs. Nor does it mean Highworth wasnt at 
fault when it sold the insurance over the phone. 
Highworth also says Mr and Mrs C didnt insure the property as soon as they took 
possession  or if they did, they let the cover lapse. Highworth says this is evidence that Mr 
and Mrs C were willing to consciously under insure the property. I havent seen anything 
that supports this assertion. When we asked Mr and Mrs C about what happened, they 
explained that theyd simply forgotten to insure the property because of a number of other 
things going on at the time. That kind of thing can happen  and of course if something had 
happened to the property whilst they werent insured theyd have had to bear the 
consequences. Im not persuaded a temporary oversight means Mr and Mrs C might have 
consciously under insured the property when they did buy cover. Im also aware that        
Mr and Mrs C had been paying for insurance for about 18 months when the fire occurred. So 
it appears that as soon as they realised theyd forgotten to insure the property in 2017 they 
rectified this and continued to insure the property from then on. 
Finally, Highworth says Mr and Mrs C were commercial property investors. Thats based on 
the fact that they bought a holiday home that they were also going to let out. I cant see that 
this impacts on this complaint. As far as I can see Mr and Mrs C own their own home  and 
this one, which is a holiday home. I dont think deciding to let it out means they are then 
experienced or expert in assessing rebuilding costs and the impact of getting the figure 
wrong. As I said before, this is Highworths field of expertise, not Mr and Mrs Cs.
Taking everything into account Im going to uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
To put things right Highworth should put Mr and Mrs C back in the position theyd have been 
in if their buildings claim had been fully met by the insurer. As Highworth isnt an insurer, this 
will have to be by means of monetary compensation.
Mr C says that the insurer has recently settled this claim in full. Its done that partly by 
undertaking some work itself and partly by way of a cash settlement to Mr and Mrs C. I 
understand the insurer has reduced the full value of the claim to take account of the fact that 
Mr and Mrs C were under-insured by 24.59%. So Highworth must pay Mr and Mrs C the 
difference between the full value of the claim and the amount they received. Highworth will 
need to make the relevant enquiries with the insurer and reach an agreed position with Mr 
and Mrs C on the actual amount. Whether Mr and Mrs C then complete the work isnt 
something Highworth can factor into how it calculates the compensation.
Our investigator also recommended Highworth pay £200 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience Mr and Mrs C have suffered. Mr C has said the worry wasnt as high as it 
would have been if this had been their main home, so Im satisfied this is an appropriate 
amount.
 
 
My final decision
My decision is that Highworth Insurance Limited must pay Mr and Mrs C the compensation outlined above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 January 2022.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman