DRN-2653834
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain about their insurer, QIC Europe Ltd (QIC). Their complaint relates to 
the settlement of a claim in respect of liability to a third party under their home insurance.
 
QIC use a claims handling company as an agent with delegated authority to deal with claims 
and complaints. In referring to QIC in this decision, this includes their agent.
What happened
In June 2020 Mr and Mrs H were out walking their two dogs, when they met a third party out 
walking their dog. The dogs went up to each other and Mr and Mrs H heard a noise. Mr and 
Mrs H talked to the other party and they noticed a wound on the other partys dog, which the 
other party said had been caused by one of Mr and Mrs Hs dogs. Mr and Mrs H exchanged 
contact details with the other party, and later that day the other party contacted Mr and Mrs 
H to tell them that they had taken their dog to a vet to have the wound attended to. Mr and 
Mrs H thought that as the owner of the dog that they believed had caused the wound, they 
would be liable for the vets bill (£580). They also thought that their policy would cover them 
for the liability.
Mr and Mrs H lodged a claim for the vets bill with QIC, who declined the claim in August 
2020 on the grounds that Mr and Mrs H had admitted liability to the other party and settled 
the vets bill directly before lodging the claim with QIC. Mr and Mrs H complained about 
QICs decision to decline their claim. In their Final Response Letter in August 2020 QIC 
stood by their decision to decline the claim. QIC referred to the Claims procedures and 
conditions section of Mr and Mrs Hs policy, which stated that:
6.  You must not under any circumstances admit any liability or responsibility or 
negotiate or settle any part of any claim without first getting our permission in 
writing.
QICs response went on to acknowledge that Mr and Mrs H did not feel that the 
circumstances of the incident meant that there would be any potential to dispute liability, and 
therefore they had felt comfortable settling the vets bill and then making a claim for its 
reimbursement under their policy. However, QIC recognised that while Mr and Mrs H settling 
the vets bill was contrary to the policy terms and conditions, they were attempting to avoid a 
prolonged situation for the other party. QIC offered 50% of the bill (£290) as a gesture of 
goodwill.
Mr and Mrs H did not accept this offer as they believed that their admission of liability had 
not prejudiced the outcome of the incident in terms of liability, and that their actions were fair 
and reasonable and saved QIC time and money in what Mr and Mrs H considered was a 
straightforward case (where liability was, in their view, clear). Mr and Mrs H maintained that 
they should have been covered for the full cost under their liability to other parties section of 
their home insurance policy.
Mr and Mrs H were unhappy at the outcome of their complaint and complained to this 
service in September 2020. The main issue of their complaint was that they believed that 
they should have had been reimbursed for the cost of the vets bill of £580. They also 
requested compensation for their time, effort and distress for the way that their claim and 
subsequent complaint was handled.
Our investigator considered the circumstances of the complaint. The investigator considered 
that while Mr and Mrs H shouldnt have accepted liability or paid the vets bill without 
discussing the matter with QIC, it was arguable whether Mr and Mrs Hs actions would have 
adversely affected the outcome of the claim as liability appeared to be clear from the 
circumstances of the incident. The investigator concluded that it was also arguable whether 
QIC had acted fairly in declining Mr and Mrs Hs claim on the grounds that they had 
breached the terms and conditions of the policy. However, the investigator also concluded 
that QICs offer to pay Mr and Mrs H £290 was fair and reasonable, and QIC didnt need to 
take any further action.
Mr and Mrs H disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman 
review the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether QIC has acted fairly towards Mr and Mrs H.
The main part of Mr and Mrs Hs complaint is that their claim should not have been rejected. 
Ive considered the circumstances concerning the incident, including the reasons given by 
QIC for rejecting Mr and Mrs Hs claim as well as their subsequent complaint.
 
Ive noted the section of the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Hs policy set out above that 
state that policyholders must not admit any liability or responsibility or negotiate or settle any 
part of any claim without first getting permission from QIC. Ive also noted a further 
requirement in the same section that states:
8. Immediately tell us and provide full details in writing if someone is holding you or 
your family responsible for damage top their property or for injury to them. You must 
send us any letter of claim, claim form, writ, summons or other legal document as 
soon as reasonably possible. Do not answer these and do not admit liability.
Ive concluded that these terms and conditions are clear, and that in settling the vets bill Mr 
and Mrs H were accepting liability to the other party for the injury to their dog. Mr and Mrs H 
also stated themselves that by doing this they were accepting liability. QIC have said that by 
accepting liability Mr and Mrs H denied QIC the opportunity to consider the incident and 
determine whether there was liability and whether to accept a claim. QIC have also stated 
that they would not wish to concede liability because that might lead to implications, for 
example were there to be other, latent injuries to the other partys dog that could result in 
additional future claims against QIC. I dont think this is an unreasonable position for QIC to 
take.
 
Ive also noted that in offering, as a goodwill gesture, a payment of £290 to Mr and Mrs H, 
QIC offered a higher figure than Mr and Mrs H would have received had their claim been 
accepted. Thats because under the terms of their policy, an excess of £350 would have 
been applied by QIC to the cost of settling the claim.
 
Mr and Mrs H dispute that the terms and conditions of their policy would mean an excess 
would be deducted from the cost of a claim in respect of liability to a third party. Theyve also 
referred to the terms and conditions of insurance policies from other insurers in the market that they believe indicate that an excess would not be applied to claims for third party 
liability.
 
Taking the first of these points, Ive looked through the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs 
Hs policy, as well as the representations from both QIC and Mr and Mrs H in this regard. 
Based on this consideration Ive concluded that a £350 excess would be applicable to a 
claim of this nature.
 
On the second point, its for each insurer to set out the terms and conditions of the policies 
they offer, and for consumers to decide whether they are content with those terms and 
conditions. I dont think applying an excess in these circumstances is inherently unfair or 
unreasonable.
Applying the excess in the circumstances of this incident and claim would have meant Mr 
and Mrs H receiving £230 (the bill of £580 less the excess of £350). So the offer of £290 
actually puts them in a more favourable position. I think thats fair and reasonable. Ive also 
noted that, in their representations to the investigator, Mr and Mrs H stated that the goodwill 
offer of £290 is not unreasonable.
Based on these considerations Ive concluded that QIC acted fairly and reasonably in 
declining the claim on the grounds of a breach of the policy terms and conditions. I also think 
theyve acted fairly in recognising Mr and Mrs Hs good intentions in settling the vets bill 
directly, and in offering them a goodwill payment that was higher than the payment that Mr 
and Mrs H would have received had their claim been accepted. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 April 2021.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman