DRN-1572571
The complaint
Miss M complains that Blue Motor Finance Limited refused to let her reject a faulty car.
What happened
In March 2019 Miss M acquired a second-hand car costing £11,490 funded by a deposit of 
£2,500 and the balance with a hire purchase agreement. The car was some six years old 
and had done 38,000 miles.
Within a few days Miss M noticed a rubbing sound and took the car back to the dealer. It 
identified a loose panel which it repaired. The problem continued and Miss M took the car to 
be inspected by a main dealer which noted the damage was more extensive and one or 
more panels were held together by cable ties. When Miss M took the car back to the selling 
dealer it said she must have hit a bump and caused the damage and refused to make 
repairs.
Miss M has provided detailed records of exchanges with the dealer and with third parties in 
her efforts to get the car repaired. In October she noticed the car was suffering from 
condensation and water was coming into the passenger cabin. She complained to Blue and 
it said the dealer had addressed the loose panel and the leak was a wear and tear issue 
which had arisen some seven months after the point of sale. It said it was up to Miss M to 
show the car had been faulty when she acquired it. 
Miss M had taken the car to a main dealer which had diagnosed worn flaps which let water 
in, and it gave an estimate to repair the fault and to dry the car out. As she remained 
unsatisfied Miss M brought her complaint to this service where it was considered by one of 
our investigators who recommended it be upheld.
She noted the photos Miss M had supplied which showed the water ingress and the 
diagnosis from the main dealer which confirmed there was a leak within the car from the vent 
flap. It confirmed that the seal had perished and as a result the car would need to be 
repaired, stripped and dried.
Blue said the main dealer had viewed this as a wear and tear matter, but our investigator 
didnt agree. She said that if the seal replacement would form part of the normal car service 
routine she could see that it might be a wear and tear item.
She didnt believe a reasonable person would expect a six year old car costing £11,490, 
after having covered less than 4,000 miles, to have these faults which had made it unusable.
She spoke to the mechanic at the main dealer who had inspected the car and he said he 
thought it more likely than not that the fault would have been developing at the point of sale. 
She suggested Blue may wish to commission and independent report but it didnt agree to 
this. She also noted the fact that the car had suffered the fault with the panel shortly after the 
point of sale which she said caused doubts about its durability.
She concluded that the car was not of satisfactory quality when supplied and Blue needed to 
address this. She said it had had enough time to arrange for the necessary repairs to be 
carried out, but it had chosen not to do so. She asked Blue to allow Miss M to reject the car.
Blue didnt agree and said the loose panel had been repaired at no cost to Miss M as a 
goodwill gesture. The water ingress problem hadnt arisen until Miss M had the car for seven 
months and it was up to her to show it had been present at the point of sale. Blue said that if 
it had been then Miss M would have been aware of it earlier. It said the seals had suffered 
from wear and tear, but the dealer was prepared to repair them and dry out the car as a 
gesture of goodwill.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
The finance agreement, that is the hire purchase agreement, in this case is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
Blue is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible for a 
complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
The relevant law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of 
the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case 
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might 
include things like the age and the mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
The car was some six years old and although it had covered a relatively low mileage it is to 
be expected that it will have suffered from wear and tear. However, Miss M identified a fault 
a few days after acquisition and I have seen no evidence to suggest that wasnt present at 
the point of sale. I have noted the dealer has suggested it was caused by Miss M but I dont 
find that claim persuasive. She emailed the dealer about it four days after picking the car up 
and she says it had been making a noise from the outset.
I have also noted that according to the main dealer, which is independent in this matter, the 
fault was fixed with cable ties.  That does not suggest a professional approach by the dealer 
and I can see that Miss M would be wary of letting it carry out any further work. Added to this 
the car hadnt been MOTd as agreed and the dealer failed to notify DVLA that it had taken 
Miss Ms car in part exchange. 
Turning to the substantive fault I agree that Miss M didnt bring this to the attention of the 
dealer until some seven months had elapsed. As such I need to be satisfied that it was most 
likely present at the point of sale and of such a nature as to merit rejection. Miss M has 
explained that the water ingress only became an issue once autumn arrived and prior to that 
the water ingress hadnt properly manifested itself. I find some merit in that argument.
The amount of water and its impact is significant and I can see that small amounts wouldnt 
have registered until wet weather caused a greater impact. So, I am happy that the fault is 
unlikely to have presented itself until October. 
However, that doesnt mean it was present at the point of sale. What we do have is the view 
of the main dealers mechanic who inspected the car which I consider to be suitably 
independent and this is all we have since no independent inspection was commissioned by 
Blue. In his view it was reasonable to conclude the fault would have been present at the 
point of sale. He also said that the manufacturer had paid 50% of the cost of repairs for 
faults like this which might indicate this is not an unusual problem. I can see that other 
owners have encountered problems with faulty seals. 
Putting things rightAfter due consideration I have concluded that on balance it is fair to say the car was faulty at 
the point of sale. That means it had two notable faults and I consider that means rejection is 
merited. I have noted the dealers offer to repair and dry out the car, but I dont believe that 
option is right at this point. It had the opportunity to effect a repair many months ago and 
chose not to take it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Blue Motor Finance Limited to:
end the agreement with nothing further to pay;
collect the car at no further cost to Miss M;
refunds the deposit of £2,500 and pay 8% simple interest from the date of 
payment until the date of settlement;
pay an additional monetary amount equal to 50% of the monthly payments from 
26 October 2019 to cover loss of use of the car because of the faults;
pays a further amount of £250 for the trouble and upset thats been caused due 
to the faulty goods;
removes any adverse information from Miss Ms credit file.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 October 2020.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman