DRN-2680105
The complaint
Mrs A has complained, via a representative, that the Royal Bank of Scotland (RBS) mis-
sold her a number of fee-paying packaged bank accounts.
Mrs As representative says that RBS has essentially taken advantage of Mrs A, who is 
elderly and vulnerable, by selling her the packaged bank accounts. She says that Mrs A was 
unaware she was ineligible for the benefits and was not told she could have an overdraft on 
a fee-free account.
What happened
Mrs As account history is as follows:
Opened as a fee-free account 1984
Upgraded to a fee-paying Royalties Gold account 20 June 2000
Upgraded to a fee-paying Royalties Premier account 20 February 2006
Downgraded to a fee-free account 15 January 2007
Upgraded to a fee-paying Royalties Gold account 15 June 2007
The Royalties Gold account was withdrawn by RBS and all Royalties Gold accounts 
were rebranded as a Select Platinum account 3 July 2015
Upgraded to a fee-paying Reward Silver 13 June 2016
Downgraded to a fee-free account 22 November 2016
RBS said that Mrs A had complained about all of the packaged accounts, apart from the 
Reward Silver account, outside of the time limits that apply to complaints referred to our 
service. 
Our adjudicator agreed that the complaint about the Royalties Gold (later changed to Select 
Platinum) and Royalties Premier packaged accounts had been raised outside of the time 
limits that apply to complaints referred to our service. And neither Mrs A, nor her 
representative, disagreed with the adjudicators assessment on this. So the adjudicator went 
on to assess the complaint about the sale of the Reward Silver account.
The adjudicator didnt think RBS had mis-sold the Reward Silver account. But Mrs As 
representative disagreed and asked for the matter to be considered by an ombudsman.
As its already been established that our service cannot consider the earlier packaged 
accounts, this decision will only address whether the Reward Silver account was mis-sold.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about mis-sold packaged bank accounts on our 
website, and Ive used that to help me decide this complaint.  And having done so, I dont 
think the Reward Silver account was mis-sold.
RBS says that the Reward Silver account application took place online. Whereas Mrs As 
representative says that Mrs A only used telephone banking, so refutes this. However, RBS 
has provided evidence to show that Mrs A regularly uses online banking to make payments 
on her account. And it has provided evidence of its system records to show that it was 
upgraded through the internet. Given the evidence that has been provided, I think that its 
likely Mrs A chose to upgrade her account online, rather than it being the case that it was 
sold to her over the phone or in branch. As such, Im unable to say that RBS had taken 
advantage of Mrs A, given the circumstances of how the upgrade took place.
Mrs As representative has also said that the account was mis-sold as Mrs A was not told 
that she could get an overdraft on a fee-free account. However, I can see that Mrs A had 
held a fee-free account previously. And I can see that she downgraded her account back to 
a fee-free account, only a few months after shed applied for the Reward Silver account. So 
again, Im not persuaded by that the reason she upgraded was to get an overdraft facility.
So overall, I think that Ms A agreed to the Reward Silver account knowing that it was 
optional, and she was aware that fee-free accounts were generally available to her, if she 
wanted one.
As the account was sold online without the presence of an RBS staff member, I think it was 
sold to Mrs A without a recommendation. This means that RBS was not required to check if 
the account was a good fit for Mrs As circumstances. But it did have to provide Mrs A with 
important information about the account, so that she was able to decide for herself if the 
account would be worthwhile having.
I can see part of the sales process asked if Mrs A had any pre-existing medical conditions. 
And she had said no to this question. I dont know why Mrs A answered no to this question, 
given that her representative says she had suffered from a number of conditions  some of 
which were chronic. I can also see that Mrs A was asked if she was over the age of 70 at the 
time, and she answered yes. The form then asked if shed like to be referred for screening 
and she said yes. RBS has been able to contact the insurer that Mrs A wouldve spoken to, 
and its notes of the conversation say:
SCREENED MEDS, ADDED AGE EXT. PH [policy holder] DECLINED TO COVER MEDS, 
WANTS TO PAY £50 FOR AGE. PH MADE ME AWARE SHE MIGHT WANT TO BE 
DOWNGRADING ACC TO SILVER. ADVISED UPGRADE WILL NOT BE IN FORCE AND 
WOULD LOOSE THE £50 PREMIUM IF THIS WAS DONE.
So based on the above note, I think RBS did what it needed to, in terms of highlighting that 
Mrs A needed to declare any existing medical conditions to the travel insurer. And its clear 
that Mrs A was made aware that she was potentially ineligible for cover due to her age and 
referred her to the insurer, to establish if it would provide cover for her. The notes from the 
insurer suggest Mrs A paid £50 for an age extension upgrade.
Beyond the age limits and need to declare pre-existing medical conditions, I dont know if 
RBS provided Mrs A with all of the other information about the account that it shouldve 
done. 
But overall, I find it unlikely that Mrs A wouldve been put off from agreeing to the account, 
had she been given more information about it, including the various features of the account. 
I say this as RBS has provided evidence to show that Mrs A travelled shortly after she 
upgraded her account. For example, there was evidence of payments relating to travel (e.g. 
a payment to an airline, in July 2016) in the months after she upgraded. So I think its not 
unreasonable to conclude that Mrs A likely agreed to the account specifically for the European travel insurance. And I think she did so, knowing about the main limitations that 
were likely to affect her ability to rely on the cover  namely the age limit and restrictions on 
cover for existing medical conditions. 
Therefore, given everything I have seen, it seems that Mrs A chose to upgrade her account 
herself online for a specific benefit  knowing the packaged account was optional. And then 
removed the fee-paying package when she no longer needed it. 
So, based on everything I have seen, Im unable to conclude that the Reward Silver was 
mis-sold. It would therefore be inappropriate to require RBS to refund the account fees that 
Mrs A paid for the account.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont think that the Reward Silver account was mis-
sold. I therefore do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2021.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman