DRN-2081944
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy that Santander UK Plc placed a default on their credit file. 
What happened
In June 2017, Mr and Mrs C switched their joint account from Santander to a new provider. 
Santander wrote to Mr and Mrs C at the beginning of July 2017 to confirm the account had 
been switched. In this letter Santander also informed Mr and Mrs C that their joint account 
couldnt be closed until the outstanding balance had been paid. At this time, the outstanding 
balance was £4,131.57.
Sadly, Mr and Mrs C had received some bad news whilst in the process of switching 
accounts and Mr C had left the UK for a few weeks, so no action was taken regarding the 
outstanding balance until the end of July. When he returned, Mr C wrote to Santander 
offering to pay £1,131.57 in the middle of August followed by three payments of £1,000 in 
September, October and November to settle the outstanding balance. 
Santander attempted to contact Mr C by telephone in mid-August to go through a budget 
planner. They wanted to ensure Mr and Mrs C had the required disposable income for the 
proposed repayment plan. Unfortunately, they were unable to contact Mr C.
Nothing happened on the account for a month. Mr C didnt make his original payment offer of 
£1,131.57 and Santander wrote to Mr and Mrs C again in mid-September. A couple of days 
after sending the letter, Santander spoke to Mr and Mrs C and went through the budget 
planner. Once the budget planner had been completed, Mr and Mrs C had a deficit in their 
finances and there was no available income for Santander to agree to an affordable 
repayment plan. Santander offered Mr and Mrs C the details for their financial assistance 
team, and they also referred Mr and Mrs C to some other organisations that could assist with 
debt management. 
Mr and Mrs C were given a month to update Santander. They didnt do this, so Santander 
sent them a letter in mid-October 2017 explaining they would continue with the recovery 
process. Mr and Mrs C didnt get in touch with Santander at this point, although a payment of 
£1,131.57 was made towards the end of October to reduce the outstanding balance to 
£3,000.
There still hadnt been any contact between Mr and Mrs C and Santander by 
mid-November 2017 so Santander wrote to Mr and Mrs C again to ask them to get in touch 
within 21 days to provide an update on their plans to repay the outstanding balance. This 
letter also mentioned that the account could be defaulted if action wasnt taken by 
Mr and Mrs C. 
Mr C wrote to Santander in early December 2017, although this letter wasnt received by 
Santander until mid-December, by which time they had written to Mr and Mrs C again. 
Mr Cs letter stated that their financial situation had changed, and Mr and Mrs C were now 
proposing to pay £250 a month, starting from December, to clear the outstanding balance. 
Santander tried to speak to Mr C about his letter and the proposed new repayment plan, as 
they were still concerned that Mr and Mrs Cs previous budget planner confirmed there was 
no disposable income available. Santander wanted to go through the budget planner again 
to make sure the new repayment proposal was acceptable. Mr C wasnt available at the time 
of the call but told the Santander adviser that he would call back in a couple of days to go 
through it. 
Mr C didnt call Santander back, so the new repayment proposal couldnt be agreed. Mr C 
did make payments of £250 towards the outstanding balance in December 2017 and 
January 2018. However, Santander gave Mr and Mrs C notice of their intention to report a 
default with the credit reference agencies in mid-December 2017 if the full amount or an 
arrangement to pay hadnt been agreed within 28 days from the date of the letter. There was 
no contact from Mr and Mrs C, so Santander went ahead and applied a default onto their 
credit file. At the end of January 2018, Santander sold Mr and Mrs Cs outstanding balance 
of £2,500 to a debt management company. 
Mr and Mrs C complained to Santander in June 2019. They said they felt the default had 
been applied incorrectly and Santander hadnt done enough to allow Mr and Mrs C to repay 
the outstanding balance. Mr C said that the debt management company had agreed to 
repayments of £250 per month once theyd taken control of the debt, and the total balance 
had been cleared by January 2019. 
Santander said that they didnt feel theyd done anything wrong. Theyd previously explained 
to Mr and Mrs C why their original repayment proposal couldnt be accepted, and theyd 
continually sent them letters explaining what would happen if suitable arrangements werent 
put in place. Santander said they had a duty to report accurate information to the credit 
reference agencies and had done this. They didnt comment on why the debt management 
company had agreed to Mr Cs repayment proposal of £250 a month, other than to say that 
all businesses will assess this based on their own criteria. 
Mr and Mrs C werent happy with Santanders response so brought the complaint to our 
service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said that Santander had acted in 
line with the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Cs account and hadnt been able to speak 
to Mr and Mrs C to put a formal repayment plan in place, so had no option other than to 
default the account. 
Mr and Mrs C didnt accept and have asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
An overdraft is a debt, but it doesnt operate in the same way as a loan or credit card for 
example. It doesnt require regular fixed or minimum payments. Mr and Mrs Cs overdraft 
was, as is common, repayable on demand. That is, Santander were entitled to ask 
Mr and Mrs C to repay it at any time, simply by giving notice to them. At the point 
Mr and Mrs C switched their joint account from Santander to their new provider they were 
overdrawn, and they owed money theyd borrowed from Santander. 
Although an overdraft is repayable on demand, a default notice should normally follow a 
failure to comply with the demand before an account is defaulted. The default notice required 
Mr and Mrs C to take some action if they wanted to avoid the default. Santanders default 
notice to Mr and Mrs C asked them to repay the balance in full or get in touch with 
Santander to come to an agreement to repay the outstanding amount in full. What I need to decide is whether Santander did enough in their efforts to contact 
Mr and Mrs C about repaying the outstanding balance prior to the default being recorded. 
And have they treated Mr and Mrs C fairly as a result. In the circumstances, I think they 
have.
In order for Santander to be satisfied that Mr and Mrs C could afford the repayments theyd 
suggested, Santander wanted to speak to them to complete a budget planner. This is what I 
would expect them to do, to ensure theyre considering Mr and Mrs Cs financial situation 
and treating them fairly. 
When the budget planner was completed in September 2017, it showed Mr and Mrs C as 
having a deficit in their finances each month of £449. Because of this, Santander didnt 
agree to the repayment proposal. They offered Mr and Mrs C the help of their financial 
assistance team, and also recommended that they speak to some financial help 
organisations. Santander agreed to put the account on hold for 30 days while Mr and Mrs C 
took the relevant advice. Im satisfied this was the right thing to do for Mr and Mrs C at this 
time. 
Unfortunately, Mr and Mrs C didnt get back in touch with Santander after 30 days, so they 
continued to write to Mr and Mrs C asking for them to repay the balance or come to an 
arrangement to pay. 
Mr C wrote to Santander in early December 2017, which Santander received in the middle of 
the month. This letter outlined a new proposal from Mr C to pay £250 towards the 
outstanding balance, which at this point stood at £3,000 following a payment made by Mr C 
at the end of October 2017. Because Santander still had concerns about Mr and Mrs Cs 
ability to repay the suggested amount, they tried to contact Mr C to reassess the budget 
planner. Mr C took the call but was unable to deal with the matter at the time. He agreed to 
call Santander back in a couple of days. 
Mr C didnt call back as agreed, so Santander were unable to agree to Mr and Mrs Cs 
proposal to pay £250 per month until the balance was paid. As they hadnt heard from 
Mr and Mrs C, Santander issued them a default notice. And because they still didnt hear 
from Mr and Mrs C, Santander notified the credit reference agencies of the default in 
January 2018 and sold Mr and Mrs Cs debt to a debt management company. 
I know that Mr and Mrs C feel upset with how Santander dealt with the situation, even more 
so because the debt management company did accept Mr and Mrs Cs repayment offer of 
£250 per month. But I cant say that Santander has done anything wrong in their handling of 
this. They were right to want to know that Mr and Mrs C could afford their suggested 
repayment proposal, particularly following the first budget planner completed and the deficit 
that was shown. Mr C had also suggested that Santander could increase his credit card limit 
to enable him to pay off the outstanding balance with his credit card  this is something else 
that I wouldnt expect Santander to agree to and further highlighted concerns about whether 
the repayments were affordable. 
Our service expects Santander to treat their customers fairly and sympathetically in 
situations like this. Im satisfied Santander have done that with Mr and Mrs C. I accept 
Mr Cs point that the debt management company agreed to the proposal and the debt was 
subsequently paid  but that agreement is for the debt management company to decide and 
take forward. Although Mr C continued to make the payments of £250, at the point it was 
proposed to Santander they had no way of knowing that Mr and Mrs C could afford this, or 
where the money would be coming from. As Santander had made reasonable attempts to 
contact Mr and Mrs C, it was then up to Mr and Mrs C to speak to Santander to allow them to assess the affordability of the repayments and decide. An arrangement to pay is an 
agreement between two parties, and Mr and Mrs C never allowed Santander to be in a 
position to agree or disagree. 
As an arrangement to pay wasnt agreed, Im persuaded that Santander have acted fairly by 
applying the default to Mr and Mrs Cs credit file. They have a duty to report accurate 
information and have done so in this case. I wont be asking them to do anything else. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, Im not upholding this complaint. Santander UK Plc arent required to 
do anything more. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 September 2020.
 
Kevin Parmenter
Ombudsman