DRN-3327867
The complaint
Mr S complains that Revolut Ltd has unfairly declined his claim for a refund of payments he 
says he didnt make.
What happened
Mr S is disputing three online card payments from his account which took place on the 
18 August 2021. 
Mr S says he fell victim to a scam  he received a text from someone purporting to be the 
post office saying that he had missed a delivery and needed to click on a link to rearrange 
delivery. Mr S says he then entered his card details believing this was necessary. Mr S says 
he was new to the country and didnt know this was unusual.
Later that day, Mr S received a call from a fraudster impersonating Revoluts protection 
team, he was told that suspicious transactions had been detected and he needed to tap 
confirm to prevent them, which he did. Once he realised it was a scam he contacted Revolut 
to report this. The transactions total £884.94.
Revolute says that it couldnt raise a chargeback and wouldnt be providing a refund 
because, by selecting confirm, Mr S had authorised the payments. 
When Mr S brought his complaint to our service, Revolut said it would offer Mr S £400 
compensation as a gesture of goodwill. The investigator then upheld the complaint and 
recommended Revolut provide a full refund to Mr S.
Revolut didnt agree, it said Mr S had authorised the payments via the 3D secure function 
when he confirmed them in his banking app. It later added that Mr S had implied 
authorisation when he shared his card details with the scammer and that it would have been 
clear he was confirming a payment in the banking app.
As Revolut didnt agree with the investigators assessment, the matter has been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant terms and conditions of Mr S account say: 
You can also make payments or withdraw cash using your Revolut Card.
When you use your Revolut Card to make a withdrawal from an ATM or make a payment 
(for example, in a shop or restaurant), we will consider the payment to be authorised by you 
unless:
you let us know that the money has been stolen from your account; or
you don't think we've carried out your instructions correctly.
And 
We won't refund any money if you've acted fraudulently, or you intentionally or carelessly 
failed to keep your security details or Revolut Card safe (unless you told us about this before 
the payment was taken from your account). For example, we won't refund you if you gave 
someone your Revolut Card PIN and they made a payment using your card without you 
knowing about it.
The relevant law here is the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), and broadly 
speaking Mr S is responsible for any payments that he has authorised and he isnt 
responsible for unauthorised payments. So, the key question here is whether Revolut has 
acted fairly in concluding that Mr S did authorise the disputed payments. 
For a payment to be authorised, Revolut must show that it was authenticated correctly and 
why it thinks Mr S consented to it. These payments appear to have been made using Mr S 
card information online and were verified using Mr S app.
The facts dont appear to be in dispute, so I think the key issue is here whether Revolut has 
acted fairly in concluding Mr S consented to the payments or to someone else making these 
payments on his behalf.
I dont think Revolut has acted fairly, and Ill explain why:
Mr S has provided the text used to phish secure information from Mr S and explained 
the call he received from someone impersonating Revolut. For the avoidance of 
doubt, I find this evidence persuasive and accept he was the victim of a scam.
Under the PSRs, a payer authorises a payment transaction when they consent to 
that transaction in line with the form and procedure agreed with the payment service 
provider, here Revolut. 
The terms and conditions provided dont specify the form and procedure for making 
an online payment. Here, the steps needed to make a payment were likely entering 
Mr S card information, selecting pay, and as they were prompted to 3D secure  
confirming those payments in Mr S banking app. Mr S only undertook one of these 
steps. So Im satisfied he didnt authorise these payments and so the starting point 
under the PSRs is that Revolut should provide Mr S with a full refund.
The terms and conditions reference when a customer intentionally or carelessly fail to 
keep their security details or card safe. Whilst the PSRs do provide a similar test, this 
is not applicable to distance contracts  which the disputed payments appear to be 
as they are online card payments. Revolut has not provided any evidence to suggest 
these were not distance contracts or that any relevant exemption applies in the 
circumstances.
I understand the notification Mr S received referenced verifying a payment and the 
banking app said confirm your online payment. However, I think its important to 
note that when Mr S selected confirm, he was being coached by the fraudster on the 
telephone. And that this was in the context of believing he was speaking to Revolut 
and that he needed to take steps quickly to protect his account and prevent these 
payments. So, I dont agree that Mr S understood he was approving a payment or 
that his involvement amounts to authorisation in the circumstances.Putting things right
To put matters right, Revolut should provide Mr S with a full refund of the transactions and 
make an interest payment on this amount to reflect the time he has been without these 
funds.
My final decision
My final decision is that Revolut Ltd should do the following:
Provide Mr S with a full refund - £884.94.
Pay Mr S interest at 8% simple on this amount from the date of the payments to the 
date of settlement
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2022.
 
Stephanie Mitchell
Ombudsman