DRN-3734457
The complaint
Mr D complains HSBC UK Bank Plc wont reimburse £5,000 he lost when he fell victim to an 
investment trading scam. He was led to believe he was investing in and trading with Bitcoin. 
This payment was a final payment to pay for close out costs to enable a withdrawal of funds 
(Mr D had already invested £25,750 from his credit card account prior to this). 
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She was satisfied HSBC ought to have intervened in 
Mr Ds credit card spending, and had it done so, this payment would never have been made. 
She asked it to reimburse the transaction less £2,000 which Mr D had received back from 
the merchant. 
Mr D accepted the outcome, but HSBC did not. It didnt think if it had intervened in the credit 
card spending that he would have heeded any warning. It also felt that any compensation 
should be reduce by 50% as Mr D doesnt appear to have carried out any due diligence and 
so has contributed to his losses.  Further it argues that paying £5,000 for close out costs is 
an implausible reason. 
Mr D also complains about losses suffered from a HSBC credit card account to the same 
scam. That matter has been decided separately by me. As both cases involve the same 
scam, neither party should be surprised by any similarities in my decisions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only briefly summarised the background and arguments above, I have read 
and considered whats been provided. Having done so, I agree with the investigators 
findings for the following reasons:
Mr D saw an advert on television to trade with Expert Trader, which was endorsed by 
a well-known consumer champion. He was sent a link and told to trade in Bitcoin. Mr 
D looked at their website and was persuaded Expert Trader were genuine.
Mr D authorised this transaction, even if he was tricked into doing so. And whilst he 
didnt intend for his money to go to scammers, he is initially presumed liable for the 
loss. There also doesnt appear to be any dispute he has been scammed. The 
consumer champion has come out publicly to say he doesnt endorse these types of 
merchants. And there are a lot of people reporting similar tactics to those Mr D 
experienced, on forums, and who also lost money.  
HSBC is aware of our approach of expecting it to have been monitoring accounts to 
counter various risks, have systems in place to identify unusual transactions or other 
indicators that its customers were at risk of fraud; and in some situations, make 
additional checks before processing payments or declined them altogether to protect 
customers from possible financial harm from fraud or scams.
I have already decided in Mr Ds other case that HSBC ought to have intervened 
when he made his fourth payment from his credit card account. That occurred in 
March 2020. And I have decided that an intervention from HSBC would have likely 
unravelled the scam and stopped Mr D from incurring any further losses  that is, I 
was satisfied he would have heeded a warning from his trusted bank and stopped 
trading. 
This £5,000 payment was requested by the trader to cover close out costs when Mr 
D decided he wanted to withdraw his investment. That payment was made in August 
2020. It follows that had HSBC taken the action I have found it should have in March 
2020, that Mr D would never have made the payment subject to this complaint  
there is a direct link between those events.   
Ive thought carefully about whether Mr D bears some responsibility for his losses, as 
HSBC has argued. This is particularly important given it doesnt appear Mr D did 
much, if any, independent research into the merchant. However, having conducted 
my own research, aside from a handful of comments on a forum about peoples 
dealings with this business, there was very little from the time to indicate it was 
operating a scam. So Im not persuaded Mr Ds lack of due diligence has led to his 
losses. 
HSBC has also argued that paying £5,000 for close out costs is implausible, but it 
hasnt explained why. Mr D believed he was trading in Bitcoin. And being told there is 
a cost to withdraw is a typical feature of these scams. Whilst those with industry 
knowledge might know such requests should be viewed with caution or even 
disbelief, Im not persuaded the same could be said of the layperson. HSBC hasnt 
demonstrated that Mr D had a level of knowledge of investments or trading such that 
he ought to have known such a request was implausible. I therefore dont find this 
argument persuasive. 
Mr D did receive £2,000 back from his overall investment (including the credit card 
payments) and that was received into this account. I therefore find it fair to deduct 
this sum from the refund Im going to ask HSBC to make.  
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require HSBC UK 
Bank Plc to:
Reimburse Mr D £3,000; and 
Add 8% simple interest to that sum from the date of the payment to the date of 
settlement, less any lawfully deductible tax. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2023. 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman