DRN-3916867
The complaint
Mr P complains about the level of service received from British Gas Insurance Limited 
following a claim against his HomeCare insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr P reported a leak to British Gas in 2021 from a pipe attached to the hot water cylinder. Mr 
P says engineers that werent qualified to work on the cylinder arrived and couldnt resolve 
the issue. And he was faced with poor service when engineer appointments were missed or 
cancelled late in the evening the visit was due to take place. He says he had to take several 
days annual leave from work to be available for these visits. 
He says British Gas resolved the leak by fitting new parts after roughly four months of 
reporting it, and prior to engineers attending, there was no issue with his hot water flow from 
taps. Mr P says engineers had drained the cylinder which wasnt required to undertake claim 
repairs, and this caused problems. 
British Gas say the cylinder was drained by an engineer qualified to do so, and a cylinder 
should be able to be drained without causing issues. They say the issue with Mr Ps hot 
water flow could be either due to debris from the side of the cylinder getting into pipes, or the 
quality of water in Mr Ps area. Mr P disputed this. 
Later, having been told to contact the manufacturer of the cylinder, British Gas offered to 
replace it. Mr P says the manufacturer explained the warranty was void as British Gas 
engineers that worked on it werent qualified to do so. Mr P says he was left by British Gas to 
liaise with the manufacturer for this period, and delivery of the replacement cylinder was 
poorly handled. He also says British Gas shouldnt have said they were offering to replace 
the cylinder as a gesture of goodwill, as they caused the issues by draining it. 
Mr P says the issues with the hot water taps remained until British Gas offered to rectify this 
 again as a gesture of goodwill, but Mr P thinks the problem was caused by them. This was 
resolved in October 2022, several months after it started, and British Gas reimbursed the 
amount Mr P paid for this work. 
Mr P says British Gas inflated the cost of the hot water flow repairs to avoid paying 
compensation. British Gas, however, honoured their offer to pay Mr P £100. They had 
previously also offered Mr P £65 compensation for the delays experienced early on in the 
claim. 
The issues in respect of replacing the cylinder and repairs to the hot water flow were 
resolved. British Gas then wrote to Mr P in November 2022 with their final response to the 
complaint. Mr P wasnt satisfied with this response and had approached our Service for an 
impartial review. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She said, broadly, Mr P had 
experienced poor service, the issues with the cylinder and hot water taps were likely caused 
by British Gas, and this caused Mr P to endure a level of distress and inconvenience. She 
initially recommended British Gas paid Mr P £250 compensation in total but increased this to 
£350 after reviewing the matter again. 
British Gas agreed but Mr P didnt. He thought the compensation amount offered was too 
low given what happened  and the impact on him. As such, the case was passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Many points have been raised in relation to this matter  I havent addressed each and every 
one individually. Were an informal Service and so focus on the pertinent points. 
It appears British Gas were required to go out and repair what was considered to be a small 
leak on a pipe connected to the hot water cylinder. What followed here was multiple missed 
engineer appointments  cancelled at short notice, Mr P having to chase updates and for 
things to be done whilst taking days off work, and the need to replace a cylinder and further 
works to the hot water flow, amongst other things. I also note the delivery of the cylinder 
wasnt handled well after Mr P had given dates he was available to receive it. 
Mr P says there was no issue with the cylinder or hot water flow from taps inside his home 
prior to engineers undertaking works and draining it. Hes provided a video of the hot tap 
which supports he had a limited supply of hot water flow from this tap following British Gas 
visits. I note British Gas say a cylinder should be able to be drained without any issues, but it 
seems most likely here on balance that something happened during visits early on in 2022 
which caused Mr P to experience further problems. I say this because I find Mr Ps testimony 
plausible and consistent here, and, as above, the video he provided supports he had limited 
hot water. 
I understand why Mr P doesnt think it was fair for British Gas to say theyd replace the 
cylinder and pay for the works to the hot water flow as a gesture of goodwill. This  in my 
view  are parts of the resolution to this complaint that was handled poorly overall by British 
Gas. I think it was the right thing for British Gas to do here to replace the cylinder and repair 
the hot water flow, and have seen why Mr P feels he had to persevere for these works to be 
undertaken. 
So, given Mr Ps cylinder was replaced and hot water flow restored by British Gas, Ive gone 
on to consider the overall impact of the way things were handled had on him. 
As above, given its been said the issues started following a report of what was considered 
to be a small leak on a pipe, theres no doubt that what followed, and the way British Gas 
handled things, would have caused Mr P to experience a level of distress and inconvenience 
 over and above whats naturally expected following a claim of this nature. 
Mr P didnt think our investigators recommendation of £350 compensation in total went far 
enough to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused to him. Having reviewed his 
submissions about what happened, how long for, and the impact on him, I understand why 
he thinks this. Ive kept in mind, however, the claim notes suggest Mr P had access to 
heating during this period and hot water  although I accept from the video and his testimony 
hot water flow was limited. Ive also seen his comments that he was in fear of using the hot 
taps to avoid clogging up the pipes further. So, having reviewed all the evidence available to me, Im satisfied a total amount of £350 
compensation is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I understand this 
will disappoint Mr P but I find this amount proportionately reflects the way things were 
handled overall, the requirement for further works to be undertaken, and his limited use of 
hot water which would have caused further inconvenience when carrying out day-to-day 
tasks. 
Putting things right
British Gas Insurance Limited must now pay Mr P £350 compensation for any distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold the complaint and require British Gas Insurance Limited to pay 
Mr P £350 compensation for any distress and inconvenience caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2023.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman