DRN-2256528
The complaint
Ms B complains that TSB Bank plc changed her PIN on her credit card which meant she 
couldnt use it and didnt help her when she was unable to use the credit card whilst on 
holiday.
What happened
Ms B says she went to Spain on holiday and hired a car in advance. She says she needed to 
pay a deposit to the car rental business, but the business was unable to take the payment 
using her credit card. Ms B says TSB changed the PIN without telling her and without her 
permission. She says she spoke to TSB, and it wouldnt help her and suggested the 
merchants machine was at fault. But she used her debit card to pay for an insurance 
product costing nearly £200 so that cant be correct. Ms B says the compensation offered by 
TSB doesnt go far enough or reflect that the holiday which cost £1,500 was ruined.
TSB says it has no record of a transaction attempt by the merchant and didnt change Ms 
Bs PIN without her knowledge. It says it has a record of Ms B asking it for a new PIN on 7 
February 2019, 23 February 2019 and 14 May 2019. It also says it gave Ms B the benefit of 
the doubt by refunding the cost of the insurance product she took out which was £191 and 
offered her a total of £125 compensation as it accepts it could have provided a better service 
when she called.
Ms B brought her complaint to us and our investigator thought TSB had dealt fairly with it. 
The investigator didnt think there was a record of a failed transaction to the car hire 
company and no evidence TSB made a mistake. The investigator thought Ms B was still able 
to continue with her holiday.
Ms B says there couldnt have been anything wrong with the card machine as it accepted 
her debit card payment. She says she has evidence TSB changed her PIN and says the 
£125 wasnt paid to her.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the overall view that TSB has dealt fairly with this complaint 
and fairly refunded the cost of the insurance product in circumstances where I dont think it 
made a mistake. I realise Ms B will be disappointed by my decision and I also appreciate 
how concerned she would have been, to be on holiday and not able to complete the car hire 
transaction.
I have looked at TSBs records and Im satisfied that there is a record of Ms B asking for a 
new PIN on three occasions and in particular on two occasions in February 2019. I dont 
know why those requests were made and Ms B hasnt told us if she recalls making them. But 
I dont think TSB would have a record on its systems if Ms B hadnt have asked for the new 
PINs. So, it follows that I dont think TSB changed Ms Bs PIN without her knowledge but did 
so following her requests.
It is not clear if the problem at the car hire business was caused by Ms Bs not knowing the 
correct PIN or if the problem was linked to the car hire business. I dont think it likely TSB 
blocked the transaction as there would be a record of that and I have not seen such a record 
on TSBs records. I have made clear that I dont think TSB changed Ms Bs PIN without her 
approval and I cant fairly hold TSB responsible if Ms B didnt receive the PIN, I think she 
requested. I also cant fairly hold TSB responsible if the car hire business was at fault and no 
doubt Ms B is aware that there have been a number of complaints about such businesses 
not correctly processing deposit payments in order to get customers to buy additional 
insurance products.
Im satisfied that regardless of what took place TSB acted fairly by refunding the cost of the 
insurance product in circumstances where I dont think there is evidence it was at fault. I can 
see that it also offered a total of £125 compensation as a gesture of goodwill which included 
£25 for an unrelated matter. I appreciate Ms B says that was never paid to her, but I think 
that was because she rejected the offer. TSB has said it remains open to her to accept but I 
think thats up to TSB to decide if its available and not something I can fairly order for the 
reasons I have explained.
Overall, Im satisfied TSB has fairly explained to Ms B that there were requests to change 
her PIN and has acted fairly by refunding the £191 and offering a gesture of goodwill. I can 
see that TSB says the compensation offer was due to it accepting it could have provided a 
better service to Ms B. I dont think it explained what that means or what it could have done 
differently, and I will leave it to Ms B to decide if she wishes to accept it. TSB says that offer 
is still available to her
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2020.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman