DRN-1414163
 
The complaint
Mr D says Lloyds Bank plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mr D bought the policy in connection with a credit card that he took out in 1996. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr D disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ds case.
Ive concluded that the PPI policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
I think Lloyds made Mr D aware the PPI was optional and he chose to take it. I say 
this because he did tick the box on the credit card application form to show that he 
wanted the cover. There was a box directly underneath that Mr D could've ticked if he 
didn't want it. So I think he would've realised he had a choice.
Lloyds accepts that it recommended the PPI to Mr D, but it doesnt look as if it was 
unsuitable for him based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. Mr 
D was self-employed when he took out the policy. But it wouldn't have been any 
more difficult for Mr D to make a successful unemployment claim on the policy than it 
would've been for someone who was employed. So I'm not persuaded that Mr D's 
self-employment meant the policy was unsuitable for him.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr D about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it should have been. But as I've already said, even though Mr D was self-employed 
this wouldn't have made it more difficult for him to make a successful unemployment 
claim on the policy. And the policy was competitively priced and had a reasonable 
benefits. So I dont think better information about the PPI wouldve stopped him 
buying it.
 
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr D.
 
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr D because: Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr D about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell Mr D, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank plc does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr D.
But Lloyds Bank plc does have to pay back to Mr D any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I dont 
award any further compensation.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2020.
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman