DRN-3257960
The complaint
Mrs T and Mr T complains Landmark Mortgages Limited (Landmark) sent incorrect 
information about their monthly mortgage payments, failed to send a mortgage redemption 
statement they had requested and didnt acknowledge their complaint.
What happened
Mrs T and Mr T says following the maturity of an endowment policy proceeds, received by 
Landmark in July 2020, these monies were paid into their mortgage account with Landmark 
as a permanent reduction of the debt. Mrs T and Mr T says when they received the advice 
from Landmark it quoted a monthly repayment amount of over £58,000. This caused Mrs T 
and Mr T a great deal of upset and confusion and so they wrote to Landmark in August 2020 
for an explanation, but never received response. In addition, Mrs T and Mr T says they had 
continually requested from Landmark a redemption statement, but this was never received. 
Mrs T and Mr T says Landmark have accepted they have made mistakes but their offer of 
compensation of £100 is derisory, considering the upset and stress this matter has caused. 
Landmark have acknowledged they fell short of their expected service levels and have 
apologised to Mrs T and Mr T but feel their offer of £100 for the inconvenience caused is fair. 
Mrs T and Mr T werent happy with Landmarks response and referred the matter to this 
service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. She 
felt that while part of the letter sent by Landmark to Mrs T and Mr T did provide incorrect 
details of the contractual monthly mortgage payments, the letter went on to detail the correct 
balance and the correct new monthly mortgage payments. The investigator accepted that 
Landmark had made errors when it failed to promptly acknowledge Mrs T and Mr T 
complaint in August 2020 and their requests for a redemption statement but felt Landmarks 
apology and offer of £100 by way of compensation, was fair. 
Mrs T and Mr T didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be 
referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
I sent both sides a provisional decision, where I said: 
Ive considered all of the evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to a different outcome to the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision.
I can understand it would have been upsetting for Mrs T and Mr T to receive a letter from 
Landmark suggesting a substantial monthly mortgage payment was due. I can also 
understand it would have been frustrating for them not to receive a response to their 
complaint and request for a redemption statement, they had asked for previously. 
When looking at this complaint, given that Landmark have accepted they have made some 
mistakes here, I will consider if the compensation they have offered Mrs T and Mr T is 
sufficient. 
I have seen a copy of the letter Landmark sent to Mrs T and Mr T on 4 August 2020 and as 
Mrs T and Mr T have pointed out this does state  Your new contractual monthly payment 
with effect from 1st September 2020 is £58 717.05. That said, from reading the rest of the 
letter its fair to say this was a typographical error. 
I say this because in the opening sentence of the letter it says: Your total outstanding loan 
balance is now £58,297.14. In addition, the table provided in the letter then goes on to 
breakdown the total amount outstanding and the contractual monthly payments being 
£418.58. Thats not to say this wouldnt have been confusing and frustrating for Mrs T and 
Mr T, but Its reasonable to say there was little likelihood that Landmark were going to 
charge this level of monthly payments, as this equated to almost the full amount outstanding 
on the mortgage. 
Landmark agree they didnt provide the level of service they should have once Mrs T and Mr 
T had raised this issue with them. From what I can see, Landmark seem not to have logged 
the complaint correctly, and this was explained to Mrs T and Mr T and they have apologised 
for that. 
So, while I can see Landmark have offered £100 for this and the fact they didnt send the 
redemption statement, I dont think this goes far enough. I say this, as while I am satisfied 
the letter sent to Mrs T and Mr T, although confusing, doesnt necessarily warrant a 
compensation payment, there is more of an issue concerning the impact the delayed 
redemption statement had on Mrs T and Mr T. 
Here, from the information I have seen, Landmark were informed by Mr T he wanted a 
redemption statement back in June 2020. Although I can understand the redemption 
statement couldnt be provided until the proceeds of the maturing endowment policy were 
received, in early July 2020, it should have been sent at that time. Its also clear that Mr T 
complained again about not receiving his redemption statement in August 2020, as part of 
his overall complaint to Landmark. 
Here, the redemption statement was finally issued in late September 2020 and its delay has 
prevented Mrs T and Mr T repaying their mortgage sooner. I say this as its clear the 
redemption statement was needed so Mrs T and Mr T could repay it as soon as they could. 
This was made evident by the fact when they finally received the redemption statement, it 
was fully repaid in a matter of weeks. It follows, if the redemption statement had been issued 
in early July when the endowment proceeds were received, in all likelihood Mrs T and Mr T 
would have paid it off within a few weeks, as they did eventually.
With that in mind, I propose Landmark refund interest applied to Mrs T and Mr Ts mortgage 
account to reflect the delay here. So, given the proceeds were received in early July, I would 
expect say 10 -14 days to have been a reasonable period of time for Landmark to have 
calculated and issued a redemption statement. Its fair to say it would take a similar period of 
time for Mrs T and Mr T to have organised and made the payment to redeem the mortgage, 
as it did when they paid off the mortgage in mid-October 2020, having received the 
redemption statement in late September 2020. Given that, I propose Landmark refund any 
interest charged to Mrs T and Mr Ts mortgage from say 1 August 2020 to 15 October 2020, 
when it was repaid in full. 
In addition, I propose Landmark pay Mrs T and Mr T the £100 compensation they have 
already offered.While both Landmark and Mrs T and Mr T may be disappointed with my decision, I am 
satisfied this is a fair outcome here. 
Neither Mrs T and Mr T or Landmark have responded to my provisional decision, so the 
case has been passed back to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I gave both Mrs T and Mr T and Landmark until 28 December 2021 to accept or reject my 
provisional decision, but as I have heard nothing further from either party, I see no need to 
change or add to this and so my final decision remains the same. 
Putting things right
I instruct Landmark Mortgages Limited to refund any interest charged to Mrs T and Mr Ts 
mortgage account from 1 August 2020 to 15 October 2020. In addition, Landmark Mortgages 
Limited should pay Mrs T and Mr T £100 by way of compensation, they already offered. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I instruct Landmark Mortgages Limited to refund any interest charged to Mrs T and Mr Ts 
mortgage account from 1 August 2020 to 15 October 2020. In addition, Landmark Mortgages 
Limited should pay Mrs T and Mr T £100 by way of compensation, they already offered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 February 2022.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman