DRN-2324665
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that British Gas Insurance Limited (BG) declined his claim for problems with 
his hot water outlets.
What happened
Mr S had HomeCare Three home emergency cover with BG. Over a period of two years, Mr 
S experienced problems with the hot water outlets in his home. The problems appeared to 
be linked, such that when one outlet worked, another stopped. 
After attending around 20 call outs, BG told Mr S the problem was a pre-existing fault (PEF) 
from the time of his system installation. Because of that, BG said he would need to pay 
around £600 for the work. 
Mr S complained to BG. He said his system was installed 14 years before the problems 
started so he didnt think it wouldve taken so long to become apparent if that were the case. 
BG maintained its position that the policy didnt cover a PEF so the work would be 
chargeable.
Our investigator upheld Mr Ss complaint. He didnt think BG had provided any evidence to 
support its view that the problem was due to a PEF. In the absence of that, our investigator 
felt that BG should accept Mr Ss claim and complete the remedial work or offer a cash 
settlement.
BG didnt agree and restated its position.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ss complaint for broadly the same reasons as our investigator. Ill 
explain.
Both parties are aware of the numerous call out visits and the work BG completed. I dont 
intend to go into detail about each visit, although Ill refer to examples where appropriate. 
Firstly, I can see that there have been numerous customer service issues which Mr S raised 
with BG and it acknowledged the shortfalls. BG paid Mr S a total of £200 by way of apology 
for the missed or late appointments, the time he had off work for those missed appointments, 
and for having incorrect replacement parts. I dont think its unreasonable for BG to 
rearrange appointments at short notice if other emergency issues take priority. And I can 
understand that it may make a mistake about the part needed. However, if the same issues 
kept happening, its understandable that Mr S wouldve been less than satisfied with the 
service he received. 
In the circumstances, I think it was fair for BG to make the payments, by way of apology, and 
£200 is in keeping with what Id expect for that type of shortfall. So, Im satisfied that BG 
addressed this part of Mr Ss complaint fairly and I wont be asking it to do any more about 
this issue.
The main issue of complaint, then, is that BG says the problem with Mr Ss hot water is due 
to a PEF, and his policy doesnt cover the repair. It offered to complete the work on a 
chargeable basis. But Mr S doesnt think it was caused by a PEF because his system 
worked properly for 14 years before the problems started.
Ive looked at Mr Ss policy and its clear that it doesnt cover PEFs:
Pre-existing faults
Our products dont include cover for any faults or design faults that:
Were already there when your boiler, appliance or system was installed, or were 
caused by anybody other than us when any change or additions were made to your 
boiler, appliance or system
So, Ive thought about whether BG has adequately demonstrated that this exclusion applies, 
but I dont think it has.
It seems that the issues Mr S had with his hot water are typical of those experienced with a 
hot/cold water imbalance. So, its not clear why it took BG so long to identify the cause and 
then attribute it to a PEF. And, if the imbalance was a PEF, I think its likely the problems 
wouldve occurred sooner than 14 years after installation.
As I understand it, BG proposed to replace the existing valve and it considered that a 
chargeable improvement. This suggests to me that if Mr S chose not to have the chargeable 
improvement, his water system would work, just not as well. I dont think turning on a hot 
water tap upstairs in order to use the hot water downstairs reflects a working system. So, I 
dont think fixing that is an optional improvement which BG should reasonably charge Mr S 
for. 
BGs plumber provided the following comment in response to a request for evidence that the 
fault was pre-existing:
Our engineers have been through a process of elimination.
There is no evidence of and (sic) imbalance prior to installation of the valve. This would have 
been best practice but it was not undertaken.
I dont think its statement takes us any further forward in understanding why it believed the 
fault was pre-existing. It doesnt explain whether the installation referred to is the original 
installation. Nor does it explain why thered be evidence of an imbalance now, for work 
undertaken 16 years earlier. Or it may mean that there is no current evidence of an 
imbalance before the proposed valve installation takes place. The statement leads to more 
questions, but BG didnt offer a more in-depth explanation.
So, despite having an opportunity to explain why the exclusion clause applies, BG hasnt 
provided anything which persuades me that the problem Mr S experienced was due to a 
PEF with the installation. The information it has provided is somewhat contradictory and I 
dont think it demonstrates that BG fairly refused cover for the fault under Mr Ss policy. To resolve his complaint, Mr S would like BG to repair the fault without charge or refund 20% 
of the premiums he paid over 15 years. I dont think its fair to ask BG to refund premiums 
because it provided the service paid for. While there have been shortfalls, BG acknowledged 
that with its payment of £200 to Mr S by way of apology. But I think Mr Ss request that BG 
completes the repair without charge is a fair resolution.
In our original view, there was also an option for cash settlement. I can understand that Mr S 
mightve lost faith in BGs service, so a cash settlement may be a reasonable alternative. 
However, I must be clear that I wouldnt expect BG to offer any more than it would cost it to 
complete the repair. Mr S should also be mindful that if he cash settles and arranges a repair 
himself, any subsequent issues may not be covered under his policy with BG.
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Ss complaint and British 
Gas Insurance Limited must:
repair/replace the faulty valve without charge, or pay Mr S what it wouldve cost BG 
to complete the work so he can arrange the repair himself.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman