DRN-3797459
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy that Secure Trust Bank Plc trading as Moneyway terminated the hire 
purchase agreement he had with them, selling the car at auction for less than he owed, and 
pursued him for the outstanding balance.
Mr A is being represented in this complaint by Miss P. However, for ease of reference, my 
decision will refer to the actions and comments by either Mr A or Miss P as being by Mr A.
What happened
with Moneyway. The agreement was for £8,985 over 60 months; with 59 monthly payments 
of £260.93 and a final payment of £270.93. 
In January 2022 Mr A was arrested and detained in custody. As part of his arrest, some of 
Mr As possessions were also seized, which included the car Moneyway had supplied. 
Moneyway recovered the car from the police compound and issued a default notice because 
Mr A had breached the terms of the agreement. On 11 March 2022 the agreement was 
terminated, the car was then repossessed, and sold at auction on 13 April 2022. However, 
the sale price wasnt sufficient to clear the outstanding balance, and Moneyway said Mr A 
was liable for the remaining £4,043.75.
Mr A complained to Moneyway. He didnt think they acted fairly by repossessing the car 
when the payments were all up to date and still being made, by not giving him a chance to 
resolve matters, by selling the car without his knowledge, and by giving an incorrect reason 
(arrears) when asked why the agreement had been defaulted. Moneyway didnt uphold the 
complaint, so Mr A brought it to us for investigation.
Our investigator said that the car being seized by the police breached the agreement Mr A 
signed; and this allowed Moneyway to terminate the agreement, even if the payments were 
all up to date. So, she was satisfied that Moneyway acted within the agreement by 
repossessing and selling the car.
The investigator also said that Moneyway had contacted Mr A at the address they had on file 
and, even though theyd been advised he was in custody at the time, Mr A hadnt advised 
them of his new contact details, or appointed someone else to deal with matters on his 
behalf until after the agreement was terminated. Given that the car remained in the 
ownership of Moneyway until all the repayment terms under the agreement were satisfied, 
the investigator didnt think it was fair or reasonable for Moneyway to have to wait an 
undetermined period of time for Mr A to contact them.
Finally, the investigator said there had been some confusion over the reason for recovery, 
but this was clarified in their final complaint response. She acknowledged this wouldve been 
inconvenient for Mr A, but she didnt think this changed the outcome of the complaint, or that 
it meant Moneyway couldnt take possession of the car. So, she didnt think Moneyway 
needed to do anything more.
Mr A didnt agree with the investigator. He said that Moneyway made no attempt to contact 
him while he was in custody, and that the courts ordered that his possessions thatd been 
seized by the police (including the car) should be released to him as they hadnt been used 
in the pursuance of any crime. Mr A also said that he hadnt defaulted on any payments, so 
he thought that Moneyway had acted in haste and on incorrect information.
Mr A said that he didnt have Moneyways contact details while in custody, so wasnt able to 
contact them about the situation; and he believed the police acted maliciously by advising 
Moneyway that the car had been seized, and he also believed that the police have a 
vendetta against him which is why he was pursuing a misconduct complaint against them.
Because Mr A didnt agree with the investigator, this matter has been passed to me to make 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Mr A was supplied with a car under a hire purchase agreement. 
This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to investigate 
complaints about it. 
Ive seen a copy of the agreement between Mr A and Moneyway. And I consider the 
following terms and conditions are specifically relevant to this complaint:
5. Use of the Vehicle
(i) You must not allow circumstances to arise in which a bailiff, other officer or other 
body (including, without limitation, the police, any local authority, or the DVLA) may 
lawfully seize the Vehicle 
(k) The Vehicle must remain in your possession at all times.
6. No assignment
You may not assign any of your rights or obligations under this agreement.
10. Ownership of the Vehicle
You will become the owner of the Vehicle only when you have paid us the Total 
amount payable  together with  any other charges you owe us  and you exercise 
the option to purchase by paying the Option to purchase fee  Until then your rights 
are only those of a hirer.
11. Change of address
If you change your address you must immediately inform us
15. Our right to end the agreement and your liability upon termination(a) We will assume that you refuse to comply with this agreement, and we will be 
entitled to end it after giving you the notice required by law if:
(iv) any of the following happens:
a bailiff, other officer or other body (including, without limitation, the 
police, any local authority, or the DVLA) seizes the Vehicle for any 
apparently lawful reason and does not promptly and unconditionally 
return it to you;
However, your rights in the notice Repossession: Your Rights will continue to apply
REPOSSESSION YOUR RIGHTS
If you do not keep your side of the agreement but you have paid at least one third of 
the total amount payable under this agreement, that is £5,221.93, we may not take 
back the goods against your wishes unless we get a court order  If we do take the 
goods without your consent or a court order, you have the right to get back any 
money you have paid under this agreement.
Ive seen that Moneyway were contacted by the police on 11 February 2022. The police told 
Moneyway that the car had been impounded under the Police and Criminal Evidence Act 
1984 (PACE), and that Mr A was now in custody awaiting trial. They were also advised there 
was a £20 per day storage fee. As such, on 14 February 2022, Moneyway sent Mr A a 
default notice. This explained he was in breach of the agreement as he was no longer in 
possession of the car. And hed need to repay the £8,029.59 owing under the agreement 
within seventeen calendar days to avoid any further action being taken.
In a follow up letter dated 14 March 2022, Moneyway advised Mr A that the agreement had 
been terminated, and the car would be recovered. They also advised him that once we have 
the vehicle it will be sold at auction. Any costs related to the sale will be deducted and the 
remaining funds will be applied to your account to reduce the amount you owe.
Given the circumstances, Mr A was in breach of terms 5(i) and 5(k) of the agreement. 
Whats more, by not advising Moneyway of his new contact details i.e. where 
correspondence could be sent to him while he was in custody, Mr A was also in breach of 
term 11 of the agreement. As such, even though Mr A was up to date with his payments, 
term 15(a)(iv) allowed Moneyway to end the agreement. So, I dont think theyve acted 
unfairly by doing so.
Mr A has commented that, after the car had been repossessed and sold, the courts 
determined that Mr As possessions had not been used in the course of committing a crime, 
so could be released to him. As such, he believes Moneyway acted too soon by doing what 
they did. While this may be the case, term 10 is clear that the car isnt one of Mr As 
possessions until everything owing had been paid for. And this wasnt the case. As such, the 
court ordering the return of Mr As possessions didnt cover the car  it wasnt something he 
owned and was only something he was hiring.
Mr A has also said he had someone act on his behalf ASAP being remanded in custody, 
but no-one contacted Moneyway to discuss the possibility of Mr A keeping the car until after 
the agreement had been terminated and sold. However, had they done so, because Mr A 
wasnt able to comply with term 5(k) while he was in custody, and under term 6 he couldnt 
allow someone else to keep possession of the car until he was released, Moneyway werent 
obliged to consider such a request. Whats more, it wouldve been possible for Miss P, as Mr As representative, to have passed 
on the letters from Moneyway to Mr A while he was in custody, or to have advised 
Moneyway of Mr As new contact details so they couldve corresponded with him directly. 
But she didnt do this.
However, as Ive already said, given the terms Mr A agreed to, even if Mr A had received the 
default notice, the breach of the agreement had already happened, and Mr A wasnt able to 
remedy this by having the car immediately and unconditionally released to him. So, even if 
Mr A had received correspondence from Moneyway earlier, Moneyway would still have been 
within their rights to repossess and sell the car.
Finally, Mr A has commented that hed paid more than the £5,221.93 specified in the 
Repossession: Your Rights section of the agreement. So, he didnt think that Moneyway 
were able to repossess the car without his consent (which wasnt sought) or a court order 
(which wasnt obtained). Given this, he thinks that Moneyway should refund the money hes 
paid under the agreement.
In considering this, Ive also considered the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA), which says:
90 Retaking of protected hire-purchase etc. goods
(1) At any time when-
(a) the debtor is in breach of a regulated hire-purchase or a regulated 
conditional sale agreement relating to goods, and
(b) the debtor has paid to the creditor one-third or more of the total price of 
the goods, and
(c) the property in the goods remains in the creditor,
the creditor is not entitled to recover possession of the goods from the debtor except 
on an order of the court.
Im satisfied that the above section is clear that it applies only where the goods have been 
repossessed from the debtor. There is specific case law on this (Kassam v Chartered Trust 
Plc [1998]) which supports the view that repossession from the debtor can include, in certain 
circumstances, repossession from a third party. However, this would generally only seem to 
apply where that third party was holding onto the goods on behalf of the debtor and with their 
consent. 
In this specific case, Im satisfied that the police were not holding onto the car on behalf of 
Mr A. By that I mean Mr A didnt consent to the police seizing the car and/or instruct the 
police to keep it on his behalf. Whats more, Mr A wasnt in a position where he could gain 
possession of the car from the police, as its clear the police werent prepared to release it at 
that specific time.
Given all of this, Im not persuaded that Moneyway recovered possession of the car from the 
debtor, meaning it didnt breach the requirements of the CCA or the terms Mr A agreed to.
However, even if my analysis of the relevant law is wrong, Im satisfied that Moneyway acted 
fairly and reasonably in taking possession of the car. I say this because the police would 
only release the car to Moneyway  the legal owner - so there was no reasonable alternative 
but for Moneyway to take possession of it, given that Mr A was in breach of the agreement.As such, I cant see that it was unfair or unreasonable for Moneyway to terminate the 
agreement and seek to recover all the payments that were due. So, I wont be asking them 
to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr As complaint about Secure Trust Bank Plc 
trading as Moneyway.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2023.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman