DRN-2916616
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Barclays Bank Plc trading as Barclaycard (Barclaycard) lent to her
irresponsibly. Mrs S is represented by Mr S, her husband. 
What happened
Mrs S had a credit card from Barclaycard from 2012. Between 2013 and 2018, her credit
limit was increased five times as shown:
The limits were proactively increased by Barclaycard. By December 2018, the balance on 
the card was £11,147 debit. Her annual income was £3,000. In June 2020, Mrs S account 
defaulted as no payments were being made. In January 2021, her debt was £11,756.68.
Mrs S complained that she shouldnt have had a credit card in the first place as she hadnt 
worked since 2006. And she couldnt afford to borrow more money so the credit limits 
shouldnt have been increased by Barclaycard. She said that she wrote to Barclaycard to 
say she didnt want the increased credit limit. She complained to Barclaycard in January 
2020.
Barclaycard said that they had undertaken appropriate credit checks which showed that Mrs 
S could afford to borrow more money at each increase in the limit. They said that she had 
conducted her account very well. They said that Mrs S asked for the increases  other than 
the 2018 increase, which was proactively offered.
Mrs S brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator replied in February 2020. She 
said that the service couldnt look at the issuing of the card in 2012 as this was over six 
years ago and it fell outside the Financial Ombudsmans jurisdiction. Looking at the 
increases in the credit limits, Mrs S had requested most of these. Barclaycard had shown 
that they had carried out credit checks to assess the suitability of the new limits. She felt that 
the checks were proportionate. They had checked account history, repayment history, 
current account information and credit reference agency data. On the last increase of limit to 
£11,000, she said that Barclays had looked at the account for the six months period prior to 
the increase and found that the increase was affordable. She didnt uphold Mrs Ss 
complaint.
Mrs S responded to the investigator. She said she hadnt requested the increased limits. She 
had contacted Barclaycard on one occasion to decline the offer, but the limit was still 
increased. Only the minimum payments were being made each month. She said that the 
joint bank current account was usually overdrawn, and they were paying interest and 
charges. She had taken out a large loan of £11,700 from Barclays to help with the payments.
Date Old Credit Limit New Credit Limit
23 October 2013 2250 4500
20 May 2014 4500 6000
29 December 2014 6000 7000
21 October 2015 7000 8000
29 May 2018 8000 11000The investigator wrote to Mrs S again in March 2020. She didnt change her view. She said 
that Barclaycard had made a mistake in what theyd told us - all the increases in credit limits 
were proactive increases by them. Barclaycard couldnt find anything from Mrs S to say she 
didnt want an increase. In her view, the account activity and Barclaycards checks covering 
the six months before the final limit increase in May 2018 were reasonable.
Mrs S didnt agree and asked that her complaint be looked at by an ombudsman.
I reached a provisional decision where I said:
The Financial Ombudsman service is bound by the Financial Conduct Authoritys rules 
covering complaints, known as DISP rules (DISP 2.8.2). They state that we cant consider a 
complaint if its referred to us more than six years after the event complained about, or if 
later, three years from the date on which the complainant ought reasonably to have been 
aware they had cause to complain. Mrs S complained in January 2020. Under our rules, 
therefore, we cannot consider what happened before January 2014  so this excludes the 
issue of the card in 2012 and the first limit increase in October 2013. Mrs S is aware of this  
and Barclaycard have also confirmed this approach is OK.
Turning to the suitability of the subsequent increases in credit limits, I take a different view to 
the investigator. In deciding whether a customer was provided with unaffordable credit or 
provided with credit irresponsibly, we need to understand:
Whether the lender completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy 
itself that the borrower would be able to repay any credit in a sustainable way?
If reasonable and proportionate checks were completed, did the lender make a 
fair lending decision made bearing in mind the information gathered and what the 
lender knew about the borrowers circumstances?
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent completed, would reasonable 
and proportionate checks more likely than not have shown that the borrower was 
more likely than not unable to sustainably repay what they were being lent?
Was there a point where the lender ought reasonably to have realised it was 
increasing the borrowers indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or 
otherwise harmful and so shouldnt have provided further credit?
Did the lender act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
And, these considerations must be borne in mind at the time of each of the increases in 
credit limit. The checks need to be more thorough the lower a customers income and the 
amount to be repaid.
Barclaycard say they were not aware that Mrs Ss income was £3,000 p.a. as she hadnt told 
them, and I accept that. They say that their credit checks were completed and showed no 
adverse information. And that Mrs Ss account had been conducted very well. They 
accepted that the increases were offered proactively and not requested by Mrs S  as they 
first stated. They were unable to say if Mrs S declined the offers of increases (as she 
couldve done)  their records showed no contact from her.
Ive looked at Mrs Ss credit card statements. Broadly speaking, the account activity was OK 
throughout 2014 through to the first half of 2016. There was a decent swing in the debit 
balances and the debt was well within the credit limits. The balance was around £2,500 for 
most of the period between 2014 and 2015  a lot lower than the credit limits in place at the time. Minimum payments  or just over them - were being made  and sometimes, more. So, 
I cannot see that there was a reason for Barclaycard to be concerned during that time  up 
to and including the increase to £8,000 in October 2015.
However, during the second half of 2016, there were signs of difficulty. There was a trend of 
making only the minimum payments. And there were several large cash withdrawals of 
between £250 to £500 a time from the account. The debt increased to the level of the limit of 
£8,000 by December 2016. This pattern continued in 2017. By the end of 2017, I saw that 
two monthly payments were missed, and late payment fees were paid. Few retail purchase 
transactions were made as the debt was regularly at the limit.
From December 2017 through to June 2018, this trend continued - only the minimum 
monthly payments were made and there were several large cash withdrawals of between 
£300 and £400. There were few purchase transactions. Barclaycard could reasonably have 
concluded that Mrs S was in difficulty and at least carried out further checks to ensure she 
could afford the increase  but they didnt.
I have also looked at the joint account bank statements for Mr and Mrs S. They show regular 
overdrawn balances, with interest and charges being paid. They also show payments to five 
or six lenders (including Barclays Bank) which suggests that there was other borrowing. This 
shows that Mrs S was having difficulty in managing her finances. Barclaycard should have 
carried out more extensive checks before increasing the credit limit to £11,000 in May 2018. 
Given Mrs Ss circumstances, the checks they completed werent reasonable and 
proportionate.
I can agree that the increases in limits up to and including the increase to £8,000 in October 
2015 were OK. But - I dont think that Barclaycard acted responsibly in proactively increasing 
the limit on the credit card to £11,000 in May 2018.
Mrs S has had the use of the money, so I dont think it is reasonable to ask that any of the 
lending is written off. But I do think that Barclaycard should - from May 2018 to the date of a 
final decision  refund all interest charges and fees on the debt above £8,000 and all late 
payment fees. Any adverse information lodged at the credit reference agencies should be 
removed. I can see that this matter has been a worry for Mrs S and her family and a 
payment of £200 for distress and inconvenience should be made. Once the refunds have 
been made, it would be right for Mrs S and Barclaycard to agree a mutually agreeable 
repayment schedule for the remaining debt. The terms of this is a matter for Barclaycard and 
Mrs S.
Responses to the provisional decision
Barclaycard had no comments, but Mrs S did. She said:
She never had the use of the money  as it was used to pay other debts.
The increase in lending by Barclaycard led to a spiralling of other debts
The compensation offered isnt proportionate to what the lending led to
She has entered into an IVA for her debts
So  I now need to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Looking at Mrs S comments  I cant really comment on what happened as a consequence 
of Barclaycards lending  I can only look at what Barclaycard did. On the matter of 
compensation, the amount of £200 is what this service would expect to see for this type of 
case. And  the refund of interest and fees should also provide some benefit. I note that Mrs 
S has entered into an IVA with her creditors, and hope that in time, this will resolve her 
problems. 
So  I am issuing my final decision in line with the provisional decision, with the same set of 
remedies and for the reasons I gave in it.
My final decision
 I uphold this complaint.  Barclays Bank PLC trading as Barclaycard must:
Refund interest charged on the credit card for the debt above £8,000 from May 
2018 to the date of this final decision.
Refund all late payment fees from May 2018 to the date of this final decision
Remove any adverse information noted on Mrs Ss credit file.
Pay £200 to Mrs S for distress and inconvenience.
Agree a mutually acceptable repayment schedule for the remaining debt  noting 
that this will now be affected by Mrs S IVA.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman