DRN-3486257
The complaint
Mr L and Miss S complain about the quality of a car they acquired through a hire purchase 
agreement financed by Go Car Credit Limited (GCC). 
Mr L is the main party dealing with the complaint, so for ease of reference, Ill refer to him 
directly throughout my decision. 
What happened
In May 2021 Mr L acquired a used car through a hire purchase agreement. 
In June 2021 Mr L raised a number of issues with the vehicle to GCC. He said the USB port 
wasnt working, the clutch was riding too high, there was a tracking issue with tyre wear, the 
engine cover was missing, the passenger door wasnt aligned, and he thought there was 
evidence that the car had been in an accident prior to it being supplied to him. 
Mr L returned the vehicle to the supplying dealership, he thought this was for an 
investigation, but repairs were conducted on the vehicle. Mr L was provided with a courtesy 
car during the repairs. 
Mr L complained to GCC. He said some of the repairs had been completed, but some faults 
remained. 
GCC asked Mr L for a written report confirming what was wrong with the vehicle. Mr L 
provided pictures of the underside of the vehicle to GCC which he believed showed damage 
and faults. 
GCC arranged for an inspection of the vehicle to be completed, but there were problems 
with this being scheduled, and so it never went ahead. 
GCC sent Mr L their final response to his complaint in July 2021. They said there were faults 
that made the car of unsatisfactory quality at the time it was supplied to Mr L, but that these 
had been repaired. They said there wasnt any evidence that there were any outstanding 
faults with the vehicle or that any of the repairs had failed. They offered Mr L £250 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by repairs being required so soon 
after acquiring the vehicle. 
Mr L explained to GCC that he was struggling financially. And so, in July 2021 they offered 
to take the vehicle back and unwind the agreement, refund Mr Ls deposit, pay the £250 
compensation offered, and refund Mr Ls monthly payments made to date. 
In July 2021 Mr L complained again to GCC. He said theyd told him his car wasnt insured 
and theyd provided incorrect information about an attempt to call him on 23 July 2021. GCC 
sent Mr L their final response to this complaint in August 2021. They said theyd checked an 
incorrect number plate when checking his insurance, and that the agent that told him they 
hadnt tried to call him had provided incorrect information. They offered Mr L £100 
compensation for the poor service. 
Unhappy with GCCs response and offer, Mr L brought his complaint to us for investigation.  
He felt his part exchange vehicle was undervalued, and so the refund of the deposit wasnt a 
fair amount. Mr L asked for £1500 compensation from the dealership and from GCC, along 
with rejection of the vehicle. 
The supplying dealership agreed to have the vehicle inspected in August 2021. Mr L paid for 
a location with a ramp for this inspection to take place. The report said that there were faults 
with the vehicle, and its safety had been compromised as the bumper reinforcing bar had 
been reused and was distorted. 
GCC said theyd already agreed to a rejection of the vehicle prior to this report being carried 
out. They said they didnt ask for this report, and it was arranged between the supplying 
dealership and Mr L without their involvement. They say the complaint was being protracted 
because Mr L wont accept their proposed resolution. 
Our investigator gave his view that he thought the car was of unsatisfactory quality at the 
time it was supplied to Mr L, and so he should be able to reject it. He recommended that the 
agreement was ended, and the car collected from Mr L with nothing further to pay and that 
Mr Ls deposit was refunded. He thought GCC should pay Mr L £350 in compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused, and they should pay £200 compensation for the poor 
service Mr L had received. 
Our investigator said that Mr Ls concerns with the valuation of his part exchange would 
need to be handled by the supplying dealership and werent something we could consider in 
the complaint against GCC, as this was agreed prior to entering the finance agreement. 
Our investigator said that Mr L had continued to use the vehicle, despite concerns over its 
safety. So, they thought GCC should be able to retain 25% of Mr Ls monthly payments to 
reflect this use, and they should refund the other 75%. 
Mr L didnt agree. He said hed be financially affected by rejecting the vehicle as hed have to 
wait for refunds and the agreement to be removed from his credit file. He also felt GCC 
would profit from having the vehicle back and selling it again without fixing the issues. Mr L 
said he wouldve liked to explore the option of the vehicle being repaired, and hed like all of 
his payments made to date refunded. 
GCC accepted most of our investigators recommendations. But they said Mr L had missed a 
recent payment on his agreement and was still continuing to use the vehicle. So, they 
thought they should be able to retain all contractual payments from September 2021 
onwards. 
GCC also disagreed with the increase in compensation for the service element of the 
complaint. They said incorrect information had been given to Mr L, but this was resolved 
quickly, and so they thought their offer of £100 was fair. 
Mr L raised his concerns about the vehicle with trading standards, who arranged for an 
inspection of the vehicle in October 2021. The report concluded that the vehicle had been 
subject to previous light accident damage and poor and inadequate repairs were carried out. 
It also concluded that there was minor damage to the reinforcement bar and frame, but the 
integrity of these components had not been significantly compromised. It says that these 
issues should have been identified by way of a recognised motor trade quality and safety 
inspection. Mr L said in order to settle the complaint, hed like to reject the vehicle, have his full 
payments and deposit refunded plus interest, £2000 compensation and a refund of his travel 
costs incurred when taking the vehicle to the dealership to have the issue resolved. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me for a decision. 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in April 2022 recommending that it was 
upheld. I made the following provisional findings: 
There has been a large amount of evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, and Id 
like to reassure the parties that Ive considered and read everything theyve said and sent 
us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be focusing on the 
crux of Mr Ls complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct. Instead this service looks to resolve 
individual complaints between a consumer and a business. Should we decide that 
something has gone wrong we would ask the business to put things right by placing the 
consumer, as far as is possible, in the position they would have been if the problem hadnt 
occurred.
In considering whats fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations. The agreement in this case is a regulated hire purchase agreement  so we can 
consider a complaint relating to it. GCC as the supplier of the goods under this type of 
agreement is responsible for a complaint about their quality. 
Quality of the goods
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. It says that under a contract to 
supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory
To be considered satisfactory the goods would need to meet the standard that a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into account any description of the 
goods, the price and other relevant factors. Those factors, in the case of a car purchase, will 
include things like the age and mileage of the car at the time of sale, and the cars history. 
The quality of the goods includes their general condition and other things like their fitness for 
purpose, appearance and finish, safety and durability. 
Here, the car was acquired used with a cash price of around £9,000. It was around four 
years old and had travelled approximately 46,000 miles at the time of supply. 
The reports conducted in August and October 2021 agree on the fact that Mr Ls vehicle has 
been in a previous accident. They dont agree on whether that accident has compromised 
the safety of Mr Ls vehicle. 
One report concludes that the bumper reinforcing bar and bracket require replacement as 
the vehicle safety has been compromised. The other report concludes that the condition and 
integrity of these components has not been compromised, and so the opinion that the 
vehicle is unsafe or unroadworthy is not supported. 
Having reviewed both reports, Im not persuaded by one over the other. Both engineers 
completed detailed inspections of Mr Ls vehicle, and the engineers have comparable 
experience in the relevant industry. Both reports do agree that the components are important 
safety components, designed to crush or crumple to absorb energy or impact. Rather than one engineer being wrong about their conclusions, I think its difficult to judge whether or not 
the safety of the vehicle has been compromised. 
One engineer has noted that the damage shouldve been identified by way of a recognised 
quality and safety inspection prior to supply of the vehicle. 
Both reports agree that the earlier faults reported by Mr L, and that GCC said were faults 
that made the vehicle of unsatisfactory quality, but had been fixed by the dealership, are also 
still present. These include the USB port being unusable and the mouldings and trims being 
insecure. 
All things considered; given the faults that were present at the point of sale, and the damage 
to the bumper reinforcing bar, Im satisfied that the vehicle was of unsatisfactory quality at 
the time it was supplied to Mr L. Having made that finding I need to decide what, if anything, 
GCC should do to put things right. 
The Consumer Rights Act sets out the remedies available where goods are considered not 
to be of satisfactory quality and one of the remedies is to allow an opportunity to repair the 
goods. That repair should be done in a reasonable time, and without significant 
inconvenience to the consumer.  
Mr L returned his vehicle to the dealership, where an inspection was completed. Some work 
was carried out, but its clear from the later engineer inspections that the faults werent fixed. 
So, as GCC have had an opportunity to repair the vehicle and it hasnt been returned to a 
satisfactory condition, I think Mr L should be entitled to his final right to reject the vehicle. 
This means that the car is collected from Mr L, the finance agreement is brought to an end, 
and Mr L has his £999.00 deposit refunded (plus interest). The agreement and any adverse 
information should be removed from Mr L and Miss Ss credit file. 
The deposit
Mr L has said that his previous vehicle used for the deposit, was undervalued. This 
transaction took place prior to Mr L entering the agreement with GCC, so I wont be 
considering this in this complaint about GCC. Mr L may want to raise these concerns with 
the dealership directly. 
Appropriate redress
Mr L has asked for all of his monthly payments to be returned because of the faults. Our 
investigator recommended that GCC refund 75% of Mr Ls payments to reflect the impaired 
use of the vehicle, but they could retain the other 25% as Mr L had continued to use the 
vehicle. 
I appreciate that Mr L was concerned about using the vehicle, as he thought its safety had 
been compromised. As Ive set out above, the two reports provided dont agree on this 
matter. I dont doubt that Mr L has had some impaired use of the vehicle, as he was 
concerned about driving his family in the car. However, he has continued to use the vehicle 
despite these concerns. Hed travelled around 3,000 miles in the vehicle in the three months 
prior to the first inspection, and around 2,000 miles in the two months leading up to the 
second inspection. 
This is what Id expect to see for average use of a vehicle, so I dont agree that Mr Ls use of 
this vehicle was severely impacted. Even after the first report said the safety of the vehicle 
was compromised, Mr L continued to use it as he had before. So, I think its fair that Mr L pay for the use hes had of the vehicle. Whilst I understand the 
concern over the vehicles safety, nothing occurred to put Mr L or his family in danger. And 
whether the vehicle was ever unsafe is disputed by the two inspections. I cant award 
redress for something that hasnt happened and might never happen.  
I think the monthly payments agreed between Mr L and GCC are a starting point for a 
reflection of a fair price for the use of the vehicle. I accept that Mr L was concerned to use 
the vehicle, and I dont think this concern was entirely unfounded. There were also other 
faults with the vehicle, and Mr L was unable to use some of its features, such as the USB 
port. So, I find that GCC should refund 25% of all of Mr Ls monthly payments to reflect the 
impaired use due to the faults. 
Our investigator recommended that GCC pay Mr L £350 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by supplying a faulty vehicle, and £200 compensation for the poor 
service they provided to Mr L. 
Mr L would like £2000 compensation. GCC agreed to pay £350 for the distress and 
inconvenience, but felt that their original offer of £100 compensation was reflective of the 
impact their poor service had on Mr L. 
Mr L has been put to inconvenience in taking his vehicle to the dealership in order for repairs 
to be completed, which failed. Mr L has also had to go to some effort to prove that there are 
faults with the vehicle when it seems these should reasonably have been identified by the 
dealership when it was taken for inspection. I think £350 compensation fairly reflects the 
distress and inconvenience caused to Mr L here. 
GCC offered £100 compensation for incorrectly telling Mr L that his car was uninsured, and 
for some incorrect information given around attempts to call him. Whilst these errors were 
corrected quickly, I think they did cause distress to Mr L. He was left concerned that his 
vehicle had no insurance, and Miss S had to go to the effort of contacting their insurers to 
make sure of this fact. I think £200 fairly reflects the distress and inconvenience caused by 
GCCs poor service. 
Our investigator recommended that GCC refund any fees Mr L faces for cancelling his tax 
and insurance on this vehicle. Mr L wouldnt need to cancel these items if it werent for 
returning the faulty car. So, I think its fair that GCC reimburse these costs should Mr L incur 
them. Mr L will need to provide evidence of these costs to GCC. 
Mr L has asked for a refund of his travel costs when hes had to take the vehicle to the 
dealership for repairs. I can see that Mr L was provided with a courtesy car when the car 
was taken to the dealership, so as he was kept mobile, GCC dont need to do anything more 
here. 
Neither Mr L and Miss S, nor GCC responded to my provisional decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has raised any new arguments, or sent me new information to consider, for 
the same reasoning that I set out in my provisional decision, Ive decided to uphold this 
complaint. My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require Go Car Credit Limited to:
End the agreement and collect the car at no further cost to Mr L & Miss S
Remove the agreement and any adverse information from Mr L and Miss Ss credit 
file. 
Refund Mr L and Miss Ss deposit of £999.00 plus 8% simple yearly interest, 
calculated from the date of payment to the date of settlement
Refund 25% of Mr L and Miss Ss monthly payments plus 8% simple yearly interest, 
calculated from the date of payment to the date of settlement
Pay Mr L and Miss S a total of £550 compensation to reflect the distress and 
inconvenience caused
Refund any fees Mr L and Miss S face for cancelling the tax and insurance for this 
vehicle. Mr L and Miss S will need to provide evidence of these costs to GCC. 
If GCC considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from 
the interest part of my award, it should tell Mr L and Miss S how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mr L and Miss S a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim 
the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Miss S to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 June 2022.
 
Zoe Merriman
Ombudsman