DRN-2955196
The complaint
Mr A complains that Fiscale Financial Services Limited (Fiscale) gave him unsuitable advice 
to transfer his defined benefit pension scheme (DBS).
Mr As complaint is being brought on his behalf by a professional representative. However,
for ease, Ill refer to the complaint as being brought by him.
What happened
In 2017, Mr A met with Fiscale to discuss his DBS. Mr As employer had announced that it 
would be examining options to restructure its business, including decoupling the DBS from 
the company. Mr A, like many other employees of his company, was concerned by this. The 
consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, 
which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new 
defined-benefit scheme. Alternatively, members were informed they could transfer their 
benefits to a private pension arrangement.
Fiscale didnt have the relevant regulatory permissions to conduct pension transfer business. 
So it referred Mr A to another firm which Ill refer to as J. J advised Mr A to transfer his DBS 
to a personal pension and completed the transfer on his behalf. Fiscale then took over as the 
servicing agent for Mr As new pension and provided advice on how the personal pension 
should be invested.
In 2020, Mr A complained to both Fiscale and J, saying the advice to transfer from a DBS to 
a personal pension was unsuitable for him.
Fiscale said it had simply introduced Mr A to J and hadnt advised him on the pension 
transfer. Fiscale said it had made this clear to Mr A at the time and it wasnt responsible for 
the advice to transfer from his DBS. 
Mr A brought his complaint to our Service. He said Fiscale and J were working 
collaboratively and were both responsible for the unsuitable advice. J had since gone into 
liquidation and Mr A has made a separate claim to the Financial Services Compensation 
Scheme with regards to its role in the advice.
One of our Investigators looked into this complaint about Fiscale. She said, in summary, that 
Fiscale hadnt provided advice to Mr A in respect of transferring his pension, and it didnt 
have the relevant permissions to do so.
Mr A disagreed and asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint  he didnt make any
further comments. So, its been passed to me to consider and make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not disputed that Mr A was referred to J by Fiscale. However, as Fiscale has pointed out, 
and our Investigator noted, Fiscale didnt have the relevant regulatory permissions to 
conduct pension transfer advice. Fiscale says it had discussions with Mr A and, because 
transferring his DBS was one of his options, it referred him to J because J did have the 
necessary permissions to advise on this. I think its likely there were general discussions 
between Mr A and Fiscale about the possibility of transferring his pension. But I havent 
seen evidence to persuade me that these discussions went beyond Fiscales role of merely 
acting as an introducer here.
Shortly after Mr A first met with Fiscale, it sent him an email confirming it didnt have the 
relevant permissions to provide advice in relation to pension transfers. This email went on 
to say:
As Fiscale Financial Services Ltd are not providing pension advice in relation to the 
relative merits of transferring (or not), your [employers] monies. Should you subsequently 
[sic] undertake a transfer of your pension funds to say a personal pension and then at 
some point down the line feel that this was not in your best interests, any potential 
complaint would be against the firm that provided you with the pension transfer advice, 
including associated fund advice, and not Fiscale Financial Services Ltd. 
Fiscale Financial Services Ltd would however take regulatory responsibility once a change 
of agency letter has been submitted to the pension provider concerned for any ongoing 
advice only.
Fiscale asked Mr A to confirm he understood this before making the referral to J, and Mr A 
replied to the email confirming it was acceptable.
Im therefore satisfied that Fiscale made it clear to Mr A at the time that it wasnt providing 
advice on whether or not he should transfer his pension, and this would be the sole 
responsibility of J. Following this, Mr A met with J and the advice to transfer was given and 
completed.
Ive seen a copy of a fact find and suitability letter produced by Fiscale regarding the 
investments within the personal pension. The fact find is dated May 2017 and the 
suitability letter is dated July 2017. Both of these dates are after the pension transfer had 
completed in March 2017. Ive also seen a copy of Js recommendation letter to Mr A 
dated 8 March 2017. I havent seen any evidence that any advice was provided by Fiscale 
prior to this  only the introduction to J. Based on this, Im satisfied that it was J who 
provided the advice to transfer the DBS. 
Mr A spoke with Fiscale before and after the transfer happened. So, I can see why he may 
have thought that Fiscale was involved in the advice being given. However, based on the 
information I have, Im satisfied that the advice to transfer the pension was provided by J, 
not Fiscale. And it was Js advice that ultimately led to Mr A transferring out of the DBS. 
I understand that Fiscale did take over the servicing of the pension shortly after the 
transfer and then provided advice to Mr A on how his funds should be invested. But this 
doesnt mean it becomes responsible for the advice to transfer from the DBS in the first 
place. 
I cant see that Mr A is unhappy about the advice of where to invest the funds or the 
servicing of the pension after the transfer was completed. However, if he is, he will first 
need to raise this with Fiscale.Overall, Im satisfied that all Fiscale did with regards to Mr As pension transfer was 
introduce him to J. And its not responsible for the advice J gave to transfer his pension.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2022.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman