DRN-3115455
The complaint
Mr P is dealing with a complaint on behalf of H. Mr P is the director of H. I will refer to Mr P 
throughout this decision.
Mr P is unhappy that AXA Insurance UK Plc has declined a claim for vandalism under his 
residential landlords insurance policy for a tenanted property.
What happened
Mr P had a buy to let property rented out to a family through a letting agent. He said the 
property was subject to regular inspections. Mr P decided to sell the property and notified the 
tenants they would have to vacate. Shortly after this Mr P said the tenants stopped paying 
the rent and started to vandalise the property. When the tenants finally vacated Mr P made a 
claim and AXA appointed loss adjusters C to inspect and validate the claim.
C reported back to AXA and AXA declined the claim. It said the damage at the property 
wasnt malicious and so there was no cover under the policy. AXA said the property was 
suffering from general neglect, a lack of care and poor quality repairs. It did accept that there 
had been some delays in communication around the claim, and it offered Mr P £100 for this 
plus £25 as a gesture of goodwill. Mr P didnt accept this and brought a complaint to this 
service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said she hadnt seen sufficient evidence to 
suggest this was vandalism. She said there wasnt evidence the tenants had intended to 
cause harm. Our investigator said AXA was entitled to rely on the expert opinion of C.
Mr P remained unhappy with this and asked for this complaint to be passed to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think considering the claim under the malicious damage section of the policy was correct as 
Mr P described the damage as vandalism.
Ive reviewed all of the evidence and the photos provided. Looking at the details from the 
loss adjuster I note there was a record of a telephone call between C and Mr P. During the 
call C noted that Mr P said the tenants didnt know how to de-ice the fridge/freezer, that the 
kitchen was in a gross state with pots and pans everywhere, the boiler housing had been 
removed to dry something, there were holes in the wall where the tv brackets had been 
removed, and lino had been glued on to laminate flooring. This indicated Mr P was aware 
the tenants had done these things while living at the property.
Based on the evidence Ive seen I think AXA has acted reasonably when it declined the 
claim. Theres no evidence that the tenants acted maliciously when considering the condition 
of the property based on what Mr P said and the photos provided. AXA referred to general 
neglect, poor domestic standards, a lack of care and poor quality repairs. And I think this is 
what the evidence shows.
In terms of the £125 award for the delays and as a goodwill gesture I think this was fair. AXA 
explained that the communication errors came about when it was provided with a different 
policy number. This meant a second claim against a separate property was set up. Once it 
became aware that this was the same claim it put the matter right straight away.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
I make no award against AXA Insurance UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2022.
 
John Quinlan
Ombudsman