DRN-3737134
The complaint
Mr A and Mrs V complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc (trading as First Direct) failed to switch 
their account with another bank.
What happened
In late 2021, Mr A and Mrs V applied for a joint account with First Direct. They requested that 
their payments and balance be transferred across from their account with another bank 
using the Current Account Switch Service (CASS).
Mr A and Mrs V say the main reason for switching accounts was the other banks decision to 
close all current accounts. However, when First Direct opened their new bank account, it 
failed to initiate the CASS. So, Mr A and Mrs Vs other account was closed without their 
direct debits and standing orders being transferred across. Mr A and Mrs V also lost out on 
First Directs joining incentive of £130.
Mr A and Mrs V complained to First Direct, who acknowledged it had made an error. It said 
Mr A and Mrs V werent entitled to the £130 joining incentive because CASS hadnt taken 
place. However, it was willing to honour the incentive if CASS was completed by 15 March 
2022. 
Mr A pointed out that it was too late to complete the CASS as their other account had 
already been closed.  He asked First Direct to pay the £130 joining incentive plus an 
additional £200 for the distress and inconvenience theyd experienced. However, First Direct 
wouldnt agree to Mr As request. It said it would be willing to honour the joining incentive if 
Mr A and Mrs V chose to complete CASS from another provider. 
Mr A and Mrs V remained unhappy, so they asked our service to consider their complaint. 
After our involvement, First Direct offered to pay Mr A and Mrs V £200 compensation (£130 
for the joining incentive plus £70 for distress and inconvenience).
Mr A and Mrs V didnt think this was enough to put things right but First Direct wasnt willing 
to increase its offer. Our investigator looked into Mr A and Mrs Vs concerns and thought 
First Directs offer was fair.
Mr A and Mrs V disagreed with our investigators outcome. They didnt think First Directs 
offer of compensation was enough for failing to meet the CASS guarantee, not upholding 
their complaint in the first place and the inconvenience, distress and delay this had caused. 
So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached broadly the same conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain 
why.
The Current Account Switch Guarantee required First Direct to ensure that payments going 
in and out of Mr A and Mrs Vs old account be moved to their new account. If anything went 
wrong with the switch, First Direct was required to refund any interest (paid or lost) and 
charges made on either their old or new current accounts as a result of the failure. 
Mr A and Mrs V dont appear to have made First Direct aware of any financial loss from 
interest or charges. However, they have said that they needed to set up direct debits and 
standing orders themselves, which was inconvenient. 
Mr A and Mrs V were understandably concerned about losing out on the £130 joining 
incentive First Direct offered because the CASS didnt go through as it should. First Direct 
says that it hadnt been aware that Mr A and Mrs Vs other bank account had already been 
closed when it sent its final response to their complaint. However, Mr A did let First Direct 
know about this when he replied. So, I can appreciate Mr A and Mrs Vs frustration that First 
Direct didnt offer to pay the £130 before he brought his complaint to our service. 
However, First Direct have offered to pay Mr A and Mrs V £130 to cover the loss of the 
joining incentive. So, its willing to compensate Mr A and Mrs V for the financial loss they 
incurred.
While I appreciate that Mr A and Mrs V have both been impacted by HSBCs mistake, Im 
not persuaded that it should have to pay extra compensation because its a joint account. 
From what Ive been told, the main impact on them was the inconvenience of having to set 
up direct debits and standing orders themselves. I understand this would have been a hassle 
for them to sort out. However, I think the £70 HSBC has offered Mr A and Mrs V is 
reasonable. So, I dont require First Direct to pay compensation above what its already 
proposed.
Putting things right
First Direct should pay Mr A and Mrs V £200. 
My final decision
HSBC UK Bank Plc has already made an offer to pay £200 to settle the complaint and I think 
this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc should pay Mr A and Mrs V £200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs V to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 November 2022.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman