DRN-3613202
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Santander UK Plc wont refund money they lost after they fell 
victim to a scam.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so I wont repeat it in detail 
here. But in summary, and based on the submissions of both parties, I understand it to be as 
follows.
On 9 February 2022, Mr M received a call, from a local number, from somebody claiming to 
be from an internet provider. The caller explained to Mr M that there was issues with the 
broadband, but they could improve the service and that Mr and Mrs M would receive 
compensation for the inconvenience. 
But unknown to him at the time, Mr M was speaking to a fraudster. The fraudster persuaded 
Mr M to make a payment, to an international bank, for £1,800, from the account Mr and Mrs 
M held with Santander. A further payment of £388 was attempted, but this was stopped by 
Santander.
Mr M has been unable to explain why the fraudsters told him he needed to send the money.  
But has said that he tends to believe people and that the fraudsters had sucked him into 
what hes described as a hypnotic state.
Mr M became suspicious when Mrs M returned home and he told her what had happened.  
She thought it was odd and so contacted Santander, at which point the scam came to light. 
Santander tried to recover the money from the international beneficiary bank (the bank to 
which the payment was made), but unfortunately it wasnt able to recover any money. 
Santander looked into Mr and Mrs Ms complaint and issued its final response on 4 May 
2022, not upholding the complaint. In summary, this was because Mr M had authorised the 
payment and Santander said it had used the correct level of security when completing the 
transaction. And as this was an international payment, it was not covered by the Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (CRM code). 
Mr and Mrs M then brought their complaint to our service. One of our investigators looked 
into things, but didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In summary, our investigator 
didnt think Santander could have done anything to prevent the scam. This was because she 
didnt think the payment was so unusual or suspicious in appearance to have expected 
Santander to have intervened. Our investigator was also satisfied that Santander did what it 
could to recover the money, once it was aware of the scam.
 
Mr and Mrs M didnt agree with our investigators view. In summary they thought Santander 
should have carried out extra checks on the payment, as they say it was bigger than usual 
and was to a new recipient in a foreign country. They also said it took them some time to get 
through to Santander when they contacted it to report the scam and that perhaps, but for the 
delay, the money might have been retrieved.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. 
Im sorry to hear of whats happened to Mr and Mrs M, and I can understand entirely why 
they feels so strongly that this money should be returned to them. But having thought very 
carefully about Santanders actions, I think it did act fairly and reasonably in allowing the 
transfer to leave Mr and Mrs Ms account. I also dont think it could have done any more than 
it did to try and recover the money. Ill explain why. 
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account. And I have taken that into account when deciding what 
is fair and reasonable in this case. 
But that is not the end of the story and taking into account the law, regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time, I consider Santander should fairly and reasonably: 
- Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
- Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer. 
- In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
This means that, particularly with the increase of sophisticated fraud and scams in recent 
years, there are circumstances where a bank should fairly and reasonably take additional 
steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to 
make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.
In this case, I need to decide whether Santander acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings 
with Mr and Mrs M, when they made the transfer and when they reported the fraud, or 
whether it should have done more than it did.
 
In making the payments through his online banking, Im satisfied Mr M authorised the 
transaction. Because of this, Santander had an obligation to follow his instruction. But there 
are some situations in which it should reasonably have had a closer look at the 
circumstances surrounding the transfer - as Ive explained, I consider that as a matter of good practice Santander shouldve been on the lookout for unusual and out of character 
transactions. 
Santander has a difficult balance to strike in how it configures its systems to detect unusual 
activity or activity that might otherwise indicate a higher than usual risk of fraud. There is a 
delicate balance to be struck. There are many millions of payments made each day and it 
would not be possible or reasonable to expect a bank to check each one. On balance, I cant 
fairly say that the transaction here was so unusual or suspicious that it ought to have alerted 
Santander that Mr and Mrs M were at risk of financial harm.
I say this as, having looked through Mr and Mrs Ms bank statements for the months leading 
up to the scam, I can see that making international bank transfers wasnt something that 
they typically did. But even so, I dont think that is enough to say Santander should have 
treated this payment as suspicious. Im not persuaded that Mr and Mrs Ms activity that day 
should have stood out. The payment Mr M made was for £1,800. Its not uncommon for 
people to make an international payment for a specific purpose and on the face of it, theres 
nothing particularly unusual about this payment in and of itself.
While the payment wasnt for an insignificant amount. I can see that in the months leading 
up to the scam, Mr and Mrs M had made transactions on this account for greater amounts. 
So on balance, I cant say it was so remarkable that I could fairly and reasonably have 
expected Santander to have intervened. As a result, I dont think Santander acted 
unreasonably in not making enquiries about the payment before processing it. There isnt 
enough here for me to think Santander should have suspected Mr and Mrs M might be the 
victim of a potential scam.
Ive gone on to think about whether Santander did what it shouldve done once it was aware 
this was a scam. In order for me to be able to fairly ask Santander to refund the money to Mr 
and Mrs M, I need to be satisfied that Santander should have acted sooner in trying to 
recover the money. And if I dont think it acted soon enough, I need to decide whether it 
made any difference. 
Here, I can see Santander raised the matter with the receiving bank but unfortunately it 
wasnt able to recover the money. Its unfortunate that Mr and Mrs M have said they had to 
wait to speak to somebody at Santander. But overall, Im persuaded Santander tried to 
recover the money within a reasonable time frame, as I can see that Santander contacted 
the receiving bank within an hour of speaking to Mr and Mrs M. And sadly, it is quite typical 
with these types of scams for fraudsters to move money away from the beneficiary account, 
straight after the payments are made, presumably to frustrate the efforts at this type of 
recovery. 
Its very unfortunate Mr and Mrs M have lost this money in this way, and I understand the 
whole experience has been deeply upsetting for them and I dont underestimate their 
strength of feeling. But in the circumstances, I dont think I can fairly or reasonably say 
Santander should have done more to prevent Mr and Mrs M from losing this money. So I 
dont think it would be fair for me to ask Santander to refund the loss.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 October 2022.
 
Stephen WiseOmbudsman