DRN-3583693
Complaint
Mr H has complained about a personal loan Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday 
Loans) provided to him. He says the loan was unaffordable and was therefore irresponsibly 
lent to him.
Background
Everyday Loans provided Mr H with a loan for £5,000.00 in December 2019. This loan had 
an APR of 149.3% and a term of 42 months. This meant that the total amount to be repaid of 
£16,881.06, including interest, fees and charges of £11,881.06, was due to be repaid in 42 
monthly instalments of just over £400. 
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Hs complaint and he that Everyday Loans ought to 
have realised that it shouldnt have provided Mr H with his loan. So he thought that Mr Hs 
complaint should be upheld. Everyday Loans disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to 
review the case.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Hs complaint. 
Having carefully considered everything Ive decided to uphold Mr Hs complaint. Ill explain 
why in a little more detail.
Everyday Loans needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is Everyday Loans needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mr H could afford to repay any credit it provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
The information Everyday Loans has provided suggested that it carried out credit checks 
before Mr Hs loan was provided. The results of which showed that Mr H already had a 
significant amount of existing debt, hed recently defaulted on a credit card and had taken 
out loans with payday type lenders. Furthermore, the information obtained showed that Mr H 
use of such credit wasnt a one off and hed been taking out such credit for an extended 
period.
Im also concerned that Everyday Loans own income and expenditure calculation showed 
that this loan would take Mr H right to the margin of his disposal income. And Everyday 
Loans relied on the use of average data to calculate Mr Hs living expenses when arriving at 
its monthly disposable income figure. This is despite the fact that Mr Hs credit file showed 
he didnt fit the profile of the average borrower. 
All of this leaves me persuaded by what Mr H has said about already being in a difficult 
financial position at the time. And while its possible Mr Hs financial position reflected his 
choices rather than financial difficulty, Id add that my experience of these types of cases 
suggest this is unlikely, in the absence of any reasonable or plausible arguments from 
Everyday Loans, Ive been persuaded to accept Mr Hs version of events here. 
As this is the case, I do think that Mr Hs existing financial position meant that he was 
unlikely to be able to afford the repayments to this loan, without undue difficulty or borrowing 
further. And Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would more like than not 
have shown Everyday Loans that it shouldnt have provided this loan to Mr H. As Everyday 
Loans provided Mr H with this loan, notwithstanding this, Im satisfied it failed to act fairly and 
reasonably towards him. 
Mr H ended up paying and is being expected to pay interest, fees and charges on a loan he 
shouldnt have been provided with. So Im satisfied that Mr H lost out because of what 
Everyday Loans did wrong and that it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what Everyday Loans needs to do to put things right for Mr H
Having thought about everything, Everyday Loans should put things right for Mr H by:
removing all interest, fees and charges applied to Mr Hs loan from the outset. The 
payments Mr H made, whether to Everyday Loans or any third-party debt purchaser, 
should be deducted from the new starting balance  the £5.000.00 originally lent. If 
once all adjustments have been made this shows that Mr H has already paid more 
than £5,000.00, any overpayments should be refunded to Mr H together with interest 
at 8% simple a year from the date they were made by Mr H to the date of settlement
if no outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made then all 
adverse information recorded on Mr Hs credit file as a result of this loan should be 
removed. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to take off tax from this interest. 
Everyday Loans must give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he 
asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Hs complaint. Everyday Lending Limited 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2023.
 Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman