DRN-4250646
The complaint
Mr S complains HSBC UK Bank Plc have refused to allow him to increase his credit limit 
from £7,000 to £10,000 temporarily.
What happened
Mr S lives abroad. He was planning a trip to the UK and wanted to increase his credit limit 
for the time he was here from £7,000 to £10,000. When contacting HSBC and asking them 
to do so, they told him no, and wouldnt explain why. After several attempts to understand 
why without being told, Mr S made a complaint.
HSBC said theyd considered Mr S application but it didnt meet their criteria  so as a 
responsible lender they couldnt increase his credit limit. They also said they couldnt provide 
any further information because their lending criteria was commercially sensitive.
Unhappy with this, Mr S asked us to look into things. One of our Investigators did so but 
didnt think HSBC had done anything wrong.
Mr S didnt accept this. He said HSBC had treated him very poorly and refused to say why. 
He asked if our service has any discretion to express an opinion on behalf of a complainant. 
He also asked for an Ombudsmans review, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our Investigator explained our role is to decide whether HSBC have done something 
wrong, or otherwise acted unfairly, and put that right.
We dont take sides, so we wouldnt express an opinion to HSBC in the way Mr S seems to 
be wanting. In context, I think he was suggesting we speak to HSBC and ask if theyd 
change their mind. In the circumstances its HSBCs decision only on whether to lend, and 
that isnt something we can generally influence. In addition, HSBC communicated with us 
regarding Mr S complaint, but didnt suggest they wanted to revisit their own decision.
So, in the circumstances of any informal options such as asking them to review things ruled 
out  the only option left to me is to consider things more formally.
That means I need to decide if HSBC have done something wrong or acted unfairly.
Credit providers such as HSBC have requirements on them to ensure they lend responsibly 
and affordably. Theyll have their own internal criteria for exactly what this looks like  and as 
long as thats been applied fairly then it isnt something wed generally look at.
In Mr S case, Ive seen nothing to suggest HSBC have inappropriately refused his credit 
limit increase application. HSBC have told us it was turned down by their system 
automatically and Ive seen nothing to suggest otherwise. 
I do understand Mr S will say its unfair theyve turned him down given his long history with 
HSBC, and its not fair theyve not told him why. But, its their decision on whether to grant 
additional lending to him, and as frustrating as it is Im afraid theyre not required to tell him 
why.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2024.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman