DRN-3779980
The complaint
Mrs G complains about the time taken by Prudential Pensions Limited (Prudential) to pay the 
benefits from her late husbands pension policy.
What happened
Mrs G said it took the Prudential five months to pay out the benefits from her husbands 
pension. Mrs G says she had to chase the Prudential continuously and said she was told in 
March 2021 that the value of the policy was around £48,000.
The Prudential said it sent out a trace letter in August 2020 and Mrs G replied in October 
2020. It took some time to sort out security, in part as Mrs G had a different address to the 
one recorded on its file. All documents were supplied to it by early December 2020 but the 
security access issues were not resolved until late January 2021.Mrs G was paid around 
£43,000 in mid May 2021. The Prudential apologised for the delay and offered her £200 for 
the delay. It accepted that it could have paid the claim by 15 January 2021 and offered to 
pay interest from that date at 8% per annum simple, which was around £950.
The investigator initially upheld the complaint. She felt Mrs G should be paid the value of the 
policy on 15 January 2021 plus interest at 8% per annum simple up to the date of settlement 
for loss of use. She thought that the offer of £200 for distress and inconvenience was in line 
with what she felt was fair and reasonable. Prudential later explained that its policy was to 
encash the pension as soon as it was notified of the members death. In fact it didnt do this 
until April 2021. The policy value at the original encashment date was around £40,000 but by 
the time it was actually encashed in 2021 it was worth around £43,000 and this was the 
amount paid out. She had benefited from the delay. The Investigator said that this service 
would not have directed the Prudential to pay the higher amount. Interest on that amount 
from 15 January was around £900. The investigator thought this was a fair offer.
Mrs G didnt agree. She felt the compensation for the impact on her should be significantly 
higher and that she should get the around £48,000 she was told it was worth.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Prudential accepts it caused a delay from January to the date of payment. Where there 
is an error I can make an award for financial loss and distress and inconvenience suffered as 
a consequence of it.
In making an award for financial loss my aim is to put Mrs G back, as closely as possible, in 
the position she would most likely have been in but for the error. I need to decide what that 
position was.
The Prudential accepts there was a delay in payment. Mrs G said she had notified the 
Prudential of her husbands death in October 2020 and supplied all the documents it needed 
by December 2020. But she wasnt paid until 17 May 2021. 
Part of the problem delaying the payment seemed to be security as the Prudential did not 
update her address. She said the Prudential had written to her husband and her at this new 
address and assured her that it was correct on the system. But the problem recurred. She 
said she supplied a copy of the death certificate which showed the address at the date of 
death, council tax bills and copy records from Companies house to help Prudential verify and 
correct the address record. It told her it had written to the last address on its file and it was 
returned not at this address. She had made about 25 calls each taking at least an hour to get 
through and some calls went dead before she got through. Prudential never called her back.
I have seen copy letters from the Prudential to Mrs G and many of her notes of the dates 
and times of calls and the person she spoke to. She also had a copy of a letter sent to her 
husband in May 2020 asking him to confirm his contact details. The letter was correctly 
addressed and he had written on it that he had replied by post on 21 May 2020. I have seen 
a copy of the reply. But Prudential wrote again on 8 June 2020 and chased on 9 July 2020 to 
say that it could not update records using the information provided but it didnt get a reply. It 
wrote via the Department of work and pensions (DWP) on 9 August 2020. The DWP replied 
and it received a letter on 12 October 2020 to say that Mr G had died.
So it seems that the Prudential did make reasonable efforts to find and validate the correct 
address for Mr G and avoid the delay in payment. So I dont think there was unreasonable 
delay beyond the delay the Prudential accepts from January 2021. I can however 
understand that the process was frustrating for Mrs G, especially given the number of calls 
she made. This is something I have taken into account when considering an award for the 
impact on Mrs G.
I also asked the Prudential about its terms and conditions and what these said about the 
timing of the move into cash as that affects the amount that Mrs G is entitled to receive. It 
now accepts it should have switched the funds to the cash fund when it received the death 
certificate. I think that is reasonable because the terms and conditions says that it can move 
both before and after the time they have all the information they needed. Receipt of the 
death certificate is one of the earliest times and reflects what they said was their policy. It 
said the death certificate was received on 7 December 2020. Had it moved to cash on that 
date it said the fund value would have been £45,413.60 which was £2,096.01 higher than 
the amount it actually paid (which was around £43,000) . 
It still felt that it could not have paid the amount until all the information was received. I think 
that is reasonable and cannot see that it could pay out before it had all it needed. The 
earliest date it seems that was possible was 15 January 2021. It confirmed it was happy to 
pay interest at the rate of 8% per annum simple from 15 January 2021. This is the level of 
interest that this service would have awarded.
It also said that if it had been moved into the cash fund in December 2020 the amount would 
not have increased in the time up to January 2021, as the unit price in the cash fund did not 
change during that time. So I think it is reasonable to accept that the amount that would have 
been paid in January 2021 was £45,413.60
I need to seek to put Mr G as closely as possible back into the position she would most likely 
have been in had the Prudential not delayed the move into the cash fund. Under the terms 
and conditions I think that would have meant the policy was moved into cash in December 
2020 so I think the proposed higher amount plus interest thereon is fair and reasonable.Mrs G says she was told the policy payment would be around £48,000. I can understand that 
she feels she has lost out as the amount she was pad was less than this. 
I asked the Prudential if it could identify why Mrs G was told the policy value would be 
around £48,000. It said that the annual statement from 2019 quoted an amount the policy 
could be worth at the selected retirement date as around £48,000. It suggested that this is 
where the figure may have come from. This seems like a reasonable explanation to me.  
But Mrs G isnt entitled to the higher amount of £48,000 even though it was quoted to her. 
The law would say that Mrs G should be put in the position she would have been in but for 
the mistake (which was incorrectly quoting around £48,000) and not as if the mistake was 
correct. So I would not direct she is awarded the £48,000 mistakenly quoted to her as this 
wasnt the amount she was entitled to receive.
I appreciate Mrs G is disappointed not to receive around £48,000. But after the Prudential 
has paid the additional around £2,000 amount plus interest at 8% per annum simple, she will 
have been paid what she is entitled to, for the reasons given above.
Impact on Mrs G
I asked Mrs G for more information about her circumstances at the time. She said that 
having lost her husband it was extremely stressful and upsetting time and she didnt expect 
the Prudential to add more stress and tears to her grief and take over 7 months to sort it out. 
She said she was now a single mum living in rented accommodation she needed the 
pension money to fund her everyday expenses such as rent and bills. She was around 
£15,000 in arrears of debt when her husband died and would have planned her husbands 
funeral differently had she been in receipt of the money sooner. The delay caused her a lot 
of worry that she wouldnt be able to afford to pay off the debts. When her husband died she 
notified the credit card companies who froze the interest on the outstanding debts. She paid 
them off when she received the payment from Prudential.
I have considered an award for distress and inconvenience in the light of what she has told 
me. Such an award is to reflect the impact on Mrs G not to punish Prudential. At the time of 
the delay Mrs G was already vulnerable due to the death of her husband and was clearly 
worried about debt, funeral costs and day to day living costs. I think this must have been 
very stressful. I can see Mrs G put a lot of effort into trying to contact Prudential and I have 
seen evidence in Prudential records of this but it still it took several months to resolve the 
issues, something the Prudential accepts.
Given the payment was triggered by Mr Gs death the Prudential might reasonably have 
been aware that delays in payment could cause distress to the recipient of the pension 
money who was likely to be vulnerable due to Mr Gs death. I think the delay caused 
considerable distress, upset and worry and required a lot of extra effort from Mrs G over a 
period of months. I think an award of £500 would be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. For the avoidance of doubt the total award is £500 so if Prudential has 
already paid £200 it need only pay a further £300.
I asked both Mrs G and the Prudential to comment on this proposed increased amount. Mrs 
G said that she still felt she should receive the difference between what she was paid and 
the around £48,000 she was told would be paid. But I have already considered that and 
explained why I cannot make an award on that basis.
The Prudential questioned whether I was awarding an additional £500 or additional £300. I 
clarified it was an additional £300 assuming it had paid £200 to date. It later confirmed it was happy to increase the payment by a further £300.
Putting things right  
In order to put things right I think that the Prudential needs to pay Mrs G a further £2,096.01. 
Further Mrs G has lost the benefit of the use of this higher amount since January 2021 and 
the Prudential should pay interest on the additional £2,096.01 at the rate of 8% per annum 
simple from 15 January 2021 to the date of payment to her. 
Prudential accepts there was a delay from January to May 2021 in paying the around 
£43,000 it actually paid Mrs G. If it has not already done so it should also pay interest at the 
rate of 8% per annum simple on that amount for the loss of use of the money from January 
2021 to the date it actually paid her in May 2021.
Finally the Prudential should also pay (to the extent it has not already done) a total of £500 
for distress and inconvenience
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I direct that Prudential Pensions Limited should within 30 days of this service notifying it that 
Mrs G has accepted this decision pay Mrs G:-
1. a total of £500 for distress and inconvenience, (but if it has already paid Mrs G £200 
it need only pay a further £300.) and
2. a further £2,096.01 to increase the amount paid to her to £45,413.60, and
3. interest at the rate of 8% per annum simple from 15 January 2021 to 17 May 2021 on 
the amount of £43,317.59 ( if it has not already paid this amount) and 
4. interest at the rate of 8% per annum simple on the amount of £2,096.01 from 15 
January 2021 to the date of actual payment under this direction.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Prudential Pensions Limited deducts 
income tax from the interest, it should tell Mrs G how much has been taken off. Prudential 
Pensions Limited should give Mrs G a tax deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mrs G 
asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax on interest from HMRC if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 February 2023.
 
Colette Bewley
Ombudsman