DRN-1722611
The complaint
Mrs and Mr C say HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy for a mortgage.
What happened
HSBC say Mrs and Mr C were sold a mortgage PPI policy alongside a mortgage in January 
1995. It cant now say how the policy was sold to them. Mrs and Mr C cant say either. HSBC 
said Mrs and Mr Cs mortgage ran from January 1995 to November 1997. Mrs and Mr C say 
they didn't take out a HSBC mortgage or PPI.
The monthly cost of the policy was £20.59 and if Mrs and Mr C made a claim under the 
policy it wouldve provided a monthly benefit of £350.00 per month to cover their mortgage 
repayments. This wouldve been paid for up to 12 months per successful claim for accident, 
sickness and unemployment. Only Mr C was covered under the policy, although the policy 
covered  their joint mortgage.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs and Mr C disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide. They said, in summary, they 
thought the adjudicators decision was biased in favour of HSBC because it hadnt been able 
to show the sales process used to sell the PPI to them. 
They also said they wouldnt have taken out a policy where only one of them was covered 
and didnt have a mortgage or PPI with HSBC. Mr C said he worked for a building society at 
the time of sale, and his mortgage had been running for 15 years with little or no change 
over that period, so they had no reason to purchase PPI.
He also said that when he contacted HSBC in 2015, it was unable to find a PPI policy in his 
name.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As some of the evidence is either incomplete or contradictory, Ive made a decision on what I 
think is most likely to have happened  based on whats available.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs and Mr Cs case.
While I know this will disappoint Mrs and Mr C, I have not found that this policy was mis-
sold  Ill explain why.
This sale took place around 25 years ago, so I think its understandable that neither side 
have the original documents from the time. Indeed, under data protection rules, HSBC was 
required to dispose of Mrs and Mr Cs data rather than hold onto it for too long. Mrs and Mr C say they didnt have a HSBC mortgage or agree to take PPI. I've seen 
HSBCs microfiche records. From these, it seems, Mrs and Mr C had a HSBC mortgage and 
PPI policy. I think these records can reasonably be relied on as they were created at the 
time of events, before this complaint was known about. 
Mr C pointed out that in 2015 when he enquired about PPI, HSBC couldnt find any records. 
However, HSBC said this was because it was looking for a different type of PPI.
Whilst I accept that Mrs and Mr C genuinely believe that they didnt have an HSBC mortgage 
or PPI policy, Im also conscious that memories can, and do, fade over time, and that this 
sale was a particularly long time ago, and that the sale of insurance is not often memorable. 
Ive thought carefully about whats most likely to have happened based on the limited 
information I have. On balance, taking everything into account, Im satisfied that Mrs and 
Mr C most likely did have a mortgage and PPI through HSBC from 1995 to 1997. 
It would have been a very serious failing for HSBC to have added the PPI without Mrs and 
Mr Cs permission, or to have misled them into thinking it was compulsory. But I have no 
evidence which shows thats what HSBC did here. Nor have I seen any wider problems with 
its sales process from the time. This sale was too long ago for me to reasonably expect 
HSBC to be able to produce evidence from the time to defend itself now. So I dont think I 
have a fair basis on which to conclude that HSBC didnt tell Mrs and Mr C PPI was optional. I 
think its more likely that it followed a relatively standard sales process, gave them a choice, 
and that they chose PPI at the time  even if, understandably, they no longer recall doing so 
after so long. I also note that PPI was paid for by a separate standing order each month, so I 
think it wouldve been clear from their banking records that PPI was separate from the 
mortgage.
Its not clear whether HSBC recommended the PPI to Mrs and Mr C, or not. The 
requirements were stricter on HSBC if it did recommend it, so to be fair to Mrs and Mr C Ive 
assumed that it did. That means HSBC had to check the policy was right for them  and 
based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think it was. In reaching this 
decision, I have taken into account Mrs Cs circumstances too, even though Mr C only was 
covered. 
HSBC no longer has a copy of the policy terms and conditions that applied at the time of 
sale. It has sent in a copy of the terms that applied shortly after this policy was taken out. I 
think the terms that applied here are likely to have been similar. So, I have taken those into 
account when reaching a decision on this complaint.
Mr C was working and likely eligible for the cover. Mrs C was a student at the time, 
so she probably wasnt eligible for cover. So, it seemed right that the policy was 
taken out covering Mr C only.
Mr C said he was eligible to get sick pay from his employer; six months at full pay 
and six months at half. The PPI wouldve paid out on top of Mr Cs sick pay from 
work. They said they also had around 3 months' worth of pay in savings. Having PPI 
wouldve allowed them to use their savings to meet their other household expenditure 
if Mr C wasnt working. I think this couldve been important to them as they were 
mainly reliant on Mr Cs income. The policy wouldve also paid out if Mr C was made 
involuntarily unemployed. So, I think PPI couldve provided them with useful 
protection, in their circumstances, to safeguard their home.
I cant see that Mr C was affected by any of the main limitations or exclusions on 
cover. As likely he couldve benefited from everything the policy offered, I dont think 
this wouldve put them off buying the policy.The policy appeared affordable. The monthly paid premium couldve been cancelled 
at any time without Mrs and Mr C losing out financially. The premium did not carry 
interest. 
 
Its possible that the information HSBC gave Mrs and Mr C about PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have 
changed their minds. But as I explained above, Mr C wasnt affected by any of the main 
things the policy didnt cover, and it couldve really been useful for them in case something 
went wrong. The policy was competitively priced given how much it would pay out in a claim. 
And the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Mrs and Mr C could cancel it at any time 
without a penalty. Overall, I dont think that better information was likely to have put them off 
taking out the cover.
My final decision
For the reasons I explained above, I dont uphold Mrs and Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 May 2020.
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman