DRN-3222548
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Santander UK Plc did not process their request to extend the 
term of the interest only mortgage as quickly as it shouldve done.  
What happened
Mr and Mrs C took out a mortgage with Santander in 2005. The mortgage had a term of 15 
years  making it repayable in May 2020. It was initially on a part repayment and part 
interest only basis.
In 2006, the borrowing was converted to a full interest only basis.
In 2007, Mr and Mrs C took out additional borrowing with Santander. This new borrowing 
was over a term of 25 years  repayable in 2032  and was on a capital and repayment 
basis. So, from this point they had part of their borrowing on interest only (what remained 
from the original mortgage in 2005), and part on a capital repayment basis (the further 
advance in 2007), with different term lengths for each part. Mr and Mrs C have said that they 
thought the term of the interest only borrowing had been extended when they took out this 
further advance, to coincide with their plan for repaying it.
In October 2019, Santander sent Mr and Mrs C a letter about potentially being able to 
capitalise arrears on their mortgage. Santander has said that this letter was automatically 
generated by its system. Mr and Mrs C have said they feel this was sent in error and that it 
caused them embarrassment, as it was opened by a neighbour.
In February 2020, Santander wrote to Mr and Mrs C, reminding them that their interest only 
term was ending in three months time.
Mr and Mrs C have said this came as a shock as they still thought the term of the interest 
only part of the mortgage had been extended when theyd taken out their further advance in 
2007. Nevertheless, after receiving this letter, Mr and Mrs C contacted Santander in 
March 2020 to discuss extending the term of the interest only portion of their mortgage. They 
wanted to extend this to May 2022, to coincide with them releasing a lump sum from a 
pension  which would allow the balance to be repaid.
The extension to the term for the interest only part of the mortgage was agreed in August 
2020. Santander has explained that part of the reason for this delay was that there were 
arrears on the account from an underpayment in April 2020.
Mr and Mrs C then took out a new fixed interest rate deal on the repayment part of their 
mortgage. But Santander said it could not agree to a new fixed rate on the interest only 
borrowing. It said this was because the remaining term of that part of the mortgage was 
under two years. And its policy was that a new fixed interest rate deal cannot be agreed on 
borrowing with a term of less than two years and three months.
Mr and Mrs C complained to Santander. They were unhappy with how long it had taken to 
agree to their request to extend the term of their interest only portion of the mortgage. They 
felt this was caused, in part, by Santander not making them aware there was an arrears 
balance on their account from April 2020 until several months after this had accrued. They 
said, if Santander had explained this sooner, the arrears couldve been cleared, and the 
application couldve gone ahead. And they were unhappy that Santander had not told them 
about its policy of not agreeing fixed interest rate deals unless the remaining term was more 
than two years and three months.
Mr and Mrs C said, if Santander had told them this, theyd have arranged to extend the 
interest only term much sooner, so they couldve applied for a fixed interest rate deal and so 
wouldve paid less interest than they now would. They also felt theyd lost out because the 
delay in arranging the extension had delayed them getting a new fixed interest rate deal on 
the repayment part of their mortgage. They also said they remained unhappy that Santander 
had sent them the letter in October 2019 about potentially capitalising arrears.
Santander said it didnt think it had done anything wrong by issuing the letter in October 
2019. And it also said it felt it wasnt responsible for the delay in the application to extend the 
term being agreed, as there was an arrears balance on the account. Santander didnt think it 
was wrong to not notify Mr and Mrs C of this arrears balance in writing, as its processes are 
it will only do so if the level of arrears exceeds a certain level, which wasnt the case here.
And it didnt think it had made a mistake by not informing Mr and Mrs C sooner of its policy 
on the minimum term required for a fixed interest rate to be agreed.
The complaint was referred to our service. I issued a provisional decision in November 2021 
explaining that I was inclined to uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint in part. Below are extracts 
from those provisional findings, explaining why I thought this.
The arrears letter sent in 2019
Santander has been unable to provide a copy of the letter issued in October 2019 which 
Mr and Mrs C have said they are unhappy about. It has indicated this is because it was a 
system generated promotional letter.
Mr and Mrs C have raised two concerns about this letter. Theyve said it shouldnt have been 
issued as they were not in arrears. And theyve said it was opened by one of their 
neighbours, causing them embarrassment.
Santander has provided evidence showing that its systems expect Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage 
payments on the 23rd of each month. This appears to be based on the original opening date 
of the mortgage. But Mr and Mrs C make their payments around the 1st of the following 
month. So, for a period of roughly a week, their mortgage is considered in arrears. And 
Santander has explained that this is why the letter about potentially capitalising arrears was 
generated in October 2019.
I think the explanation by Santander around this is reasonable. And I can see that it has 
explained the issue with payment due dates to Mr and Mrs C in the past. So, based on what 
Ive seen, I dont think it was unreasonable of Santander to send out this promotional letter.Mr and Mrs C have said that this letter was opened by one of their neighbours causing them 
embarrassment. Again, I havent seen a copy of the letter. But Santander has said that it has 
only ever held one address for Mr and Mrs C on its systems  the one to which all other 
documents Ive seen have been sent. And Mr and Mrs C havent argued the letter sent in 
October 2019 was addressed incorrectly. So, without any evidence to the contrary, on 
balance I think the letter was likely addressed correctly. And with that in mind, as I dont think 
Santander was wrong to send it, I dont think it can reasonably be held responsible for this 
letter being delivered to or opened by a party to which it was not addressed. So, I dont 
intend to require Santander to do anything more in respect of this letter.
The interest only term extension request  was there a delay?
The evidence Ive seen indicates Mr and Mrs C first requested an extension to the term of 
the interest only part of their borrowing in March 2020, two months before it was due to 
expire. Ive seen copies of Santanders system notes indicating they received a call from 
Mr and Mrs C about this on 9 March 2020. And Mr C has provided a copy of an email he 
sent to Santander on 14 March, following this call, providing details of the intended 
repayment vehicle and confirming the request to extend the term to May 2022.
This extension wasnt completed until mid-August 2020. So, Ive thought about whether 
Santander caused any unnecessary delays.
It seems that, despite the request having been made to consider a term extension over the 
phone on 9 March 2020, no further action was taken by Santander, for over a month. The 
next note on Santanders system was Mr C chasing in late April 2020. But no action seems 
to have been taken to that point.
There is a suggestion in the notes recorded by Santander that the email address that
Mr and Mrs C had sent the information to on 14 March 2020 was incorrect. Mr and Mrs C 
have said that the email address in question was provided to them in the call they had on 9 
March 2020, by Santander. And I have no reason to doubt what theyve said.
So, it would appear that either the information was received by Santander, and not acted on 
for over a month, or Santander provided Mr and Mrs C with an incorrect email address to 
send it to in the first place. Either way, it appears that Santanders actions have caused a 
delay of over a month in the request being considered.
There are notes of another conversation that took place on 1 May 2020 suggesting that 
Santander indicated to Mr and Mrs C that it needed more information about their repayment 
vehicle  specifically about the date that the funds could be released  before agreeing to 
the extension. And the request for this information doesnt seem unreasonable.
Mr and Mrs C have said they obtained this and sent it to Santander promptly. But they didnt 
hear anything more for a couple of months and so chased again in July 2020.
The contact notes Santander have provided appear to support this, as they show
Mr and Mrs C making further calls to Santander in July 2020 to find out what was happening. 
And the notes also seem to suggest that Santander had in fact received the documents. It 
refers to the person they were speaking to having found the documents suggesting they 
had been previously received, but hadnt been acted on.Mr and Mrs C havent confirmed exactly when this further information was sent to Santander, 
after the call on 1 May 2020. But based on how quickly they provided information previously, 
on balance I think this was likely provided within a couple of weeks of being requested, at 
most. But no further action was taken by Santander to review matters until late July 2020.
So, based on what Ive seen, it appears that Santander has potentially caused another delay 
of approximately two months.
Another reason Santander has said that the term extension could not immediately be 
processed was that the account fell into arrears. And this wasnt put right until August 2020, 
shortly before the request for the extension was approved. This was because the payment 
made on 1 May 2020 was lower than what was required. Ive seen evidence to support this 
and it does appear that the account was in arrears at that time as Santander says as the 
payment made was less than required.
Mr and Mrs C have said they werent made aware of this until they spoke to Santander in 
late July 2020. And a payment was made to address this shortly after. And I can see this is 
correct  that the arrears were paid on 4 August 2020.
Santander has said it didnt notify Mr and Mrs C about the arrears in writing because it 
doesnt usually do so unless the arrears exceed a certain level. This is a matter of 
Santanders commercial judgement and not something I can interfere with. But I dont think it 
really makes a difference here.
The arrears position was resolved promptly as soon as Mr and Mrs C were told about it over 
the phone, when they were applying for the extension. This conversation seems to have 
happened at the end of July 2020. As Ive said, based on what Ive currently seen, I think 
Santander delayed the application for this extension by approximately three months. If that 
hadnt happened, I think the extension would either likely have been completed before the 
arrears arose. Or if not, the conversation informing Mr and Mrs C of the arrears issue 
wouldve likely happened three months sooner, as their application was ongoing. And if it 
had, I think on balance Mr and Mrs C would likely have cleared the arrears as promptly as 
they did in August 2020, allowing the application to proceed.
Once the arrears were cleared, the application for an extension was processed and 
completed within a couple of weeks. And I think Santander acted fairly by agreeing to the 
extension. But, taking everything into account, Im of the view that Santander did delay the 
processing of this extension by approximately three months.
So, as I think Santander has done something wrong, Ive gone on to think about the impact 
this has had on Mr and Mrs C and what I think it should do to put things right.
Impact on the interest only portion of the mortgage
Mr and Mrs C have said that the delay caused by Santander meant they missed out on 
being able to obtain a fixed interest rate on the interest only part of their mortgage, after the 
extension was agreed. But I dont agree.
As Ive said, Mr and Mrs C first applied for the extension in March 2020. And they were very 
specific that they needed to extend the term to May 2022, to coincide with being able to 
release a lump sum from a pension tax free. With this money being used to repay the 
balance on the mortgage.Even if the request to extend the term had been processed immediately in March 2020  and 
for the avoidance of doubt Im not saying it shouldve been, as I think it is reasonable that it 
did at least take some time for Santander to consider this  that wouldve meant they had a 
remaining term of 2 years and 2 months.
Santander has explained that a minimum remaining term of 2 years and 3 months is 
required for it to agree a new interest rate deal. It says this is because its interest rate deals 
arent exactly two years, for example, but run to a set end date. So, this policy is in place to 
ensure that early repayment charges do not become payable unfairly. And it has provided 
evidence that the fixed interest rate deals available when Mr and Mrs C first contacted it to 
discuss a term extension, ran beyond May 2022, meaning an ERC wouldve been payable 
had one been applied and the mortgage redeemed in May 2022. I think Santanders 
explanation of this is fair. But in any event, this policy is a matter of Santanders commercial 
judgement and not something I can require it to change.
Mr and Mrs C have said they werent made aware of this policy until several months after 
theyd requested a term extension. But I dont think that makes a difference here. As Ive 
explained even if the request had been processed immediately, I dont think Santander 
wouldve agreed to a new fixed interest rate deal on this part of the mortgage. So, while 
Santander couldve informed Mr and Mrs C about this policy when they first enquired in 
March 2020, I dont think it not doing so has caused something to happen that otherwise 
wouldnt have.
I also dont think I can reasonably say Santander shouldve agreed to extend the term even 
further, to allow Mr and Mrs C to obtain an alternative interest rate. The mortgage agreement 
made between Mr and Mrs C and Santander was that, when the term of the interest only 
part of the borrowing expired in May 2020, the amount borrowed on those terms would be 
repaid in full. Santander agreed to extend the term for repayment to May 2022, as
Mr and Mrs C would incur a tax penalty if they used their repayment plan before that time. 
And I think this decision by Santander was fair. But I dont think there are any reasonable 
grounds to say it needed to extend the term further than that.
Mr and Mrs C have said that Santander shouldve informed them of this policy much earlier, 
before they even applied for the term extension, so they couldve applied much sooner. But I 
dont think Santander was obliged to do this unprompted. And I dont think there was 
anything preventing Mr and Mrs C from applying for a term extension sooner than they did.
Mr and Mrs C have said Santanders letter in February 2020, reminding them their term was 
ending came as a surprise, because they thought the interest only term had previously been 
extended. And that this is what prompted them to request a term extension in March 2020.
Santander has provided our service with copies of documents from August 2016 when a 
new two-year fixed interest rate was agreed on all three parts of the mortgage. These 
documents confirmed that the term on the interest only portion of the borrowing at that time 
was 3 years and 9 months. Whereas the term for the repayment part was still in excess of 
16 years. There is a signed agreement by Mr and Mrs C to that new interest rate  with 
these term lengths noted on the same page they signed.
Ive also seen documents sent by Santander in May 2018 confirming the interest only 
mortgage term was to end in May 2020, two years later. And Ive seen documents sent in 
October 2018, confirming the interest rate on all three parts of the mortgage following the 
expiry of the fixed rate agreed in 2016. And this again made it clear that the interest only 
term was ending in 2020 and was different to that on the repayment part of the mortgage.So, I think Mr and Mrs C ought to have been aware that the term of their interest only 
borrowing was ending in 2020 several years earlier than theyve said they were. Which 
means, in my opinion, they couldve applied for a term extension much sooner than they did.
All of this means I dont think that the delay to the term extension application being 
processed has caused Mr and Mrs C to incur more interest on the interest only part of their 
mortgage than they otherwise always would have.
Impact on the repayment part of the mortgage
Mr and Mrs C have said that the delay by Santander also meant the new fixed rate on the 
repayment part of their mortgage was agreed later than it otherwise would have been.
Meaning theyve paid more interest on this part of the mortgage. And Im inclined to agree 
with them in respect of this.
Mr and Mrs C have said that, when they applied for the term extension to the interest only 
borrowing in March 2020, they also wanted to take a new fixed rate on the other part of their 
mortgage. But they were told to resolve the term extension first.
On balance, I think this is likely correct. The interest only term expiring wouldve likely been 
the priority. And I think its likely that Santander suggested that this be resolved first, not least 
because if it was not then the interest only portion of the mortgage as a whole would 
technically have been beyond due and so in arrears. So, I think the delay to the term 
extension wouldve delayed the new interest rate being put in place on the repayment part of 
the mortgage.
Santander has said a new interest rate would not be agreed while there was an arrears 
position on the mortgage  as there was from 1 May 2020 to 4 August 2020. But as Ive 
already explained, had the delay not occurred then I think the applications would either have 
been completed fully before that arrears position arose or the arrears wouldve been 
addressed much sooner. And this explanation from Santander would appear to support what 
Ive said above about why the term extension needed to be addressed first.
Taking all of this into account, I think the delays by Santander to the term extension, which I 
think account for approximately three months, has resulted in the application for the new 
interest rate on the repayment part of Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage also being delayed by three 
months.
Putting things right
Taking all of this into account, I think if it werent for the delay by Santander, a new fixed 
interest rate wouldve been agreed on the repayment part of Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage 
approximately three months early than it eventually was. So, for three months, I think theyve 
paid more interest than they needed to.
The information Ive been provided by Santander indicates that the interest rate agreed in 
August 2020 was the same as those available when Mr and Mrs C were in contact with 
Santander in April 2020. So, it seems likely the same fixed rate wouldve been applied.
With that in mind, Im currently inclined to recommend that Santander refund Mr and Mrs C 
the difference in interest they paid for three months. So, the interest they actually paid on the 
repayment part of their mortgage at the previous variable rate less what they wouldve paid 
at the new fixed rate. And I think Santander should provide Mr and Mrs C with a calculation 
showing how this has been worked out.In addition, I think the delays have likely caused Mr and Mrs C unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience. As Ive said, the contact notes Ive seen indicate they had to regularly chase 
Santander and, if they hadnt done so, it appears unlikely the application wouldve been 
progressed. And I dont doubt this was inconvenient for them. And I also think the ongoing 
delays were likely a cause of concern  with their term ending on the interest only mortgage 
and no confirmation forthcoming for several months that an extension would be agreed. So, 
in addition to the refund of interest Ive recommended, Im also currently inclined to suggest 
that Santander pay Mr and Mrs C £200 for the upset caused by its errors.
Responses to my provisional decision
I gave both parties an opportunity to make further comments or send further information 
before I reached a final decision.
Mr and Mrs C said they did not accept the explanation why the arrears letter had been 
issued in 2019. They said, based on the explanation, they think they ought to have been 
sent several more letters. But as this hadnt happened, they dont think what Santander has 
explained is true. So, they asked for this to be reviewed further.
They also said theyd approached Santander about a term extension in January / February 
2020  earlier than I had said. So, they felt Santander had not provided all of the relevant 
evidence and as a result they did not agree with my findings regarding losses.
Santander said the interest rate on the repayment part of Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage which 
was agreed in 2020 was applied in error. It said they hadnt actually qualified for the rate put 
in place and should in fact have been on a higher rate. While it didnt intend to change that, it 
said it felt any calculation of a refund of interest should be based on the rate that Mr and 
Mrs C did qualify for. It explained what it thought it should refund and said we should provide 
that information to Mr and Mrs C. It also set out what it would require, in relation to Mr and 
Mrs Cs bank details, in order to pay the suggested redress.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken on board what Mr and Mrs C have said about the letter sent to them about arrears 
in late 2019  in particular their question why they werent sent similar letters previously. But 
while I cant answer why a letter about capitalising arrears wasnt sent previously, I note this 
isnt the first time that they were told that the mortgage was in arrears, for the reason I 
explained in my provisional findings, or that they complained about this. 
Im not looking into the previous instances of this happening. But what they do mean is that 
overall Im satisfied with Santanders explanation for this letter being issued. And I remain of 
the opinion that it did not make an error by sending this letter.
Turning to what Mr and Mrs C have said about when they first requested a term extension 
on the interest only portion of their mortgage, Ive looked again at the information that has 
been provided. Santander has provided its contact notes which go back several years. And they show no 
contact in January or February 2020 from Mr and Mrs C. Mr and Mrs C have said these 
records must be incomplete. But Ive also looked at what they said when they first 
complained to our service. When bringing their complaint, they told us, the term extension 
request was first started in March 2020. And that this was done after Santander wrote to 
them saying their term was about to end  which they were surprised by.
Ive seen the letter Santander sent setting out that the term was due to end, and that is dated 
at the end of February 2020. Ive also seen a copy of an email Mr and Mrs C have provided 
 which they sent to Santander on 14 March 2020. The email references a call a few days 
earlier with Santander about a term extension request. And it makes no reference to any 
other previous contact or discussions about this.
So, taking everything into account, on balance, Im satisfied that the first discussions around 
a term extension did take place in March 2020. And Mr and Mrs C have not provided any 
other information which leads me to depart from my provisional conclusions on this issue. 
Turning to what Santander has said since my provisional decision, while it hasnt confirmed it 
accepted my findings, it has indicated it is willing to make an offer in line with its 
interpretation of my findings. Which to me suggests it does accept my findings.
Santander has said, when calculating a refund of interest, it intends to use the difference 
between what Mr and Mrs C did pay (3.35%) and the rate they wouldve qualified for had the 
change gone ahead sooner (2.99%). Rather than the rate they are paying now (2.19%)  
which it says was agreed in error and is lower than what they qualified for.
As Santander is not suggesting it intends to amend the rate that is being charged to the 
mortgage, agreed in 2020, and as it says this is lower than what Mr and Mrs C should have 
been paying, Im not intending to get into what happened when that rate was put in place. 
This isnt part of the complaint Ive been asked to consider. So, Im only thinking about which 
rate should be fairly used when calculating redress.
As I explained in my provisional findings, Im satisfied that Santander caused delays here 
and that resulted the repayment part of the mortgage remaining on a variable rate for 
approximately three months longer than it shouldve done. So, I think it is fair that Santander 
refund any additional interest that has been charged because of this delay. But I agree that it 
is only fair that this be based on the rates that wouldve been applied to Mr and Mrs Cs 
mortgage had the delay not happened. Santander has provided evidence to support that the 
rate it intends to use in its calculations is what wouldve been available to Mr and Mrs C 
based on their circumstances. So, I dont think its proposal to use that rate is unfair.
With regard to the other information it has said it will need in order to pay the redress Ive 
recommended, Id expect it to contact Mr and Mrs C to obtain this, once they have confirmed 
whether or not they accept or reject my decision. And, as Ive previously explained, I expect 
Santander to provide its calculations and explanations to Mr and Mrs C directly.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint in part.
To put things right I order Santander UK Plc to;
Refund Mr and Mrs C the additional interest they paid on the repayment part of their 
mortgage, as a result of the three-month delay in their applications being processed. 
This being the difference between what they did pay and what they wouldve paid, 
had the fixed rate they qualified for been put in place sooner.
Send Mr and Mrs C a calculation showing how this amount has been worked out.
Pay Mr and Mrs C £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 January 2022.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman