DRN-3421756
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as T, complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (trading as Cardnet) 
mishandled a chargeback request, and should increase its compensation for initially 
providing incorrect information.
Mr M, a director of T, brings the complaint on T's behalf.
What happened
In March 2021, T took payment from a customer using a Visa prepay card, with the customer 
signing the receipt. 
In April 2021, Cardnet wrote to T, saying that a chargeback request had been submitted 
against this payment, and asked for information to support the transaction. Cardnet held an 
amount equivalent to the transaction from Ts account pending the resolution of the request. 
T provided Cardnet with the required documentation a few days later, including the signed 
receipt, which Cardnet forwarded on to the card scheme in an attempt to defend the 
chargeback. 
In May 2021, Cardnet emailed T, incorrectly saying that the chargeback had been 
successfully defended. However, as the funds did not re-appear in Ts account, in June 
2021, T contacted Cardnet and was told that the card scheme had accepted the chargeback 
request as it was satisfied the card had been used fraudulently. Cardnet said that, as Ts 
defence was unsuccessful, it would not be crediting the funds back into Ts account. 
T complained. It didnt believe Cardnet had done enough to defend the chargeback request 
and said that Cardnet shouldnt have provided incorrect information. Cardnet considered the 
complaint but said it hadnt done anything wrong in its handling of the chargeback. However, 
it did apologise that it had initially provided incorrect information to T about the outcome so 
paid T £30 in compensation.
Not content with this response, Mr M brought Ts complaint to our service. Our investigator 
explained to T that the decision to reject the chargeback was made by the card scheme and 
therefore was not something we could consider. He said that Cardnet had conducted the 
defence of the chargeback appropriately, other than in initially providing the incorrect 
outcome  and that the £30 offered by Cardnet was fair compensation for this.
T didnt agree and said that Cardnet should increase its offer of compensation from £30 to 
£300. As our investigator did not agree, the issue was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As explained by our investigator, the decision to accept the chargeback request was a 
decision for the card scheme to make. Therefore, I do not consider that decision here. I have 
focussed my decision on whether:
Cardnet acted appropriately in handling the chargeback request
The compensation provided by Cardnet to T for initially providing incorrect 
information on the outcome of the chargeback request is fair
I consider each in turn.
Handling the chargeback dispute
When a chargeback request is made, the merchant has a limited period in which to submit 
their response to the card scheme. 
Therefore, I have considered how Cardnet handled the chargeback, in how it both requested 
the necessary information from T and provided this information to the card scheme. Having 
done so, I have found nothing untoward. Cardnet issued its request to T on a timely basis 
and it provided the information to the card scheme promptly. I have not seen that Cardnet 
did anything wrong in how it handled the chargeback.
The response from the card scheme to the chargeback request was that they were satisfied 
the use of the card was fraudulent. In these circumstances, I think it reasonable that Cardnet 
did not take the dispute further.
Incorrect information
Cardnet has acknowledged that it initially provided incorrect information about the outcome 
of the chargeback. It has apologised for this and provided £30 in compensation. 
I am aware that this change in position would have caused Mr M and his colleagues some 
distress. However, the complainant in this case is T, a limited company, which cannot suffer 
distress, so I cannot award any compensation to T for this. While the outcome of the 
chargeback would have been very disappointing, I dont believe that the initial provision of 
incorrect information would have caused T any material inconvenience given the limited 
period before the correct outcome was communicated. Therefore, I am not asking Cardnet to 
pay any further compensation. 
I acknowledge that the outcome of this chargeback dispute would have been very 
disappointing and costly to T. However, for the reasons set out above, I am not asking 
Cardnet to take any further action.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2022.
 
Andy Wright
Ombudsman