DRN-2548586
The complaint
Mr B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) did not inform him of a corporate 
event that was taking place on his account. Mr B says that he was unable to take part in the 
event and he has been financially disadvantaged.
What happened
Mr B had an ISA with Barclays and held shares in a company that I will call Company A. In 
February 2020, Barclays notified holders of Company A that it was proposing to delist its 
ordinary shares and would withdraw from trading on exchange.
Company A were also proposing a Tender Offer where holders could receive a price for their 
shares. The deadline for this Tender Offer was 2 March 2020.
Barclays say that the notification was sent to all holders of Company A on 24 February. 
Depending on the clients preference, they would have received notification via letter and 
text or email. Barclays said that Mr B was set up to receive a letter and text.
Mr B says that the first time he was aware of the corporate event was when he received his 
quarterly statement on or around 24 April 2020. Mr B then logged onto his account where he 
saw a secure message relating to the corporate event.
Mr B complained to Barclays saying that he did not receive any notification about the event 
and that he was too late to take up the Tender Offer. Mr B also complained that he wished to 
sell the shares, but Barclays did not offer this facility. 
Barclays investigated Mr Bs complaint but did not think that they had done anything wrong. 
They said that a letter was sent to Mr B and a text notification was also sent. Barclays also 
said that as the shares had been delisted from the exchange, there was no market in which 
to sell and offered to send him a certificate for his holding. 
Barclays upheld part of his complaint due to a misunderstanding on a web chat where the 
agent gave incorrect advice but did not uphold his complaint on notification of the Tender 
Offer.
Unhappy with Barclays response, Mr B referred his complaint to the service and one of our 
investigators reviewed his complaint. The investigator didnt think that Barclays had done 
anything wrong and didnt uphold his complaint.
Unhappy with the investigators view, Mr B has asked for an ombudsman to review his 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr B but I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator and will 
not be upholding the complaint. I know that Mr B feels strongly about his complaint so I will 
explain why I have reached this decision.
I have reviewed the information that Barclays have provided about the Tender Offer and 
notification to clients and I can see the following information:
Mr B was set up on Barclays systems to receive letters and text message notifications. 
Normal practice is for letter to be sent and a text message notification to say a letter has 
been sent 
Tender Offer letter is dated 24 February 2020 and the address where it was sent is the 
one used by Mr B in his correspondence with the service 
Tender Offer letter provides details that it is a voluntary offer and if the client wishes to 
respond they need to reply by 2 March 2020.
From the information provided to me by Barclays, there is evidence that the Tender Offer 
letter was set up to be sent to Mr Bs home address and that a text message was sent to his 
mobile telephone.
Mr B says that he did not receive the Tender Offer letter or the text message to his mobile 
telephone. I can see that Barclays have recorded Mr Bs home address correctly and I think 
that on the balance of probability, the letter was sent to Mr Bs home address.
Mr B says that he did not receive the letter. I have no reason to doubt this and it could be 
that the postal service lost or misplaced the letter. I know that Mr B will be disappointed, but I 
cant hold Barclays responsible for a third party delivering the mail.
I asked Barclays if other holders were sent the letter and they have confirmed that other 
clients received the letter and responded to the offer. This indicates that the letters were sent 
by Barclays.
Mr B complains that he tried to sell the shares online but was unable to this. Mr B says that 
as Barclays purchased the shares for him, they should be able to sell the shares. Barclays 
say that as the shares are delisted, there is no market on which to sell them and they offered 
to re-certificate the shares for him.
While I sympathise that Mr B was not able to sell his shares online, the delisting meant that 
there was no market in which to trade. I cant hold Barclays responsible for this and I think 
their offer to re-certificate the shares was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
In summary, I am persuaded by the evidence that I have seen that a letter about the Tender 
Offer was sent to Mr B, but I cant say that its the fault of Barclays if this was not received by 
Mr B. I think that Barclays have acted in accordance with their terms and conditions and I will 
not be asking them to do anything else.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2021.
 
Brian Gray
Ombudsman