DRN-3176047
The complaint
 Miss D complained about Society of Lloyds mistakes in connection with her motor 
insurance policy 
What happened
 Miss D had car insurance with Society of Lloyds (Lloyds), Shed renewed her policy in 
about mid-October. But after she had an accident in about late November, the police 
checked the database to see if she had insurance. They told her that there was no record of 
her policy, which suggested that she was driving without insurance. It took Miss D about one 
and a half hours on the phone with Lloyds before they confirmed that she was insured with 
them. 
Lloyds said that theyd made an error when uploading her policy details to the relevant 
database. She said that this caused her a lot of distress. 
Later, Lloyds asked her to pay £850. But as her policy excess was £350, she queried this 
with them. They said it included a £500 fine for what they wrongly claimed was her late 
reporting of the accident. They acknowledged theyd made mistakes in both these matters 
and offered her £175 in compensation for them. But Miss D didnt think it was enough. 
The investigator recommended that her complaint be upheld. He considered that Lloyds had 
acted unfairly and that they hadnt adequately compensated her for her distress and 
inconvenience. Lloyds didnt agree and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
Miss D has another complaint pending against Lloyds about other issues and I wont 
comment on that here.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Lloyds accept that they mistakenly charged Miss D £500 for allegedly not notifying them 
about her accident within their timescales. While Lloyds did confirm that it was a mistake, it 
was only after Miss D queried and challenged it. I dont think their communication with Miss 
D about that was clear or reasonable in the circumstances. And I can see that Miss D must 
have found it galling because she had reported the accident right away but Lloyds said she 
wasnt insured with them.  
Lloyds also accept that they failed to record her insurance on the relevant database. For 
both matters, they offered her £175 in compensation. 
But I dont think that amount does adequately compensate her for Lloyds mistakes. Their 
failure to record on the database that she was insured with them meant that the police 
suspected her of driving without insurance, which is a criminal offence. In my view Lloyds 
mistake made the aftermath of her car accident more difficult than it would have been 
otherwise. 
She had to remain at the accident site while she tried to prove to the police that she was 
insured. She had to speak on the phone to a number of people at Lloyds to establish this 
and resolve their mistake. This took about one and half hours and was just after the 
accident, when she was understandably feeling upset and shaken, and so it compounded 
her distress. The police suspected her of committing a crime, and she said that she felt like a 
criminal. She found the experience humiliating and overwhelming and says that it still 
impacts upon her now. Its clear from what she has told us that her experience as result of 
Lloyds mistake has had a serious and long-lasting effect on her. 
Putting things right
 And so I think that the compensation Lloyds have offered her does not fully reflect her 
distress and inconvenience and I think that £500 does do that more adequately. I think that 
Lloyds should pay her compensation of £500, less any amount they have already paid her if 
she has cashed that.
.My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold the complaint. I require 
Society of Lloyds to do the following:
Pay Miss D total compensation of £500 for her distress and inconvenience, less any 
compensation amount that they have already paid her.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 January 2022.
Society of Lloyds must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell them Miss D  accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this, they must also 
pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment at 8% a year simple.
If Society of Lloyds consider that they are required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
withhold income tax from that interest, they should tell her how much they have taken 
off. They should also give her a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
 
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman
