DRN-4160168
The complaint
Miss T complains about the customer service she received from Paragon Bank Plc 
(Paragon) in relation to a fixed rate savings account that she opened.
What happened
On 31 March 2023, Miss T opened a one-year fixed rate savings account and deposited 
£10,000 into it on the same day. Miss T says she checked the Paragon account shortly after 
making the deposit, but she couldnt see the account had been credited with the £10,000.
Miss T contacted Paragon later the same day to find out how long it would take for the 
£10,000 to be deposited into the fixed rate bond. Miss T made a further call that day where 
she said shed changed her mind and wanted the deposit to be reversed back into her 
nominated account as she wanted to deposit this amount elsewhere. 
Miss T says she was first told the deposit was being held by Paragon as there was a 
discrepancy in her surname on the payment details, so the funds couldnt be returned until 
this issue had been reviewed by head office. But then Miss T was told during another call 
that her funds could in fact be returned. Paragons notes show that as the payment had 
already been referred due to the surname issue, the funds couldnt have been returned.
Miss T also says she was told it was guaranteed shed receive her money back on 3 April 
2023, but this didnt happen. Instead, the £10,000 was deposited into the Paragon account 
(which Miss T said she didnt want to happen) and Miss T didnt receive this back into her 
nominated account until 4 April 2023. 
Overall, Miss T says Paragon took no accountability for the incorrect information she was 
told on more than one occasion. And that she called and emailed Paragon multiple times 
between 31 March 2023 to 3 April 2023, to try and find out where her money had gone. But 
she said was told different things  which made her concerned about where the £10,000 
was.
Miss T also says she considered herself to be vulnerable as she wasnt working at the time 
and that Paragon ought to have taken this into account. Miss T acknowledged Paragon 
upheld her complaint and offered her compensation. But she said she doesnt feel this 
compensation is a fair reflection of the upset and distress caused. So, Miss T has asked for 
more compensation, although she hasnt said how much shed like. 
Miss T said she lost out on interest on the account with another bank that she wanted to put 
the money in. But she said as it was such a small amount, shes not included it as part of her 
investigation. So, Ive not commented on this further in my decision.
Paragon explained to Miss T that due to her surname appearing in a condensed format on 
their system, this meant their automatic payment reading system couldnt automatically 
allocate the money to Miss Ts Paragon account. Paragon provided evidence showing how 
Miss Ts surname appeared in a condensed format. 
Paragon also went on to explain that when this happens, the payment is referred for manual 
review and queued for intervention  this process is normally completed within one working 
day which is why the payment was later accepted and allocated to the savings account on 3 
April 2023. Paragon said they had to verify that the account provided was in Miss Ts name 
and that if a payment comes in not reflecting that name, it will be flagged for a further review. 
To put things right, Paragon:
Apologised to Miss T for giving her the incorrect information,
Acknowledged that they hadnt taken ownership of the issue and also apologised for 
the poor service Miss T received. Paragon said this could have been alleviated by 
them arranging call backs and keeping Miss T updated with regards to the progress,
Sent Miss T a cheque for £75.00 as compensation,
Accepted Miss Ts request to have the money returned to her, even though they dont 
usually offer a cooling off period on their bonds and provided evidence to show they 
returned Miss Ts money with interest paid on 4 April 2023,
Said they would arrange for further training to be given to their telephony staff to 
prevent a reoccurrence like this.
Our Investigator looked into Miss Ts concerns. In summary, she acknowledged Miss T was 
given different information when she contacted Paragon which was frustrating for her.  But 
that Miss T was aware her payment was on hold and that there wasnt enough evidence to 
suggest the payment had gone missing. Our investigator said that while there were some 
errors made on Paragons part, they had rectified things within a short amount of time. So, 
overall, our Investigator said the offer made by Paragon to resolve Miss Ts complaint was 
fair. And she didnt ask them to do anything more to put things right.
Miss T disagreed. In summary, she said regardless of how quickly the issue was resolved, 
the whole experience was stressful and inconvenient. Miss T also reiterated she was told 
she was guaranteed to receive her money, which didnt happen. Miss T said she had no 
reassurance that Paragon did have her money as theyd made so many mistakes, so she 
was concerned the £10,000 was in fact lost. And that she considered herself to be 
vulnerable at the time due to being unemployed, which she told Paragon in an email on 3 
April 2023 - after they deposited the £10,000 into the fixed rate savings account. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I want to assure Miss T that Ive read the emails she sent to Paragon and also 
listened to the call recordings of the conversations she had with them. While I may not 
comment on every single point, I have considered all the evidence that is on Miss Ts file. Im 
sorry to read of the distress and inconvenience caused to Miss T, especially at a time that 
was already quite difficult for her due to being unemployed. 
I note Miss T has made a comment about Paragons service not being aligned to The 
Financial Conduct Authoritys Consumer Duty. However, this doesnt come into force until 31 
July 2023. Regardless of this, Ive still considered whether Miss T was treated fairly. 
Paragon have explained why the payment Miss T made was held, which I understand was 
down to an issue with Miss Ts surname being cut off in the payment information for the 
£10,000. The Paragon advisor told Miss T that the matter had been referred to head office during a call on 31 March 2023 and that it would take one working day to get back to Miss T. 
Despite being told this, Miss T continued to contact Paragon over the weekend as she was 
concerned about where the £10,000 had gone.
I dont find this explanation to be unreasonable nor unsurprising, as its important for 
Paragon to ensure the payment is being sent to the right account. However, I appreciate 
Miss Ts point that she was only aware of the surname issue as a result of her contacting 
Paragon. 
Paragon acknowledged their customer service could have been better - Miss T was told 
incorrect information and also Miss Ts expectations werent managed properly which then 
led to her contacting them several times. As Paragon have acknowledged things could have 
been better dealt with by them, whats left for me to decide here is the impact their failings 
had on Miss T and if theyve done enough to put things right.
Theres no doubt Miss T was given different information by Paragon about the status of the 
£10,000 and theres also no doubt in my mind this was distressing and frustrating for Miss T, 
given shed deposited quite a considerable amount of money. I also recognise that Miss T 
was made promises which werent followed through. For example, when Miss T was told 
shed receive her funds back into her nominated account on 3 April 2023, this didnt happen 
until the following day, which caused further frustration.
With that said, I cant ignore the actions that Paragon have taken to try and put matters right. 
In deciding whether their actions were fair, Ive first considered the fact that this all happened 
over a weekend - between a Friday (when Miss T made the deposit of £10,000) to when she 
got it back on the Tuesday, so over a relatively short period of time. Additionally, while I 
recognise Miss T was concerned about where her £10,000 was and didnt feel she had any 
reassurance from Paragon, there wasnt any suggestion from Paragon that Miss Ts money 
was missing. 
I also cant ignore that the experience Miss T went through with Paragon, started as a result 
of Miss T changing her mind about having the fixed rate account. I understand Miss T said 
the reason for this was because she was unemployed and needed to maximise her funds as 
much as she could. So, Miss T wanted the £10,000 back to put into another bank account. 
The terms and conditions of this type of account say There is no right to cancel your 
agreement once your account has been opened. You cannot make any withdrawals or close 
your account until the end of the fixed term of your account. So, the fact that Paragon 
returned Miss T her £10,000, even though the terms dont allow for this to happen and did so 
with interest, so Miss T didnt lose out, seems fair and reasonable in my opinion. However, to 
be clear, just because this started as a result of Miss T changing her mind about having the 
fixed rate account, doesnt make it acceptable that there have been failings in the service 
Paragon delivered. But I mention it because it is something I have to take into account.
Overall, I think there were instances where Paragon could have handled things better, which 
theyve acknowledged and apologised for. I recognise Miss T spent time making several 
phone calls and sent emails to Paragon which Paragon said could have been alleviated if 
they arranged call backs. But I also think things were made worse when Miss T contacted 
Paragon after she was initially told about the surname issue and that it could take Paragons 
head office until the Monday to respond to the issue. Having thought about everything that 
happened, alongside everything Paragon have done to try and put things right, I wont be 
asking Paragon to do anything more. My final decision
For reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2023.
 
Leanne McEvoy
Ombudsman