DRN-2203540
The complaint
Miss S has complained HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) unfairly reduced the credit limit on her 
credit card as a result of a payment that was only a few days late.
What happened
Miss S has an HSBC credit card. The card had a limit of £3500 up to April 2020. But it was 
reduced to £3400 after the payment due on Miss S March 2020 statement was a few days 
late. Miss S was unhappy with this and complained to HSBC.
HSBC agreed to refund the late payment fee applied to Miss S account and also said a 
payment holiday was available if Miss S finances were affected by the pandemic. But it 
wasnt prepared to increase Miss S credit limit without first carrying out a further affordability 
assessment. Miss S was dissatisfied and referred her complaint to us. One of our 
adjudicators looked at Miss S complaint and didnt think that HSBC had treated Miss S 
unfairly. So she didnt uphold the complaint. Miss S disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im not upholding Miss S complaint. Ill 
explain the reasons for my decision in a little more detail.
 
Miss S is unhappy HSBC reduced her credit card limit after a late payment and she feels 
that shes been penalised for her payment being only a few days late. But lenders have a 
regulatory requirement to monitor a borrowers account, including their repayment record, in 
order to establish that any credit offered remains sustainable for them. 
Miss S payment for her March 2020 statement didnt reach HSBC by the due date. And it 
reduced Miss S credit limit by the closest amount it could to reflect the amount of the missed 
payment. In my view, a missed payment is an indication that a borrower may be struggling to 
repay what they owe. So I dont think its unreasonable for a lender to take steps to limit a 
borrower getting into further debt, in such circumstances, provided it does so without causing 
hardship. 
In this case, HSBC reduction of Miss S by £100 meant she still had credit available on her 
account. So although this was done at short notice, bearing in mind all the circumstances, I 
dont think HSBC reduced Miss S credit limit in a way that was unfair or likely to cause her 
undue hardship. 
Im aware that Miss S has since informed HSBC that she has lost her job as a result of the 
pandemic. Its my understanding that HSBC has arranged a payment holiday with Miss S 
because of this. So I think HSBC has taken account of Miss S change in circumstances and 
responded to this in a fair and reasonable way. Although I would remind HSBC of its ongoing 
obligation to exercise forbearance should Miss S still be in a position where she finds it 
difficult to make payment at the end of her payment holiday.
I can understand why Miss S is unhappy with her credit limit being reduced. But given the 
circumstances, I dont think its unfair for HSBC not to increase the limit without assessing 
whether she can afford it. And as HSBC has refunded the late payment fee and has since 
set up a payment holiday, I think it has taken reasonable steps to react to Miss S change of 
circumstances in a way thats fair. So Im not upholding Miss S complaint. I appreciate this 
isnt the news Miss S was hoping for but I hope shell understand the reasons for my 
decision and at least feel that her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss S complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 November 2020.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman