DRN-3087034
The complaint
Mrs K complains that a car acquired with finance from Lloyds Bank PLC wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.   
What happened
In August 2019 Mrs K was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement 
with Lloyds. Prior to acquiring the car, Mrs K visited the dealership to discuss her 
requirements. These included a full-service history and a warranty. The dealership found a 
car and told Mrs K that it met her requirements.
Having entered the agreement Mrs K discovered that the car hadnt been serviced. Despite 
enquiries of the previous owner, Mrs K was unable to obtain any service history. 
A few months later Mrs K experienced issues with the car including as loss of power. A 
repair was attempted but the issues remained. Mrs K stopped using the car and complained 
to Lloyds, saying that the car had been mis-sold and that there was a fault which hadnt been 
resolved by the attempt at repair.
I issued a provisional decision upholding this complaint. I said that whilst I accepted that Mrs 
K had some issues with the car, there wasnt enough evidence for me to say that the car 
wasnt of satisfactory quality. But I was persuaded that the car had been misrepresented in 
that it didnt have a service history, and I was satisfied that Mrs K wouldnt have gone ahead 
with the agreement if shed known this.
I said that Id usually require a business to end the agreement, collect the car and refund the 
deposit in these circumstances. But Mrs K had already sold the car and settled the 
agreement. So, I said Lloyds should refund Mrs Ks deposit instead. I said that I wasnt 
asking Lloyds to refund Mrs Ks monthly payments even though shed stopped using the car 
for a while, because I hadnt found that the car was of unsatisfactory quality.
I invited both parties to send any further information or arguments they wanted to raise to me 
before I issued a final decision.
Mrs K responded and said she agreed with my provisional decision. Lloyds didnt respond.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs K has said that she accepts my provisional decision and Lloyds hasnt said anything. In 
the circumstances, I see no reason to reach different conclusions to those which I reached in 
my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
 To put things right, Lloyds Bank PLC must refund Mrs Ks deposit and pay simple interest 
on this sum at 8% per annum from the date of payment to the date of settlement. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Lloyds Bank PLC must take the steps 
directed above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman