DRN-4094779
The complaint
Mr M complains that My Finance Club Limited (MFC) failed to carry out due diligence on 
his loan application after he applied for a loan through a third-party credit broker. 
Mr M also says MFC failed to take the payments due for the loan even though he had 
sufficient money in his account. And finally, Mr M says MFC agreed to put the account on 
hold  which didnt happen. 
What happened
The issues Mr M has with MFC stems from a £400 loan approved on 17 February 2022. The 
loan had a 38-day term, due to be repaid on 27 March 2022 with a payment of £521.60. The 
loan was settled on 18 October 2022.  
Following a complaint, MFC then issued a final response letter (FRL) 5 April 2022. As the 
loan was approved through a broker, MFC outlined the process that Mr Ms application 
wouldve taken which led to the loan being funded. It also considered that it had carried out 
proportionate affordability checks. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr M referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman on 
3 October 2022, where it was initially explained to MFC that Mr M had referred the complaint 
within six months of the FRL, and so there was no reason why the case couldnt be taken 
forward. 
The complaint was then considered by a different adjudicator who considered the merits of 
the complaint. He didnt uphold it because he said proportionate checks had been carried 
out before the loan was granted. He also didnt think MFC had acted unreasonably with its 
dealings with Mr M about putting the account on hold. 
Mr M didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment, and Ive summarised his emails below:
Mr M says he didnt apply for the loan with MFC, instead he was using a comparison 
website which had turned him down for a loan and then he received a text message 
confirming a loan could be issued by MFC.
Mr M asked for email communication, and he had opted out of third-party 
communications.
Mr M says he originally ignored the text message from MFC, but he received 12 texts 
in 12 hours, and he says MFC didnt carry out checks on his income and expenditure. 
Mr M says only basic income and expenditure information was provided to the broker 
and further checks wouldve shown he wasnt working and had no income. 
No consent was provided to MFC to carry out a search of his bank account. 
When the complaint was raised, MFC agreed to place the account on hold, pending 
the outcome of the complaint. However, this didnt happen. Had it been made clear 
the account wouldnt be placed on hold Mr M wouldve settled the loan earlier then he 
did. 
MFC didnt take account of Mr Ms emails after the complaint process had started. 
The adjudicator explained to Mr M why his points hadnt changed his mind about the 
outcome he had reached. Mr M then made the following points;
Mr M didnt use the broker who MFC suggested and he didnt directly apply to MFC 
for a loan. 
Mr M didnt provide income and expenditure information. 
Checks werent carried out because if there were, it wouldve seen he was using 95% 
of his available credit card limits and had multiple missed payments.
Consent wasnt provided for MFC to use open banking to verify his details.
MFC ignored emails and calls while the complaint was ongoing. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are a number of elements of Mr Ms complaint, so Ive split the decision into several 
parts to address each one in turn. 
Applying for the loan
Firstly, if Mr M is unhappy with how the broker used his information, then he will need to take 
his concerns up with them directly. 
MFC has provided a screen shot from its systems showing that it did indeed receive an 
application for a loan from Mr M through the broker the adjudicator has told Mr M about on 
13 February 2022.
However, after 36 hours as the application wasnt completed, MFC sent texts Mr M 
explaining this and that he could reactivate the application by clicking on a link contained 
within an email. 
MFC has said that it did send text messages(s). Mr M says he received a large number 
within a short period and he felt pressured to take the loan out. I understand that these 
messages may have been prompted Mr M to take the loan but based on the information 
below, Im satisfied the final application was considered and completed over two days  
which demonstrates Mr M couldve not proceeded with the loan  if he had not wanted to. 
This link was activated on 16 February 2022 at 18:03 with the loan application being 
completed on 17 February 2022.  As part of the loan application process, MFC says Mr M 
wouldve been directed back to its website to complete several declarations and to confirm 
he had read the terms and conditions.
MFC has provided copy screen shots of the process that Mr M wouldve had to have gone 
through to have the loan approved, this included, providing his card details (to enable 
payment to be taken) and then to tick several boxes and provide an electronic signature to 
confirm he had read the term and conditions as well as the credit agreement. And as part of 
the process, Mr M was sent a text message with a code from MFC and it has explained this 
code was entered correctly on its website, if not, the funds couldnt be released. Finally, after the loan was advanced, Mr M was sent an email that contained his key 
documents, such as the credit agreement. I can see from MFCs notes that these were 
opened and read. 
Overall, Im satisfied that the initial application for credit did come from a credit broker and as 
part of the application, Mr M had to do more than just respond to a text message. And the 
option was always open to him to withdraw from the loan if he decided it wasnt suitable for 
him.   
Affordability checks
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
MFC had to assess the lending to check if Mr M could afford to pay back the amount hed 
borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate to 
the circumstances. MFCs checks could have taken into account a number of different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Ms income 
and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest MFC should have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr M. These factors include:
Mr M having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr M having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr M coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr M. As there was only one loan, the 
adjudicator didnt think this applied in Mr Ms case. 
MFC was required to establish whether Mr M could sustainably repay the loan  not just 
whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr M was able to repay his loan 
sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Ms complaint.
Before this loan was approved, Mr M provided details, likely to the broker to show that he 
worked full time and received an income of £3,000 per month. MFC also says Mr Ms income was verified using information collected directly from your bank to gain confident 
that your income was correct.
Mr M says this is meant MFC must have used open banking  which he didnt consent to. 
MFC has since clarified that it didnt use open banking to access his bank account. Instead, 
it uses a tool provided by a credit reference agency and MFC says the response it received 
indicated a high degree of confidence, meaning that it was likely, over the last year, the 
amount Mr M had declared in terms of income had been received by him. 
I appreciate, that Mr M says he wasnt working at the time, but this wasnt reflected in the 
information he provided to either MFC or the broker and given this was the first loan I dont 
think MFC needed to do more. It was entitled to rely on the income figure provided by Mr M. 
In terms of monthly expenditure, Mr M provided details about his expenditure across a 
number of different sectors such as housing, utilities, other, food and other credit  to name 
a few. MFC says Mr Ms outgoings came to £1,070 per month. Therefore, based on the 
information it had to hand the loan looked affordable.  
No housing costs had been declared, but on part of the application Mr M had declared that 
he lived at home with parents and MFC has confirmed these details it obtained from his 
credit file as well as the electoral roll. So, the small housing costs wouldnt have been a 
concern. 
Before this loan was approved MFC also carried out a credit search and it provided the 
results it received from the credit reference agency. It is worth saying here that although 
MFC carried out a credit search there wasnt a regulatory requirement to do one, let alone 
one to a specific standard. But what MFC couldnt do is carry out a credit search and then 
not react to the to the information it received  if necessary.  
The credit check results wouldnt have been a concern for MFC. It knew of two current 
accounts that had been managed well  with no adverse payment markers. MFC was also 
told about two credit cards with a total outstanding balance of £8,903. This was within the 
credit limits and again there were no missed payment markers. 
Overall, given this was the first loan I think it was reasonable for MFC to have relied on the 
information that Mr M provided about his income and expenditure. And even if that was only 
provided to the broker and not directly to MFC, it was still information MFC couldve relied 
on. 
The checks MFC carried out where proportionate and showed Mr M could afford the 
repayments.  There also wasnt anything else to suggest that the loan would either be 
unaffordable for him or unsustainable. 
Im therefore not upholding Mr Ms complaint about the approval of the loan.
Other considerations 
Ive also gone on to consider some of the other points Mr M has raised. Firstly, he says that 
he had enough funds in his account to make the payment when it became due. MFC has 
provided screen shots from its system, showing the payment was requested on 
27 March 2022 and 28 March 2022, but these payments were declined. 
Therefore, as is common and what is required by MFC the payment authority Mr M had 
previously provided was cancelled. This was the right course of action to have taken and no 
error was made by MFC in the processing of the payment.  Mr M has also said, that MFC agreed to put the account hold, while the complaint was 
investigated. This wasnt something MFC had to do. MFC says after Mr M raised his 
complaint ,it put a communication hold on the account until the FRL was issued on 
5 April 2022. At which point, MFC says the communication hold was lifted because it had 
issued its outcome on the complaint. 
Following a call with Mr M on 21 April 2022, a further hold was placed on the account, due to 
Mr M being unhappy with how the complaint was investigated. This hold was to be in place 
until 28 June 2022. The information provided by MFC, says that Mr M was told that interest 
could be removed, depending on the outcome reached by the Financial Ombudsman.  
I can then see, from what MFC has provided that there was further contact between itself 
and Mr M during July, August and September 2022. And from what MFC says happened on 
these calls, Mr M asked to settle the loan for a reduced amount and / or for any information 
to be removed from his credit file. But the payment amount agreed on these calls would 
need to be made by certain deadlines. None of deadlines were met and therefore MFC 
wasnt bound by the offers that it had agreed. Which was reasonable.  
Ive not seen any evidence that MFC deliberately tried to elongate the process for Mr M in 
order to extract the maximum payment from him. Indeed, based on what MFC has said, and 
provided it seems that it made allowances by putting contact holds on the account, and then 
agreeing partial settlement payments  but these werent paid by Mr M and I cant say that 
was an error by MFC.  
Overall, having taken everything into account I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman