DRN-2736468
The complaint
Mr M complains that Thamesbank Insurance Services wont refund the fee after he 
cancelled an application for home insurance.
What happened
Mr M applied for home insurance through an online comparison site. He paid upfront for the 
first month of insurance. But when he received the policy documents from Thamesbank he 
noticed a mistake. Hed thought the application had asked if hed been bankrupt in the past 
six years  not at any time in the past.
Mr M contacted Thamesbank to update his information. But it wanted to increase his 
premium. And Thamesbank said thered be a £40 cancellation fee if he wanted to stop his 
cover. Mr M doesnt want to pay for something hes only had for a matter of hours. He 
doesnt think he should be charged anything during the 14-day cooling off period. So he 
wants a full refund.
Thamesbank said Mr M had declared hed never been bankrupt when applying for his 
insurance. And the policy he purchased was based on that information. When Mr M told 
Thamesbank about a previous bankruptcy it agreed to accept the risk as itd been a number 
of years ago. But the premium increased by a small amount. Although Thamesbank agreed 
to waive the administration fee for changing the policy, Mr M had decided to cancel the 
policy. 
Thamesbank said itd told Mr M there would be a cancellation fee to cover its costs. And itd 
agreed to reduce the fee to the amount Mr M had already paid. So Thameslink felt itd acted 
reasonably.
Mr M wasnt satisfied with Thamesbanks response. So he contacted our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. She looked at the application process and the policy 
documents for Mr Ms home insurance. 
Our investigator could see Mr M had confirmed he hadnt been declared bankrupt before 
getting a quote. And she felt Thamesbank had followed the correct processes during the 
application and cancellation. Itd waived the admin fee and reduced the cancellation fee. And 
she wouldnt be asking it to do anything more.
Mr M didnt agree. He says the cancellation fee wasnt highlighted before the point of sale. 
And an applicant should be able to cancel their insurance during the cooling off period 
without cost. It was also unfair when they tried to charge for updating the mistake. So hes 
asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Ms frustration. He applied for home insurance but realised he needed 
to update the insurer about an old bankruptcy. And hes unhappy the insurer wanted to 
increase his premium or charge him a cancellation fee even though he was only insured for 
a very short time. So Ive looked carefully at everything Mr M and Thamesbank have said to 
see if Thamesbank has done anything wrong it needs to put right.
Its important to realise previous issues such as CCJs and bankruptcy are important 
considerations when insurers decide what premiums to charge  and even whether or not to 
offer an insurance policy to an applicant.
Mr M says didnt think he made error in application process. So Ive looked at the questions 
Mr M wouldve been asked when he applied online. Towards the end of the process Mr M 
was asked just one more thing. Before getting the results of his application he had to 
confirm he agreed to the terms and conditions. And he had to confirm statements about 
unspent convictions and pending prosecutions, previous insurance refusals or cancellations, 
and to confirm he had not been declared bankrupt. 
The page also stated that if any of the above applied to him, Mr M could click a different link 
to get a quote from a specialist insurer. So I think the application process made it clear that 
Mr M would need to declare if hed been made bankrupt at any time in the past. There was 
no mention of a time-limit for when it mightve happened. 
Mr M was also asked to confirm hed read and understood the terms of business and policy 
information. And he wouldnt have been able to continue with his application unless hed 
done so.
Ive looked at the terms of business for the policy. Under policy cancellation it confirms the 
applicant has certain rights of cancellation within the first 14 days of the policy. But both 
Thamesbank and the insurers are entitled to make a charge to reflect the administration 
costs of arranging and cancelling a policy. The charge is stated at £40 and is applied even 
when the insurance cover hasnt commenced.
I know Mr M feels the cancellation charge shouldve been more prominent. But he was 
asked to confirm hed read and agreed to the terms of business. And I think the application 
process allowed Mr M to make an informed choice when applying for home insurance. He 
couldve taken whatever time he needed to make sure the policy details and the terms of 
business met his needs before continuing with the application.
Of course Mr M was right to contact Thamesbank when he noticed the information about his 
previous bankruptcy hadnt been recorded. Its important the insurer is fully aware of the 
applicants circumstances so that any future claims arent affected. 
The insurer checked to see if it could still offer him the policy. And it decided a small 
additional premium of just over £11 would be added to cover the increased risk. 
Thamesbank wouldve normally charged an administration fee of £40 to cover the cost of 
altering its records. But it agreed to waive the admin charge. And I think that was reasonable 
in the circumstances.
But Mr M was unhappy. And although Thamesbank made him aware there would be a £40 
cancellation fee, Mr M decided to cancel the policy. When he complained Thamesbank 
agreed to reduce the cancellation fee to the £22.15 hed already paid for his first premium. 
This meant Mr M wouldnt have to make any further payments.I realise Mr M feels that is too high a charge given how little time passed between his 
application and cancellation. But Thamesbank has provided information showing the various 
costs it incurs when arranging and cancelling a policy. 
And based on what Ive seen I cant say the cancellation fee was unreasonable  it wouldve 
had to pay the same costs whether the policy was in place for five minutes or five days. 
I know Mr M feels strongly about this. He says it shouldnt cost to update or cancel a policy, 
especially during the cooling off period. But there are business costs involved  even for an 
online application. And the fees and charges were clearly stated in the terms of business 
that Mr M agreed to before confirming his application.
Based on what Ive seen I think Mr M was able to make an informed decision about applying 
for home insurance with Thamesbank. And I think it acted fairly and reasonably by offering to 
cancel the admin fee when he updated his details in relation to the bankruptcy. 
I think Thamesbank also acted reasonably when it agreed to reduce the cancellation charge 
to the amount Mr M had already paid for his first premium as a gesture of goodwill.  So I 
cant really say Thamesbank has done anything wrong. And I wont be asking it to do 
anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 May 2021.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman