DRN-4484020
The complaint
Mr N, who is represented by a claims management company, complains Monzo Bank Ltd 
didnt do enough to protect him when he was the victim of a fraud.
What happened
Mr N opened a Monzo account in February 2019, around the time he came to the UK. His 
account is now closed. He has accounts elsewhere too.
In April 2022 Mr N says he started chatting to a person he met on a dating app. He says they 
explained that theyd made money investing in cryptocurrency shortly after they started 
chatting. Mr N says he asked for more details and, as a result, set up an account on what 
hed been told was a trading platform with a view to trading cryptocurrency. Mr N says the 
trading platform appeared to be professional so he decided to go ahead believing he could 
make a lot of money. Mr N was, in fact, talking to a scammer.
Between 21 and 27 April 2022 Mr N made nineteen payments to six different beneficiaries 
totalling £18,375.48 from his Monzo account in relation to this first scam. He says he was 
told he was sending money to people who sold cryptocurrency and then told to transfer the 
cryptocurrency he had bought to the trading platform where hed set up an account. Mr N 
says he transferred money from an account he has elsewhere into his Monzo account in 
order to fund these payments. He did so because he says he was unable to buy 
cryptocurrency from that other account as the bank in question was very strict with 
cryptocurrency. He says he took out a loan to help fund some of these transfers  and later 
on took borrowed money from friends and elsewhere.
Between 10 and 14 May 2022 Mr N made seven payments from an account he has 
elsewhere in relation to this first scam.
Mr N says he started to get worried that he might have been scammed when he couldnt 
withdraw money from the account hed set up on the trading platform. He says he was told 
hed need to pay a large fee in order to do so. He says the person hed met on the dating 
app told him that he needed a loan too  which Mr N says he helped with  and that he was 
also worried hed been scammed. Shortly after this, when all communication ceased, Mr N 
realised hed been scammed.
Mr N says he started talking to another person  a female this time  on social media who 
said that theyd made a lot of money trading after he realised hed been scammed. He says 
he started talking to them because he was down as a result of being scammed. He was, in 
fact, talking to a second scammer.
Between 18 and 30 May 2022 Mr N made nine payments totalling £12,688 from an account 
he has elsewhere in relation to this second scam.
Mr N contacted Monzo, amongst others, to say that it hadnt done enough to protect him 
once he realised hed been scammed. He then complained to us about Monzos response 
and the response of one of the other businesses with whom he has an account.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ns complaint and said that they thought Monzo 
ought reasonably to have done more when Mr N made the seventh payment he made. Had 
Monzo done so, our investigator thought that it could have prevented Mr N from making 
further losses. But they also thought that Mr N should be held jointly responsible for the 
losses he made from the seventh payment onwards as they didnt think Mr N had done 
enough to make sure that he was being offered a genuine investment opportunity and had 
ignored a lot of red flags. So, they recommended that Monzo refund 50% of Mr Ns losses 
from the eight payments onwards and  given that most of the seventh payment was, in fact, 
recovered when the scam was reported  £52.74 in relation to the seventh payment. In other 
words, 50% of the unrecovered element of the seventh payment. In addition, they 
recommended 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Mr N accepted our investigators recommendations. Monzo didnt. Monzo said that it had 
given effective warnings and that Mr N didnt exercise caution  hed invested a lot of money 
very quickly and ignored a lot of red flags. As Monzo didnt agree, Mr Ns complaint was 
referred to an ombudsman for a decision. And was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case, Im satisfied that Mr N made nineteen payments to six different beneficiaries 
totalling £18,375.48 from his Monzo account between 21 and 27 April 2022 in relation to the 
first scam. The first three payments were all for under £1,000 and spaced out. So, I agree 
that they wouldnt have appeared unusual. The fourth and the fifth payment were for £1,700 
and £1,300 to two different beneficiaries, so I agree too that there was nothing unusual 
about them either. The sixth payment arguably could be considered unusual, given that it 
was for £1,400 taking the total that had been sent that day in around 20 minutes to £4,400. 
But I agree with our investigator that by the time Mr N made his seventh payment  which 
was for £3,000  there was a pattern of fraud emerging. Thats because by then Mr N had 
sent over £7,000 on the same day within a short space of time. In the circumstances, I also 
agree with our investigator that Monzo should have intervened at that stage.
Had Monzo intervened when Mr N attempted to make the seventh payment, Im satisfied 
that Mr N would have realised that he was being scammed, as I dont think he would have 
answered any questions Monzo put to him dishonestly. In other words, Im satisfied that 
Monzo would have discovered that Mr N was purchasing cryptocurrency as part of an 
investment after meeting a third party on a dating site. Im satisfied too that if Mr N had 
explained what had led up to this  and the steps hed taken to satisfy himself that it was a 
genuine investment (which were almost non-existent)  that Monzo would have rapidly 
spotted numerous red flags. In short, I agree with our investigator that Monzo missed an 
opportunity to prevent further loss to Mr N.
Our investigator has set out in considerable detail the numerous red flags that should have 
made Mr N realise that this wasnt a genuine investment. Im not going to repeat them here, 
other than to say that I agree Mr N could and should have done a lot more to satisfy himself 
that this wasnt a scam. In the circumstances, I also agree that a 50% reduction to the losses 
Monzo should refund is fair and reasonable.
Putting things right
Given everything Ive just said, I agree that Monzo should have done more when Mr N tried 
to make his seventh payment, and that Monzo should refund 50% of Mr Ns losses from the 
eight payment onwards and  given that most of the seventh payment was, in fact, recovered when the scam was reported  £52.74 in relation to the seventh payment. In other 
words, 50% of the unrecovered element of the seventh payment. In addition, I agree that 
Monzo should pay 8% simple interest on these refunds from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im upholding this complaint and require Monzo Bank Ltd to refund 
50% of Mr Ns losses from the eight payment onwards and  given that most of the seventh 
payment was, in fact, been recovered when the scam was reported  £52.74 in relation to 
the seventh payment. In other words, 50% of the unrecovered element of the seventh 
payment. In addition, I require Monzo Bank Ltd to pay 8% simple interest on these refunds 
from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2024.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman