DRN-2543866
The complaint
Mr P complains that Lloyds Bank PLC charged him fees for purchasing cryptocurrencies, 
without a clear indication in its terms and conditions that this would happen.
What happened
Mr P has a credit card with Lloyds. In May 2020 he used it to purchase some cryptocurrency 
online, and four days later when he checked his statement he discovered Lloyds had 
charged fees for these purchases. He complained that the fees were not authorised by the 
terms and conditions of his credit card agreement. Lloyds insisted that they were, as they 
were treated as cash purchases, and it also pointed out that the fee was mentioned on his 
monthly statements. But as a gesture of good will, Lloyds refunded the interest for that 
month.
Dissatisfied with that response, Mr P brought this complaint to our Service. He argued that 
he had opened his account before cryptocurrency had even been invented, and the word 
cryptocurrency did not appear in his credit card agreement (whether the original or the 
current version), so Lloyds had no basis to say that the purchase of cryptocurrency could 
have been within the contemplation of whoever had drafted the agreement.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. He referred to a clause in the terms and 
conditions which classified buying foreign currency as a cash withdrawal. He said cash 
transactions incur a cash transaction fee and (where applicable) a non-sterling fee, and that 
this had been stated clearly. He didnt think it was necessary for the agreement to 
specifically mention the word cryptocurrency, as the definition of a cash transaction was 
already broad enough to include purchasing cryptocurrency, and Lloyds was under no 
obligation to set out a comprehensive list of every kind of cash transaction that could ever 
happen. Mr P had not been buying goods or services, which meant that was he was doing 
could only be classified as a cash transaction.
Mr P asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigators reasons and conclusions. As Ive said, Mr P 
was not using his card to buy goods but to buy another currency. While its true that the 
credit card agreement does not specifically refer to cryptocurrency, I think it goes without 
saying that a cryptocurrency is not sterling, and so it would fall to be treated as a foreign 
currency. I would still think that even if the cryptocurrency administrator was based in the 
UK. I therefore think it is a reasonable interpretation of the agreement to include the 
purchase of cryptocurrency as a cash transaction, and that as such, it will incur a fee.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2021.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman