DRN-2746430
The complaint
Ms F (via a representative) complains Mutual Clothing and Supply Company Limited 
(Mutual) lent to her irresponsibly. 
  
What happened
Ms F took a combination of home collected loans and hire purchase (HP) agreements 
between March 2012 and March 2018. Ive included some of the information weve received 
about the loans in the table below. 
Loan 
NumberLoan Amount Date Received Actual Repayment 
DateTerm
(weeks)Agreement
Type
 
1 £750 10/03/2012 11/06/2014 102 Loan
2 £100 19/01/2013 08/01/2014 26 Loan
3 £1,000 14/06/2014 08/06/2016 102 Loan
4 £299.99 25/03/2015 28/03/2018 150 HP
5 £299.99 04/04/2015 28/03/2018 150 HP
6 £1,000 11/06/2016 11/07/2018 102 Loan
7 £3,000 28/03/2018 15/08/2018 51 Loan
A previous provisional jurisdiction decision explained that we thought we couldnt look at the 
first two loans as Ms F had referred her complaint about them outside of our time limits. As 
Ms F appeared to have accepted this decision and as our jurisdiction to consider loans 3 to 7 
isnt in dispute, the complaint was passed back to an adjudicator to consider the merits of 
the complaint about these remaining loans. 
Following a review, the adjudicator didnt think there was enough evidence to say Mutual 
was wrong to have granted loans 3 to 5. But he thought the remaining two home collected 
loans (loans 6 and 7) shouldnt have been provided. 
Ms F appears to agree with the adjudicators view about loans 6 and 7.  
Mutual disagreed with the adjudicators assessment. Ive read and considered all Mutuals 
response. In summary, it has said:
the checks it completed were proportionate and it gathered more information as the 
lending relationship went on, verifying information provided by Ms F through credit 
checks;
the HP agreements havent been considered properly, a customer cannot be 
considered reliant on such products;
the loans are not high interest but a mid-cost product; 
it is not in Mutuals interest to issue unaffordable or unsustainable credit agreements;  
repeat lending, and long-term use of home credit isnt necessarily harmful to 
consumers. And the industry regulator has confirmed this;
a robust assessment took place to prevent unsustainable lending, including 
consideration of the borrowing record, the level and the frequency of applications;
a key indicator of when a loan is affordable is whether past loans have been repaid in
a reasonable way. Mutual used a low and grow approach to make sure this did
happen  allowing for larger credit and not restricting further lending to the level of 
the first loan;
Ms F had a good payment history over a prolonged period which is evidence that the 
loans were affordable and sustainable;
most of the loans were over 102 weeks and this allowed for Ms F to be able to 
spread the cost of the borrowing  it is highly unlikely that a customer would be 
borrowing again to fill a gap in their income. This type of loan is more manageable 
without pressure to pay each week;  
there is no evidence in this case to support the adjudicators conclusion Ms F was 
borrowing unsustainably  and the checks completed indicated the loans would be 
affordable; 
in a recent court case, the judge said it might be fair to lend up to 4 loans per
year (but more may indicate financial difficulty). So, the number of times Mutual lent 
does not indicate unsustainable borrowing;
Ms F saved money by not borrowing through a main national provider  and it isnt 
fair to prohibit a customer from further loans based on an arbitrary number of loans 
provided and which would force them to go to another provider and pay twice as 
much;
Taking seven accounts in seven years isnt the same as taking seven loans in a year. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
As Ms F doesnt appear to disagree with our adjudicators findings that Mutual wasnt wrong 
to lend loans 3 to 5, it seems that lending is no longer in dispute, so I dont need to make a 
finding about it. So instead, this decision will focus on whether Mutual did anything wrong 
when it lent loans 6 and 7. 
Mutual has also had a number of other decisions from us which detail our approach to 
complaints of this nature and what we think about the rules and regulations that surround the 
sale of this type of credit. So Mutual should be aware of our approach to these issues. I 
therefore dont intend to go into detail about that here. But a brief summary of this is below.
Mutual needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms F could
repay loans 6 and 7 in a sustainable manner.
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was
being lent, the repayment amounts, and the consumers income and expenditure. With this
in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be
reasonable and proportionate.But certain factors might suggest Mutual should have done more to establish that any 
lending was sustainable for Ms F. These factors include: 
Ms F having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income); 
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Ms F having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of 
time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had 
become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Ms F coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Ms F. The loan payments being 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case.
At the point loans 6 and 7 were lent, Mutual was regulated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority, who had set out in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) that payments are 
sustainable if they are made without undue difficulties and in particular, made on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments and without having to borrow to make them. If a 
lender realises, or ought reasonably to have realised, that a borrower wont be able to make 
their repayments without borrowing further, then it follows that it should conclude those 
repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and 
thought about what this means for Ms Fs complaint.
Mutuals response concerns how it defines the cost of the credit and the risk of it to Ms F.      
It also concerns our approach to repeat lending. We have responded to Mutual on these 
issues in detail through other final decisions it has received, and the published decisions on 
our website. So, Im not going deal with these points at length here.
I will say briefly that I consider it reasonable to describe loans 6 and 7 as high cost credit, as
does the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), which includes home collected credit within its 
identified high cost credit portfolio. And while I note it has a longer term than, for example, 
a payday loan, that does not make it a low risk, or inexpensive, option for a consumer. And,
as such, long-term use of these products can be harmful to a consumer. The FCA has not
said anything to the contrary on this point. I have considered these issues alongside
everything else in making my decision.
I havent looked in any detail about whether the checks for loans 6 and 7 were proportionate 
and Ill explain why below. But I will say that Ive not found Mutuals suggestion that it 
gathered more and more information about Ms Fs expenditure to be persuasive in showing 
the loans were affordable and sustainable. 
By the time of these loans Mutual really needed to be verifying the information Ms F was 
providing about her finances, so, for example, it couldve asked to see a copy of her bank 
statements, payslip, credit file and/or copies of bills. But there is no evidence that this was 
carried out. I can see from the applications that Mutual asked Ms F about her outgoings, but 
Ive not seen any evidence to suggest this information as checked. So, I dont consider proportionate checks were carried out because Mutual appears to have just solely relied on 
the information Ms F had declared. 
Notwithstanding my concerns about the sales process itself, having looked at the overall 
pattern of Mutuals lending history with Ms F, I agree with our adjudicator that Mutual should 
reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful, at the 
time it provided loan 6. I say this because:
By loan 6 it was just over 4 years into the total lending relationship with only a few 
days where Ms F wasnt indebted and the hire purchase (HP) agreements 4 and 5 
were still in force. I accept the HP agreements were a different product, but Ms F still 
had commitments that she needed to pay Mutual which needed to be taken into 
account. The total weekly repayment by the time loan 6 was approved had almost 
doubled since the lending relationship began. In my view, Ms Fs loan history up until 
this point was a clear indication that her underlying financial situation didnt seem to 
be improving; 
Ms F took out loans shortly after previous ones were repaid, for example, loans 3 and 
6. Mutual ought to have realised it was more likely than not Ms F, on these 
occasions, was probably having to borrow further to cover an ongoing need in her 
finances, and that this was indicative of her indebtedness not being sustainable;
The home collected loans show a broadly increasing level of debt, increasing from 
£750 initially to £1,000 and finally to £3,000 several years into the lending 
relationship. I think its most likely this pattern of borrowing over the period showed 
that Ms F didnt just have a short-term cash-flow problem but was probably 
supporting regular living expenses or other financial commitments via borrowing. By 
loan 6 Ms F was making a commitment to make repayments for around another two 
years, its likely that her problems would continue, and she would need to borrow 
again in the future (and this did happen with loan 7 lent almost two years later);
Ms Fs lending history was prolonged and loan 7 was by far the highest level of 
indebtedness, suggesting her underlying financial situation may even have 
deteriorated, or that she was becoming increasingly reliant on the loans. The amount 
of time that Ms F spent indebted to Mutual meant that she was servicing a debt to 
Mutual over an extended period.
I think that Ms F lost out when Mutual provided loans 6 to 7 because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Ms Fs indebtedness by allowing her 
to take expensive credit over an extended period and;
the sheer number of loans and the time that Ms F spent in debt was likely to have 
had negative implications on Ms Fs ability to access mainstream credit and so kept 
her in the market for these high-cost loans.
Ill go on to set out what Mutual should do to put things right.
Mutual has referred to the 2020 High Court judgement in the case of Kerrigan vs Elevate
Credit International Limited. It has essentially said that the judge in this case said that the
relationship could be fair if there are a lower number of loans per year. For example, under
four loans a year. It said, as it lent a lower amount than this, then this would indicate, on the
same basis as the court case, that it hadnt lent unsustainably.
Firstly, looking at the courts findings at this point in the judgement, the judge was talkingabout whether an unfair relationship had developed. This is a different question, with some
different considerations than whether a loan or series of loans, has been lent irresponsibly.
I accept that there can be some overlap between whether a pattern of lending itself shows
that the lending is unsustainable, and a relationship is unfair. But the court in this judgement
was considering issues related to short term high cost credit rather than home collected
credit. I can see Mutual has acknowledged they are different products with different
considerations. And, indeed, has repeatedly been keen to distance its products from those of
short term high cost credit providers. So, this means that the judges conclusions about a
differently structured product shouldnt and cant be directly applied here.
And in any event the number of loans is just one aspect in deciding whether a lending 
pattern is harmful. The loan size, duration of loans, the repayments and other factors need to 
be also looked at, as Ive done here.
So, whilst I have noted Mutuals submissions on this point, it hasnt introduced any
arguments which persuade me to change my opinion about Ms Fs complaint.  
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Mutual should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might
have happened had it stopped lending to Ms F from loan 6. Clearly there are several 
possibilities, and all hypothetical answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Ms F may have simply left matters there and 
not tried to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed
between her and Mutual which she may not have had with others. If this wasnt
a viable option, she may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative 
assuming that was even possible.
Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed, a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to now accurately reconstruct.
 
From what Ive seen in this case, I dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real and 
substantial chance that a new lender would have been able to lend to Ms F in a compliant 
way at this time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or
reasonable to conclude that Ms F would more likely than not have taken up any one of
these options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Mutuals liability in this case for what Im
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Mutual shouldnt have given Ms F loans 6 and 7 and it should take the following steps to put 
things right:
refund all interest and charges Ms F paid on loans 6 and 7;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date
they were paid to the date of settlement*;remove loans 6 and 7 from Ms Fs credit file entirely, this is because the period of 
time Ms F owed Mutual money means that any information still recorded about these 
loans is adverse.
 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mutual to deduct tax from this interest. Mutual should
give Ms F a certificate showing how much tax Mutual has deducted, if she asks for one.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I partly uphold Ms Fs complaint.
Mutual Clothing and Supply Company Limited should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 July 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman