DRN-3299907
The complaint
Mr A has complained that Santander UK Plc (Santander) mis-sold him a home insurance 
policy.
What happened
Mr A took out a home insurance policy at a branch of Santander. He wanted cover for his 
home contents and for tenant improvements he was carrying out to his home, including to 
the kitchen and bathroom. He discussed this with a salesperson, who then sold him a policy.
A few years later, Mr A phoned his insurer, a different company to Santander, to discuss the 
renewal premium when the policy was due to be renewed. His insurer told Mr A that his 
policy didnt cover tenant improvements and wouldnt cover damage to the kitchen or 
bathroom. 
So, Mr A complained. When Santander replied it didnt uphold the complaint. It said it was 
satisfied that the main features had been explained when the policy was arranged.
When Mr A complained to this service, our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said 
the information Santander provided was clear that it didnt cover fixtures and fittings. So, he 
didnt think the policy had been mis-sold.
As Mr A didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 11 January 2022. In my provisional decision, I explained 
the reasons why I was planning to uphold the complaint. I said:
When taking out an insurance policy, customers should be given information thats clear, fair 
and not misleading. So, Ive looked at what Mr A was told when he took out the policy and 
also what the policy documents said.
Mr A has consistently said that when he spoke to the salesperson in the Santander branch 
he explained that he was a tenant but wanted cover for the bathroom and kitchen as he was 
making improvements to these himself. Santander hasnt provided records of what 
happened in the branch itself, but has provided a copy of the documents that were later sent 
to Mr A. 
Ive also read the final response letter sent to Mr A. This said:
You would have been given a sales application document. This confirmed the sale was on a 
non-advised basis, and provided you with information about the policy, including the main 
features and benefits, as well as the main limitations and exclusions. This gave you an 
opportunity to consider the information you had been given and raise any queries you had if 
you felt the policy did not meet your needs.  
I asked Santander for a copy of the sales application document, but it was unable to provide 
this. So, although the final response letter said Mr A would have been given the sales 
application document, Im not currently persuaded that there is evidence that he was or, if he 
was, that what it said was necessarily clear, fair and not misleading about what the policy 
covered.
Ive also looked at the policy booklet, this explained what was covered under the Contents 
and Buildings sections. Under the Contents section it said it didnt cover items such as 
ceilings and wallpaper and under the Buildings section it said it covered fixtures and fittings, 
which would normally include items such as kitchens and bathrooms. 
However, Mr A was a tenant and there is also a section of the policy headed Tenants 
liability. This said:
We will provide cover up to the limit shown on your schedule if you are legally responsible 
as a tenant for:
a) loss of or damage to the home and landlords fixtures and fittings by any of the causes 
listed under Contents in the home, cover sections numbered 1  10.
So, there were some circumstances where a tenant with Contents only cover would have 
cover for fixtures and fittings. Based on what Mr A has said was discussed, which I have no 
reason to doubt, I currently think its more likely than not that a discussion took place in the 
branch about cover for fixtures and fittings for tenants. 
Mr A spoke to his insurer a few years later to discuss his policy renewal. During that 
conversation Mr A found out his bathroom and kitchen werent covered, which seemed to 
come as a complete surprise to him. So, thinking about this and the other evidence available 
to me, I also currently think its more likely than not that as a result of the discussion in the 
branch Mr A was left with the impression that he had cover for the bathroom and kitchen. 
So, I currently think its more likely than not that the policy was mis-sold, as I think Mr A was 
likely to have been given misleading information about the level of cover while he was in the 
branch. Even though Mr A was then sent documents for him to review, including the policy 
booklet, Im not persuaded that this would have been sufficient to cause him to question 
whether he had the level of cover he expected. I think the discussion in the branch combined 
with the Tenants liability section of the policy was likely to reinforce the view that Mr A had 
the required cover, even though that turned out to be wrong.
So, Ive thought about what Santander should do as a result of this. Mr A has said he wants 
all of his premiums refunded because if he had made a claim for the kitchen or bathroom it 
wouldnt have been covered. But Im aware that Mr A didnt make a claim for this. If he had, 
he could have made a complaint about this to Santander or the insurer and then brought it to 
this service if was unhappy with the outcome. However, Mr A did have Contents insurance in 
place, which he was able to claim on had he wished to do so. Im also aware that Mr A did 
make a claim under the policy, which was settled. So, Im not currently persuaded that Mr A 
should be refunded the premiums as he was able to benefit from the policy even if it didnt 
provide the full level of cover he expected.
But, Im also aware that Mr A was, understandably, shocked and distressed when he found 
out he didnt have the level of cover he had said he wanted. So, I currently intend to say that 
Santander should pay £200 compensation as a result of this.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 8 February 2022. Both parties replied before that date.
Santander said it had nothing further to add.Mr A said he would like a higher level of compensation. He said he had paid about £1,000 
for the policy over the years he had it. He had made one claim under the policy, which was 
for £300. However, he was genuinely unaware the policy would have covered the loss he 
claimed for and it was only based on the advice of a third party that he did so. The sole aim 
for which he took out the policy was to cover the improvements he made to the property. He 
said he would like a total of £700 compensation, as this amount combined with the claim 
settlement amount was how much he had paid for the policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint and for the reasons Ive given in my 
provisional decision. As part of this, Ive considered Mr As points about the level of 
compensation, but I'm not persuaded to change my view on this. I dont think it would be fair 
for me to say Santander must pay a level of compensation to, in effect, refund the majority of 
the premiums. In order to have a policy in place and to be able to make a claim under it, a 
policyholder needs to pay premiums. Mr A had a Contents policy in place and he made a 
claim under that policy. Instead, I based the compensation on the distress and 
inconvenience caused to Mr A. Having looked at this again, I remain of the view that £200 is 
an appropriate amount.
Putting things right
Santander should pay Mr A £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint. I require Santander UK Plc to pay Mr A £200 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman