DRN-2821495
The complaint
Mr L complains about the way Paymentshield Ltd handled a dispute about a claims 
value on his insurance record.
  
What happened
Mr L received his home insurance policy renewal documents in 2017, (in relation to a 
policy offered by his insurer at the time, R) and noticed that his insurance history 
included the wrong settlement value for a claim made in 2014. He contacted 
Paymentshield about this. According to Paymentshields policy notes, Mr L spoke to a 
(named) team leader to query claim, only claim in 2014. Mr L says that Paymentshield 
didn't get back to him about this, and he later allowed his policy to renew.
After receiving a renewal quote from Paymentshield in 2018 for a policy costing over 
£600 for the year (which was offered by a different insurer, A) Mr L again complained 
about the incorrect value of the 2014 claim. He said he expected Paymentshield to 
recalculate his premium to reflect the right claims information.
Paymentshield passed Mr Ls concerns to R. R then corrected the claims information 
and Paymentshield later updated its system. In October 2018 Paymentshield sent Mr L 
a much cheaper renewal quote (just over £290) again, in relation to a policy offered by 
A.
Mr L complained to us and said he wasnt happy that Paymentshield hadnt corrected the 
mistake about the 2014 claim when he first raised it. As a result, he felt hed paid too much 
for his insurance in previous years. He said he wanted Paymentshield to compensate him 
for two years worth of higher premiums together with interest. We passed Mr Ls 
complaint to Paymentshield to consider.
Paymentshield didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint. It explained that its role was to administer 
the policy, which included issuing policy documents and dealing with general enquiries 
from customers. It said it was for the insurer to deal with any claims or claims related 
issues as well as confirming acceptance terms for any new policy or policy renewal. 
Paymentshield said it wasnt responsible for the claims information, R was. And it noted R 
had since responded to Mr Ls complaint. Paymentshield said it was satisfied it issued 
correct documentation to Mr L, which included cancellation rights if he wasnt happy with 
the policy on offer.
Mr L wasnt happy with Paymentshields response, so we looked into things on his 
behalf. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint because he felt Paymentshield had 
done what was expected of it as the policy administrator. Mr L didnt agree. Amongst his 
comments, he said I dont have anything to do with RI deal with Paymentshield my 
premium has been higher because R based it on the wrong information provided by 
Paymentshield.
As Mr L didnt agree with our investigators assessment, the matters been passed to me 
to decide.
  
What I provisionally decided  and why
I sent Mr L and Paymentshield my provisional decision on 15 April 2021. Ive included the 
relevant extracts from my findings below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, its likely Ill uphold this complaint.
Mr L is adamant that Paymentshield is responsible for the wrong claims information 
being given to his insurer. And he says R simply relied on the (incorrect) claims 
information Paymentshield gave it. So, Mr L thinks Paymentshield needs to put things 
right.
I can fully appreciate why Mr L might think the issues hes raised are for Paymentshield 
to sort out. As far as hes concerned, Paymentshield sold him the policy and he says 
thats the business he has a relationship with. But despite what Mr L might think, he also 
had a relationship with R for the period that he was insured with it, because it was R 
which provided the cover for the contract of insurance (the policy) hes concerned about.
Its not unusual for different businesses to be involved when providing insurance policies. 
And as Mr L is probably aware, Paymentshield is a broker not an insurer. That means it 
sells policies and may help with their administration, but it isn't responsible for dealing with 
claims, which is the responsibility of the insurer that underwrites the policy. And its the 
insurer which provides the contract of insurance and agrees to take on the risk. So, its for 
the insurer to settle claims and take responsibility for any claims related issues.
From the evidence Ive seen Im satisfied that it was Rs responsibility, as underwriters of 
the policy, to register and manage any claims appropriately. And Ive also seen evidence, 
which shows that it was for R to pass on the correct claims information to Paymentshield, 
not the other way around.
However, that doesnt mean that Paymentshield didnt also have a role to play in the 
particular circumstances of this case. Mr L says hes been raising concerns with 
Paymentshield since 2017. But Paymentshield (and R) indicated that the first they knew 
of a problem was in 2018. And Paymentshield says it did what was expected of it by 
telling R about the mistake soon after.
Im not persuaded from the evidence Ive seen that Paymentshield first became aware of 
a problem in 2018. It hasnt been able to send me a call recording of a conversation 
between Mr L and a (named) team leader in 2017. But Im satisfied that an extract its now 
given me from its policy notes in September 2017 stating Mr L called to query claim, only 
claim in 2014 supports Mr Ls version of events. That is Mr L raised the issue of the 
incorrect claims value with Paymentshield in 2017. So, what Paymentshield should have 
done at that time was either pass that information on to R (as it did in 2018) or tell Mr L 
that hed need to raise the issue with R himself. But, Ive seen no evidence that it did 
either of those things in 2017.
Its not possible to say now what would have happened to Mr Ls premium in 2017 if R 
had corrected the claims history then. Although, as his premium did reduce significantly in 
2018 once R passed on an amended claims history for Paymentshield to update its 
system with, I can fully appreciate why Mr L might think the same thing would have 
happened in 2017. I also note Paymentshields response that Mr L could have cancelled 
his policy with R if he wasnt happy with the premium it offered. I accept that was an 
option available to Mr L. But as hed already raised his concerns with Paymentshield, I 
can also see why he might have decided not to cancel his policy (which would have 
involved him having to find insurance elsewhere) as he clearly expected Paymentshield 
to do something about the mistake hed raised.
In any event, its clearly been a great source of frustration and inconvenience for Mr L that Paymentshield didnt flag his concerns with R when he first raised them. And 
particularly as hes spent time since then trying to sort the problem out. To address the 
impact of its inaction, Im intending to say that Paymentshield should pay Mr L £250 in 
compensation. I think that amount would fairly recognise the frustration and 
inconvenience Mr Ls suffered.
Response to my provisional decision
Mr L accepted my provisional decision. Paymentshield hasnt responded.
My findings
As neither Mr L nor Paymentshield has objected to my provisional decision, I see no reason 
to change what I said in that decision. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I now direct Paymentshield Ltd to pay Mr L £250 compensation to 
recognise the frustration and inconvenience he suffered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2021.
 
Amanda Scott
Ombudsman