DRN-2445328
The complaint
Mr P complains that One Insurance Limited (One Insurance) avoided his motor policy 
(treated it like it never existed) and refused to pay his claim.
What happened
Mr P took out a motor policy with One Insurance through a price comparison site. When his 
car was involved in an accident, he tried to make a claim. Shortly after he was told the car 
was a total loss, he bought another car using a bank loan. A few days after picking up the 
new car, One Insurance offered him a value of £9,500 for the car which was a total loss. 
However, a couple of days after this, they said this was based on the wrong mileage and 
reduced this offer to £3,000.
Mr P told One Insurance he wasnt happy with the change in the valuation as he felt the first 
one should be honoured. Even so, he explained hed maintained his car to a high standard 
throughout by servicing it at more frequent intervals than recommended and had intended to 
use it for several more years which justified a higher valuation. He explained, for example, 
hed fitted it with a washable air filter to maximise filtration longevity. 
As a result of what hed said about fitting a washable air filter, One Insurance said hed 
answered the question they asked about modifications to the car incorrectly when he first 
took out the policy with them. This is because hed said there werent any modifications to 
the car when One Insurance thought this was. They considered this to be a qualifying 
misrepresentation, which entitled them to avoid his policy and decline his claim. They also 
kept the premium hed paid to cover a portion of the costs incurred for the third-party costs.
 
Mr P then arranged to have the original car returned to him, paying for the storage and 
return costs to S, the company the car was stored with.
Mr P complained to One Insurance but they didnt change their mind, so he brought his 
complaint to us. Our investigator felt there had been a careless qualifying misrepresentation. 
So, whilst he thought One Insurance was entitled to void Mr Ps policy and decline his claim, 
he explained that they should return the premium paid to Mr P.
Mr P didnt agree with the investigator and asked for an ombudsmans decision. He doesnt 
believe that the washable air filter is a modification nor enhances the cars performance. He 
says it was installed as a direct replacement to the manufacturers air filter as it is washable 
and more durable. Because he didnt feel he was making a modification to his car, he didnt 
declare it when he took out the policy. 
To put things right, Mr P would like One Insurance to change the decision to avoid his policy 
and improve the way that businesses ask about things like modifications. Hed also like to be 
paid the costs he incurred by the actions of One Insurance. This includes the following:
- a hire care in the initial stages before One Insurance gave him a hire car, estimated 
to be less than £50.
- insuring the new car as he was charged more for this when he made the change part 
way through his policy year, around £200.
- Whilst he used this to buy a newer car, the fact he had to take a loan out for the new 
car wasnt the original plan.
He also explains that the reduced offer made by One Insurance wouldnt buy a comparable 
car in good mechanical condition and he feels mileage alone isnt always a helpful guide to 
condition. 
The matter was passed to me for a decision. I issued a provisional decision on 17 November 
2020 and an extract of my findings from this is set out below.
In this matter, the first issue to decide is whether One Insurance acted in line with the 
relevant law as well as fairly and reasonably when they avoided Mr Ps policy. If they didnt, 
then Id also need to consider how One Insurance should put things right.
did One Insurance act fairly and reasonably and in line with the relevant law in this case?
 
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as -  a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show they wouldve offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
One Insurance thinks Mr P failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation 
when he didnt tell them about the modification made prior to the policy inception. The 
relevant question asked of Mr P is set out below. 
Has the car been modified, adapted and/or fitted with any optional extras such as 
changes to the bodywork, engine or wheels?
The explanation to help the consumer answer the question says the following.
Modifications
A vehicle has been modified or adapted if its been changed from the manufacturers 
standard specification in any way. Examples include:
Changes to the bodywork, including spoilers and/or body kits
Changes to the suspension or brakes
Cosmetic changes such as alloy wheels or paint
Changes to the engine or exhaust system
Having considered this, I dont agree that One Insurance has shown the question asked here 
is sufficiently clear or specific enough to make Mr P aware that he needed to disclose the 
washable air filter as a modification. I say this because the question and explanation, with examples, are quite different changes to Mr P swapping an air filter himself for a washable 
one. And I think its easy for a reasonable person to understand why the changes described 
in the examples would increase an insurers risk and be something theyd want to know 
about before deciding if theyd offer insurance to a consumer. 
Further, One Insurance hasnt currently shown that the replacement of an air filter with a 
washable one alone is sufficient to constitute a modification in this particular situation. I say 
this because One Insurance originally explained that any part fitted to a car that was not a 
factory fitted part constituted a modification which is why this air filter would be included. 
However, if this were correct, most cars wouldnt be insured given the routine changes 
numerous car parts go through during a cars lifetime of MOTs, services and repairs as well 
as tyres changes  many with non-factory fitted parts. 
More recently, One Insurance said any part which is comparable to factory standard fit is not 
classed as a modification, using a small bumper sticker as an example of a vehicle which 
has been altered from factory standard. If this is correct, then I cant see how the washable 
air filter that Mr P had swapped to is not comparable to a factory standard when reflecting on 
the examples given. 
Even if I thought the question asked was sufficiently clear and specific, for One Insurance to 
avoid the policy theyd need to show there had been a qualifying misrepresentation. This 
would mean One Insurance would need to show Mr P failed to take reasonable care not to 
make a misrepresentation. And I dont agree this has been shown here.
Mr P has explained and provided evidence that the air filter is a direct replacement for that of 
a factory fitted item, done with the purpose of ensuring he could wash the filter rather than 
replace it every time he serviced it which he has explained he chose to do more frequently 
than recommended - every 10,000 miles. One Insurance says that its a performing 
enhancing modification. Im aware its debated as to the performance enhancing capabilities 
of these replacements. Even so, the issue I must decide is whether Mr P failed to take 
reasonable care when answering the question. Ive thought about several factors including 
the intention behind why it was fitted - which has been clearly and consistently explained by 
Mr P since the outset of this claim - as well as the age and type of car. Having done so, I 
dont agree that One Insurance has done enough to show Mr P failed to take reasonable 
care when answering this question. 
I note One Insurance say that because Mr P understood this would increase the value of his 
car, he shouldve known it was classed as a modification. I dont see things the same way. 
Mr P using the washable air filter as an example of how hed maintained his car well and it 
therefore deserved a higher valuation isnt the same as knowing that One Insurance would 
class this as a modification, as suggested.
I appreciate that One Insurance says if Mr P had answered yes to whether there has been 
a modification, options are given for the modification. And, under engine/transmission, air 
filters is an option that can be selected. But that assumes the question is clear and specific 
enough such that Mr P wouldve thought he should say yes, he had made a modification to 
his car. However, as Ive explained above, I dont think he wouldve reasonably thought he 
should.
For the reasons set out above, I dont currently agree that the actions taken by One 
Insurance to avoid Mr Ps policy were in line with CIDRA nor do I think they were acting fairly 
or reasonably in this particular matter. So, they need to reinstate Mr Ps policy.
How should One Insurance put things right?Theres no perfect way to put things right in a matter such as this because matters have 
moved on since the time of the claim. However, One Insurance must now settle the claim 
and put Mr P as close to the position he wouldve been in had they not made the error. 
 
Before Mr Ps policy was avoided, the claim was being dealt with as a total loss. So to put 
things right, they should act as though theyd continued to do handle the claim as such. Ive 
considered what this means One Insurance needs to do to put things right and set out the 
key issues below.
valuation
Looking at what happened before One Insurance avoided the policy, I can see that they 
valued Mr Ps car at £3,000 using the correct mileage having previously said the value was 
much higher. We wouldnt generally require a business to pay the first amount where that 
was based on a mistake as was the case here. Its important to consider whether the offer 
based on the correct mileage is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
The policy terms say One Insurance will not pay more than the market value of the car. The 
policy terms define market value as follows.
the cost of replacing your car, if this is possible, with one of a similar make, model 
and specification, taking into account the age, mileage and condition of your car, 
immediately before the loss or damage happened.
In this matter, One Insurance determined this to be £3,000 less his policy excess.
 
Ive thought about whether this is a reasonable valuation for the car in line with the trade 
guides and the policy terms and conditions. Having done so, Im not satisfied it is. 
Ive looked at the valuations from three trade guides which gave valuations of £3,475, 
£4,042 and £4,410. I discounted the first valuation as an outlier when compared to the other 
two. And I consider a rounded valuation of the average of the remaining two valuations to be 
reasonable. This gives a valuation of £4,230. 
The trade guide valuations were all based on the vehicle being in good and clean condition, 
which I consider is reasonable based on the condition Mr P says his car was in before the 
accident. They were also for cars of the same make, model, age and mileage as Mr Ts at 
the date of its loss, so Im persuaded by them. We find the motor-trade guides most 
persuasive as they show the likely selling prices based on advertised prices and auction 
prices to work out what likely selling prices would have been.
storage and return costs
In this situation, I dont think its fair or reasonable for Mr P to have incurred the cost of 
storage or getting his car back from S, which I understand to be in the region of £300. So, 
One Insurance should cover the cost of this subject to the provision of reasonable evidence 
of payment by Mr P. 
hire car, bank loan and buying the new car
From the evidence Ive seen, Mr P was entitled to a hire car for 14 days and he was given 
that entitlement, albeit after some chasing and a period of having hired a vehicle at his own 
cost. Even so, because hed ultimately used his entitlement, I dont intend to make an award 
for the hire car costs he incurred. 
 Mr P says he took out a loan to buy the new car. From his timeline of events, he did this after 
he was told his car was a total loss but before being told the first - incorrect - value for his 
car. So, even if One Insurance hadnt later given Mr P an incorrect valuation or told him that 
his policy was going to be avoided, I think this is a decision that still wouldve been made. It 
follows that I dont think the loan is something One Insurance has any responsibility for.
Whilst Mr P later made the decision to recover his car when he was told the policy was 
avoided, this was also after he had bought the new car. Having recovered the original car, I 
think it was then for him to decide if he still wanted to keep the new car or sell this to pay off 
the loan and mitigate his expenses so I dont make an award in this regard. 
distress and inconvenience
Mr P has been both distressed and inconvenienced in this matter. Having considered the 
impact of this and the remainder of this decision and the redress awarded to Mr P, I think 
that he should be paid £200 as compensation for this.
putting things right - summary
For the reasons set out above, I currently intend to uphold this complaint. To put things right, 
One Insurance would need to do the following:
1. Reinstate the policy which means it runs the full term from December 2018.
2. Remove all records of the policy voidance from all internal and external databases.
3. Deal with any third party claim as they would have done under the policy rather than 
the Road Traffic Act. 
4. Give Mr P a letter stating the policy was avoided in error and confirming that its 
records have been amended. Mr P can show to the insurer(s) hes had since One 
Insurance to see if his premiums would need to be adjusted.
5. Reimburse any overlapping insurance that Mr P took out after his policy was avoided 
(subject to Mr P providing evidence of same) for the policy year starting in December 
2018 and add 8% simple interest from the date he paid the overlapping insurance to 
the date of payment.
6. Pay Mr Ps claim for his total loss, using a value of £4,230 (less the salvage cost, as 
Mr P kept the car, and the excess). One Insurance should add 8% simple interest to 
this amount from the date of claim until the date it is paid.
7. Pay Mr P the cost he incurred for the storage of his car and cost of having it returned 
to him which I understand is in the region of £300, subject to the provision of 
reasonable evidence if required by One Insurance, acting reasonably. One Insurance 
should add 8% simple interest to this amount from the date this was paid by Mr P 
until the date it is paid.
8. Pay Mr P £200 for the distress and inconvenience this matter has caused. This 
should be paid within 28 days of the date on which we tell them Mr P accepts my 
final decision. If One Insurance pays later than this, they must also pay interest on 
the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a 
year simple.
9. From the overall amount One Insurance is due to pay Mr P, they can deduct the 
premium they had charged Mr P for the policy year from December 2018 but only if 
this amount has already been returned to him.
10. HM Revenue & Customs requires One Insurance to take off tax from interest. One 
Insurance must give Mr P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks 
for one.
Finally, I note that Mr P would like to improve the way that businesses ask consumers about 
things like modifications. This isnt something that our service can do. We look at individual complaints. The Financial Conduct Authority is the party who regulates insurers and can 
consider their processes more generally. So, whilst this might be something he wants to take 
forward with them, its not something I can consider in this matter. 
I invited all parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final decision. 
One Insurance hasnt responded to the provisional decision. 
Mr P has replied and, in summary, accepts the provisional decision including the valuation 
and point about use of the hire car. He says hes grateful the matter has been dealt with 
rigorously and considered with obvious care. He understands there are matters which are 
outside our remit and would be covered by the FCA. 
In relation to the redress, he has some further comments as follows.
1. Salvage cost 
Mr Ps concerned by what amount will be proposed by One Insurance and would like 
them to either agree the salvage cost in writing and allow him to dispose of the car 
himself or recover the vehicle at their cost and settle the claim in full.
2. New insurance costs
Hes confirmed the cost of his new insurance policy but says he doesnt think there 
was an uplift due to the cancelation on his own policy or where hes a named driver.
3. Amounts paid to and received from One Insurance 
Mr P has set out several varying amounts he has paid One Insurance and that it has 
returned to him. Hes not sure what all of these amounts relate to. 
4. Cheque
He has a cheque from One Insurance for £30 dated 23/9/2020 which hasnt been 
cashed yet and asks if he should cash this or destroy it. 
5. The recovered car
Whilst he managed to limit the costs of storing his car since it was returned to him, 
Mr P says hes incurred various costs of storage. This includes things such as a 
battery trickle charger and car cover and straps to secure it.
Finally, Mr P says having the voidance put right is particularly important to him but the 
compensation is appreciated as a tangible gesture.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as set out in my provisional decision 
and for the same reasons. 
Ive responded to Mr Ps individual points on the redress below.
1. Salvage cost 
My decision is that One Insurance should pay Mr P the claim for his total loss less 
the salvage cost and the excess. Mr P had originally asked One Insurance to return 
to the car to him so he could keep it and so its still my view that this part of the 
redress is fair. However, if One Insurance is willing to take the car from Mr P and pay 
his full claim only deducting the excess then it can do this by arrangement with Mr P. If Mr P doesnt agree that One Insurance calculates the salvage cost in line with the 
terms of his policy or in a fair and reasonable way then he may be able to complain 
to One Insurance about this. However, it wouldnt be a matter for this decision to 
resolve now and hed need to raise this with One Insurance first.
2. New insurance costs
Whilst this is noted, Ive left the related directions in the redress in the event Mr P 
discovers he has been charged more as a result of declaring the voidance. However, 
if he has, this would be a matter to raise with the new insurer.
3. Amounts paid to and received from One Insurance 
One Insurance will need to explain to Mr P how it has come to the amount it has to 
be paid to him and Id expect it to take into account the amounts Mr P has 
mentioned. If it doesnt, this is something Mr P can discuss with it direct. However, 
the principles for the redress needed to put things right are set out below. Id expect 
any refunds already given to Mr P should be taken into account in the usual way.
4. Cheque
Id suggest Mr P cashes the cheque hes mentioned as Id expect One Insurance to 
factor this into the calculation mentioned above in point 4 as its a cheque recently 
sent to him. 
5. The recovered car
As I explained in the provisional decision, having made the decision to recover his 
original car, I think it was then for Mr P to decide what to do with it. He could have 
chosen to sell the second car and repair the original one. So, whilst I appreciate he 
kept these costs to a minimum, I dont think itd be fair or reasonable for me to ask 
One Insurance to now pay the costs of him storing and protecting the car pending 
this choice. It follows that I dont make an award in this regard.
Finally, I note Mr P is happy to supply any evidence needed to One Insurance. This should 
be as reasonably requested by them and sent direct.
Putting things right
To put things right, One Insurance should do the following:
1. Reinstate the policy which means it runs the full term from December 2018.
2. Remove all records of the policy voidance from all internal and external databases.
3. Deal with any third party claim as they would have done under the policy rather than 
the Road Traffic Act. 
4. Give Mr P a letter stating the policy was avoided in error and confirming that its 
records have been amended. Mr P can show to the insurer(s) hes had since One 
Insurance to see if his premiums would need to be adjusted.
5. Reimburse any overlapping insurance that Mr P took out after his policy was avoided 
(subject to Mr P providing evidence of same) for the policy year starting in December 
2018 and add 8% simple interest from the date he paid the overlapping insurance to 
the date of payment.
6. Pay Mr Ps claim for his total loss, using a value of £4,230 (less the salvage cost, as 
Mr P kept the car, and the excess). One Insurance should add 8% simple interest to 
this amount from the date of claim until the date it is paid.
7. Pay Mr P the cost he incurred for the storage of his car and cost of having it returned 
to him which I understand is in the region of £300, subject to the provision of 
reasonable evidence if required by One Insurance, acting reasonably. One Insurance should add 8% simple interest to this amount from the date this was paid by Mr P 
until the date it is paid.
8. Pay Mr P £200 for the distress and inconvenience this matter has caused. This 
should be paid within 28 days of the date on which we tell them Mr P accepts my 
final decision. If One Insurance pays later than this, they must also pay interest on 
the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a 
year simple.
9. From the overall amount One Insurance is due to pay Mr P, they can deduct the 
premium they had charged Mr P for the policy year from December 2018 but only if 
this amount has already been returned to him.
HM Revenue & Customs requires One Insurance to take off tax from interest. One Insurance 
must give Mr P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Ps complaint and ask One Insurance Limited to 
put things right as set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2021.
 
Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman