DRN-3479970
The complaint
Mr F has complained that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold him an 
Advantage Gold packaged bank account in January 2001. Mr F has explained that he was 
told that he would get benefits such as loans, overdrafts, travel insurance and car 
breakdown cover amongst other things.
What happened
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and didnt think that NatWest had mis-sold 
the packaged account. Mr F disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at this 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
And Ive used this approach to decide what to do about this complaint. Having looked at all 
the information provided, I dont think that NatWest mis-sold the packaged account. Id like to 
explain the reasons for my decision. 
Ive started by thinking about whether Mr F was given a clear choice in taking the Advantage 
Gold account. At this point, it may help for me to explain that I have to make my decision 
based on what I think is more likely than not to have happened, having weighed up what 
both parties have been able to provide me with. Mr F upgraded from a free account, so I 
think that he wouldve been aware that NatWest offered free accounts and that they were an 
option for him. Mr F has said in his initial submissions to NatWest that he thought that he 
had to take out the account in order to get a personal loan and it does appear that he did 
take out a loan around this time. 
Given how long ago this event occurred we have limited information as to what exactly the 
benefits were on an Advantage Gold account in 2001. That said, from what information we 
do have, it does appear that one of the benefits of the account was preferential rates on 
borrowing such as personal loans and overdraft facilities. So overall, I think what Mr F may 
recall is that taking out the account would allow him to obtain a better rate on a personal loan 
that he intended to take out at the time of the sale, rather than he needed to have it to get 
the loan in the first instance. Overall, albeit on balance, I am satisfied that Mr F was given a 
fair choice to take out the Advantage Gold account.
This sale was not carried out on an advised basis, so given this, NatWest did not have to 
ensure the account was right for Mr F at the time it was sold. That said, it did need to give Mr 
F enough information to decide this for himself. I think its likely the main benefits at the time 
- which were discounts on borrowing - wouldve been highlighted to Mr F to make the 
account seem attractive. I note that Mr F says that he was told that he would get travel 
insurance. It does seem at the time the account was taken out it may have come with travel 
insurance if the holiday in question was purchased using the NatWest Gold card. But as Mr 
F has also indicated that he does not travel abroad, I dont think that was a major factor in 
him deciding to take out the account. Mr F has also mentioned breakdown cover, but this 
benefit was not added until 2008. So I find it unlikely that it was mentioned during the sale.
I also cant see anything else specific that Mr F was not told, that wouldve changed his 
decision to agree to the account. So overall there is not enough for me to say that this 
account was sold incorrectly.
I understand that this will be disappointing for Mr F and I understand that with hindsight, he 
may feel that he has paid a lot of money over the years for this account and has not derived 
much actual benefit from holding it. But that does not mean that the account was sold 
incorrectly in the first place.
So while I want to reassure Mr F that I have carefully looked at all the information provided 
and thought about everything that has been said, I dont think that NatWest mis-sold the 
packaged account. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2022.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman