DRN-3810327
The complaint
Mr A, a sole trader, is unhappy that Santander UK Plc terminated his Bounce Back Loan 
(BBL) agreement and chose to end their business relationship with him.
What happened
In January 2021, Mr A successfully applied to Santander for a £20,000 BBL and received the 
loan funds. In January 2022, Santander contacted Mr A and explained that, following a 
review, they were terminating the loan agreement because Mr A had used the BBL funds for 
non-business purposes. Santander also explained that they were no longer willing to offer 
banking services to Mr A and would be ending their business relationship with him. Mr A 
wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint. 
Santander reviewed Mr As complaint but didnt feel that theyd acted unfairly by terminating 
the loan agreement or deciding to end the business relationship as they had. However, they 
did accept that Mr A had struggled to access the funds in his account because of their 
decisions, and they apologised to Mr A for this and made a payment of £50 to him as 
compensation for any inconvenience he may have incurred. Mr A wasnt satisfied with 
Santanders response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they felt the response Santander had 
issued to Mr As complaint already represented a fair resolution to what had happened. Mr A 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. This means that it isnt within my remit here to 
declare that Santander have acted in a non-regulatory or unlawful way. Such declarations 
would be for a regulatory body or a Court of Law to potentially make. 
Instead, this service is an informal, impartial dispute resolution service. And while we do take 
relevant law and regulation into account when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed 
on determining whether we feel a fair or unfair outcome has occurred  impartially, and after 
taking all the circumstances and factors of a complaint into consideration. 
It also must be noted that this service is generally only able to consider a point of complaint 
after the business against which the complaint is raised has had the opportunity to consider 
and respond to that point themselves. This means that my review here will be limited to the 
aspects of Mr As complaint hes previously raised with Santander and which Santander 
have considered within their own review prior to Mr A referring his complaint to this service.
One of the conditions of the BBL scheme  and a term of Mr As BBL agreement with 
Santander  was that the BBL funds must be used to support the business applying for 
those funds. But in this instance, Santander dont feel that Mr A used the funds in support of 
his sole trader business and have shown that after Mr A received the £20,000 BBL funds, he 
made deposits in excess of that amount to a cryptocurrency trading and investment platform. 
As such, Santander maintain that Mr A moved the received BBL funds to the cryptocurrency 
platform shortly after receiving them and so didnt used those funds to support his business.
It's difficult to find fault with Santanders position here and having reviewed Mr As account 
movements, it seems clear and apparent to me that Mr A did move the BBL funds to a 
cryptocurrency platform shortly after received those funds. Additionally, when Mr A first 
spoke with Santander about the BBL funds on 7 January 2022, he confirmed to Santander 
that he had made the decision to invest the BBL funds into cryptocurrency.
Mr A has argued that he didnt transfer the £20,000 BBL funds to the cryptocurrency platform 
but instead transferred the proceeds of a separate personal loan that he took out, also for 
£20,000. But the movements for Mr As account show that, while Mr A did receive a second 
loan for £20,000 at around the same time that he received the BBL  meaning that he 
received a total of £40,000  he then made nine separate transfers to the cryptocurrency 
platform over the next three weeks totalling approximately £42,500. 
Furthermore, there wasnt a sufficient balance present in the account prior to the loans being 
received, or sufficient credits received into the account during the period in which the 
transfers to the cryptocurrency platform were made, to suggest that the funds moved to the 
cryptocurrency platform didnt include the BBL funds. 
As such, Im satisfied that it was reasonable for Santander to have concluded that Mr A 
didnt use the BBL funds as required by the terms of the BBL agreement. And because of 
this, Im also satisfied that it was fair for Santander to take the decision to terminate the BBL 
agreement and demand full repayment of the BBL balance from Mr A as they did.
Mr A is also unhappy that Santander made the decision to end the business relationship and 
close his accounts. But in much the same way as a customer is free to choose to close an 
account and obtain banking services elsewhere, so a business is free to choose to no longer 
offer banking services to a particular customer. And, given Santanders concerns about how 
Mr A used the BBL funds, I dont feel that its unreasonable for them to have no longer been 
willing to provide banking services to him.
Its included within Santanders terms that they can close a customers accounts, so long as 
they provide that customer with 60 days notice of their intention to do. And Im satisfied that 
Santander did provide Mr A with 60 days notice that they were going to close his accounts 
and as such didnt act unfairly towards Mr A in this regard. 
Mr A feels that because Santander had made the decision to close his accounts, they 
shouldnt have continued to charge account fees during the notice period. But the account 
was still used by Mr A during that period, specifically in regard to direct debits being paid, 
and so Im satisfied that the account fees werent charged unfairly.
However, in their response to Mr As complaint, Santander did accept that Mr A had had 
difficulty accessing the funds in his account during the notice period, and they apologised to 
Mr A for this and made a payment of £50 to him as compensation for any trouble or upset he 
may have incurred relating to this specific point. 
This seems reasonable to me, and I can confirm the payment of £50 compensation for this 
specific point is commensurate with what I may have instructed Santander to pay to Mr A, 
had they not already done so. As such, Im satisfied that the apology and payment of £50 
compensation by Santander already represents a fair outcome to this aspect of Mr As complaint, and I wont be instructing Santander to take any further action in this regard. 
Finally, Mr A feels that the member of Santanders staff with whom he spoke discriminated 
against him because of his race. And Mr A feels this influenced Santanders decisions to 
close his accounts. 
Ive taken Mr As concerns here very seriously. But, having listened to the call which Mr A 
refers to, I dont feel that there is any indication that Santanders staff member acted or 
spoke to Mr A unfairly. And, as explained above, Im also satisfied that Santanders 
decisions were fair and reasonable, given how Mr A used the BBL funds. 
All of which means that I feel the response that Santander issued to Mr A about his 
complaint already represents a fair outcome to what happened here. And it follows from this 
that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Santander to take any further action. 
I note that Mr A has made a further complaint about credit file reporting, but I consider this 
further aspect of Mr As complaint to be outside the remit of this complaint  for the reasons 
explained at the beginning of this section  and I can only refer Mr A back to Santander to 
raise this further point as a new complaint with them, should he want to do so.
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr A was wanting, but I trust hell understand, given all 
that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman