DRN-4231631
The complaint
Miss D complains that National Westminster Bank Plc didnt take her financial situation into 
account when imposing interest and charges onto her account and some incorrect charges.
 
What happened
Miss D said she made NatWest aware of the financial difficulties she was facing but the bank 
ignored this. She said much of the difficulty was due to NatWests multiple charges, often per 
day. Miss D said she was working long hours for not much money at the time and her 
financial difficulties became too much for her to deal with. She said this had a big impact on 
her health, specifically her mental health and led to two mental breakdowns. 
Miss D complained to NatWest in January 2023. In its response, NatWest said Miss D had 
brought her complaint outside of the time limit set for complaints by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) to be made as the events happened more than six years ago, and more 
than three years after she realised, (or should have realised); that there was a problem. 
NatWest said the charges complained of were applied to the account and in the wording on 
the statement, in 2007. It said Miss D had received regular statements which allowed her to 
raise any concerns within a reasonable timescale. NatWest said Miss D might benefit from 
its Banking My Way service which allows for reasonable adjustments to its service. 
Notwithstanding this, NatWest said monthly charges were applied to Miss Ds account in line 
with the terms and conditions of the account. NatWest said it can only put a stop to charges 
if Miss D agreed a Breathing Space or Self Help Hold with it, but she hadnt requested this.
Miss D wasnt satisfied with this response and referred her complaint to our service. She 
said she wasnt just referring to transactions from 2007, but also charges applied by 
NatWest and its collection agency from 2019 and 2020.  
Our investigator said that in part this is not a complaint we can consider. He said the terms, 
arrangements and charges on Miss Ds account up to 2015, occurred more than three years 
before she brought her complaint and so are out of time as she ought to have known she 
had cause to complain. On some of these points he said Miss D had made a complaint in 
2019, and so she was aware she could make a complaint within three years from that date. 
Miss D said she didnt know she could make a complaint on some issues until recent media 
coverage. The investigator said that Miss D is unsure whether NatWest correctly reduced 
her debt after a previous complaint, and having reviewed its data, he confirmed this had 
taken place correctly. The investigator thought Miss D didnt know she could complain about 
this issue but said that NatWest had correctly reduced her indebtedness following 
compensation from a previous complaint.
Miss D was unhappy with this outcome and requested an ombudsman review her complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to learn about Miss Ds health and financial problems and the time it took for her 
to get to a stage where she's been able to think about this rationally. I am pleased to see 
that she has been able to manage her indebtedness following a period of financial 
difficulties. And I am pleased she has had extensive conversations about her problems with 
our investigator.
Miss Ds difficulties led to NatWest putting charges on to her account and a debt 
management plan. She thinks the charges were unfair and led to charges on top of the 
original charges being imposed, which started a snowball effect.
Miss Ds complaint to NatWest concerning the charges for her packaged bank account has 
been dealt with separately. Miss D brought her present complaint about other charges in 
December 2022. My understanding is the charges complained of were imposed on her 
account, including a card misuse fee. 
From NatWests records the card misuse fee was dealt with as part of a previous complaint. 
And this alongside the transactions Miss D referred to from around 2007 to 2009 mostly 
concerning late payment, arrears and returned cheque fees, are definitely out of time under 
the FCAs rules governing the time limit within which a complaint must be referred. 
The events happened more than six years ago, and more than three years after Miss D 
realised, (or had cause to have realised) that there was a problem. Miss D received 
statements, which she has sent to us, detailing the charges contemporaneously, and so I 
agree with the investigator that she ought reasonably to have known she could make a 
complaint. This is supported by the fact of her complaint about her packaged bank account 
in 2019. I think Miss D ought reasonably to have known she could complain by March 2019, 
which was more than three years before Miss D brought her complaint in December 2022 
and so she has brought her complaint out of time. 
Ive looked closely at Miss Ds circumstances from the information she has provided, 
although I understand the impact this has had upon her, I dont think this amounts to 
exceptional circumstances as would be required for our service not to apply the time limit 
for referring a complaint to our service.  
The statements for Miss Ds NatWest account show that no charges have been applied to 
her account since before 2017. NatWest said it couldnt see where she was charged 
additional fees on her account, and invited her to send it any evidence she had. I havent 
seen anything from Miss D about this. 
Although Miss Ds complaint about account charges is out of time, the charges appear to be 
in line with the terms and conditions of her account and their application is part of the 
account agreement between Miss D and NatWest. And so I dont think NatWest has made 
an error or treated Miss D unfairly about these. 
I was sorry to learn about the difficulties Miss D has faced over a prolonged period, but I 
hope she understands that we arent able to consider matters complained of that occurred 
over six years before the complaint has been brought. 
The investigator thought Miss D didnt know she could complain about the reduction or 
otherwise of her indebtedness following compensation from a previous complaint. I agree 
that we can consider this issue and having done so I agree with the investigator that 
NatWest had correctly reduced Miss Ds indebtedness.My final decision
For the reasons I have given it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 December 2023.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman