DRN-3556988
The complaint
Mr N complains that OAKBROOK FINANCE LIMITED trading as Likely Loans (Likely Loans)
wouldnt allow him to withdraw a loan application without paying an interest charge.
What happened
Mr N applied for a loan online with Likely Loans on 4 April 2021. This was a Sunday, the day
before a bank holiday. He received a reply informing him his loan had been declined. He
tells us he went ahead and obtained a loan elsewhere. On 6 April he received an email from
Likely Loans to advise him that his loan was approved. The loan was for £500 repayable
over twelve months at the rate of £53.25 a month. The email enclosed a loan agreement to
which Mr N was required to add his electronic signature and return. He did this and the funds
were released. Later that day he phoned to say he didnt need the loan, and Likely Loans
adviser told him it was too late for his application to be withdrawn. The call was terminated at
that point.
Likely Loans then received a text from Mr N on 9 April 2021 asking it to come up with a
solution to rectify the problem. Likely Loans advised Nr N that he could withdraw from the
agreement within 14 days of the loan being issued, provided that he pay the interest charge
which at that stage stood at £5.20. Mr N objected to that and called to complain on 14 April.
He was advised that he could make a formal complaint. Likely Loans issued its final
response letter (FRL) on 19 April, advising Mr N that he could still withdraw (although the
deadline was the next day) and the interest charge would still be £5.20.
Mr N contended that he did not see the FRL until 4 May and phoned Likely Loans again. He
was told that he could make an early settlement of the loan which would entail him repaying
the balance of the capital and a £35 charge. Since April 2021 Mr N has been paying the loan
instalments. He referred his complaint to us.
Our adjudicator said that Likely Loans shouldnt have assumed Mr N would still need the
loan, having declined his application initially, and then automatically give it to him. He
proposed that Likely Loans repay the interest on the loan.
Likely Loans objected, advising: 
It didnt decline the loan at first, the application was made on a Sunday and it needed to 
review it, the bank holiday intervening.
Mr N signed the agreement electronically and returned it before the funds were 
released.
It advised Mr N he could still withdraw on repayment of the loan and £5.20, 
maintaining that figure until its FRL of 19 May 2021.
Mr N has retained the loan funds and continued to pay the loan instalments by 
direct debit.
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that Mr N essentially got what he wanted, 
and both sides had kept to their side of the contract. So I didnt propose to uphold the 
complaint.
Neither party has commented on my provisional findings. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The following were my provisional findings:
When Mr N initially applied for the loan, he received a reply from Likely Loans which 
advised that his loan was declined, not, as Likely Loans tell us, that it was being referred for 
further checks. So Mr N had every right to believe at that stage that his application had been
declined and to look elsewhere for a loan. Nevertheless Likely Loans emailed Mr N the day
after the bank holiday to tell him his application for a loan had been accepted. And, crucially
he signed the agreement electronically and sent it back. As a result the loan monies were
released to him. So they werent released automatically after the loan was apparently
declined.
Mr N did phone Likely Loans that day to say he had got a new loan and didnt need this loan.
Ive listened to the recording of this call. The call was terminated before the adviser could
explain the procedure for withdrawing in the first 14 days. A couple of days later he was told
the charge for withdrawing would be £5.20. Though I would observe that the daily interest
rate for withdrawal was £0.65. He didnt accept being charged anything for withdrawing but
nevertheless made no attempt to return the loan monies. The FRL advised that he could still
withdraw for a charge of £5.20. Whilst I appreciate that Mr N didnt notice hed received this
until after the 14 day period, I dont think that was Likely Loans fault.
Mr N has retained the loan monies and continued to pay the direct debit. As it was for twelve
months, its likely that he will have fully paid it up by now.
If a business makes a mistake, as it appears Likely Loans did by telling Mr N his application
was declined, there would have to be evidence that the consumer had suffered some
detriment by relying on that mistake. Although Mr N says he had applied for and obtained
another loan, Ive seen no evidence of that. And if he had I struggle to understand why he
signed the forms, the documentation being quite clear that by doing so he was entering into
the agreement. And whilst I understand Mr Ns unhappiness at being charged £5.20 to
withdraw, nevertheless he retained the loan monies. And Likely Loans agreed to keep the
withdrawal charge at £5.20 at the date of its FRL, some 13 days after Mr N received the loan
monies.
My view is that Mr N has been unable to show that he acted to his detriment after the initial
letter declining the loan. He retained the loan monies, made no attempt to return them and
has paid the instalments on the loan. I think he essentially received what he set out to get, 
namely a twelve month loan of £500. I think he accepted the contract and both sides have
kept to their side of the contract.
I understand that Mr N was in a difficult position at the time of applying for the loan, and Im
sorry if this caused him anxiety. But I dont think that Likely Loans did anything wrong here
so it wouldnt be appropriate for me to award any compensation.As neither party has commented on my provisional findings, those findings are now final and 
form part of this final decision.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2022.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman