DRN-2236359
The complaint
Ms D complains that Triodos Bank UK Limited closed her account following some 
transactions it queried. Triodos didnt give her a reason for the closure, she would like the 
account reopened and to know why it was closed. 
What happened
Ms D had two accounts with Triodos a current account and a savings account.
In June 2019 Triodos contacted Ms D to request clarification regarding payments being 
made out of Ms Ds current account.
Ms D provided information to Triodos regarding the payments. There was a payment to her 
son, a British national visiting Sudan and some cash payments which Ms D was planning to 
take to Sudan as part of her birthday celebrations.
Triodos explained that Sudan is a country with financial sanctions in place. This means that 
the bank needs to carry out enhanced checks on payments to and from Sudan.
Following a review Triodos decided to close her account, wrote to Ms D on 3 July 2019 and 
gave her two months notice.
Ms D says she was upset and shocked by this letter as she had provided information as 
requested by Triodos previously.
Ms D complained to Triodos. They investigated and said they were not able to reopen the 
account and had given the correct notice under the terms of the account.
They agreed that Ms Ds conversation with one of their employees could have gone better 
and apologised for comments that the employee made about Sudan and Ms D. 
Unhappy with their response Ms A complained to our service.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. She said Triodos was entitled to close her 
account giving 60 days notice. She said Ms D had been given a reason for the closure 
which was set out in Triodos letter of 13 August 2019. She accepted Ms D had been upset 
by the sudden closure of the account and by the conversation she had with one of Triodos 
employees. She thought Triodos hadnt done anything wrong in closing the account and had 
dealt with the customer service issue by way of an apology and reassurance of training for 
that staff member. So, she didnt think Triodos needed to do anything else.
Ms D disagreed with the view. She said despite the apology and Triodos right to close the 
account, the manner in which it had been done was indicative of poor judgement. Ms D 
wanted to be compensated for the distress and disruption as well as for the time taken in 
having to pursue the complaint.
The investigator said as she didnt think Triodos had made a mistake no compensation was 
due.
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the same conclusion as the investigator for broadly the same 
reasons.
Ill start by setting out some context for the review of Ms Ds account. UK legislation places 
extensive obligations on regulated financial businesses. Financial institutions must establish 
the purpose and intended nature of transactions as well as the origin of funds, and there 
may be penalties if they dont. This applies to both new and existing relationships. These 
obligations override all other obligations. Im satisfied this is what Triodos was doing when it 
reviewed Ms Ds account.
As the investigator explained its generally for banks to decide whether or not they want to 
provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any particular customer. Unless 
theres a good reason to do so, this service wont usually say that a bank must keep a 
customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had their account closed.
Banks should however, give reasonable notice before closing an account. Usually that 
means 60 days notice, but it can be less depending on the circumstances. I can see that 
Triodos informed Ms D on 3 July 2019 and let her know it was closing her account giving her 
60 days notice. So, Im satisfied Triodos closed the accounts in line with the account terms. 
Ms D wanted to know why her account had been closed and Triodos did set out reasons in 
their letter dated 13 August 2019. So, I think its likely Ms D had an understanding of why the 
bank closed her account. Ms D was given two months notice which is reasonable notice to 
find another account.
I appreciate that Ms D was trying to help friends and family in a difficult situation when she 
decided to make payments to Sudan. She has questioned why such small amounts would 
seem to carry such a risk. As I have mentioned Triodos arent required to give any further 
reasons. Moreover, Triodos obligations are broad and varied, and it isnt the case that one 
regulation or law only applies to the circumstances of Ms D and this complaint. Ms D may 
wish to research firms obligations and responsibilities, and how they relate to her 
circumstances and the decision Triodos have taken. But from what Ive seen, Im satisfied 
Triodos have acted in accordance with whats required of them.
Ms D has said she is unhappy with the service she received from Triodos. I have looked at 
what the investigator has said and what Triodos have done. I see they have apologised and 
committed to offer training to the staff member involved. I think this is a reasonable way of 
resolving this aspect of Ms Ds complaint, so, I wont be asking them to do anything else.
Ms D says she is worried that Triodos decision would affect her ability to do business 
elsewhere. I can confirm that Ive seen no evidence of anything recorded against her.
I appreciate Ms D has been inconvenienced by Triodos decision to close her account but 
theyre entitled to make a commercial decision about who they offer their services to. They 
cannot unfairly discriminate against a customer. But they can say they no longer wish to do 
business with individuals. Thats because theyve got the commercial freedom to decide who 
they want to contract with. And Im satisfied that Triodos has exercised its commercial decision legitimately when it decided it no longer wished to do business with Ms D. So, I 
cannot fairly and reasonably say its done anything wrong. It follows I wont be asking it to 
compensate Ms D.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2021.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman