DRN-2867034
The complaint
Mr W complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund money he lost when he fell victim 
to a scam.
What happened
In June 2020 Mr W fell victim to a scam.
  
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat it in detail 
here. But in summary and based on the submissions of both parties, I understand it to be as 
follows.
Mr W was looking to buy a van and saw one that interested him advertised for sale by a 
private seller on a social media online marketplace. Hes said the seller had good reviews, 
and recalls seeing that they had around 13 reviews with 100% feedback. Mr W has also said 
that he had successfully used the particular social media marketplace before to make 
purchases. 
Mr W contacted the seller, who he has said was able to speak in detail about the history of 
the van. Hes also told us he completed a HPI check, which hes said came back clear. Mr W 
says he also asked to view the van, but the seller explained he was unable to arrange a 
viewing straight away, due to being away from home running errands for his elderly mother, 
who was shielding at the time due to Covid.
 
The seller told Mr W that there was another party interested in purchasing the van, and said 
if Mr W wanted to secure it, he would accept a refundable deposit and Mr W could then view 
it the following day, when he could then either make the purchase or have his deposit 
refunded.
Mr W has told us that he had been looking for a van for a few weeks and hes said this van 
was in the price range he was looking for. However, other vans that hed seen included VAT 
as the vans had been used for commercial purposes, which had pushed the price up and put 
them out of his range. Mr W explained this van, due to it being for private use, didnt have 
the additional VAT added on. 
Mr W has said he also spoke with a friend, who has owned a car dealership for several 
years, regarding the van, who told him that the price he was being quoted was about right 
and confirmed the history of the van as per what he had seen on the HPI check. Mr W also 
recalls that when he carried out the HPI check he received a valuation for the van. Due to 
the time that has passed Mr W has said he no longer has this and cannot remember the 
exact figures, but he recalls a quote of between £5,800 and £8,000 depending on various 
factors (mileage, condition, current trade/forecourt prices etc.).
Mr W and the seller agreed a price of £5,950 for the van. Satisfied with what he had heard 
from the seller and with the checks he had carried out, Mr W went ahead and made a bank 
transfer payment for £3,000 on 9 June 2020 as a deposit, to the bank details provided by the 
seller (which the seller explained were his wifes bank account details). 
Later that day, Mr W received a further call from the seller, who explained that the other 
interested party, who he had mentioned previously, had secured a bank loan to purchase the 
van and was willing to buy it straight away for the full amount. The seller told Mr W that he 
felt guilty as the other party had taken out the loan. But he told Mr W that if he wanted to pay 
the outstanding balance straight away, then he could still have the van  or alternatively he 
would refund him his deposit. Mr W agreed to pay the remaining balance and went ahead 
and made a payment of £2,950 from his savings account. Mr W has said he then arranged 
for the van to be insured, ahead of viewing and collecting it the following day.
As arranged, the following day, Mr W went to collect the van, but on arrival at the address he 
had been given, there was no van. He realised at this point that he had been the victim of a 
scam. 
Realising he had been the victim of a scam Mr W contacted Barclays. Barclays contacted 
the receiving bank (the bank who the money was sent to) and was able to recover £2,975 of 
the money Mr W had paid, which it returned to Mr W. It also considered whether it ought to 
refund Mr W for the remainder of his loss. 
Barclays is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(CRM Code) which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP 
scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances. Barclays declined to refund     
Mr W the remainder of his loss, as it says one or more of those exceptions applies in this 
case. In summary, Barclays said that Mr W ignored an effective warning and didnt have a 
reasonable basis for believing the payment to be genuine. It did however recognise that the 
service it offered Mr W could have been better and for this it offered £200 as a gesture of 
goodwill.
Mr W then brought his complaint to our service and one of our investigators looked into 
things. She didnt agree that Mr W had ignored an effective warning. In summary she said 
this because she didnt consider the warning would have been impactful in the specific 
circumstances of this case. Our investigator also didnt think it had been established that    
Mr W didnt have a reasonable basis for believing he was making a payment to a legitimate 
seller. It was our investigators view that Barclays should refund Mr W the remainder of his 
loss. Our investigator also considered the £200 that Barclays had paid Mr W for the poor 
service was fair considering the circumstances.
 
Barclays disagreed with our investigators view. In summary it still considered the warning it 
gave Mr W was relevant and it considered the price Mr W had paid for the van was too good 
to be true. It felt Mr W had been negligent and failed to complete important necessary 
checks around the price of the van. 
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am satisfied that:
- Under the terms of the CRM Code, Barclays should have refunded the money Mr W 
lost. I am not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to reimbursement apply in 
the circumstances of this case.- The money was taken from Mr Ws current and savings accounts and Im satisfied 
hes been deprived of money he was going to use to purchase a van, so the firm 
should also pay interest on the money it should have refunded at 8% simple per year 
from the date by which Barclays should have provided a refund under the CRM Code 
to the date of payment. 
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint briefly, in less detail than has been 
provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on 
what I think is the heart of the matter here. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual 
point or argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to 
do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service. 
I have carefully considered Barclays representations about the warning it gave and whether 
the consumer had a reasonable basis for believing the transaction to be genuine. But they 
do not persuade me to reach a different view. In particular I am not persuaded that Mr W 
failed to take the requisite level of care required for Barclays to choose not to reimburse 
under the terms of the CRM Code. Ill explain why;
Effective Warnings
Barclays has said Mr W would have seen the following warning after selecting the payment 
was for buying goods 
Could this be a scam?
Are you sure the company/seller is genuine and website is secure? You should take time
to check this, and whether the goods you want to buy are genuine as well. If a deal
sounds too good to be true, it often is.
Remember that paying by debit or credit card will provide you with more protection than
paying by bank transfer. Fraudsters can also use current news topics, like COVID-19, to
play on your emotions and ask you to make purchases or move your money. Its best to
talk to someone you trust before proceeding.
Under the provisions of the CRM Code, as a minimum, an effective warning needs to be 
understandable, clear, timely, impactful and specific. It must also provide information that 
gives customers a better chance to protect themselves against being defrauded and should 
include appropriate actions for customers to take to protect themselves from APP scams. 
The CRM Code sets out minimum criteria that a warning must meet to be an effective 
warning. In very broad terms, it requires that a warning will be capable of countering the 
typical features of the generic scam type identified during the payment journey. The warning 
Barclays gave does, at least in part, appear directed at the prevention of scams whereby a 
customer is making a purchase and where they may be buying something at a discounted 
price. But I dont find the warning meets the CRM Codes minimum requirements of an 
effective warning. I say that because;
- The warning doesnt bring to life or warn the consumer sufficiently the risks of buying 
goods online. Such as that criminals will post fake advertisements and will ask for 
payment upfront.
- I dont think the warning would have been impactful to the consumer as they had 
successfully purchased from the marketplace previously and had contacted a trusted 
person before going ahead with the payment.- An effective warning should enable the customer to understand what actions they 
need to take to address the risk and the consequences of not doing so. This warning 
mentions that the customer should check that the goods are genuine, but provides no 
specific actions a customer or Mr W could have carried out to check that the goods 
and seller were genuine.
- The warning did include a suggested step that the consumer could take to protect 
themselves, in that they could pay be debit or credit card, but these didnt apply in the 
specific circumstances of this scam as they werent a payment method that was 
available.
- The warning doesnt clearly set out the consequences of not taking the suggested 
steps in the warning. For example, setting out that the transaction will be irrevocable, 
and that if it proves not to be legitimate this will likely mean the funds cannot be 
recovered.
So, Im not satisfied Barclays warning met the requisite criteria here. Overall, I dont 
consider the warning given was an effective warning as defined by the CRM Code. It follows 
that Barclays has not established it can fairly apply the exception to reimbursement relating 
to ignoring an effective warning.
Did Mr W have a reasonable basis for belief when making the payments?
I have carefully considered Barclays representations that Mr W did not have a reasonable 
basis for believing he was making payments to a genuine source, but they do not persuade 
me to reach a different view. In particular, Im not persuaded Mr W failed to take the requisite 
level of care required for Barclays to choose not to reimburse under the terms of the CRM 
Code.
 
Barclays has placed a lot of emphasis on the price of the van and how it considers that this 
was too good to be true and ought to have led Mr W to have been more diligent before 
proceeding. I can appreciate - especially with the knowledge that this later transpired to be a 
scam - that the advertised price for this particular van was lower than other vans that 
Barclays has indicated in its representations. 
I accept that a low price can be an indicator that a situation is not what it seems. But a 
potentially low price isnt in and of itself sufficient for me to conclude that Mr W didnt have a 
reasonable basis for belief. When I consider the price in the round and with the context of 
the steps Mr W took and the specific circumstances of the case, on balance Im persuaded 
that he did have a reasonable basis for belief. I say that because;
- At the time Mr W considered the price to be what he was expecting to pay. The price 
was broadly in line with other vans that he had previously seen, but with the benefit, 
that due to the nature of the vans usage, he wouldnt have to pay VAT on this 
particular van.
  
- Mr W says he was given a valuation quote at the time he obtained a HPI check, 
which quoted a price range, with the sale price falling within that range. Importantly, 
Mr W also sought the advice of a friend who owned a motor dealership and who had 
many years experience in the trade. Im persuaded it was reasonable for Mr W to 
trust his friends opinion, who had more experience in these matters, that the price 
seemed about right.
- Generally speaking, a seller can set a price that they are comfortable with, which doesnt necessarily have to be the items market value. A seller might well be 
motivated to accept a lower offer than what an item might typically be worth if they 
need a quick sale. There will be occasions where I think it would be reasonable for a 
consumer to ask further questions about the price of an item before proceeding. But 
given the specific circumstances of this complaint and what I have said earlier, I can 
understand why Mr W didnt think to question the seller further about the price of the 
van. As, with the context of; the van appearing to be in the range of other vans hed 
been looking at, the confirmation from somebody in the trade that the price seemed 
about right and with the HPI check giving the van in the same range, I can 
understand how it fairly and reasonably wouldnt have appeared to Mr W at the time 
that the price was low enough to give him cause for concern. 
- Mr W found the car advertised on an online marketplace. Marketplaces are an 
increasingly common way for private sellers to sell items and Mr W had purchased 
items from the marketplace successfully before. Which I think reasonably added to 
his belief that this was a legitimate sale. Particularly so here given Mr W recalls 
seeing that the seller had positive feedback. 
- Mr W has explained how the communications he had with the seller seemed 
genuine. They were able to speak clearly about the vans history and didnt appear to 
put pressure on Mr W. 
 
- Mr W was asked to pay a deposit, which is not untypical when purchasing a vehicle. 
And I can understand why Mr W wasnt concerned by paying this, given he was 
under the impression that if he didnt want to proceed, he would have been able to 
have received a full refund. 
- Im satisfied that Mr W was given a plausible reasons as to why he couldnt view the 
van. Given the circumstances at the time, with the pandemic, I think it was 
reasonable for Mr W to believe that that the seller was taking care of an elderly 
relative and so an earlier viewing wasnt feasible. 
Overall, Mr W has explained that he proceeded with the transaction after being satisfied with 
the communication with the seller and after hed undertaken his own research. People dont 
want or expect to be scammed and I think Mr W took reasonable and appropriate steps to try 
and protect himself before making the payment. Im persuaded he had a reasonable basis 
for believing that the payee was the person he was expecting to pay; the payment was for 
genuine goods or services and the person with whom he transacted was legitimate.
Mr W was also unhappy with how Barclays progressed his complaint. Barclays has 
acknowledged that there were delays and a lack of communication and paid Mr W £200 in 
recognition of this. I think this is fair and reasonable under the circumstances and in line with 
what I would have expected it to pay. 
With all of the above in mind, in light of all the circumstances here, and in line with the 
requirements of the CRM Code, Im not satisfied Barclays has been able to establish that 
when Mr W sent the payments, he did so without a reasonable basis for belief. 
Putting things right
The Code explains that where a customer has met their requisite level of care (which as Ive 
explained, Im satisfied was the case here) they should be refunded all of the money that 
was lost. So, I think its fair that Barclays should now;
- refund the money Mr W lost, less any funds already recovered (being £2,975)- pay interest at the simple rate of 8% per year on that amount (less any tax properly 
deductible) from the date Barclays declined Mr Ws full claim under the CRM to the 
date of settlement.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Ws complaint against 
Barclays Bank UK PLC and order it to pay the redress I have indicated above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2022.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman