DRN-3658835
The complaint
Ms S says shes locked into an annuity that she never requested or agreed to and that Legal 
& General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) is responsible for failing to conduct proper due 
diligence when it established the policy.
What happened
Ms S says that in 2006 she contacted a firm, Read Independent Financial Advisers Limited 
(Read IFA), in order to access her pension. Ultimately she chose a Talisman Drawdown 
Plan with Scottish Life, which best suited her needs. She received a letter from Read IFA 
dated 5 October 2006 enclosing the policy documents from Scottish Life.
Ms S says she was abroad between January and July 2007. On her return there were 
documents and a policy from L&G. She had no idea what the policy was or related to. She 
didnt take much notice of it at the time. She says a quick glance of the policy confirmed the 
Talisman Drawdown plan shed chosen and the correct amount of pension. 
In December 2020 Ms S retired and decided to contact Scottish Life to see how her 
drawdown pension worked. She was astonished when it told her the Talisman Drawdown 
Plan policies didnt exist. It couldnt give her any information as to when the policies were 
cancelled or who had cancelled them.
Ms S then reviewed her paperwork to try and establish what had happened. It was only then 
she realised her Talisman Drawdown Plan had become a Lifetime Annuity with L&G. She 
tried to contact L&G in March 2021 seeking information about what had happened, but it was 
unresponsive. To get matters moving she raised a complaint on 4 May 2021. 
Ms S said she felt she was conned into taking an annuity that she never wanted and never 
intended to apply for. She felt L&G was withholding information that would enable her to get 
to the bottom of matters. For example, she wanted to know who requested that the Scottish 
Life Talisman Drawdown plan be cancelled and when. And she wanted details about the 
application made for the annuity set up in its place  she didnt recall completing such.
L&G responded to Ms Ss complaint on 13 May 2021, although she never received a copy 
until this Service became involved. In its letter it apologised for the delay in responding to her 
but said it was unable to look into her case. Its records showed the annuity had been 
arranged by Read IFA acting on her behalf. It said her adviser wouldve provided the 
relevant information to set up the annuity and they wouldve acted upon these instructions, 
with the funds being received from Scottish Life. It hadnt provided advice. L&G said Ms S 
needed to take matters up with the firm advising her at the time.
An Investigator considered Ms Ss case and didnt uphold it. He noted that although given 
the events had happened some time ago and L&G hadnt been able to supply the 
documentation he wouldve liked to have seen, given the evidence available to him he 
concluded L&G hadnt done anything wrong. It had acted on the instruction of a regulated 
firm which was working for Ms S.
Ms S disagreed with the Investigators findings and conclusions. In summarising her position 
she said:
It is irrelevant as to how long I have had the Policy, which only came to light recently. It is 
how this Policy was set up and by whom that I want answers to. I am not satisfied as to the 
answers or lack of them that Legal & General have given and with the disrespect and 
contempt that they have shown in this matter.
This is my Pension Fund we are talking about. I am locked into an Annuity that I can do 
nothing with. I cannot access my Pension Fund. I cannot cancel this Policy. I cannot transfer 
this Policy. I never wanted this Policy.
As both parties couldnt agree to the Investigators view, Ms Ss complaint has been passed 
to me to review afresh and to provide a decision. This is the final stage of our process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, my 
role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, 
whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im not upholding Ms Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive considered the extensive regulation around transactions like those performed for Ms S. 
The FCA Handbook contains eleven Principles for businesses, which it says are 
fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in the FCA Handbook). These 
include:
- Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.
- Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers.
- Principle 7, which requires a firm to have due regard to the information needs of its 
clients and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
So, the Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at the 
relevant time. As such, I need to have regard to them in deciding Ms Ss complaint.
I dont have all the information Id like in this case to understand what happened to Ms Ss 
pension arrangements in 2007. L&G has explained that it doesnt have documents such as 
the application made for her annuity policy or any correspondence it wouldve had with her 
financial adviser.
With respect to retention periods for financial services documentation, the general principle 
is that records should be retained for as long as is relevant for the purposes for which they 
are made. It seems to me given the long-term nature of pension arrangements, its in the 
interests of firms to keep some details when significant changes are made to arrangements, not least for their own risk management and governance interests. I recognise firms must 
adhere to the requirements of the data protection act, but dont believe these are 
insurmountable in this regard.
L&G has a duty to provide all relevant information and documentation to this Service. If it is 
shown later to have held back any relevant evidence, that would be a serious matter. And 
Ive no reason to believe this is the case.
Ms S has supplied the bulk of the documentation relevant to consideration of her case. Im 
grateful to her for her diligence.
Subsequent to Ms Ss Scottish Life policies being established in October 2006, she 
acknowledges receiving documents from L&G during the period she was out of the country 
between January and July 2007. Ive reviewed that paperwork which includes a letter 
headed Legal & General  Immediate Pension Annuity dated 21 February, covering what 
was said to be post sale information about her policy. Ive also reviewed the policy schedule 
Ms S was sent.
Ms S says the L&G schedule referred to her Talisman Income Drawdown Plan. And while 
she acknowledged shed received monthly payments from L&G since 2007, she hadnt taken 
much notice of them. She thought the paperwork L&G sent regularly related to interest on 
her drawdown pension and not from an Annuity. She just filed it away.
I think the policy schedule made it clear that an annuity had been put in place, with a 
premium payment made to provide for this of about £41,000. The annuity bought for Ms S 
was detailed on the paperwork. It showed a commencement date for the policy of 8 January 
2007. It detailed both the protected and unprotected rights. Total monthly payments were 
about £96. This equated to a gross annual income of around £1,159. The policy provided for 
an increase each year in line with the Retail Prices Index (RPI).
L&G also sent Ms S P60 certificates each year showing the gross income shed received in 
the previous tax year, together with forecasts showing the gross income she could expect to 
receive in the following year. This correspondence included references to the payments 
being made as an annuity. Again I think these matters were clear from the documents Ms S 
has provided.
I think there was a responsibility on Ms S to have read the paperwork she received from 
L&G. And while I appreciate she was out of the country between January and July 2007, she 
needed to have made effective arrangements for dealing with any important matters during 
that period, in a timely manner.
In responding to the Investigator, Ms S said:
I have no doubt what so ever that this Annuity Policy was mis sold for the following reasons: 
Legal & General did not: {1} Check the suitability of an Annuity Policy with me as a potential 
customer.; {2} Did not question as to why a different Policy (Talisman Drawdown Plan} was 
being used to buy an Annuity with them. {3} Sent or acknowledged the receipt of the 
application form to me.; {4] Did not check that the details were correct on the application 
form with me.; {5} Did not check any Life style question / Medical questions if there were any 
/ whether I smoked.; {6} Whether there were to be any beneficiaries.
As the Investigator noted, L&Gs role was as a pension product provider. Im satisfied that 
L&G didnt provide Ms S with any advice. The screenshot it has provided shows that Read 
IFA provided that service. So, the matters she highlights here were the responsibility of that firm. It shouldve been holding the ring and communicating between Ms S, her former 
pension provider and L&G.
I think its more likely than not L&G and Scottish Life received authority and documentation 
from Read IFA, which led both those parties to facilitate the switch of her pension funds and 
the purchase of her annuity. I think its reasonable for both those parties to have considered 
it was working with a regulated adviser, which they believed was acting in her best interest 
and with her authority. I dont think the transaction wouldve proceeded without such.
Ms S notes that L&G shouldve been aware of action taken by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) against Read IFA. As such it shouldnt have taken matters on trust and it 
shouldve carried out more due diligence. The argument she makes isnt without merit. A 
summary extract from FCAs final notice issued on 20 December 2004 says of the advisers 
failings:
The breaches, which occurred between September 2000 and January 2003 ("the period in 
issue"), arose from failures on the part of Read in respect of its business based on the 
release of cash from preserved pension funds by transfer to individual pensions plans and 
then into annuities, referred to as "early vesting" or "pensions unlocking"
The FCA found problems with Read IFA in areas broadly relevant to Ms Ss complaint. 
However, the period of poor practice was between 2000-2003. Ms S received her advice in 
2006. Further, the FCA went onto note the steps the firm had taken to strengthen its sales 
process and management and compliance functions. 
So, based on what Ive seen, I dont think this wouldve given L&G cause to have stopped 
doing business with Read IFA or to have given rise to an expectation it wouldve 
strengthened its due diligence in 2006. 
Overall, based on the information available, I dont think it would be reasonable for me to 
conclude that L&G did something wrong when it established an annuity for Ms S in 2007. It 
follows that I dont require it to do anything further.
During the period between 2007 and 2021, Ms S has received gross pension payments 
totalling around £21,500. Further payments, uprated for inflation, will continue for the rest of 
her life. 
However, I know Ms S wants to be able to take her benefits flexibly and that shes 
constrained by the annuity. As shes told us, the arrangement isnt something she wanted or 
agreed to.
I understand Ms S has been liaising with the Financial Services Compensation Scheme 
(FSCS) about the role Read IFA played in what happened to her in 2006-2007. 
Id observe that Read IFA was last registered as Retirement Direct Limited. Although from 12 
November 2021 it ceased being authorised by the FCA to conduct regulated activities, that 
doesnt mean she cant address her concerns about its role to that company in the first 
instance  it appears to remain a going concern. If she doesnt get satisfaction, it maybe she 
can bring a complaint to this Service.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive already set out, Im not upholding Ms Ss complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2022. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman