DRN-2179319
The complaint
Miss D complains about a car she took under a hire purchase agreement from FCA 
Automotive Services UK Ltd. She says that she was pressured into taking a car that wasnt 
suitable for her, that its fuel consumption is higher than she was led to believe it would be 
and that she wasnt provided with a spare key or all the necessary paperwork.
What happened
In June 2019 Miss D entered into a 49-month hire purchase agreement for a car. It had been 
first registered in March 2019  that is, three months earlier  and had a cash price of just 
under £16,000. 
In or about March 2020 Miss D brought a complaint about the car and the sales process. 
She said, in summary, that she had initially been interested in models with a lower 
specification but that the dealership had said there was another model available at a 
different location that might be suitable for her. It would arrange for it to be collected so Miss 
D could inspect it. However, the wrong car was delivered. Miss D says she was told she 
could take the car that had been delivered, but that it would only be available for a very short 
time.
As a result, Miss D says, she felt pressured into taking a car that had a higher specification 
than those she had researched. This cost her more than she had been paying under a 
previous finance arrangement. She was also concerned about the cars fuel consumption, 
which was significantly higher than the published figures. In addition, she hadnt been 
provided with a service history or a spare key, as she should have been. 
FCA considered what Miss D had said but did not accept it had done anything wrong. Miss D 
therefore referred her complaint to this service, where one of our investigators considered it. 
She broadly agreed with FCA, however, and so Miss D asked that an ombudsman review 
the case, as she is entitled to do under our rules.       
What Ive decided  and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, however, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator 
did, and for similar reasons. 
Ive considered carefully what Miss D has said about the sales process. Ive no doubt that 
she felt under some pressure to agree to a deal or lose the chance to acquire the car that 
had been offered to her. I dont believe however that this meant she was treated unfairly. 
She could still have taken time to consider her options and make any further enquiries she 
felt were necessary  such as the cost of insuring a car with a higher specification.
Similarly, Miss D had the opportunity to review the cars specification and to decide whether 
it was appropriate to her needs.  
Miss D says too that the monthly payments were higher than she had been paying and 
higher than she was expecting. They were however clearly set out in the hire purchase 
agreement; if she thought they were too high, it was open to her to decline to take the car or 
enter into the finance arrangements.
Miss D says that the cars fuel consumption is significantly higher than the published figures. 
The published figures are, however, intended largely as a comparison between models and 
are not what a driver can generally expect in reality. That depends on a number of factors  
including driving style, environment, weather, road service and load. In some cases, 
excessive fuel consumption can indicate other faults, but Miss D hasnt provided any 
evidence of a fault in this case. Shes commented that she hasnt been asked to return the 
car for fault-finding, but theres no reason why, if she thinks there is a fault with the car, she 
could not arrange to have it investigated. 
Miss D also says that she wasnt provided with the cars service history and was only given 
one key instead of two. The dealership has explained that, as the car was only three months 
old when she acquired it, there was no service history. As far as the key is concerned, I note 
that Miss D signed a document to say two had been provided. Miss D says she was told the 
second key would be sent to her, but it never was. I note as well though that it was several 
months before Miss D raised this with FCA as part of her wider complaint. In the 
circumstances, I dont believe it would be fair to hold FCA liable.         
My final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that I dont require FCA Automotive Services UK Ltd 
to do anything more to resolve Miss Ds complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept or reject my decision before 
5 February 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman