DRN-3055048
The complaint
Mr and Mrs O have complained about legal fees added to their buy-to-let (BTL) mortgage 
account by NRAM Limited. To settle the complaint they would like the fees to be reimbursed 
and for NRAM to pay them compensation.
What happened
What happened can be summarised briefly. Mr and Mrs O have a BTL mortgage with NRAM 
secured over a leasehold property, taken out in 2005. About twelve years after they 
purchased the property, a defect was identified in the lease, affecting not just Mr and 
Mrs Os property, but all the properties in the development . NRAM instructed solicitors to act 
for it in remedying the legal title and the costs were added to Mr and Mrs Os mortgage 
account.
Mr and Mrs O were unhappy about this, and complained to NRAM, which said that the terms 
and conditions of the mortgage allowed it to add the legal costs to the account.
Dissatisfied with NRAMs response, Mr and Mrs O brought their complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. An investigator looked at the complaint. 
The investigator noted that the account terms and conditions allowed NRAM to add legal 
costs to the account without notice only in relation to the application and completion of the 
mortgage, which had been many years previously. Otherwise, clause 13 the terms and 
conditions required NRAM to ask Mr and Mrs O in writing to pay any legal costs within seven 
days, and that interest will only apply from the date NRAM first asks for payment.
The investigated noted that NRAM had asked Mr and Mrs O to pay £3,029.40 in a letter sent 
in May 2019, asking them to pay by 1 June 2019. Other costs, however, were simply added 
to the mortgage account.
The investigator thought that, other than the legal fees set out in the letter sent in May 2019, 
NRAM should remove all other charges added to the mortgage, along with interest accrued 
on them. If NRAM wanted Mr and Mrs O to pay the removed charges, it should then write to 
them, in line with the account terms and conditions giving them seven days to pay.
The investigator also thought NRAM should pay £250 compensation for trouble and upset.
NRAM agreed to do this and said that it would pay £300 in relation to the accrued interest (in 
addition to the £250 compensation), as this was more than the actual amount of interest 
charged on the legal fees. The investigator thought this was fair. NRAM also explained that 
some legal fees had been removed as part of a remediation exercise.
Mr and Mrs O didnt want to accept the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman 
to review the complaint.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. Although Ive read and 
considered the whole file, Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont 
comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it but because I dont 
think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider 
context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in the round.
Ive noted what Mr and Mrs O have said about other apartments in the same development, 
and they want to know how NRAM dealt with other BTL borrowers who were affected by the 
lease issues. I accept that other NRAM borrowers might also have been affected by the 
same issues, but I cant look at those in the context of this complaint. Thats because we 
consider complaints on an individual basis and, in any event, it would be a breach of the 
General Data Protection Regulation if I were to ask NRAM to disclose details of other 
borrowers without their consent.
Mr and Mrs O also want NRAM to provide details of what instructions it gave to its solicitors. 
This, however, is legally privileged and confidential and so I wont be asking NRAM to 
disclose any information about this.
Im satisfied that it was reasonable for NRAM to instruct its own solicitors to act for it in 
putting right the defects with the lease. I acknowledge those issues were outside the control 
of Mr and Mrs O, but they werent NRAMs fault either. Its also reasonable for NRAM to be 
able to recoup its legal costs from Mr and Mrs O.
But the way in which NRAM went about this was wrong. There was only one instance when 
NRAM followed the terms and conditions  in May 2019  when it gave Mr and Mrs O written 
notice of the legal costs and set out the time limit to pay, after which interest would accrue. It 
didnt do this with the other legal costs it added to the account.
So I agree with the investigator that NRAM should remove the legal costs it added without 
notice, and then provide Mr and Mrs O with the required notice if it wants them to pay those 
costs.
NRAM has agreed to this, and has calculated that the interest payable would be under £300, 
so its agreed to pay £300 for the interest, along with £250 for trouble and upset. Overall, I 
think this is fair in all the circumstances.
  
Putting things right
To settle the complaint, NRAM Limited must do the following:
other than the legal fees set out in the letter dated May 2019, and any legal fees already 
removed as part of any remediation exercise, NRAM Limited must remove any other 
legal costs added to Mr and Mrs Os mortgage account;
provide Mr and Mrs O with the required written notice pursuant to clause 13 of the terms 
and conditions in respect of any legal costs it requires them to pay;
adjust the account by crediting £300 for interest on the legal fees; and
pay Mr and Mrs O compensation of £250 for trouble and upset.
  
My final decisionMy final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement, I direct NRAM 
Limited to put in place the redress set out above.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O and Mr O to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 November 2021.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman