DRN-3323656
The complaint
Miss F complains that Calderdale Credit Union Limited (Calderdale) irresponsibly gave 
her two loans that she couldnt afford.
What happened
In June 2018, Miss F applied for a loan of £500 but Calderdale offered her a loan of £400. 
In December 2018 Miss F applied for a loan of £500 and agreed to a loan of £300. 
In 2021, Miss F complained to Calderdale to say that the loans shouldnt have been given 
to her because they werent affordable and that Calderdale ought to have made a better 
effort to understand her financial circumstances before giving her credit.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Miss F didnt agree. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it 
but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in 
the round.
Calderdale will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Miss Fs complaint is that Calderdale made credit available that was unaffordable. Its 
possible that Calderdale failed to make adequate checks before providing Miss F with credit. 
But even if thats true, I dont think better enquiries would have caused Calderdale to think 
the credit it provided was unaffordable. 
I say this because credit was very modest on both occasions and the monthly payments 
for that credit were also very modest. Calderdale had considered how Miss F had been 
handling other existing borrowing with them before offering the two loans. They have 
noted that Miss F had a good record as a borrower with them and that she had never 
defaulted on any of her previous loans with them. 
Ive noted the credit file Miss F has provided us. Ive seen that there was a default that 
was settled on an account in August 2017. And there were some arrears on another 
account at the time of both loans. But Ive noted that these were for very modest amounts. 
So, I think that the credit report is insufficient evidence to make the modest loans 
automatically unreasonable. 
So, having considered Miss Fs handling of credit from other lenders at the time of the 
lending decisions, I dont think that they represent a situation such that Calderdale would 
have been put off supplying these very modest loans had they known about them at the 
time. And its likely that Calderdale did know about Miss Fs wider credit situation at the 
time of the loans, as they had sought credit reports during the year. And that maybe 
explains why they declined the requested amount of borrowing on each occasion and 
provided loans that were smaller in size to those requested by Miss F. 
Ive noted that Miss Fs bank statements show good levels of income and expenditure. 
Whilst the account shows a lot of transactions in the months before both lending 
decisions, they also show that there were largely similar amounts of income to 
expenditure, some months more some months less, and that the account was largely in 
credit throughout the month. 
I appreciate that Miss Fs financial situation became worse after the lending decisions were 
made for these loans. But I have to look at the information that was available, or could have 
been available, to Calderdale at the time it made their lending decisions and not to use 
hindsight. 
So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, and in the absence of any 
extra evidence from Miss F to the contrary, I have seen insufficient evidence to think that 
more thorough affordability checks would have led Calderdale to think that the very modest 
credit they provided Miss F was unreasonable. Further, Im not persuaded that the way Miss 
F was managing her account or what Calderdale could see of her management of other 
credit ought to have prompted it to have acted differently than it did. 
I know that Miss F will be disappointed with my decision and I was sorry to read about the 
difficulties of her personal situation. But I want Miss F to know that I considered all the 
submissions made in this case. Having done so, I have not found sufficient evidence to 
uphold this complaint.
I have noted that Miss Fs representative thinks the type of loan Calderdale offered should 
not be allowed. But this service is not the regulator of the financial services industry. We are 
here to decide complaints and the above represents my findings on the complaint brought to 
us in this case. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman