DRN-4014656
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain about how UK Insurance Limited (UKI) handled a claim they made 
on their home insurance policy following a burst pipe at their home. 
UKI are the underwriters of this policy and part of this complaint concerns the actions of the 
agents acting for it. As UKI have accepted it is accountable for the actions of the agent any 
reference to UKI includes its agents. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs P have home insurance with UKI. 
In August 2021 they had a burst water pipe in their living room. They contacted a plumber 
who dug up the living room floor in order to locate and repair the leak. Mr and Mrs P 
contacted UKI to report the problem. 
UKI initially said the policy didnt cover the work since it said the leak was due to wear and 
tear. Mr and Mrs P say UKI finally agreed to cover the claim. 
Since the pipe had been leaking for some time four dehumidifiers were installed in their 
home for 16 days in order to dry it out. Mr and Mrs P say the noise and the heat from them 
was unbearable. And for the duration of the dehumidifiers being on it caused the kitchen to 
become very hot and so Mr and Mrs P say they were unable to use the kitchen. 
As part of the floor replacement Mr and Mrs P say zigzag trenches needed to be filled and 
the floor levelled before the laminate could be installed. The trenches werent covered by 
anything and so they had to jump over them in order to get around. 
The trenches were filled and the latex screed was laid ready for the laminate. Once the floor 
started to be put down Mr and Mrs P said they noticed there was some movement where 
there shouldnt have been and so they asked for a surveyor to come and check the floor. 
The flooring had to come up and new screed put down to level it properly. This led to further 
delays in getting the repairs completed. 
In January 2022 Mr and Mrs P had to chase UKI again regarding the repairs as there were 
plinths which still needed to be fitted in the kitchen. Mr and Mrs P say the work was finally 
completed at the end of January.
Mr and Mrs P say while this work was ongoing they had doors and windows open in the cold 
weather to allow for works to be completed. While the dehumidifiers were installed they were 
unable to use their kitchen. Mr and Mrs P say they should have been offered alternative 
accommodation instead of living in their home while they waited for the work to be 
completed. 
UKI said the service Mr and Mrs P had received wasnt to the standard it would have 
expected. It apologised for the level of service Mr and Mrs P received and paid £225 by way 
of an apology. 
Mr and Mrs P werent happy with the response from UKI and so referred their complaint to 
this service. Our investigator looked into things for them and agreed Mr and Mrs P hadnt 
received the level of service he would have expected and so he increased the compensation 
offered by UKI by £175 taking the total compensation payable by UKI to £400. 
Mr and Mrs P didnt feel the level of compensation offered adequately acknowledged the 
distress and inconvenience caused to them by the situation. And UKI didnt think it needed to 
increase the offer since its original offer was fair.  And so the complaint came to me to 
decide. 
My provisional decision 
I recently issued a provisional decision setting out my thoughts on the key complaint points 
and how I thought matters might be best resolved. I said: 
My provisional findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues. This isnt meant to 
be discourteous. But the purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point the 
parties have raised or to answer every question asked. I understand Mr and Mrs P have 
strong views about what has happened and I can empathise with the situation. I have read 
and considered everything I have received carefully. 
UKI have upheld Mr and Mrs Ps complaint as they accepted the level of service they 
provided fell short of what Mr and Mrs P were entitled to expect. So Im only considering 
whether the offer made adequately reflects the inconvenience caused by those failures in 
service. 
UKI accept the contractors missed items from the schedule of works which led to delays. I 
can see UKI spent a lot of time trying to get updates from the contractors, and to arrange for 
them to contact Mr and Mrs P in order to resolve the outstanding repairs. And this is what I 
would have expected it to do. It is unfortunate that those efforts didnt always lead to the 
contractor contacting Mr and Mrs P, or even providing UKI with an update. But I can see UKI 
were attempting to resolve Mr and Mrs Ps concerns for them, and to move the repairs on as 
much as it could. 
UKI should've been able to organise and repair the damage much sooner than it did. And 
the insurer's repeated errors caused significant inconvenience for Mr and Mrs P as they 
were left cold and without the use of their living room for longer than was necessary. It also 
caused them a lot of worry and day to day disruption. 
I accept that contractors visiting on many different occasions was inconvenient and having to 
continuously chase UKI to sort things out has been added effort. I also acknowledge that 
having open trenches was not safe given the mobility issues Mr P describes. I can see Mr 
and Mrs P have suffered considerable stress and anxiety as a result of this matter, at a time 
when things were already difficult for them in trying to keep healthy and safe. 
I can see from looking at the complaint notes, and from Mr and Mrs Ps testimony that what 
should have been a fairly straightforward claim became time consuming and stressful. There 
have been mistakes, periods of inactivity, and failures to communicate with Mr and Mrs P. 
This has resulted in wasted time on their part making repeated calls to chase things up and 
waiting for contractors. This has all taken place over a five-month period when it really 
should have been a matter of weeks. UKI have offered Mr and Mrs P £225 compensation and our investigator has increased this 
by £175 to £400. However considering what Ive set out above I think the offer should be 
increased to fairly reflect the distress and inconvenience Mr and Mrs P have been caused. 
I invited both parties to let me have any further comments they wished to make in response 
to my provisional conclusions. 
Response to my provisional decision 
UKI had no further comments. 
Mrs P provided more detail about the impact of the situation and expressed dissatisfaction 
with the compensation offered. I refer Mrs P to the services approach to payments for 
distress and inconvenience on our website. 
Neither party has raised any additional points not previously considered
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In light of the fact that neither Mrs P or UKI had anything new to add to the findings set out in 
my provisional decision (which Ive reproduced here and which forms part of this final 
decision), Im satisfied it represents an appropriate way to resolve the dispute. For the 
reasons Ive set out above Im upholding Mrs Ps complaint.
Putting things right
UKI should pay Mr and Mrs P a total of £700 to reflect the distress and inconvenience 
caused to them. I think this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances and is broadly in line 
with the awards which we make for trouble and upset as set out on our website.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained Im upholding Mr and Mrs Ps complaint and direct UK 
Insurance Limited to put things right by doing what Ive said above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 April 2023.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman