DRN-1395777
The complaint
Ms S  on behalf of Company T  complains that Howden UK Group (Howden) Limited did 
not act on her instructions to add business interruption insurance to her policy upon its 
renewal. 
What happened
Ms S holds a business protection policy for with Hiscox for her company, which she had 
arranged through her broker  Howden. 
Howden sent Ms S a renewal invitation on 1 August 2018 as her policy was due to renew on 
13 September 2018. They asked her to complete a renewal confirmation form, which 
included the opportunity to request additional cover to be added to her policy which were not 
part of the core insurances offered by Hiscox, such as business interruption cover.
Ms S returned the renewal conformation form by email on 17 September 2018, confirming 
her intention to renew cover, as well as opting to take out additional cover, including 
business interruption. Ms S didnt hear anything further and assumed the insurance had 
been placed as per her instructions.
Company T subsequently suffered an interruption of business a few months later, so Ms S 
contacted her broker to inform them of her intent to make a claim. However, she was 
unhappy to learn that Howden had not acted upon her instructions to add business 
interruption cover to her policy, meaning she had no cover in place for such an event. Ms S 
complained and said they should cover her loss of profits as she would have been covered if 
it had not been for their failure to act on her request.
Howden initially said they did not receive the renewal confirmation form back from Ms S. And 
it was only after she raised a data subject access request that they discovered she had in 
fact sent the renewal form requesting business interruption cover to be added to her policy. 
However, Howden said that even if they had received the form, it would not have resulted in 
cover being put in place, but a quote being sent back to Ms S for her to decide whether to 
proceed. As such, they said they were not responsible for covering her loss of profits and did 
not uphold her complaint. Unhappy with this, Ms S referred her complaint to this service.
After our investigator began looking into the complaint, Howden subsequently offered £200 
compensation for the error that had been made. Our investigator didnt think that Howden 
ought to be held responsible for Company T's loss of profits, as the form Ms S had 
completed was just to receive a quotation, not for the insurance to be placed. However, he 
acknowledged that Howden had made an error, but thought that the £200 compensation 
offered was fair in the circumstances. 
Ms S disagreed, so the matter has been passed to me to determine. 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive decided to uphold it, 
but I will not be directing Howden to pay anything further as I consider their offer of £200 
compensation to be fair. 
I appreciate that Company T has lost a significant amount in profits due to the business 
interruption suffered. And I understand why Ms S thinks Howden are responsible for this, as 
they did receive her request for this cover to be added to the policy But I cannot fairly hold 
Howden liable for the loss of profits or amount Company T would have received from any 
potential claim under the insurance, as the renewal confirmation form was only a request for 
a quote, and stated:  
Additional Optional Covers
Please select as required  a quotation/proposal form will be sent on receipt of your 
request as appropriate.
So it did not form part of a binding contract  it was the first of several steps in establishing 
the terms on which both parties wanted to contract. And even if Howden had actioned the 
request, there was no guarantee the insurer would have agreed to underwrite the risk 
involved for Company T, or that Ms S would have considered the quote financially viable. 
Further, there is no guarantee that the claim would have even been covered even if the 
insurance had been put in place. So I do not consider there to be any fair and reasonable 
basis in which to hold Howden liable for Company Ts loss of profits. 
However, I do consider that Howden have provided poor service by failing to process Ms S 
request for a quote, which I appreciate would have caused inconvenience to her business. 
After our involvement, Howden have since offered £200 compensation in recognition of the 
poor service they have provided, which I consider to be a fair and proportionate reflection of 
the impact their administrative error has had on Company T.
I appreciate that Ms S does not consider this to be adequate given the loss of profits 
Company T has suffered following the business interruption. But for the reasons already 
given, I cannot fairly hold Howden liable for this.
Putting things right
For the inconvenience caused by their administrative error, Howden should pay £200 
compensation to Company T within 28 days of Ms S' acceptance of this decision.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Howden UK Group Limited 
to pay £200 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S  on behalf 
of Company T  to accept or reject my decision before 29 May 2020.
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman