DRN-2858024
The complaint
Ms A complains that she received unsuitable advice from Craig Mitchell to invest in a 
property bond. She says Craig Mitchell was the advisor who signed off the investment as 
suitable for her, but she never received the promised interest and has lost the capital she 
invested. 
 
What happened
In January 2017, Ms A says she filled out an application to invest into property bonds. She 
says the application was passed to Craig Mitchell to sign off that she was suitable for the 
investment. She was expecting to get a good return on the investment over 12 months, so 
invested £30,000. 
When Ms A didnt receive the interest payments she was expecting, she contacted Craig 
Mitchell and raised a complaint. Ms A received a response from Craig Mitchell in February 
2020 informing her that it holds no information in relation to her or the investment. It also 
said it didnt provide her with any advice. 
So, Ms A referred her complaint to us and asked us to investigate. We contacted Craig 
Mitchell and asked it to provide its file, but it said that it didnt provide any advice to Ms A, so 
had nothing it could send. 
Ms A provided a copy of her application, which is signed by her. It also contains a page that 
is a signed undertaking by Craig Mitchell about the suitability of the investment for her. She 
also provided details of her circumstances at the time she took out the investment. 
One of our investigators assessed the complaint based on the information available. He 
accepted there was limited evidence from the time but found that it was likely Craig Mitchell 
provided Ms A with advice. He referred to regulatory guidance in the FCAs Handbook (in the 
Perimeter Guidance Manual (PERG)) on what constitutes advice and considered what Ms 
A said happened. He considered that the contents of Ms As application for the bonds. He 
thought Craig Mitchell was the adviser responsible for the investment and that its 
assessment of the bonds suitability influenced Ms As decision to invest.
In terms of suitability, the investigator considered the bonds unsuitable for Ms A. He said, 
given the information Ms As provided about her circumstances, a product that was a 
particularly high-risk investment and suitable for a sophisticated investor wasnt right for her. 
Craig Mitchells principal disagreed with this outcome and maintained he didnt advise Ms A 
to invest. In summary he said:
The firm was not authorised to give advice on any investment products at the time 
Ms A invested her money. 
Ms A says she was first introduced to this product by a different financial adviser, so 
it was this person who advised her to invest her money. 
He has never been introduced to Ms A, so she is mistaken in her recollections. 
He rejects the allegation that Craig Mitchell was asked to assess the suitability of the 
investment for Ms A nor did it confirm the investment was suitable. 
As no agreement could be reached, Ms As complaint has been passed to me to reach a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Ill address the issue of whether Craig Mitchell provided advice. Craig Mitchell says it 
wasnt authorised to give investment advice, never met with Ms A and doesnt hold any 
records relating to advice being given to her. The evidence available from the time is limited 
but Ms A has provided a copy of the application form that was completed.
Ive looked at the submissions from both parties to decide whether there is evidence of 
advice. The submissions from both Ms A and Craig Mitchell indicate they never met. The 
testimony from Ms A suggests that a third-party intermediary could have played an 
introducing role between them  albeit without Ms A actually meeting Craig Mitchell. When 
reviewing the application, it is apparent there are sections that have been signed and dated 
by both Ms A and Craig Mitchells principal (on the same day). Ms A says the application 
was passed to Craig Mitchell to sign off her suitability for the investment. On balance, I 
conclude that the application must have passed between Ms A and Craig Mitchell. Based on 
what Ive seen, it is reasonable to conclude that a third-party intermediary facilitated this.
Ive reviewed the section of the application which shows the authorised advisor. The 
application Ms A has provided gives her advisers details which, in a different handwriting, 
consists of Craig Mitchells principals name, the principals details (including FCA number) 
as the Authorised Adviser, and its principals signature. I acknowledge that Ms A has 
mentioned that a third party was involved in introducing her to the investment opportunity. 
While it does appear this individual was involved in the facilitation of the investment, the 
balance of evidence doesnt support that this was the authorised advisor who assessed the 
suitability of the investment, and rather this was Craig Mitchell. The section in the application 
form signed by Craig Mitchell says:
I/we can confirm that I/we have complied with the suitability rules in COBS 9 of the Financial
Conduct Authority's Handbook of Rules and Guidance and have assessed this investment
as suitable for the above named client.
Ive considered this statement, taking into account the guidance within PERG 8.28. One of 
the key aspects of this is the need to establish that a value judgement, about the merits of an 
investment, was conveyed by the adviser to an investor, which influenced the latters 
investment decision. The above declaration makes it clear that the investment had been 
assessed as suitable for Ms A (who was the above named client in the application) by Craig 
Mitchell. Ms A says she understood this to be a sign off for the suitability of the investment. 
I accept that overall, there is limited documentation around this investment sale, so it is 
difficult to be sure of the exact process. But Im aware from other cases involving the same 
investment that confirmation of independent financial advice was a pre-requisite to investing 
in the bonds, hence the need for the authorised adviser undertaking within the application 
document. So, based on what is available on this complaint  Craig Mitchell gave that 
undertaking and therefore made Ms As investment possible.I acknowledge the points made by Craig Mitchell about the lack of fact find and 
recommendation letter, and it not being authorised to advise on investments in 2017. But 
these points arent sufficient to change my conclusions. There is documentation, in the
form of its advisers undertaking, that Crag Mitchell assessed suitability of the bonds for Ms 
A considered them suitable for her. If Craig Mitchell didnt have the regulators authority to 
give investment advice, then that is a matter between it and the regulator. 
Overall, on balance and for the reasons given above, I am satisfied that Craig Mitchell 
undertook responsibility for advising Ms A that her investment in the bond was suitable for 
her. Even if I accept Craig Mitchells ascertain that it didnt assess Ms As circumstances, 
that would mean the undertaking it signed about assessing suitability was false. But if it was 
a false undertaking, then I still think it was likely to be relied upon by Ms A. Indeed, Ms As 
testimony indicates she understood that the investment had been signed off by Craig 
Mitchell. Im persuaded that Ms A attached weight to Craig Mitchells undertaking in terms of 
making his investment decision for the bond. In which case, I find Craig Mitchell responsible 
for misleading Ms A in this respect. 
I will now go on to decide whether I find the investment suitable for Ms As needs and 
circumstances at the time. 
As mentioned above, there is limited information available about the investment. But my 
understanding of the bonds is that they had a term of 12 months during which interest would 
be paid and capital returned at maturity. Ms A has confirmed her investment was for 12 
months, with an option to renew and was to be invested in residential property 
developments. This supports my understanding that the bonds would be used to raise 
capital which it then issued as loans to third-party firms for the business of property 
acquisition, development and sale. Then the proceeds of the property sales were to be used 
to service the loans, which then provided funds for capital to be returned to investors at 
maturity. Investments in property carry inherent risks  including the difficulty determining a 
reliable value of the underlying assets and in terms of liquidity of the underlying assets. So, 
there does seem to be a number of layers of risk involved where things could go wrong.  
Ive looked at the information available about Ms As circumstances at the time to decide 
whether the investment was suitable. Ms A says she used her savings to invest with an aim 
to allow her to retire early and spend more time with her husband. She says she had little in 
the way of investment experience and most of her money was in bank savings accounts. 
She says her attitude to risk at the time was low to medium as this was the only extra cash 
she had available but was still in secure employment. She says she was not aware that this 
was a high-risk product as she had no previous experience with this type of investment.
 
Ive not seen evidence that Ms A was a high-risk investor with investment experience that
made it possible for her to understand the risks involved in the bonds  and to understand
that they were different from mainstream investments. She has described herself as a low to 
medium risk investor, which was mismatched by the high-risk nature of the bonds. The 
money she invested was for her retirement and doesnt appear to be something she could 
easily replace. From what Ive seen, Ms A didnt have much in the way of capacity for loss. 
The idea of placing the majority of her savings in a high-risk unregulated investment doesnt 
fit her apparent capacity for loss. Overall, on balance and for the reasons given above, I 
dont think the bonds were suitable for Ms A.Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Ms A 
as close to the position she would probably now be in if she had not been given unsuitable 
advice.
I take the view that Ms A would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely 
what she would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair 
and reasonable given Ms A's circumstances and objectives when she invested.
What must Craig Mitchell do?
To compensate Ms A fairly, Craig Mitchell must:
Compare the performance of Ms A's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investments. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Craig Mitchell should also pay interest as set out below.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interest
Property Bond Still exists but 
illiquidFor half the 
investment: FTSE 
UK Private 
Investors Income 
Total Return 
Index; for the 
other half: 
average rate from 
fixed rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if not 
settled within 28 
days of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
If at the end date any asset is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open 
market), it may be difficult to work out what the actual value is. In such a case the actual 
value should be assumed to be zero. This is provided Ms A agrees to Craig Mitchell taking 
ownership of the illiquid assets, if it wishes to. If it is not possible to take ownership, then it 
may request an undertaking from Ms A that she repays to Craig Mitchell any amount she 
may receive from the bonds in future.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Craig Mitchell 
should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. 
Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
Ms As precise objectives in 2017 are not clear but based on the limited information 
available Im satisfied she wanted capital growth with a small risk to her capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices 
representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a 
higher return.
I consider that Ms A's risk profile was in between, in the sense that she was prepared 
to take a small level of risk to attain her investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Ms A into that position. It does not mean that Ms 
A would have invested 50% of her money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some 
kind of index tracker fund. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that 
broadly reflects the sort of return Ms A could have obtained from investments suited 
to her objective and risk attitude.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Craig Mitchell should pay the amount calculated 
as set out above.
Craig Mitchell should provide details of its calculation to Ms A in a clear, simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2022.
 
Daniel Little
Ombudsman