DRN-2062190
The complaint
Mr T has complained about the service provided by his insurance broker, Peacock Insurance 
Services Limited, when he took out a caravan insurance policy. 
The underwriter of this policy has voided the insurance due to the information it received at 
the time not being accurate. Mr T considers he provided Peacock with accurate information 
and they confirmed that insurance would be granted based on that information. 
What happened
In February 2019, Mr T took out a new insurance policy for his caravan. He initially searched 
for available policies via an online aggregator site and then began discussions over the 
phone with Peacock. 
As part of the online process, Mr T was asked some basic questions about the caravan and 
where he stored when it was not being used. But these would not have confirmed the details 
of the security of that storage location. 
Mr T actually stored his caravan on a 3rd partys farm, which was used partly as a caravan 
storage site. Around a dozen caravans were stored on the site, though it is not clear whether 
this was a formal business. Certainly, the site was not originally designed for the storage of 
caravans and doesnt appear to have been greatly modified for this purpose. 
The perimeter of the storage area largely consisted of hedging, with farm gates at points of 
access. The gate to the rear of the storage area was apparently kept locked. It seems there 
was a gate to the front of the storage area, but I will return to the discussion of this gate. The 
front of the storage area was accessed by a long private road, which passed the site owners 
accommodation. 
After receiving quotes from the online aggregator, Mr T had several phone conversations 
with Peacock. Recordings of these have been provided to this service, as have recordings of 
Peacocks conversations with the underwriters agent, PF. This decision will focus on the 
discussions around the security of the storage site that took place in these calls. 
In the first call between Mr T and Peacock, Mr T was asked a number of questions. These 
effectively formed the basis of the statement of fact later produced. However, when asked 
whether the site has any gates or barriers, he confirmed that the site has gates, but that 
these are just farm gates. Significantly, he was not asked whether these are kept locked. 
In a call the following day, the storage site was discussed again. Mr T made it clear that he 
wanted to ensure that the arrangements for the site would not invalidate the insurance. 
Peacock asked whether, when the owner of the site is off-site, the gates would be locked 
and Mr T replied:
Id like to think so.
Peacock then asked:
When you access the site normally, can you just drive on?
To which he replied:
Yes. So, Id say it isnt locked generally.
Peacocks call handler then spoke to PF and gave the following description of the storage 
site:
there is a locked gate there, palisade/full perimeter fencing. Also, the lady lives on 
site full time. When someone wants to collect, they have to ring in advance and let 
her know.
Later in this call, PF said:
if theyve got a gate there, that is never locked, and theyve got no proof/evidence to 
say its ever locked or even the facility to do so
And Peacocks call handler responded:
Ive said to him, if its never locked then we wouldnt say there is a locked gate there. 
And hes saying, to his knowledge, it is locked.
Based on the description provided by Peacocks call handler, PF indicated that there would 
not be a problem providing cover.
Peacock then set out to Mr T what the underwriters agent had said:
What theyve advised is you know, the gates there, assuming obviously if no-ones 
on site that the gate is going to be locked
Theyve said the locked gate issue there is not always that guaranteed chance that 
the gate is going to be open or locked what hes advised, its quite a tricky one, but 
generally, its the same for any other locked gate  unless youve got some form of 
key fob entry it is just one of those things 
What he has advised  what [the site owners] likely to have done is have some 
form of liability insurance for herself. And if shes got liability insurance and if its due 
to her error, so if the gate wasnt locked if she went off-site as an example it would 
go on her insurance
youre going to run this risk with everything theyve had a look at it, said it all 
sounds very secure
Theyve had a quick look, it looks pretty much on its own. Its not in a built up 
arealooking at it, youve got to go down a bit of a lane to even access the site 
and with it still having a gate of any kind  theyve said there is a gate there, youre always going to be running that risk that the gate is not going to be locked all the 
time They have said the site looks fully secure 
In terms of your own control, theyve said theyre quite happy. Normally, I think if the 
site didnt have anything there, in terms of nothing round the perimeter, then theyd 
decline it. But theyve said its still a secure site technically by their standards.
On this basis, Mr T took out the policy. He was then sent policy documents, including a 
statement of fact. The statement of fact included the question:
Does the site have locked gates?
And records the answer to this question as being:
Yes
The statement of fact also included the following declaration:
You have confirmed that you have answered the questions to the best of your 
knowledge and belief. It is very important that you check that it is complete and 
accurate. If it isnt, please call your insurance advisor immediately. 
Mr T was also sent a schedule for the policy, which included the following endorsement 
Unless otherwise agreed with Us, it is a condition of this policy that the Caravan Storage 
Compound/Site where the Caravan is stored:
-Has locked gates/swipe card entry/barrier access to all entry/exit points
No further relevant contact was made until, in May 2019, Mr Ts caravan was stolen and a 
claim was submitted to the underwriter. 
Upon inspection of the site, the underwriters loss adjuster confirmed that the theft involved 
the lock on the gate to the rear of the site being cut. The loss adjuster noted that, whilst the 
theft apparently did not involve access through the front of the site:
there is no permanently locked gate or barrier access at the road entrance to this 
site.
The loss adjusters recommendation was for settlement of the claim by replacement of the 
caravan and accessories. However, upon reviewing the claim, the underwriter considered 
that it would not have offered cover without there being locked gates or controlled access. 
They considered that the circumstances of the site had been misrepresented. And, as such, 
the policy was voided from the point of inception. Mr T was provided with a refund of the 
premium for the policy, but as he did not have cover, as a result of the policy being voided, 
the claim was not met.
Mr T complained about the voidance to both the underwriter and to Peacock. Peacock 
responded saying that the inception of the policy was on a limited verbal disclosure basis 
over the phone and that full disclosure had followed via email. They referred to the fact that 
the documents Mr T was sent directed him to read the paperwork carefully and to contact 
Peacock, or the underwriter, if any of the information was incorrect. Peacock then referred to 
the question and answer listed in the statement of fact, as above. And said that Mr T had not 
corrected this. Peacock stated:
Had we been made aware at inception of your policy that the site did not have 
locked gates, [PF] would not have provided a quotation for your risk.
Peacock then added that Mr T had held:
a lengthy conversation with ourselves, where you confirm the site does have 
locked gates, however you cannot guarantee these will be locked 24/7.
As Peacock did not uphold his complaint, Mr T referred it to this service. Peacock provided 
us with some of the call recordings it had with Mr T, but not others and none of the calls 
between Peacock and PF. Our investigator thought that during the call with Peacock that 
she had listened to, Mr T had spoken as though the gates were lockable. And that, as he 
had not contacted Peacock to correct the information set out in the policy documents, the 
investigator did not consider Peacock had acted inappropriately. 
Mr T did not agree with this outcome, so his complaint was passed to me for a decision. I 
asked Peacock for some additional information, including the other call recordings. 
Having listened to all the call recordings, I came to a different conclusion than our 
investigator and I explained this to Peacock. I set out that Peacocks key responsibilities in 
arranging this insurance policy were to provide accurate information to both Mr T and PF/the 
underwriter, based on the information each of them had provided.
Having set out the details of the calls above, I explained that I considered Peacock had not 
provided PF with an accurate description of the site based on Mr Ts comments. I felt that 
Peacock had stressed the fact that the gate to the site was locked, repeating this a number 
of times. And that Peacock had said customers needed to contact the owner of the site for 
access. 
I pointed out that, in the initial call, Mr T was not asked if the site had locked gates  a 
question that specifically occurs on the statement of fact. He was instead asked only 
whether the site has gates. And in later calls, after Mr T himself had queried whether they 
needed to be kept locked, Mr T was asked only about whether the gates were locked when 
the owner was off-site. There was no discussion about whether the gates needed to be 
permanently locked. And he clearly stated that the gates were usually unlocked, merely 
expressing a hope that they were locked when the owner left the site. 
I explained that I considered the description of the site Peacock gave to PF was contrary to 
Mr Ts own description. 
I also explained that I considered Peacock was aware of Mr Ts uncertainty as to whether 
the gate was locked when the owner was off-site, but that Peacock had failed to either ask 
Mr T to obtain confirmation of this point or to set out that the underwriter would consider that 
a gate that is never locked to be insufficient. 
I did acknowledge that Mr T himself may have taken more care in relation to this aspect, but 
I felt that he had been as clear as he could have been and that Peacock had a responsibility 
in the circumstances to explore this issue further. 
I further set out that Peacock informed Mr T that PF had looked at the site and confirmed it 
as being suitable. But that I was unaware of this having happened. I set out that:
Taken as a whole, [Mr T] has sought to be as clear as he could be. He said that 
there is a farm gate, but that he can access the site without needing to unlock this. 
He also said that he would hope the gate is locked when the site owner is off-site, but 
there is no further confirmation of this.
Whereas Peacocks call handler advised the underwriter that there was a locked gate 
and that the site owner needed to be informed prior to access. She also told [Mr T] 
that the underwriter was happy with the site and its security.
I did note that the policy documents advised that if any of the facts are incorrect, the 
customer should contact the insurer or broker. However, rather than considering a document 
sent to him after the point of sale, I thought it was reasonable for Mr T to have relied on the 
information he provided the call handler to have been accurately recorded.
I explained that had Peacock provided PF with an accurate representation of Mr Ts 
description of the site, PF would either have not provided cover or would have asked Mr T to 
confirm in detail the locking arrangements for the gate  and would then likely have not 
provided cover once full information was provided. 
Mr T would then have been in a position to either find an insurer that would provide him with 
cover or to relocate his caravan to a different storage facility. So, I considered Peacocks 
actions had left Mr T uninsured and thus unable to claim for his stolen caravan.
I explained that I considered it would be fair for Peacock to assess Mr Ts claim on the basis 
of the terms of the policy he had been provided, as if it had not been voided. And, assuming 
the claim would be met, Peacock should pay Mr T the value of his claim less the appropriate 
interest, along with the cost of the policy that Mr T had already been refunded. I also set out 
that Peacock should add interest at a rate of 8% simple per annum onto the settlement 
amount, from the date the claim was effectively declined, 3 June 2019, to the date of 
settlement. 
I also thought that Mr T had been caused significant trouble and upset as a result of the 
issues with his insurance. As well as the distress caused to him at the time, Mr T has had to 
declare the voiding of his policy to his other insurers. As such, I considered Peacock should 
compensate him £300 to reflect this.
Peacock responded and did not agree with my assessment. In part, they said that the loss 
adjusters report had said there were no gates present at the entry point. So, Mr T had 
misrepresented this in itself. 
However, Mr T had provided photos of his own of the point of entry to the caravan storage 
area of the site. I provided these to Peacock, explaining that I considered they showed a 
farm gate at this location. And that I remained of the view that Mr T had provided accurate 
information to Peacock. Whereas Peacock had led PF to understand that the site did have a 
locked gate, when Mr T had been clear that this was just a farm gate that wasn't locked 
generally. 
As such I did not alter my provisional conclusions. 
Peacock remained in disagreement. And said that the underwriter still would have declined 
to offer the policy to Mr T had it been provided with his own description of the site. And as 
such, Mr Ts claim would not have been met as the policy would have been voided.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have not been provided with any further evidence that persuades me to alter my provisional 
findings above. 
Essentially, although the statement of fact - and the underwriters own criteria  required 
there to be a locked gate at all access points, Peacock had not asked Mr T whether this site 
had such facilities. Peacock only asked whether the site had gates. I consider that the 
images Mr T has provided clearly show farm gates at the entry point to the storage area of 
the site. And this is the information Mr T gave Peacock. 
The discussion between Mr T and Peacock of whether these gates were locked centred 
solely on whether the gates were locked when the site owner was off-site. And although 
Mr T had said the gates were not generally locked and that he could just drive onto the site, 
Peacock advised PF that the site had locked gates and advance notice was needed to 
access the site. 
I have taken into account the content of the policy documents, that these required Mr T to 
read the details contained in them and contact Peacock/the underwriter if these were not 
correct. However, I do not consider any failure of Mr T to comply with an obligation placed on 
him after the point of sale to be determinative in this case. I consider Mr T was entitled to 
believe that Peacock would have asked the correct questions at the point of sale and then 
passed on the information he had provided accurately. Peacock did not ask if the site had 
locked gates. And provided PF with a different description of the site than Mr T had given. 
Peacock has said that the underwriter would not have provided the policy had Mr Ts own 
description of the site been provided. I agree. I consider that, had Peacock provided PF with 
the same information that Mr T provided, the insurance policy would not have been provided. 
Had this been the case, Mr T would have been aware at that point that he was uninsured. I 
think it is most likely that he would then have made different arrangements, to ensure that he 
was insured. And I consider that Peacocks failure to pass on accurate information meant 
Mr T was not able to make these different arrangements. 
Ultimately, I consider that Peacocks failure to provide the underwriter with accurate 
information has led to Mr T being unable to claim for his stolen caravan. Putting things right
I consider it just and appropriate that Peacock Insurance Services Limited assess Mr Ts 
claim based on the terms of the policy that had been provided. Peacock should make this 
assessment as though it were the underwriter of this policy and the policy had not been 
voided.
If, had the policy not been voided, the underwriter would have met Mr Ts claim, then 
Peacock should pay Mr T the value of this claim. 
Peacock is entitled to deduct from any claim settlement, the relevant policy excesses, along 
with the amount Mr T has been refunded for the policy premium. But Peacock should then 
add interest to the settlement, at a rate of 8% simple per annum, from the 3 June 2019 to the 
date of settlement. Peacock may be required by HMRC to take off tax from this interest. But, 
if it does so, it should provide Mr T with a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off, if 
Mr T asks for this. 
Peacock should also pay Mr T £300, to recognise the distress and inconvenience caused to 
him, as a result of his policy being voided.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Peacock Insurance Services Limited should 
put things right in the manner described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 September 2020.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman