DRN-3230172
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B were tricked into sending money to an account held with Lloyds. They 
complain that Lloyds allowed that account to be opened and used fraudulently.  
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so I wont repeat it in full 
here.
In March 2020 Mr B was looking for investment opportunities online, he registered his 
interest through a website and was contacted by telephone. Mr B thought he was dealing 
with a regulated brokerage firm which Ill refer to as T. Mr B says the correspondence he 
received was on letterheaded paper and the literature appeared genuine. Before investing 
he carried out extensive verification checks, which included contacting the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) to confirm Ts legitimacy. But unbeknownst to him at the time T was being 
impersonated by scammers. 
Mr B made three payments totalling £40,000 from his joint account with Mrs B to the account 
details hed been given. The beneficiary account was held with Lloyds. When Mr and Mrs B 
realised theyd fallen victim to a scam they reported this to their own bank  B and 
complained to Lloyds that it had allowed scammers to open and operate an account. They 
asked that it refund their loss and provide an explanation of what checks were completed at 
account opening. They also shared with Lloyds details of two other accounts which they 
believe are being operated fraudulently. 
Lloyds didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. It said it couldnt share with them internal 
information about the checks it carries out at account opening nor could it disclose any 
information about third-party accounts. 
Ultimately Mr and Mrs B received a full refund of their loss from B. But they remained 
unhappy with Lloyds response. They referred their complaint to our service. Our Investigator 
thought there were limits as to how much of Mr and Mrs Bs complaint we could consider. 
And for what we can consider, he didnt think the complaint should be upheld.  
Mr and Mrs B did not accept the Investigators outcome. They appreciate that theyve 
received their money back from B but say this wasnt until a couple of months after reporting 
the fraud. They think Lloyds should compensate them for the physical and mental anguish 
theyve suffered over that period as it allowed fake accounts to be opened. They would like 
justice and want Lloyds to disclose the beneficiary accountholder details, so that the 
criminals can be stopped, caught, and prosecuted. They asked for the matter to be reviewed 
again, so the complaint was passed to me.
I spoke to Mr B as the points hed made in response to the Investigators outcome about 
Lloyds failing to share/disclose beneficiary accountholder details was a new issue. I shared 
with him my thoughts but informed him that I could only consider this as part of my decision 
if Lloyds agreed (which it subsequently did). I also shared my view on the other aspects of 
Mr and Mrs Bs complaint I did have the power to consider. I wrote to Mr B summarising our 
discussion and asked if he could confirm whether he accepts what the Investigator and I 
have explained about our powers and being limited to only considering acts or omissions 
which took place on or after 31 January 2019. 
Mr B didnt respond. So on 7 July 2022, I issued a jurisdiction decision in which I explained 
the limits on which parts of Mr and Mrs Bs complaint I can consider and why. In summary I 
said the relationship under which Mr and Mrs B are considered eligible complainants only 
permits our service to investigate and make a determination in relation to acts or omissions 
that took place on or after 31 January 2019, and only in relation to the account Mr and Mrs B 
transferred funds to (not the other accounts they suspect and reported to Lloyds as 
fraudulent). Specifically, this meant I couldnt consider Mr and Mrs Bs complaint about 
Lloyds actions when opening the beneficiary account that received their funds, as the 
opening of the account took place prior to that date. Nor could I comment on any activity on 
that account that might potentially have warranted intervention by Lloyds, but that took place 
before 31 January 2019. Now that the jurisdiction matter has been decided, Ill share below 
what I think about the aspects of Mr and Mrs Bs complaint I do have the power to 
investigate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs B, but Im not upholding this complaint. I 
appreciate theyll be disappointed with this outcome, but Ill explain why. 
Firstly, Im sorry to hear about what Mr and Mrs B have been through. I dont doubt the 
significant impact being victims in this way has had on them. But Im pleased to learn that 
theyve received a full refund of their financial loss from their own bank  B. So my 
consideration here is limited to only deciding if any compensatory award is due. 
I understand that Mr and Mrs B were without their funds for a couple of months (between 
reporting the scam and B providing a refund) and this was an extremely difficult time for 
them. The sums involved were significant and I have no doubt the uncertainty of not knowing 
whether they were going to retrieve any of this money during this time caused them a lot of 
worry and stress. Mr B has also shared that the impact of the scam has been far reaching
and a consequence of this has been a deterioration in his physical health. Mr and Mrs B are 
seeking compensation from Lloyds for the stress the whole situation has caused them. But I 
should explain that I can only ask Lloyds to compensate Mr and Mrs B for their trouble and 
upset if its actions have been the cause of it. It wouldnt be fair of me to ask Lloyds to pay 
compensation for trouble and upset that resulted from a failure by another organisation or 
the criminal actions of a third party. Ive already spoken to Mr B about our services role and explained our remit, so I wont go 
into as much detail here. But in short, I explained that the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
is the regulator. It is responsible for regulating the conduct of financial businesses and 
setting the rules they must follow. It is the FCAs role to punish or fine businesses  not ours. 
Our role in the financial ecosystem is to investigate complaints about specific issues for 
individual customers and see if anything needs to be put right. I also explained the 
allegations against branch staff were of a criminal nature and should be pursued (if 
Mr and Mrs B choose to) through the judicial system. Our service has no remit to investigate 
criminal matters against individuals. 
I also explained that simply because an account was later found to have been utilised 
fraudulently doesnt automatically entitle any victims who were tricked into sending funds to 
that account to a compensatory award from the recipient bank. As Ive already detailed 
above, I can only ask Lloyds to compensate Mr and Mrs B for their trouble and upset if I can 
reasonably say its acts or omissions have been the cause of it. 
So Ive reviewed the operation of the account for the period of time that falls within my 
jurisdiction and Im satisfied there wasnt anything I reasonably wouldve expected Lloyds to 
have acted upon that wouldve resulted in Mr and Mrs Bs money not being spent and 
therefore available for recovery.  
Ive also considered whether Lloyds could have reasonably done more to recover 
Mr and Mrs Bs money when it was notified fraudulently obtained funds had been paid to one 
of its customers accounts. I note Mr and Mrs B called Lloyds directly to report the fraud. 
They were told to contact their own bank (from where the funds were sent). This is what 
wed commonly expect a beneficiary bank to do  so I cant say Lloyds has acted 
unreasonably when directing Mr and Mrs B to their own bank. 
Here, Im satisfied upon receipt of notification from B, Lloyds took appropriate action and 
correctly advised that no funds remained that could be returned. And even if Mr and Mrs B 
were to argue that Lloyds should have taken action when they reported the matter. It doesnt 
make a difference to what Lloyds couldve recovered as the money theyd paid into the 
beneficiary account had already been spent by this point. So it isnt even the case that 
Lloyds not taking action until it received notification from B resulted in a loss that otherwise 
wouldve been prevented.
Taking all the above into consideration, I cant fairly ask Lloyds to compensate Mr and Mrs B 
for the stress and worry of being without their funds as I dont think it couldve reasonably 
prevented the spending of those funds or done more to assist in the recovery once notified. 
Mr and Mrs B are also unhappy that Lloyds will not share with them the beneficiary 
accountholders details. Mr B says the Police told him that they could not investigate the 
matter without these being providedsomething which I found rather surprising. As quite 
often victims of crime do not know who the perpetrator is  and in such circumstances it 
would commonly be for law enforcement (not the victims) to investigate and identify a 
suspect. But knowing how much Mr and Mrs B want the criminals to be caught and punished 
I can see why Lloyds refusal to share this information would be disappointing for them. 
However, Lloyds is required to comply with the Data Protection Act 2018 (the DPA). And if it 
does not have a lawful basis for holding and processing personal data (which includes 
disclosing that information to a third party) it will be in breach of the DPA. So overall, in these 
circumstances, I cant say that Lloyds has acted unreasonably when it said that it was limited 
in the information it could share with Mr and Mrs B about the third-party account. But Im 
confident if Lloyds were approached by the Police, it would co-operate with their 
investigation and assist in any way it can  which is what Id expect it to do. I understand Mr and Mrs B are extremely frustrated that the Police are not assisting them or 
doing anything to catch the perpetrators, and that they are equally disappointed that Lloyds 
have not reported their accountholder. But Lloyds are not required to report such matters to 
the Police  it would be for Mr and Mrs B as the victims of the crime to report the incident to 
the appropriate authorities. And I cant comment on the reasons for why the Police have 
decided not to take matters further. 
Its clear to me that this whole experience has been extremely difficult for Mr and Mrs B and 
Im truly sorry to hear of the impact the scam has had on them. But I think this was ultimately 
caused by the scammer here, and not Lloyds. So it follows that I cant reasonably ask Lloyds 
to pay compensation to Mr and Mrs B in circumstances where I dont think it did anything 
wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 August 2022.
 
Sonal Matharu
Ombudsman