DRN-2802700
The complaint
Mrs C says Mutual Clothing and Supply Company Limited (Mutual) lent to her 
irresponsibly.
What happened
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mrs Cs complaint. Mutual disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion and the complaint was then passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision explaining the reasons why I was not upholding Mrs Cs 
complaint. A copy of the background to the complaint and my provisional findings follow this 
and form part of this final decision. Both parties were asked to respond to the provisional 
decision by 7 May 2021. 
What I said in my provisional decision:
This complaint is about four home collected loans Mutual provided to Mrs C between August
2011 and November 2014. Below is table of the lending based on the information provided
to us from Mutual.
loan 
numberloan amount received dateactual 
repayment dateterm (weeks)
1 £300.00 20/08/2011 04/04/2012 51
2 £600.00 26/06/2013 23/07/2014 51
3 £1,000.00 02/08/2014 02/10/2019 102
4 £500.00 22/11/2014 18/12/2019 102
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. She didnt have enough information to say
that loans 1 and 2 were within the jurisdiction of this service. So, she didnt look at this
lending any further. She also didnt uphold the complaint about loan 3, although she thought
further checks needed to be carried out.
The adjudicator upheld loan 4 because she though Mutual ought to have known, by the
pattern of Mrs Cs lending that the loan was now unsustainable for her.
Mrs C appears to have accepted the adjudicators outcome.
Mutual didnt agree, and in response it provided us a lengthy report with annexes. I want to
make it clear, that I have read, in full the response weve received from Mutual but as Im
intending to not uphold the complaint, I havent commented on the specifics of it any further.
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman,
for a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending  including all
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice  on our website.
Mrs C didnt disagree with our adjudicators opinion not to look at loans 1 and 2. Because of
this I dont think there is any ongoing disagreement about these loans. So, Im not going to
consider these loans in any further detail. But what I would say, is that Mrs C did take these
loans, so I will be thinking about these loans when reviewing Mrs Cs overall lending
relationship with Mutual. Instead this decision will focus solely on loans 3 and 4.
Broadly speaking Mutual needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend
irresponsibly. In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to
make sure Mrs C could repay her loans.
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was
being lent, the repayment amounts, and the consumers income and expenditure. With this
in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be
reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might suggest Mutual should have done more to establish that any
lending was sustainable for Mrs C. These factors include:
Mrs C having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mrs C having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period
of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing
had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mrs C coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mrs C. The loan payments being
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be an indication a consumer could
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case.
When loan three was lent, Mutual was regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority, who
had set out in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) that payments are sustainable if
they are made without undue difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other
reasonable commitments and without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or
ought reasonably to have realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments
without borrowing further, then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are
unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mrs Cs complaint.
Applying this to the circumstances of this particular complaint, Im intending to reach a
different outcome to adjudicator. Ive provisionally decided not to uphold Mrs C complaintand Ive explained why below.
As Ive said above, I wont be looking at loans 1 and 2, and instead Ill focus on loans 3 and
4.
Loan 3
This was Mrs Cs second loan in this chain of lending, and it was taken out a couple of
weeks after loan two had been repaid. But, this was Mrs Cs largest loan to date, to be
repaid over the longest term to date - almost two years. For this loan Mrs C was committed
to paying just over £15 per week.
Before approving the loan, Mutual took details of Mrs Cs income and expenditure. At the
time the loan was approved Mrs C declared her income was £300 per week with declared
outgoings of £106 per week. Mutual was aware, based on what Mrs C declared, she had
enough disposable income to afford the repayments she was committed to making.
Like the adjudicator, I agree that by this loan Mutual needed to do more. Mrs C had already
been indebted for around a year in this chain of lending, and although her repayments were
similar to her second loan, I think the fact Mrs C was committed to being indebted for a
further two years ought to have prompted Mutual to have verified the information Mrs C was
declaring about her expenditure.
There are a number of ways Mutual couldve done this, for example it couldve asked for
evidence of her income and / or copies of bills. Or, it couldve asked to see copies of her
bank statements. In my view, as Mutual didnt do this, it didnt carry our proportionate
checks.
But, Mrs C hasnt been able to provide any evidence about what her financial position was at
the time. I cant say that had Mutual carried out better checks it wouldve likely found that out
that Mrs C couldnt afford the repayments she was committed to making.
Loan 4
When loan 4 was approved, loan 3 was still outstanding, so although the amount borrowed
was smaller than her previous loan (£600) Mrs C was actually committed to paying Mutual
more, around £22 per week. And like loan 3, this loan was due to run for around two years.
Our adjudicator upheld this complaint because in their view, Mrs C was reliant on this
lending as shed been indebted for around 16 months (in this chain). But I dont agree, and
Ive explained why below.
Mrs C had been indebted to Mutual for 16 months but in that time she had only taken three
loans. Equally, the repayments, based on what Mutual saw appeared affordable, Mrs C was
committing a small amount of her declared income each week to Mutual. There is also, in my
view, no evidence to suggest that Mrs Cs indebtedness was increasing unreasonably or
seemed harmful in any other way. So, I cant conclude that at this point there was evidence
of reliance on this sort of lending.
I acknowledge that this was the first time Mrs C had an overlapping loan, but I dont think
that on its own is sufficient for me to be able to conclude that this loan, just based on the
pattern of lending was harmful for Mrs C.
For this loan, like loan 3, I think Mutual needed to carry out more in-depth checks for broadly
the same reasons, given the term and commitment Mrs C was expected to make. But as Idont have any information about Mrs Cs finances at the time, I cant say that Mutual was
wrong to have provided this loan.
So, overall, having considered everything Ive been provided with Im intending not to uphold
Mrs Cs complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Mrs C nor Mutual fully responded to the provisional decision so no new information 
was provided. But Mrs Cs representative did acknowledge receipt of the provisional 
decision. 
As neither party has provided me any new comments or evidence for me to consider, I see 
no reason to depart from the findings I made in the provisional decision. So, for the reasons I 
outlined in my provisional decisions I still dont think Mutual was wrong to have provided 
loans 3 and 4 (the loans I considered) to Mrs C. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in my provisional decision, Im not upholding Mrs 
Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman