DRN-4373823
The complaint
Miss E complains that Brent Shrine Credit Union Limited trading as My Community Bank 
was irresponsible in its lending to her.
What happened
Miss E was provided with a £15,000 loan in August 2022. She says that at the time she was 
suffering with anxiety and depression and was gambling, and her spending was out of 
control. She says she was applying for one loan to pay off another and that every time she 
applied for a loan, she received the money. She says she had taken out several loans in the 
months leading up to the My Community Bank loan and that adequate checks werent 
carried out before the loan was provided.
My Community Bank issued a final response letter dated 30 June 2023. It said that as part of 
its application process it carried out an affordability assessment and a credit check. It said 
there were no insolvency records or delinquent accounts recorded and no recent payday 
loans. It said it verified Miss Es declared annual income of £28,000 with a credit reference 
agency and used third party data to estimate her expenses. It said that based on its checks 
the loan repayments were affordable.  
Our investigator noted the size of the loan provided to Miss E and thought that further 
checks should have been carried out to ensure it was sustainably affordable for Miss E over 
the loan term. He found that had proportionate checks been carried out the loan would have 
appeared affordable. Therefore, he didnt uphold this complaint. 
Miss E didnt accept our investigators view. She said that her mental state hadnt been 
taken into account and that part of her condition is that her spending gets out of control. She 
noted that our investigator said that further checks should have taken place and so she 
thought her complaint should be upheld. She also said that certain payments received were 
for her son and shouldnt be considered as part of her income. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general approach to complaints about unaffordable or irresponsible lending  including 
the key rules, guidance and good industry practice is set out on our website.
The rules dont set out any specific checks which must be completed to assess 
creditworthiness. But while it is down to the firm to decide what specific checks it wishes to 
carry out, these should be reasonable and proportionate to the type and amount of credit 
being provided, the length of the term, the frequency and amount of the repayments, and the 
total cost of the credit.
Miss E was provided with a £15,000 loan repayable over 59 monthly instalments of around 
£346 followed by a final repayment to clear all the outstanding obligations. The total amount 
repayable was around £21,012. This is a substantial loan and I think that My Community 
Bank needed to get a clear understanding of Miss Es financial situation before providing the 
loan to ensure it was sustainably affordable over the loan term.
I have looked at the credit report results provided by My Community Bank and having done 
so I do not find that the results raised concerns that Miss E was struggling to manage her 
commitments. The results do show that Miss E had taken on other credit commitments in the 
preceding three months, but I do not find this meant the lending shouldnt have been 
provided. Instead, I find it reasonable that a clear understanding of her income and 
expenses was gathered.
Miss E has said that as we have found further checks should have happened her complaint 
should be upheld. However, our role is to establish whether the checks undertaken were 
proportionate and then, if needed, to assess what My Community Bank would have identified 
had proportionate checks taken place. It is in cases where it is identified that proportionate 
checks would have shown that the lending shouldnt have been provided that we would 
uphold the complaint.
Therefore, I have looked through the information to establish what I think proportionate 
checks would have shown. My Community Bank carried out an income verification with a 
credit reference agency, but I agree it would have been reasonable to carry out further 
checks to ensure it had an accurate income figure. While I do not find that My Community 
Bank was necessarily required to ask for copies of Miss Es bank statements as these have 
been provided I have used this information to provide an indication of what would likely have 
been identified had proportionate checks taken place.
Miss Es bank statements for the months leading up to the loan show several regular 
payments into her account. These include payments from the employer recorded in her 
application as well as benefit payments and payments from other sources. It is reasonable 
when assessing affordability of a loan to take into account certain benefit payments and 
other regular sources of income. I note Miss Es comment about some of the payments 
being for the benefit of her son. However, taking this into account, I find that had further 
questions been asked, these wouldnt have raised concerns about the income declared as 
part of her application and would have suggested a higher level of income. 
I have also looked through Miss Es bank statements to understand what would likely have 
been identified had questions been asked about her expenditure. While I note Miss Es 
comment about her gambling, I can say for certain that she would have declared this at the 
time. I have considered what she would likely have declared if asked about her regular 
outgoings and having done so I do not find that these would have suggested the lending was 
unaffordable. 
I am sorry to hear of Miss Es health conditions and I do not underestimate the challenges 
she has and continues to face. But as I do not find that I can say that proportionate checks 
would have resulted in this loan being identified as unaffordable for Miss E, I do not fin dI 
can uphold this complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 Jane Archer
Ombudsman