DRN-3490629
The complaint
Mr R complains that True Potential Wealth Management LLP (TPWM) has declined to 
provide him advice about a pension transfer.
What happened
Mr R was reviewing his retirement arrangements with an adviser from another business. He 
has a defined benefit pension from a period of employment between 1990 and 1995. He 
says he wanted to transfer this to a more flexible arrangement. Due to the value of the 
pension he was required to take regulated financial advice before he could do this.
The adviser, and indeed the business, Mr R was discussing his retirement provisions with 
was not authorised to provide the advice he required. So, it introduced him to TPWM in 
March 2020 as it was authorised to provide the required advice.
The business Mr R had been in discussion with compiled information and sent this to TPWM 
for it to consider the request. TPWM also requested information about Mr Rs defined benefit 
pension from the fund itself.
In April 2020, TPWM informed the business advising and acting for Mr R that, after gathering 
information for an initial review, it was declining to take the case on and would not be 
providing advice. TPWM said this did not infer a recommendation to remain with the existing 
scheme  it was simply choosing not to provide advice.
Mr R complained to TPWM. He said he was not necessarily concerned that it would not 
agree the transfer was suitable  although he felt it was and said he intended to proceed 
with the transfer as it was his choice and he didnt think the guaranteed benefits from his 
existing pension were worthwhile. But Mr R wanted TPWM to confirm that he had sought 
advice from it  which he said was all he needed in order to proceed.
TPWM said it didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said it was entitled to decline to 
provide advice. And it said, where it cant support a transfer application and declines to 
provide advice, it wouldnt usually give a detailed reason for this  as that could be 
interpreted as it providing advice when it wasnt doing so.
Unhappy with this response Mr R asked our service to consider his complaint. He added that 
in TPWMs response it had talked about not being able to advise on transferring to a 
particular fund. But he said he had no intention of transferring to that fund.
TPWM clarified to our service that it was restricted to providing advice to transfer to that fund 
 which is why it had made reference to this. It also said Mr Rs advisers ought to have been 
aware of this. It also said that it felt Mr R was mistaken that he only had to seek advice  and 
that he in fact needed confirmation he had received advice. And as TPWM did not agree to 
provide advice, this was why it was unwilling to complete the form Mr R had requested.
I issued a provisional decision earlier this month explaining that I didnt intend to uphold 
Mr Rs complaint. Below are extracts from my provisional findings, explaining why I thought 
this.
The business originally advising Mr R, referred his request for advice to TPWM. This was 
because TPWM is authorised to provide advice on the transfer of pension benefits. But just 
because this is a service that TPWM offers, it was not obliged to provide Mr R with advice or 
explain in detail why it declined to act. TPWM is free to decide whether to offer a service or 
decline to do so  in much the same way Mr R is free to decide which businesses he deals 
with.
TPWM says, after an initial assessment of Mr Rs circumstances, it decided it did not want to 
provide advice. This was a decision that TPWM was entitled to make. And Im conscious no 
fee was paid to TPWM for it to provide a service.
I can see this decision was explained clearly to the business that referred the matter on 
Mr Rs behalf  that TPWM was not providing advice and made no inference or 
recommendation about what was suitable. And TPWM declining to provide Mr R advice did 
not prevent him from seeking advice from another business.
Im also satisfied this decision was made within a reasonable timeframe. The Perimeter 
Guidance Manual (PERG)  guidance to financial businesses set out by the FCA detailing 
where authorisation is required  includes a section for businesses providing pension 
transfer advice. This sets out what would constitute advice and what wouldnt. It explains 
where a business gives factual general info but then, after looking at the customers 
circumstances, tells them it wont provide advice, is a situation where no advice is 
considered to have been given. So, I think TPWM was entitled to assess the individual 
circumstances before deciding whether it would provide advice. I can see that in order to do 
this TPWM gathered information from the existing pension scheme. This was not 
immediately received but was chased promptly. And when the information was received and 
reviewed, along with the information sent to TPWM as part of the referral, it explained its 
decision to the referring business promptly. So, I dont think TPWM took an unreasonable 
amount of time to decide it wasnt willing to give advice.
Taking all of this into account, I dont think TPWM has made an error or acted unfairly when 
declining to provide Mr R with advice.
 Mr R is unhappy that TPWM has not provided more detailed reasons why it was unwilling to 
assist, particularly as he believes transferring his pension is appropriate, or that it wont sign 
a form saying he has asked it for advice. But I dont think TPWM needs to do any more here. 
It has explained, where it decides not to provide advice, it wont provide specific reasoning  
to prevent inferences being drawn from that reasoning that could be considered advice. I 
know Mr R is unhappy with this, but I think that is reasonable and something again TPWM is 
entitled to decide. I also think it has clearly explained the decision it has taken here  that it 
wont provide advice. So, I dont think it needs to sign any third-party documentation around 
this, as that could again be misinterpreted to suggest it had in fact advised Mr R.
Responses to my provisional decision
I gave both parties an opportunity to make further comments or send further information 
before I reached my final decision.
TPWM said it agreed with my provisional findings and had nothing further to add.
Mr R said he was not surprised by my decision. He didnt agree with some of what I had 
noted. He said it wasnt true that there was no fee involved as a fee of 3% of the fund value 
was agreed, if the transfer had gone ahead. And he said his position wasnt necessarily that hed have gone ahead  he was open to being convinced otherwise. Mostly though he was 
unhappy with a lack of transparency by TPWM and it failing to share information about its 
internal analysis of the transfer and why it didnt wish to provide advice. He felt this mayve 
included information TPWM received from the pension scheme, that he has only recently 
been made aware of by the scheme. And if TPWM had been more transparent, hed have 
known this information sooner.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything again, Im not inclined to depart from my provisional findings.
Ive taken on board what Mr R has said about a fee arrangement being discussed and him 
being open to advice provided by TPWM. But the issue again is that TPWM elected not to 
provide advice. A decision I remain of the opinion that it was entitled to make. And because 
it didnt do so, I understand no fee was paid to TPWM  so Mr R has not incurred a charge 
from TPWM when it decided not to assist.
As I said in my provisional findings, I know Mr R is unhappy that TPWM has not shared more 
information about why it declined to provide advice. But it has explained, where it declines to 
advise, it wont provide specific detailed reasons for this  to avoid inferences being drawn 
from that information. And again, I dont think that is an unreasonable business decision on 
the part of TPWM.
So, taking everything into account, I remain of the opinion that TPWM has not made an error 
or acted unfairly here. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2022.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman