DRN-3711073
The complaint
Mr O complains that a car he acquired with the assistance of finance from Volkswagen 
Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Bentley Finance (VWFS) wasnt of satisfactory 
quality and he has suffered inconvenience and financial loss.
What happened
Mr O bought a used car on 30 September 2021 with the assistance of finance from VWFS. 
The car was a year old at the point of supply and had covered 11,734 miles. Mr O says that 
in October 2021 the car developed a fault and was returned to the supplying garage on the 
29 November 2021, 15 December 2021 and 11 January 2022 for diagnostic tests to find the 
fault. The fault was identified on 25 January 2022 and the car remained at the supplying 
garage for repairs between 25 January and 11 February. 
Mr O says that when the car was in the garage further damage was caused to the paintwork 
and other items which have still not been satisfactorily resolved. Mr O says that although he 
was provided with a courtesy car when the car was kept for repairs, this was not of the same 
specification as his car. In particular, the courtesy car was only a 5 seater and not a 7 seater 
and so he could not fit all his family in the car. Mr O says he has taken time off work and he 
has been paying £895 per month for a car that he had not been able to use properly.
VWFS agreed in its final response letter to pay Mr O, £450 as a goodwill payment to reflect 
the issues he had with the car. It said it wasnt responsible for the damage caused by the 
repairing garage and said that he had been provided with a courtesy car when the car was 
kept in for repairs so he had been kept mobile. Mr O wasnt happy with that offer and 
brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator looked into Mr Os complaint and agreed that as the car had developed a 
fault within the first 6 months of Mr Os ownership it wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point 
of supply. They thought that the offer of £450 was fair and reasonable and in line with what 
this service would award for similar complaints. They didnt think that VWFS should do any 
more.
Mr O didnt agree and replied to say in summary that the investigator hadnt taken into 
account the times that the car had been in the garage for diagnostic tests and that he had 
not been able to fit all of his family into the courtesy car. Mr O didnt think that £450 was 
enough and thought that he should be refunded 2 months rental costs together with a further 
£200 for taxi fares and inconvenience.
As the parties havent been able to agree the matter had been passed to me to decide. 
     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account everything that Mr O and VWFS have provided. I wont comment on 
each and every point of dispute in this decision or rehearse the background and I will focus 
on providing reasons for my decision. 
It isnt in dispute that the car developed a fault and required repair. Mr O is unhappy about 
the amount of compensation offered by VWFS because he doesnt think it is fair, particularly 
given the amount he is paying each month for the car.
I dont doubt Mr O when he says that there were issues with the car from October and the 
car went into the garage for tests on a number of occasions before the fault was found. 
However, there is no evidence that this fault stopped Mr O from driving the car during that 
period other than for the occasions it was in the garage. 
The fault was finally identified in January 2022 and the car remained at the garage for 
repairs between 25 January and 11 February a period of just over 2 weeks. During that time 
Mr O was provided with a courtesy car to keep him mobile. Following this repair, the fault 
has not returned and Mr O has had full use of the car.
Mr O says that if the car had not needed the repair then the additional damage by the 
repairing garage would not have happened. However, I dont think that it is fair or reasonable 
to hold VWFS responsible for this. Sometimes used cars will develop faults and it is the 
responsibility of the finance provider as well as the seller to ensure that the car is 
satisfactorily repaired. The damage caused by the repairing garage is entirely outside 
VWFSs control and I dont agree that it should pay for this. I know that Mr O has been 
advised to take this up with the repairing garage directly. 
I can appreciate how frustrating it must have been for Mr O to have a smaller courtesy car 
and I dont doubt that it was inconvenient for the period that his car was being repaired. I 
also accept that he was annoyed at the time taken to both diagnose and repair the fault as 
he stated he had been having issues since October 2021. 
However, I think that the offer of £450 made by VWFS is fair and reasonable to reflect the 
upset and inconvenience in these circumstances. The awards we make are modest and are 
not designed to punish businesses for mistakes. I must consider what is fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances. The offer of £450 represents approximately half of a monthly rental. 
Mr O has not been without a car for a significant period of time and the repair was completed 
once it had been diagnosed and has not returned. Overall, I agree with the investigator that 
£450 is fair and reasonable in these circumstances.
Mr O did not accept the offer and so it has not been paid by VWFS however, it has not 
withdrawn the offer and I will leave it to Mr O to decide whether he wishes to accept it.      
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) 
Limited trading as Bentley Finance should pay Mr O £450. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2023.
 
Emma Boothroyd
Ombudsman