DRN-1764497
The complaint
Mr S says MBNA Limited mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 2003 on the phone the month 
after Mr S opened his card. It gave him accident, sickness and unemployment cover.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. Mr S disagreed so the 
complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive followed 
it here.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr S says PPI wasnt mentioned on the call when he took out his credit card. He didnt 
know it had been added to his account. But he took it out after applying for his credit 
card, on a different call during the following month. So I think he would have understood 
it was a separate product. Theres no call recording but Ive looked at the script that was 
used at the time. This shows the adviser was instructed to ask for Mr Ss consent to add 
the cover onto his account more than once during the call. There was nothing in the 
script that could reasonably have led Mr S to believe the PPI was mandatory. And Ive 
found no evidence to suggest the script wasnt followed. Overall, I think MBNA made it 
clear the PPI was optional and Mr S agreed to take it.
MBNA didnt recommend the PPI to Mr S, so it didnt have to check if it was suitable for him. 
It was up to him to decide if he needed it, bearing in mind his other ways to make his 
repayments if he wasnt working.
MBNA had to provide clear, fair and not misleading information so Mr S could make an 
informed decision. Mr S told us he was self-employed at the time of the sale, but on his 
credit card application form he declared he was employed. He has since said he had 
both types of employment at the time. If, as he says, he had more than one job at the 
time of the sale, I think MBNA made it clear before he took the policy that it included 
cover against unemployment. So in that regard I think MBNA gave Mr S the information 
he needed to make an informed decision. 
 
But I agree its possible not all the information MBNA gave Mr S about the PPI was as 
clear as it should have been. However it seems Mr S wasnt affected by any of the main 
exclusions or limitations so its unlikely more information on them wouldve have 
changed his decision. His employment provided no sick pay, but he says he would have 
had unlimited sick pay in his self-employed role. But hes been unable to provide any 
evidence of this and as it doesnt seem it was in any way guaranteed, I dont think it 
means he didnt have a need for PPI. And had Mr S become unemployed, this policy 
made it no harder for someone who was self-employed to make a claim. The PPI would 
have paid out for up to 12 months for all successful accident, sickness and 
unemployment claims. So, on balance, I think it would have been useful in his 
circumstances. 
The policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable so I dont think better cost 
information would have changed his decision. So its most likely he would have bought 
the policy even if better information had been provided.
But MBNA has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr S because: 
MBNA got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr S about that. Because MBNA didnt tell Mr S, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, MBNA has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so MBNA Limited does not have to pay back all of the cost 
of the PPI to Mr S.
But MBNA Limited does have to pay back to Mr S any commission and profit share it got that 
was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2020.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman