DRN-2909685
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC took litigation action on his mortgage account 
when he had provided proposals to improve the situation. He says it ignored both his 
ill-health and a court case he had undertaken against another financial provider that hes 
said has been valued in the millions of pounds.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Both sides are fully aware of it, and to prevent the risk of identifying Mr P when this 
decision is published I wont detail it here. 
Our investigator didnt think Barclays had done anything wrong and so didnt uphold the 
complaint. Mr P didnt agree and so it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I trust Mr P wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed the complaint in the way that 
I have. Ours is an informal dispute resolution service. If I dont comment on any specific 
point its not because Ive not considered it but because I dont think I need to comment on it 
in order to reach the right outcome.
Ive read everything Mr P and Barclays has provided, and specifically focused on Mr Ps two 
emails that he mentioned in his response to our investigator. Having done so, I simply cant 
uphold this complaint, however much Mr P may want me to.
Hes said:
The letter from Barclays Mortgage Department dated 30/07/2020 clearly stated If 
you fail to provide realistic proposals to ourselves by 31/10/2010 (miss-spelt 
anyway), we will refer your account to our Ligation Department who may instruct 
solicitors and commence legal proceedings against you. This would be with a view to 
obtaining possession of your property and selling it in order to obtain repayment of 
the outstanding balance(s). The issue is that this letter said nothing about the 
arrears being cleared in full by 31/10/2020, which is what Barclays claimed later 
when they refused my proposals. What the letter did request was realistic 
proposals, which is exactly what I did provide in my letters dated 5 August 2020 and 
30 October 2020, which were clearly headed Urgent Proposal and Urgent: Revised 
Proposal respectively and sent by both letter and email.
The reason why both my proposals were realistic proposals, is because they 
involved increasing the sustainable income I received from my business [Mr Ps 
business name] by increasing the level of stock, sales, profits and income through a 
substantial working capital facility which had been arranged through a finance broker, 
but which required a simple letter from Barclays confirming they would not repossess 
my property before the hearing to settle [the compensation claim], which was 
scheduled for [date] and was the final requirement from the lenders helping my 
business. These facts were all explained in detail in my letters to Barclays dated 5 
August 2020 and 30 October 2020. The issue here is that Barclays refused the 
realistic proposals which I had provided (twice), which would have cleared the 
arrears in full over a reasonable period of time, as explained under (3) below. 
During a telephone conversation with [call handler] of Barclays Mortgage Department 
on 14 August 2020, he assured me that my proposal the double my regular monthly 
payments to both the main mortgage account and the mortgage current account, 
once the above business facility was in place to increase my sustainable income, 
would clear the arrears within a period that was very close to the 24 month period 
that Barclays would normally permit for arears to be cleared by increased monthly 
payments, especially when allowing for some extra payments that I would also be 
able to make from the increased levels of income coming from my business. The 
issue here is that this telephone conversation with Barclays Mortgage Department 
on 14 August 2020 was not followed through in practice by Barclays when they 
declined my realistic proposals.
There are now only just over 4 months to go for the resolution of my substantial 
[compensation claim], which has severely impacted on my regular income. There is a 
Court timetable in place for the trial for the week commencing [date] and my following 
email will provide the confirmation of this from the Court. Barclays Bank and the 
Ombudsman Service have already been provided with the independent professional 
valuation of my compensation claim, which is valued at over [sum in the millions of 
pounds] and the duty of the Forensic Accountant who provided this valuation is to the 
Court as an Expert Witness, and not to me.
My normal monthly payments to both the mortgage and the mortgage current 
account have been regularly maintained for over 10 months since May 2020, but 
Barclays appear to have ignored this important fact, when all they had to do was 
extend the term of my mortgage to resolve the arrears, in the full knowledge of full 
payment from my substantial [compensation claim], now rescheduled for later this 
year.
The problem is that Barclays didnt consider Mr Ps proposals to be realistic, hence why it 
continued with action as it hadnt received a realistic proposal by the deadline given. That 
doesnt seem unreasonable, otherwise a customer could delay action indefinitely by making 
various different proposals, none of which are realistic. I understand Mr P feels his proposals 
were realistic, but I agree with Barclays and our investigator that they werent. Ill explain 
why.
Mr P wanted Barclays to write a letter stating that it wouldnt repossess his property before 
his compensation claim hearing. But that compensation claim had already been ongoing for 
a number of years, and even though Mr P said there was a hearing set for a certain date that 
doesnt mean things would have been finalised then, rather than dragging on for further 
months or years. And all that letter would have done was to potentially allow Mr P to borrow 
a further £50,000 from another financial provider. Mr P says he would have used that sum to 
improve his business and thus in turn increase his income, but again there are too many 
variables there. Mr P could have spent the money on other things, or he could have used it 
to improve his business, but with no subsequent increase in income. Then Mr P would have 
been in an even worse position as hed owe a further £50,000 with no extra income to pay 
that on top of his mortgage (and mortgage arrears).It seems Mr P was hanging everything on winning his compensation claim and receiving a 
payout in the millions of pounds. But, as Ive explained, that court case had been ongoing for 
a number of years and there was no guarantee Mr P would be successful.
If that court case had continued for a further indeterminate number of years (which was 
possible as far as Barclays was concerned) then it could potentially have impacted on its 
security if it had written a letter stating it wouldnt take legal action before the compensation 
claim hearing. It would also have been concerned about helping Mr P (or his business) to 
take on further debt when he was already in substantial arrears on his mortgage and there 
were no guarantees that the further debt would increase his income.
As at March 2020 Mr P was over £45,000 in arrears on his mortgage and over £10,000 over 
his linked mortgage current account credit limit. Maintaining the payments is what is 
expected of all mortgage customers as its the contract the borrower entered into. Mr P 
would have needed to make inroads into the arrears with tangible (and realistic) proposals of 
how he will repay them (that wouldnt include Barclays writing a letter to say it wouldnt take 
legal action for some indefinite period of time to allow a court case to be decided that Mr P 
had no guarantee he would win).
I understand that Mr P feels Barclays and this service havent placed enough weight on the 
information hes provided about his health issues, and the devastating effect losing his home 
could have on him.
Whilst Ive a great deal of sympathy for the situation Mr P is in with his home and his health 
concerns (which I wont detail here to protect his privacy), I cant order Barclays not to take 
legal action just because of that. That wouldnt be fair on Barclays as this is a mortgage with 
substantial arrears on it. If Barclays decides to proceed with legal action with a view to taking 
possession of the property, then Mr P can raise his health concerns in his defence of that 
claim with the court. The court can then decide to what degree, if any, Mr Ps health issues 
impact on the legal action and Barclays claim for possession.
Mr P has said he remains genuinely concerned that there is no assurance or guarantee 
from Barclays Bank itself that they will remain positive and sympathetic in attempting to 
resolve the issues and I have personal experience of the banks acting in an extremely 
ruthless way when they feel like it.
We cant provide any guarantees for the future, but Barclays has an overarching regulatory 
responsibility to treat Mr P fairly, and as part of that wed expect it to treat him positively and 
sympathetically in relation to his financial difficulties and his health. That doesnt mean 
Barclays has to accept any proposal or request Mr P puts to it, nor does it mean it cant take 
legal action.
Finally, Mr P has said:
The letter from Barclays Customer Relations  Mortgages dated 23 December 2020, 
which was the Barclays final response to my complaint, admitted on page 2 that [the 
complaint handler] was upholding my complaint on the grounds of poor customer 
experience as regards to the miscommunication given to you, for your proposal and our 
letter, but earlier in the same paragraph refused to uphold my complaint. The issue here 
is that this is two faced and not straightforward, because in one sentence they would not 
uphold my complaint but in the following sentence they would uphold my complaint. 
Furthermore, during the telephone call with [the complaint handler] before the letter was 
sent, the payment of £150 was non-negotiable and is out of all proportion to the loss of 
my residential property, which has a current valuation of over £500,000 with planned 
consent approved for a full rebuild which increases the value to circa £1 million.To explain, this letter isnt two faced. The complaint handler didnt uphold the main thrust of 
Mr Ps complaint hence the not upholding part. But they accepted that some of the customer 
service had been poor so they offered £150 compensation for that (hence the uphold part). 
The £150 was just for some customer service failings (rather than because the complaint 
handler thought the main thrust of Mr Ps complaint should be upheld) so it isnt linked to the 
value of Mr Ps property or anything else. It was just a stand-alone amount of compensation 
that was offered for some customer service failings. The same amount would have been 
offered for that whether Mr Ps property was worth £50,000 or £5m, as the value of the 
property isnt relevant there.
Having considered everything, whilst Ive a great deal of sympathy for the situation Mr P has 
found himself in and for his health concerns, I simply cant uphold this complaint however 
much he may want me to.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman