DRN-4448940
The complaint
Mr M complains that Zopa Bank Limited wouldnt provide him a durable copy of his 
agreement after he opened his Individual Savings Account (ISA). He says this meant he 
couldnt review his cancellation rights or any changes relating to this. 
Mr M wants any charges for cancelling his ISA waived, be paid interest for the days that 
Zopa has had his money, and compensation for Zopa failing to supply information about 
overseas transfers.
What happened
Mr M set up an ISA with Zopa in December 2022. He called Zopa to ask for a durable copy 
of his statutory documents, but this wasnt provided. He said he shouldnt have been asked 
to complete security when asking for the documents as this was providing unnecessary data 
when all he wanted was a copy of the standard account documents. He says that he then 
asked to raise a complaint but was told he would need to do this by email which wasnt 
correct as he should have been able to raise this over the phone. Mr M had further calls and 
was told the documents he was requesting were available online and he could download 
these but Mr M said while he was able to read the documents he couldnt download them 
and so he wasnt being provided with the documents in a durable form. Mr M then raised 
further complaints about his data being transferred overseas (due to the use of overseas call 
centres). He asked to raise a Data Subject Access Request but then put his request on hold 
until after he had received a response to his complaint.  
Zopa issued a final response to Mr Ms complaint dated 1 August 2023. It said that Zopa is a 
paperless bank and that customers can download documents and statements from its app. It 
noted Mr Ms concerns about the use of locations outside of the UK but said that its privacy 
notice outlines overseas transfers and while specific locations arent mentioned it does say 
that data may be sent outside the UK or EEA. Zopa acknowledged that there were some 
shortcomings with the service Mr M received on his first call and said that feedback would be 
provided. 
Mr M wasnt satisfied with Zopas response and referred his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She said that Zopa was a paperless bank and 
that it provided documents in its App which was a business decision applied to all 
customers. She noted that its terms and conditions allowed for data to be transferred outside 
of the UK and Europe. 
Mr M didnt accept our investigators view. He reiterated that the ISA terms and conditions 
were not downloadable. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has raised several complaints which I will deal with below. However before doing so I 
just wanted to set out that we are an informal dispute resolution service and as such do not 
have the power to say whether Zopa has breached data protection laws. That is for the 
Information Commissioners Office (ICO) to decide, and I appreciate that Mr M said he would 
also be discussing his issues with the ICO. We can however assess the impact any data 
issues have had on a customer and consider this in light of any compensation awards. I 
have had this in mind as I have considered this complaint.
Mr Ms initial concern was that he wasnt provided with a durable copy of his key agreement 
documents when he set up the ISA. Zopas terms and conditions set out that its savings 
accounts are online only and once opened can be viewed and managed by logging into the 
Zopa account and so I find he should have been aware of the approach taken by Zopa in 
regard to its provision of information. Mr M has said he was able to access a copy of the 
documents to read (but not to download and save). As Mr M was able to read the 
documents, I find he should have been aware of the terms of his account and his 
cancellation rights and any charges.
Mr M wanted to download a copy of his agreement and he explained his reasons for this. I 
agree that this was a reasonable request and, on the call, Zopa tried to guide Mr M through 
this process. However, Mr M said that while the approach allowed him to read the 
documents, he wasnt able to download a copy for his files. Zopa has confirmed that it 
should be possible to download the documents and it has arranged for the documents to be 
posted to Mr M. I find this a reasonable resolution to this part of his complaint.  
Mr M has raised several service issues in regard to the calls he had with Zopa. I have 
listened to the calls provided and on the call on 21 July Mr M doesnt say he wishes to raise 
a complaint and there isnt mention of him having to do this by email. I havent been provided 
with any other calls from this time on which this is discussed aside from the calls on 26 July 
when Mr M says that this is the information he was given. Zopa said on the call on 26 July 
that Mr M should have been able to raise his complaint on the phone. Without further 
evidence to confirm that Mr M was given incorrect information I do not intend to comment 
further on this issue. 
Mr M has said that he wasnt called back when requested and that he had to ask several 
times for an agents name and only became aware that there was another party on the call 
when they introduced themselves. I agree that the service provided in regard to these 
aspects could have been better and I can see Zopa acknowledged this and said feedback 
would be provided. I appreciate these issues caused frustration for Mr M but I do not find in 
this case that Zopa is required to do anything further in response to these issues.
Mr M is concerned that Zopa transfers calls to overseas countries and he believes that this 
means his data is transferred to countries that dont have the same protections in place as 
the UK. I understand Mr Ms point and I note his comment about not being made aware that 
this will happen. However, I have looked through Zopas privacy notice and it states that We 
may transfer your personal data to countries outside either the UK or the European 
Economic Area (EEA), whose personal data protection laws are less strict than in the UK or 
the EEA. It then goes on to say that it will make sure suitable safeguards are in place to 
protect personal data, in line with data protection law. Given this I find that Zopa does 
provide information about how it will transfer data and as I have nothing to suggest the call 
with the overseas centre resulted in Mr M suffering any loss or data issues, I do not find I 
can uphold this part of his complaint. As noted above, if he is concerned that Zopa is in 
breach of data protection laws then he should raise this with the ICO.
Mr M made a DSAR and then put this on hold. He subsequently reinstated his request in 
response to Zopas final response letter and I understand this has been responded to. In conclusion, while I understand the concerns Mr M has raised, I find that Zopa has 
explained its approach to the provision of information and taken action to address Mr Ms 
requests. Therefore, I do not require it to do anything further in resolution of this complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2024.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman