DRN-1420847
 
The complaint
Ms A on behalf of the estate of Mrs A has complained that Northern Bank Ltd (Trading as 
Danske Bank) mis-sold a regular premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out by the late Mrs A in April 2005 during a phone 
call with Northern Bank. The policy was added to a personal loan (account number ending 
8622). The loan and insurance ended in February 2007.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld. Northern Bank disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive considered what Northern Bank has said about how it sold PPI at that time, but Ive still 
decided to uphold Ms A on behalf of the estate of Mrs As complaint.
I think Northern Bank recommended the policy to Mrs A, but I dont think it was suitable for 
her at that time. I say this because she didnt appear to have had a strong need for the cover 
provided by the policy, given Ms A says Mrs A would have had other ways to meet the loan 
repayments in 2005 when it was sold.
Ms A says Mrs A had very reasonable sickness cover at work (6 months full and 6 months 
half sick pay) In addition, she says she held savings at the time that, combined with her sick 
pay would have covered a year's worth of salary. So, when I consider this, I dont think Mrs 
A would still have wanted to take out the policy if she had been told by Northern Bank that it 
was unsuitable or if they better understood its cost and limited benefit to her.
I think the estate of Mrs A has lost out as a result of Northern Bank's failings in this case and 
I uphold the complaint.
fair compensation
Northern Bank Ltd should put the estate of Mrs A in the position it would be in now if Mrs 
A hadnt taken out PPI. Northern Bank Ltd says Mrs A made a successful claim on the policy 
in 2006. So with that in mind, it should carry out the following:
 Pay the estate of Mrs A the amount that was paid each month for PPI.
 
Add simple interest to each payment from when Mrs A paid it until the estate of Mrs A 
gets it back. The rate of interest is 8% a year. 
 
If Mrs A made a successful claim under the PPI policy as Northern Bank Ltd 
suggests, then it can take off what she got for the claim from the amount it owes the 
estate of Mrs A.  
 
Northern Bank Ltd should tell Ms A on behalf of the estate of Mrs A what its done to 
work out A and B.
 
 If Northern Bank Ltd considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Ms A on behalf of the estate of Mrs A how much 
its taken off. It should also give Ms A on behalf of the estate of Mrs A a tax deduction 
certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Ms A on behalf of the estate of Mrs As complaint. 
I require Northern Bank Ltd to pay the estate of Mrs A compensation in accordance with the 
calculation of redress set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A on behalf of 
the estate of Mrs A to accept or reject my decision before 13 May 2020.
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman