DRN-1599199
Complaint
Mr H complains that Virgin Money UK plc (Virgin) refused to lower the interest rate on his 
credit card or provide him with a replacement card so that he could affect a transfer to a new 
credit card provider. 
Background
Mr H had a credit card with Virgin; he contacted them requesting a replacement credit card 
IN May 2019.He followed up the request a few months later by phone. Mr H asked for either 
the card to be replaced, as he needed the card details to transfer the debt to a new provider, 
or the interest on his card reduced so he could pay it back earlier. 
Virgin responded to Mr H by secure message saying his request for a card replacement 
needed to be discussed by telephone, but it had no record of ever receiving a call from him 
in May 2019. In a later phone call Virgin say that they were not willing to reduce the interest 
rate on his credit card and this was part of its terms and conditions. Mr H was also told by 
Virgin that his card re-issue was declined but he could get the relevant card details from his 
statement if he wanted to transfer his balance to another credit card provider. 
Mr H wasnt happy with this and said that Virgin hadnt acted in line with Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) rules when dealing with customers with persistent debt and they should 
have offered him a lower interest rate to make it easier for him to repay his credit card 
borrowing. He referred the case to this service. 
The investigator looked at the all the information available but didnt uphold the complaint. 
He felt that Virgin wasnt obliged to reduce its interest rate under their terms and conditions 
and had provided him with enough information to affect a transfer to a new provider if he so 
wished. The investigator didnt think Virgin had breached any FCA rules and felt it hadnt 
done anything wrong.  Mr H wasnt happy with the investigators view and asked for this to be 
referred to an ombudsman.
My findings
Ive considered all the available information, evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I have come to the same conclusion as the investigator and I will explain how I have come to 
my decision. When looking at Mr Hs complaint I have considered if Virgin had been 
unreasonable in not reissuing his card, reducing his interest rate or acted against FCA 
guidance for customers with persistent debt.
Looking at the reissue of his card, I have been provided with a copy of letter sent almost 
twelve months prior to Mr Hs complaint to Virgin, it said that after a review of the account 
the card wouldnt be reissued when it fell due for renewal. The letter suggested that Mr H 
should check his credit rating.  Mr H contacted Virgin, by secure message nearly a year later, Mr H asked for a replacement 
card and Virgin replied saying he needed to contact them by phone to discuss the matter. 
From the information available to me, I cant see any immediate follow up call from Mr H to 
discuss the replacement card.  
The replacement card issue was discussed 3 months later in a call with Mr H when he said 
he needed the full card details, including the security number to arrange a balance transfer 
to a new provider offering better terms. Virgin explained he didnt need the card to do this - 
he could ring the new provider, give them the card account details from his statement and 
arrange the transfer. Mr H then asked if Virgin would reimburse him for his time and cost of 
the calls he would need to make, but Virgin said that wasnt something they were prepared 
to do.  I am satisfied that on this point Virgin acted correctly - Mr H could have taken the card 
details from his statement and telephoned the new card provider without too much disruption 
or costs.
During the same call Mr H asked that Virgin reduce the interest rate on his card so he could 
repay it quicker. The advisor told Mr H he was unable to reduce the credit card interest rate 
and this was in line with the terms and conditions of the card. Whilst I can understand that 
Mr H would want a lower interest rate, so he could reduce his borrowing quicker, Virgin are 
under no obligation to agree to this request. It acted in line with the terms and conditions of 
his credit card agreement and the tariffs applicable to his card are detailed in his credit card 
statements. 
I did consider if this might have alerted Virgin that Mr H was struggling to meet his credit 
card monthly commitments, but the statements for the year to February 2019 show the 
borrowing had reduced by over £1300.  Further reductions to his borrowing to May 2019 of 
in excess of £1100 were shown on the statements. I am satisfied that it looked to Virgin like 
Mr H could manage to reduce his borrowing, albeit slower than he may have wished. If Mr H 
was unhappy with the interest rate on his card then he is free to try and change to another 
provider and of course that was the purpose of his initial contact concerning the replacement 
card. He eventually repaid the borrowing by way of a bank loan. 
Mr H felt Virgin acted outside FCA regulations put in place in March 2018. This regulation 
concerns customers who are in what the FCA terms persistent debt. The FCA outline how 
businesses are required to take a series of escalating steps to help customers who are 
making low repayments over a long period - which was the case here.
The regulation says businesses, to begin with, need to contact customers prompting them to 
change their repayment and informing them their card may ultimately be suspended if they 
do not change their repayment pattern. I have seen a copy of a letter sent in January 2019 
and I am satisfied this is in line with the regulations here.  Whilst Virgin havent provided the 
actual letter sent to Mr H , as they only keep generic copies, it says all customers were sent 
the letter when  identified as being in  persistent debt. They have provided me with a screen 
shot showing Mr H was identified as such a customer. On balance I am satisfied, in all 
probability, this letter was sent and therefore complied with the FCA regulation. No further 
steps were needed to be taken by Virgin as Mr H repaid his borrowing inside the timescales 
under the ruling.  
I know my decision will disappoint Mr H but I cant see that Virgin have acted unfairly and it 
follows I cant ask anymore of them here.
My Final Decision 
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 July 2020.
Barry White
Ombudsman