DRN-1865645
 
The complaint
Ms M is unhappy with the way Gladstone Brookes dealt with her payment protection 
insurance (PPI) claim. 
What happened
Ms M instructed Gladstone Brookes to complete a free PPI check in April 2019 for potential 
PPI mis-selling claims against several lenders, including lender L. The terms and conditions 
explained in the event of a successful claim Gladstone Brookes would charge 20% plus VAT 
of any compensation recovered. 
Gladstone Brookes contacted lender L to find out whether Ms M had been sold PPI. Lender 
L said they were unable to identify Ms Ms details. Gladstone Brookes contacted Ms M in 
June and July asking her to provide any additional information to help lender L identify her. 
On 19 August Gladstone Brookes sent Ms Ms complaint to lender L saying We have 
submitted a PIR (provider information return) but you have been unable to confirm whether 
client has PPI. Therefore, we have spoken to our mutual client who has reasonable belief 
they held a product with you we require that you log a complaint relating to any PPI 
products that the above-named client has or has held with yourselves
From 20- 27 August Ms M contacted Gladstone Brookes to find out what was happening 
with her claims. She was concerned that shed been unable to send documents that required 
an e-signature. The call handler said the deadline to provide documents had passed, and so 
they wouldnt be able to progress any further claims. Ms M was told your letters of 
complaint were sent to lender M and lender L we wont be able to look into lender B and 
lender C for you, you can go directly to them before the deadline, within the next 48 hours. 
Ms M contacted lender L and lender M directly to register her complaints. 
On 3 September, lender L acknowledged receipt of Ms Ms complaint to Gladstone Brookes. 
On 4 September Gladstone Brookes wrote to Ms M saying We write to confirm that we have 
received an acknowledgement from [Lender L] regarding your PPI complaint. [Lender L] are 
now investigating your complaint and should return to us within 8-16 weeks from the 
acknowledgement date with a decision.
On 10 September lender L wrote to Gladstone Brookes and Ms M agreeing compensation 
for mis-sold PPI. Gladstone Brookes sent Ms M their success fee invoice for this claim. Ms 
M complained to Gladstone Brookes saying it was because of their advice in August that she 
contacted lender L and lender M directly. Gladstone Brookes responded to Ms Ms complaint 
in January 2020 apologising for the information provided in August. They offered Ms M a 
£250 discount on their success fee invoice for lender L. They had found PPI on the claim 
against lender M, and were waiting for further information from Ms M to progress this claim. 
They said theyd cancel this claim at no cost to Ms M. Unhappy with the service provided by Gladstone Brookes Ms M contacted the Claims 
Management Ombudsman (a Financial Ombudsman service). 
The investigator found Gladstone Brookes shouldve provided Ms M with correct, and up to 
date information in August 2019. But the investigator also explained that the claim had been 
registered in time with lender L, and lender L had included Gladstone Brookes in 
correspondence explaining details of the offer. Because of this, the investigator didnt 
recommend any further compensation than the £250 already offered by Gladstone Brookes. 
The investigator also found that the offer to cancel the outstanding claim with lender M at no 
cost to Ms M was fair. 
Ms M rejected these findings saying (amongst other points) that it was unfair why one claim 
was being cancelled at no cost to her, and she was being asked to pay a success fee on 
another. Ms M also highlighted the incorrect advice which shed acted on in order to ensure 
her claim to lender L could be submitted on time. She said because of this, it was unfair for 
Gladstone Brookes to rely on their terms and conditions, for a claim she submitted herself.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that this has been an upsetting time for Mrs M. Having reviewed the case, I 
agree with the investigators findings, for broadly the same reasons. Ive focused my 
comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific point its 
because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In response to the investigators findings, Ms M commented that the call recordings with 
Gladstone Brookes are evidence of the incorrect information she was given. Ms M feels 
strongly that the terms of the contract with Gladstone Brookes had changed when she was 
told she could approach her lenders directly. I requested call recordings from Gladstone 
Brookes. From the evidence provided, I think the information provided to Ms M about the 
claims Gladstone Brookes were looking into couldve been clearer.
The disputed invoice concerns lender L so Ive focused this part of my decision on what 
Gladstone Brookes did in relation to this claim. Ms M was sent several reminders through 
text and the online portal in June and July 2019 about information that was outstanding for 
her claim against lender L. When Ms M contacted Gladstone Brookes in August, she was 
told that Gladstone Brookes had sent her claim to lender L. 
But Ms M had been sent updates in June and July saying that there was information 
outstanding for her claim against lender L. She also explained to the representative that 
shed been unable access her online portal, and send information to Gladstone Brookes by 
email. So I can see why Ms M wouldve been confused about the status of her claims, and 
whether her lenders had received them on time. 
Ms M shouldve clearly been told that the claim to lender L and lender M had been sent, and 
there wasnt anything further she had to do in respect of these claims at the time. Gladstone 
Brookes did send a letter of complaint to these lenders before the deadline. But because this 
wasnt clearly explained, Ms M contacted lender L and lender M herself to register these 
claims. But lender L had already received Ms Ls complaint, and had started their 
investigation because of the initial submission by Gladstone Brookes. 
Lender L sent a copy of their offer letter directly to Gladstone Brookes. The reference 
number on this letter matches the reference number provided by Gladstone Brookes in their letter of complaint dated 19 August. On balance its fair to say that lender L was responding 
directly to the complaint received from Gladstone Brookes. Because of this, I think its fair 
that Gladstone Brookes charge their success fee for this claim.
But Mrs M was caused unnecessary confusion, and her decision to progress the claim 
directly with lender L was based on the information provided during her call with Gladstone 
Brookes in August. I think its fair that Gladstone Brookes pay compensation in recognition of 
the upset and inconvenience caused to Ms M because of their failure to provide clear, and 
direct information when she called them in August. 
Ms M feels strongly that the information provided in August changed the terms of the 
contract, and so she shouldnt have to pay Gladstone Brookes their success fee. But I dont 
agree that this is a fair outcome to Ms Ms complaint. 
There were failings in the process which meant the claim against lender L wasnt dealt with 
as efficiently as it couldve been. But I think the £250 offered by Gladstone Brookes is in line 
with what this service could recommend. This recognises the upset caused by Gladstone 
Brookes lack of clear updates, but also considers the overall successful outcome, which 
was as a direct result of the submission made by Gladstone Brookes. 
Ms M says that the offer to cancel the outstanding claim with lender M, but charge a success 
fee for the successful claim against lender L, is inconsistent. Ms M says that the success fee 
for both should be waived because she made these claims directly. The relationship 
between Gladstone Brookes and Ms M had evidently broken down following Miss Ms 
complaint. So I think its reasonable that they offered to cancel the outstanding claim with 
lender M, and that this remains part of the compensation offered. 
I can appreciate it mustve been upsetting for Ms M to receive an invoice following the 
successful claim with lender L, and be asked to pay Gladstone Brookes success fee, when 
she feels strongly that she did the work that led to lender L awarding compensation. The 
communication with Ms M couldve been clearer, but it was Gladstone Brookes' initial 
submission of the claim which on balance led to lender Ls decision to award compensation. 
So I wont be asking Gladstone Brookes to do anything more in settlement of this complaint.
My final decision
Gladstone Brookes have already made an offer to reduce Mr Ms outstanding invoice for the 
successful claim against with lender L by £250, and cancel the outstanding claim with lender 
M at no cost to Ms M. I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. 
So my decision is that Gladstone Brookes should reduce Ms Ms outstanding invoice by 
£250, and cancel the outstanding claim with lender M at no cost to Ms M.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2020.
Neeta Karelia
Ombudsman