DRN-3713001
The complaint
Mr S complains Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt update his address which led to an overdraft 
being removed and adverse information being recorded on his credit file.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here. 
Instead, I will focus on the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S had a current account with Barclays with an agreed overdraft. In 2018 it was about 
£200 overdrawn. Barclays has shown it wrote to Mr S several times to make him aware of 
the account position and explain regular credits were needed otherwise the overdraft facility 
could be removed. Im satisfied Barclays did enough to make Mr S aware of the account 
position and what could happen if action wasnt taken.
Mr S didnt credit the account and through monthly interest charges the balance continued to 
increase. By early 2021 Mr S was about £450 overdrawn. Barclays decided, as Mr S hadnt 
credited the account in a long time, to remove the overdraft facility and gave him the 
appropriate notice. I find Barclays treated Mr S fairly here given the account history, and I 
note the account terms and conditions allowed it to do what it did. 
The overdraft was removed in March 2021. This meant the outstanding balance on the 
account was overdue. Barclays reported this to the credit reference agencies. I dont find 
Barclays was wrong to report what it did, as that was an accurate reflection of the accounts 
position. 
In June 2021 Mr S repaid the outstanding balance in full. He says this is when he became 
aware the account was active and action was needed. My understanding is in 2021 Barclays 
received returned post and went on to trace Mr S. The trace was successful, so it wrote to 
Mr S at his new address from May 2020 onwards and Mr S then acted on these new, 
received letters.
Mr S says, broadly, that the impact to his credit file could have been avoided if Barclays had 
updated his address when he asked it to in 2018, or if Barclays had traced him sooner. Mr S 
says he updated his address with Barclays in August 2018 but there is no evidence in 
Barclays records to that effect, and I would expect there to be. Nor has Mr S provided any 
compelling evidence to support his position. When Barclays receives returned post it takes 
certain action, including starting a trace. That it didnt do so sooner makes me think it didnt 
receive returned post sooner. 
Im not persuaded Barclays was at fault for Mr S not getting its letters before June 2021. In 
any case, Mr S knew (or ought reasonably to have known) he had an outstanding debt, 
hadnt received correspondence about it for some time, and that action was needed. I cant 
see that he took any action. And ultimately his credit file showing an overdue balance for 
March, April and May 2021 is accurate.
Im aware Mr S has concerns with Barclays approach to complaint handling and considers it 
to have breach its obligations under Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) regulations. 
Complaint handling, however, isnt a regulated activity (or ancillary to a regulated activity), so 
its not within my powers to consider such concerns.
 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2022.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman