DRN-3892339
The complaint
Mr K complains that Lloyds Bank PLC didnt do enough to protect him from losing his money 
to a scam. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide a brief 
overview of some of the key events here. 
In May 2022 Mr K decided to start making payments from his Lloyds account to a genuine 
cryptocurrency exchange after speaking with a third party on a dating app. In total he made 
payments of around £7,335. After giving access to his account at the cryptocurrency 
exchange to the third party his money was lost. So, he asked Lloyds if it could retrieve his 
money and said that it shouldve done more to stop him making the payments. Lloyds 
disagreed and said it wasnt going to refund any money to Mr K. So, he brought his 
complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said Lloyds stopped the first 
two payments of £780 and £750 and spoke to Mr K. Although Lloyds couldnt find a 
recording of this call, Mr K had confirmed it asked him if anyone else was involved in him 
making this payment. But Mr K said no one else was involved and he was buying crypto for 
himself. As a result of this conversation, Lloyds removed any blocks on Mr Ks account 
which allowed him to continue to make payments to the genuine cryptocurrency exchange. 
The investigator added that he thought it was likely Mr K wouldve given the same answer if 
any of the later payments wouldve been stopped by Lloyds. 
Mr K disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans review. He said that Lloyds shouldve done 
more to warn him about scams and the cryptocurrency exchange he was using. And if it had 
done so, he wouldve thought twice about making the payments. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I know Mr K feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a 
disappointment to him, so Ill explain why.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as it is here), I have to 
make my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is more likely than 
not to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances. 
My role here is limited to considering whether Lloyds has done anything wrong and, if so, 
whether Mr K has lost out as a result. Im afraid simply being the victim of a scam doesnt 
automatically entitle Mr K to a refund.
In this case Lloyds considered the first two payments to be unusual. So, they blocked them 
and spoke to Mr K before releasing them. Unfortunately, Lloyds cannot find the call 
recording so Ive had to make a decision on whats most likely to have happened during that 
call and whether Lloyds couldve done more to stop Mr K from falling victim to this scam. 
Lloydss notes of the call say that it asked probing questions of Mr K about why he was 
making the payments. And Mr K has confirmed that he was asked if a third party was 
involved in asking him to make the payments and that he told Lloyds it was him making the 
payments by himself. 
So, Im satisfied on balance, that reasonable questions were asked of Mr K by Lloyds and 
his answers meant that Lloyds didnt unreasonably think he wasnt at risk of being scammed. 
And I dont think this is a case where I think there was anything substantive enough to mean 
that Lloyds would have been justified in refusing Mr Ks payment instruction altogether and 
going against his wishes.  
Mr K then went on to make further payments towards this scam. But I dont think Lloyds 
stopping any further payments wouldve made a difference here. Mr K was willing to tell 
Lloyds that he was making the payments of his own will, so I dont think  on balance - there 
wouldve been an opportunity for Lloyds to step in and stop Mr K from making the payments. 
So, Im not going to ask Lloyds to do anything more here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2023.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman