DRN-3171296
The complaint
Mr J complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc incorrectly recorded a marker which led to a delay 
in the opening of an investment account for him.
What happened
Mr J says he was told by Barclays staff to apply for an investment account online. When he 
attempted to do this on 4 June 2021, he received the message Sorry, we cant complete 
your application onlineUnfortunately, we cant offer you this Barclays Smart Investor 
account at this time.
Barclays say that Mr Js application wasnt declined, but rather it was prevented from being 
completed. This was because a marker had been added to Mr Js account in 2017 after he 
missed two payments on his credit card which he later brought up to date. This meant his 
application would have needed to be reviewed by Barclays staff rather than processed 
automatically.
Mr J says this wasnt clear as there was no message explaining he needed to contact 
Barclays to complete his application and so it appeared to him to be declined. He also says 
that when he enquired about what had happened, he was told he had a collections marker 
and declined mortgage applications on his record. Mr J says he was then provided with 
conflicting information about whether Barclays had recorded information about Mr J 
correctly. He has referenced Barclays internal documents which he received as part of his 
subject access request (SAR). Mr J also raised that there were delays and duplication in 
relation to Barclays providing the SAR documentation.
Overall Mr J has described receiving poor customer service  hes not satisfied with the 
care, quality, or timeliness of Barclayss responses to his complaint or lack thereof. Mr J has 
raised concerns over how other customers may be affected and wants Barclays to change 
how it applies markers and / or its computer-based applications assessments. He told 
Barclays that his need for a resolution to the matter was due to his mental health 
challenges and that how it was being handled was causing him stress worsening his anxiety 
and depression.
Barclays says the internal marker was applied correctly and never reported to any credit 
reference agencies. It also says it removed the marker on 10 June 2021 when the matter 
was reviewed, and Mr J was subsequently able to open the investment account.
Over the course of Mr Js complaint, Barclays has provided several responses and paid Mr J 
a total of £250 compensation.
The investigator didnt uphold the complaint. In summary they said the internal marker had 
been recorded in line with Barclays internal processes, but that Mr J had received some 
poor customer service which had been fairly compensated.
Mr J didnt agree  he said the investigator hadnt acknowledged his side of things. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont think Barclays needs to do anything further. This is because I think 
Barclays has already fairly compensated Mr J for whats gone wrong.
Regarding the marker itself, Barclays has said this would have been applied when a 
customer had missed payments on a lending product. It hasnt been able to provide us with 
a copy of this policy and says its a process which isnt documented. This is unfortunate as I 
understand Mr J feels strongly about this issue. However, Barclays has essentially explained 
the criteria and how it applied to Mr Js circumstances. Mr J had missed two payments 
towards his credit card in 2017 and so I think its likely that this was applied correctly.
Mr J has made the point that his account wasnt in collections and hed only missed two 
payments, so he thinks a late payment marker would have been more appropriate. I think its 
important to note that this is an internal marker with the purpose of ensuring certain 
applications arent processed automatically. This is quite different from an external marker 
where the term collections has a specific meaning and impact on a customers credit 
record. It isnt for me to say what a commercial business should call its internal markers or 
what its process should be in applying them, provided it does so fairly  the regulator is the 
Financial Conduct Authority. 
Based on the information Ive been provided with I dont think Barclays has acted unfairly in 
applying a marker here given that Mr J had missed two payments on his credit card. It 
served to flag relevant information about Mr Js repayment history when he was applying for 
a new account. I dont think Barclays decision to remove the marker upon a later review 
means that it was applied incorrectly at the time.
Turning to Mr Js overall experience, I agree that he has received some poor customer 
service. From what Barclays has told us, Mr Js application was never declined but rather it 
was prevented from being completed. However, I can understand why this wasnt clear to 
Mr J from the information he was provided with online. He appears to have focused on the 
sentence Unfortunately, we cant offer you this Barclays Smart Investor account at this time 
rather than the sentence Sorry, we cant complete your application online. Whilst the page 
does detail how a customer can get in touch if they need help, it doesnt explicitly state that 
this is the next step in continuing the application.
Mr J has been made aware that we arent the regulator and that we consider the impact only 
on the individual in the circumstances. And here, Mr J took the decision to enquire with 
Barclays, so any ambiguity online didnt cause a delay to his marker and application being 
reviewed. Whilst I agree it could have been clearer what Mr J needed to do to complete his 
application, he was able to open the account in a reasonable amount of time.
There was clearly some confusion initially about why the application couldnt proceed, and I 
can understand why it would have been stressful to hear Barclays staff thought he had 
several failed mortgage applications. It appears Barclays staff were responding with what 
they knew or could see at the time before a full review was carried out. This would also have 
affected the internal communication Mr J received as part of his SAR.
Barclays has accepted that it ought to have provided the full SAR bundle once rather than 
staggered with duplicates. Again, it isnt our role to fine a business in relation to their 
compliance with relevant rules or laws but to consider the impact of any mistakes on the 
individual customer.Ive thought about the impact on Mr Js in light of the stress, anxiety, and depression hes 
described. In total Barclays has paid Mr J £250 compensation and having considered the 
above I think this is a fair amount. So, Im not making a further award in the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2022.
 
Stephanie Mitchell
Ombudsman