DRN-1236895
 
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC changed the address on his bank account in error. 
What happened
Mr M has a bank account with Lloyds. In October 2018 he applied for a mortgage with the 
bank, which was rejected for reasons unconnected to this complaint. During the course of 
that application the mortgage adviser mis-keyed Mr Ms address, putting the wrong house 
number onto the system.
Unfortunately, that error carried forward into Lloyds other systems, and so changed the 
address on his bank account. That error went unnoticed until April 2019 when Mr M 
contacted Lloyds about it. Lloyds apologised for the mistake and paid £200 compensation.
Our investigator looked into it and thought £400 was a more appropriate level of 
compensation. Neither party agreed and so its been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read everything provided by Mr M and by Lloyds. Both parties have made reasonable 
arguments in support of their side of the complaint. Ive taken note of everything the parties 
have said, but I wont be responding to each and every point, or in as much detail. No 
discourtesy is intended by this; it simply reflects the informal nature of our service and my 
role in it.
Its not in dispute that Lloyds made a mistake, so I dont need to make a finding on that. All I 
need to decide is what needs to be done to put it right.
Mr M has told us about various lines of credit he was turned down for, but credit can be 
refused for many reasons that will be unrelated to this mistake with his address. For 
instance, his mortgage application with Lloyds that started this off was turned down for 
unrelated reasons. He also says he was turned down for a Lloyds overdraft, but Lloyds said 
it hadnt received any application from him. 
Mr M has said that something may happen in the future as a result of his bank statements 
being sent to the wrong address. As our investigator explained, we cant deal with what ifs. 
That would be a new complaint Mr M would be able to make at the time in question, if it 
happened.
Our investigator recommended the compensation be increased to £400. Mr M said that 
wasnt enough, whereas Lloyds said that was too much. Ive carefully considered what both 
sides have said and having done so I agree with our investigator that £400 compensation in 
total (so a further £200 on top of whats already been paid by Lloyds) is fair and reasonable. 
I dont award higher compensation because theres nothing to show that Mr M was only 
turned down for credit due to this mistake. And I dont award lower compensation because 
this was a mistake that led to Mr Ms information  including a replacement card and PIN - 
being sent to a third party. This has understandably caused Mr M a great deal of worry and 
for that £400 is a more appropriate award.
Putting things right
I award a total of £400 compensation, less any amount already paid.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and order Lloyds Bank PLC to pay redress as outlined above. Under 
the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject 
my decision before 29 June 2020.
 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman