DRN-4199267
The complaint
Miss M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC is unfairly holding her responsible for 
repayment of a Bounce Back Loan (BBL).
What happened
In March 2020, a business bank account with Barclays was opened in the name of Miss M. 
The account also had a business trading name.
In May 2020 a successful application for a £12,500 BBL was made, giving both Miss Ms 
name and the business trading name. Barclays paid the loan funds into the business bank 
account.
Barclays closed the business bank account in June 2020 after another bank reported that 
the account had received fraudulent funds, unrelated to the BBL. By this time, all the BBL 
funds had left the account  some of the money had been transferred to other accounts, 
some had been withdrawn in cash, and some had been used for retail payments by card.
Repayments on the BBL were due to begin in June 2021, but none were made. Eventually 
Barclays declared the loan in default in November 2021. Miss M then contacted the bank 
and said she didnt have a business, hadnt opened a business account, and hadnt applied 
for a BBL. After an investigation, Barclays concluded Miss M had knowledge of the account 
and the loan and she was responsible for the repayment of the debt. 
In September 2022 Miss M formally complained to Barclays. The bank didnt change its 
position, and Miss M referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked at the evidence and didnt recommend that the complaint should be 
upheld. She said she wasnt persuaded that the bank account and the BBL were opened 
without Miss Ms knowledge.
Miss M didnt agree with the investigator and asked for an ombudsman to review the case. 
She said she believed shed been a victim of identity theft. She said that when the bins were 
full, shed put out two bags of papers and unopened letters which could have been taken by 
someone to gather her personal information. She also said that at one point she misplaced 
her house keys and purse, which were later returned, so anything could have happened 
during that time.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator. I dont believe the 
bank account and the BBL were opened without Miss Ms knowledge or consent. Ill explain 
why.
The evidence shows that when the Barclays business bank account was opened, Miss Ms 
passport and her Santander account statements were used to verify the account opening. 
Whoever opened the account therefore possessed Miss Ms passport and Santander 
statements. 
Miss M says that she left papers next to the bins and someone may have used them to steal 
her identity, and that anything could have happened when she lost her keys and purse. But I 
think it highly unlikely that an unknown fraudster who took papers left as rubbish would then 
have been lucky enough to come across Miss Ms lost keys and purse, especially as they 
were later returned to her. But even if it were possible for a fraudster somehow to have 
obtained Miss Ms personal and financial details, passport and Santander account 
statements, there are other facts in this case which dont, in my view, fit with an unknown 
person being responsible for opening the business account and the BBL.
The account application used Miss Ms genuine address and phone number, matching those 
she has supplied to our service. Barclays communications by post would therefore have 
gone to Miss Ms home. This includes all statements and correspondence about the bank 
account and the BBL, from March 2020 onwards. But it was only in November 2021, when 
the bank sent the BBL default notice, that Miss M first spoke to the bank and said she hadnt 
opened the business bank account or BBL.
Miss M says she threw away the banks letters unopened because she believed they were 
sent to her address by mistake. But I note that nearly all the correspondence about the 
business account and the BBL was addressed to her own name, not simply to the trading 
name of the business. I can see no convincing explanation why Miss M would have ignored 
all of Barclays letters to her about the bank account and the BBL for over 18 months, 
including the notice of account closure after the receipt of fraudulent funds in June 2020. 
Moreover, there was a payment of £390 made from the Barclays account to Miss Ms Halifax 
account, before the BBL was set up. Miss M hasnt queried this credit to her Halifax account. 
Later, after the BBL was set up, two further payments were made from the Barclays account 
to Miss Ms Halifax account  £2,425 and £500, both in May 2020. Again, Miss M hasnt 
challenged these credits. 
I think these payments are important for two reasons. First, Miss M received money from the 
disputed business bank account into one of her own personal accounts without querying it, 
which doesnt suggest she was ignorant of the business bank account. And secondly, 
whoever opened the business bank account and the BBL then chose to transfer nearly a 
quarter of the BBL funds to Miss Ms personal account, which seems a highly unlikely action 
for an unknown third-party fraudster. Miss M clearly benefited from at least a proportion of 
the BBL borrowing.
Taken all together, the evidence doesnt, in my view, support a version of events in which a 
third party applied for the business account and the BBL without the knowledge or consent 
of Miss M.
For the above reasons, I dont think Barclays has acted unfairly or unreasonably by requiring 
Miss M to repay the BBL.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 December 2023.
 
Colin Brown
Ombudsman