DRN-2930257
The complaint
Mr L complains that Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) declined his travel insurance claim. 
My references to URV include its agents.
What happened
In mid-2019 Mr L booked a trip to a north African country for 11 to 18 March 2020. He took 
out annual travel insurance in October 2019, URV was the insurer. The policy covered 
Mr Ls declared medical conditions.
Mr L went on the trip with a group of people on 11 March 2020. On 15 March 2020 the 
Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO) advised against all but essential 
travel to the relevant country due to Covid-19. Flights to the UK were suspended from 
midnight on 16 March 2020.
Mr L says he was told repatriation flights may be possible but there was no guarantee and 
the airline hed travelled with gave little information. He and his travelling group were very  
worried about Covid-19 and wanted to get home as soon as possible. He booked a private 
jet with 25 other people to return to the UK on 16 March 2020. The private jet cost £39,200 
in total. Mr L claimed his share of the cost of the new flight, £1,568.
URV declined the claim. It said the policy didnt cover Mr L cutting short his holiday due to  
FCDO advice.
Mr L complained to us. He said URVs decline was unfair because:
he took out the policy to cover his medical conditions and hed only taken 8-9 days 
supply of the medication he needed to control his serious medical condition. So it 
was reasonable for him to pay for the new flight home 
if hed stayed in the country it could have been for an indefinite period and he would 
have incurring significant accommodation and living costs. Last minute flights from 
the country were about £600 in ordinary circumstances so hed made a reasonable 
decision to pay his share for a private jet
other members of his travel group had made successful claims on their insurance 
policies.
Our investigator said URV fairly declined the claim. She noted Mr L said hed claimed for his 
unused costs from the trip but we had no evidence of that so he might want to submit a new 
claim to URV for unused costs for assessment.
Mr L disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. He added that if he hadnt cut short his 
trip he would have gone against FCDO advice so URV should cover that situation. And if the 
policy covered unused costs but not additional costs in effect he had no insurance so we 
needed to make sure insurers provided cover for both costs.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules set out by the Financial Conduct Authority say an insurer must handle claims 
fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into account when 
deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Ls complaint. 
Insurance policies dont cover every eventuality and the limits of Mr Ls insurance cover are 
set out in the terms and conditions of his policy.
The policy says under the heading If you need to come home early that URV will pay up to 
the policy limit for: 
 your unused proportion of:
 transport charges;
 loss of accommodation;
 foreign car hire; and
 pre-paid excursions booked by you before you go on your trip
that you have paid or agreed to pay and that you cannot recover from any other 
source following your necessary cutting short of your trip.
The policy then lists the different circumstances in which URV will pay those unused costs. 
Returning home due to advice from the FCDO isnt one of the circumstances covered. And 
theres no cover for additional costs incurred even in the insured circumstances listed.
So Mr Ls claim isnt covered under the policy terms and conditions.
Ive also considered Mr Ls comments as to why it would be fair for URV to pay his claim. He 
was covered for his declared medical conditions and hed taken a limited amount of the 
medication he needed to control a serious condition. The government guidance around that 
time said people with the medical condition were vulnerable to Covid-19 and I understand  
Mr Ls concerns. But the reason for him cutting short the trip wasnt due to him being ill. So 
while URV agreed to cover his medical conditions that doesnt mean it had to cover him 
cutting short his trip for another reason.
If Mr L hadnt paid for the private jet home he may have had to stay in the country after 
16 March when the FCDO said flights to and from the UK would cease. Mr L sent a copy of 
the message he received from the British Ambassador which said there would be 
repatriation flights until the Thursday, which would have been 19 March 2020. Mr L says 
there was no guarantee of a place and his airline wasnt helpful. But I cant reasonably say 
Mr L wouldnt have got a repatriation flight so URV should pay the claim, under the policy 
terms I dont think URV would have been responsible for his additional accommodation, 
living costs or repatriation costs if hed stayed.
Other members of Mr Ls travelling group may have had their claim covered. But that  
doesnt mean URV has to pay his claim as different policies provide different levels of cover. 
Our investigator correctly explained to Mr L that we arent the regulator for insurers. So we 
cant say an insurer must provide certain types of cover. We decide if an insurer fairly declined a claim given the policy cover it provided. I think in the circumstances of this case 
URV has fairly declined the claim. 
Ive looked at what the policy says about FCDO advice. It excludes cover if Mr L was 
travelling against the advice or recommendations published by the FCDO applicable at the 
time of his departure. There was no FCDO advice not to travel to the country when Mr L 
started his trip. And the FCDO didnt advise British travellers abroad to return to the UK until 
23 March 2020. So I cant fairly say URV should cover the claim on the basis that Mr L  
would have been left with no cover at all if he hadnt left the country on 16 March 2020.
I dont think Mr L acted unreasonably in the circumstances. But as the claim isnt covered by 
the policy terms and I dont think theres any basis for me to say URV should fairly and 
reasonably cover the claim I dont uphold the complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2021.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman