DRN-3761188
The complaint
Miss F has complained that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) unfairly declined a claim for a 
stolen bike under her home contents policy.
What happened
Miss F contacted UKI to make a claim when her partners bike was stolen from the garage 
for the apartment block she lived in. UKI initially accepted the claim, but a short time later it 
told Miss F it wasnt covered by the policy. It said she needed Personal Possessions cover 
as the bike was outside of her home.
When Miss F complained, UKI maintained its decision to decline the claim. So, Miss F 
complained to this service. Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said the bike was in a 
garage. The term garage wasnt defined in the policy and so the policy term was unclear. 
She said Miss F had a valid claim when the policy definition for home was applied and the 
claim should be covered under the policy.
As UKI didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
The bike was stolen from a secure garage located under the apartment block Miss F lived in, 
which was for the use of its residents. UKI declined the claim because it said this wasnt part 
of Miss Fs home and she therefore needed cover for items left outside.
The policy provided cover for theft or attempted theft from your home The policy defined 
Home as:
The main residence occupied by you, at the address shown in your schedule, including its 
domestic garages and outbuildings.
The policy doesnt define the term garage. So, looking at the dictionary, this describes a 
garage as a Building or shed for storage of motor vehicles. The bike was stolen from an 
area where block residents parked motor vehicles. The term domestic also isnt defined in 
the policy. The garage wasnt used for commercial purposes. So, I think it can reasonably be 
interpreted as for domestic use.
Im aware that UKI has said that if Miss F had a garage, she would have sole access to it 
and bear full responsibility for its security. UKI also said the bike was in a communal car park 
underneath the building, it wasnt attached to her main dwelling and that other people had 
access to it. But the policy didnt define a garage and it made no reference to personal 
versus communal use. I dont think Miss F could reasonably be expected to know that each 
of the issues UKI has described needed to be met in order to meet the terms of the policy. It 
was a secure garage under the block Miss F lived in and she had her own car parking 
space, which she paid for. UKI has also said Miss F needed Personal Possessions cover for 
the claim to be covered. But I dont think this was clear from the wording of the policy either. 
Thinking about this carefully, I dont think it was reasonable for UKI to decline the claim. I 
think the policy wording can reasonable be interpreted as providing cover for the 
circumstances in which the bike was stolen. Although UKI might not have intended Miss Fs 
circumstances, based on the wording of the policy, I dont think the policy made this this 
clear. 
Putting things right
As a result, UKI should deal with the claim on the basis that it falls within the definition of 
home, including its domestic garages as described by the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is upheld. I require U 
K Insurance Limited to deal with the claim on the basis that the bike was stolen from a 
domestic garage as referred to in the policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman