DRN-3092621
The complaint
Mr J complained that AvantCredit of UK, LLC (trading as Avantcredit) acted irresponsibly 
when it agreed to lend to him.
What happened
Mr J took out a loan with Avantcredit as follows:
Date Loan 
TakenNumber of instalments Loan 
AmountMonthly  
repayment*Total amount 
repayable over 
loan term
12/06/2015 42 £7,000 £390.62 £16,406
When Mr J complained to Avantcredit, it didnt uphold his complaint. So Mr J brought his 
complaint to us to investigate.
Mr J mainly said that Avantcredit didnt act responsibly when it agreed to lend to him  he 
told us he was already in debt to other lenders and borrowing in order to maintain his 
ongoing commitments. Mr J felt AvantCredit could have been aware that he wasnt in a 
position to borrow more money and lending to him made his situation worse. His money 
problems led to him being in a debt management plan set up with the help of a debt charity.   
Our investigator upheld Mr Js complaint. He didnt think that AvantCredit had done 
proportionate checking before providing the loan  and had it done so, it wouldve seen 
enough to realise that its loan wasnt sustainably affordable for Mr J.
Avantcredit didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to make a final decision. AvantCredit 
said that from the checks completed, it didn't feel that there was any indication that the loan 
would be unaffordable for Mr J.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible lending complaints 
on our website - including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. 
Ive taken all this into account when Ive been thinking about this complaint and Ive looked 
at the complaint afresh  and Ive independently reached the same overall conclusion as our 
investigator. Ill explain my reasons. 
Avantcredit needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
Avantcredit should have carried out an affordability check with the focus on the borrower. 
This means that Avantcredit had to look into Mr Js particular financial situation and think 
about whether repaying the loan sustainably would lead to difficulties or result in adverse 
consequences for Mr J.
Avantcredit had to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr J 
would be able repay the loan sustainably. There was no set list of checks that Avantcredit 
had to do, but it could take into account a number of different things including the loan 
amount, the length of the loan term, the repayment amounts and the borrowers overall 
financial circumstances.
I think a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally be more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income)
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and a borrower has to make payments for an extended period).
Avantcredit was required to establish whether Mr J could sustainably repay any lending it 
provided - not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
borrower could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesn't automatically follow this is 
the case. 
This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make 
their repayments without borrowing further.
Keeping all this in mind, Ive carefully considered all the information Ive seen and been told 
and thought about what this means for Mr Js complaint. 
AvantCredit said it did enough to check whether the loan repayments would be affordable for 
Mr J before agreeing to lend, and the information obtained didnt suggest that he would have 
difficulty repaying the loan or that the loan wouldnt be suitable for Mr J.
AvantCredit took steps to verify that Mr Js monthly income was around £2,900. When asked 
about his spending Mr J had told AvantCredit his monthly expenses were around £1,900. 
After doing its own credit checks to identify any pre-existing debt obligations and taking into 
account Mr Js credit history, AvantCredit said it was satisfied that the contractual loan 
repayments for this loan would have been affordable for Mr J.
But AvantCredit was required to establish whether Mr J could sustainably make his loan 
repayments  not just whether the loan payments looked affordable on a strict pounds and 
pence calculation. And I dont think AvantCredit thought carefully enough about 
information it saw about Mr Js use of credit. AvantCredit was aware from its own credit checks that Mr J had opened seven new 
accounts within the previous 3 months and three of those were identified as short-term 
loans. It could see that Mr J had increased his total debt balance by more than £500 during 
this period and he had four outstanding loan accounts and a credit card when he applied for 
this loan. The total value of short-term loan accounts opened in the last month was shown as 
£700  and hed borrowed £1,470 this way over the previous 6 months
I think these were worrying signs that he was already facing serious problems managing 
his money and that he had become over-reliant on expensive credit. So I dont think 
AvantCredit made a fair lending decision when it lent to Mr J based on the information it 
had gathered.  
Bearing in mind also the high cost of the monthly repayments and the 3  year loan term, 
I think AvantCredit needed to do more in-depth checks to ensure it had a proper 
understanding of Mr Js financial situation before it provided this loan  and had it done so, it 
wouldve seen nothing to reassure it that the loan would be affordable for Mr J. 
I've looked at a credit report and bank statements provided by Mr J which I think are a useful 
guide to understanding Mr Js overall financial situation at the time. And if AvantCredit had 
looked further into Mr Js finances and his use of credit, it would have seen more evidence 
that Mr J had an established record of taking out short-term loans and in the weeks running 
up to Mr J applying for this loan that he had been in a cycle of borrowing-repaying-borrowing 
again from multiple other short term lenders. 
When he applied for his loan he was already making repayments to at least four other 
providers of short-term loans and high cost credit  and also servicing the repayments owed 
each month to an expensive credit card he had been making use of for a year.
Like our investigator, I think this pattern of short-term borrowing strongly suggested that Mr J 
was already having serious money problems and that he depended on taking out new credit 
to supplement his income. It is apparent from looking at his bank statements that Mr J didnt 
have the amount of disposable income that AvantCredits income and expenditure 
calculations suggested, or indeed any spare cash at all  all the signs are that his finances 
were under significant stress. 
AvantCredit had no reason to think that its loan was intended for debt consolidation and it 
should have realised that its loan would simply add to Mr Js overall indebtedness (and all 
the indications are that this reasonably foreseeable outcome is exactly what happened).
To my mind, AvantCredit shouldve realised that Mr J was not in a position to sustainably 
repay a high-cost loan with repayments of around £390 each month, given that he seemed 
to be already over-stretched financially. So, it follows that I dont think AvantCredit should 
have agreed to provide this loan to Mr J in these circumstances. 
   
Our investigator didnt think Avantcredit had acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr J in 
any other way. Mr J hasnt objected to that finding so I dont think I need comment further on 
this  other than to say that I've looked at the way AvantCredit responded when Mr J had 
payment problems and I agree it seems to have treated him positively and sympathetically in 
those discussions.   
So, I dont plan to ask Avantcredit to do pay any additional redress over and above what I've 
set out below. 
Putting things rightI think it is fair and reasonable for Mr J to repay the principal amount that he borrowed 
because he had the benefit of that lending. But he has had to pay interest and charges on 
a loan that shouldnt have been provided to him.
If AvantCredit has sold any outstanding debt it should buy this back if able to do so and then 
take the following steps. Otherwise, AvantCredit should liaise with the new debt owner to 
achieve the results outlined below and do the following:
Add up the total amount of money Mr J received as a result of having been given the 
loan. The repayments Mr J made to the loan should be deducted from this amount.
If this results in Mr J having paid more than he received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement). 
If any capital balance remains outstanding, then AvantCredit should continue to work 
with Mr J and try to agree an affordable and suitable payment plan with Mr J. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AvantCredit to deduct tax from this interest. AvantCredit 
should give Mr J a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct AvantCredit of UK, LLC to take the steps I've set out 
above to put things right for Mr J. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman