DRN-3234798
The complaint
Mr B complains that Fairmead Insurance Limited avoided his home insurance policy (treated
it like it never existed) and refused to pay his claim.
All references to Fairmead in my decision include its agents.
What happened
In July 2019 Mr B took out a home insurance policy with Fairmead Insurance by phone 
through an agent acting on behalf of the insurer.
In August 2019 Mr B reported a burglary to the property  he said thieves had stolen
materials from the roof and damaged the property gaining access to it. Mr B contacted the
police and his insurer, Fairmead.
Fairmead instructed a loss adjuster (LA) to visit Mr Bs property in September 2019. She
reported that the property was in a poor state of repair and derelict. She said there was
extensive mould damage throughout the property which was a longstanding issue.
Fairmead discovered that Mr B had a County Court Judgment (CCJ) which he hadnt
disclosed when he bought the policy.
In February 2020 Fairmead decided to avoid Mr Bs policy. It said Mr B had misrepresented
the facts when he bought the policy. It gave the following reasons for avoiding the policy:
Mr B disclosed a criminal conviction when he bought the policy, but he didnt
disclose a CCJ.
The property was unoccupied and virtually derelict and;
Mr B didnt disclose his intention to convert the property into an adult care
home.
Fairmead Insurance said hed answered the questions it asked about CCJs, occupancy, and
the condition of the property incorrectly. Fairmead hasnt specified, but I understand it
considered this to be a careless qualifying misrepresentation rather than deliberate or
reckless, which entitled it to avoid the policy from the start date in July 2019. I say this
because it arranged for a refund of the premium Mr B had paid. If an insurer considers a
misrepresentation to be deliberate or reckless, it can decide to keep the premium in line with
the legislation that applies in this case, which Ive expanded on later in my decision.
In June 2020 solicitors acting on behalf of Mr B complained to Fairmead about its decision.
But in September 2020 Fairmead didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint.
In January 2021 Mr B brought his complaint to us and our investigator initially thought it
shouldnt be upheld.
Mr B provided further information about the CCJ which he said hed settled , refurbishment
costs he said he spent on the property in 2014 and photos of the damage to the property in
August 2019 immediately after the theft.
Mr B said the rest of the property that wasnt damaged by the theft was in excellent
condition.
The investigator shared this information with Fairmead. Fairmead said Mr B hadnt shown
that the condition of the property  five years after the stated refurbishments  was in a good
state of repair. It said the LAs report and photos along with the answers Mr B gave when he
applied for the policy meant its decision was correct. Photos of the property showed
windows were boarded up  and online images showed windows were boarded up on the
property in 2018.
In August 2021 the investigator changed his mind and thought Mr Bs complaint should be
upheld. He said the photos Mr B had taken immediately after the damage occurred in August
2019 didnt show the mould or the collapsed ceiling that the LA noted a month later when
she visited the property. The investigator thought it reasonable that the damage had
occurred during the month that the roof was exposed, allowing rain to enter the property.
The investigator didnt think Fairmead had shown that the property was unoccupied. Mr B
had told Fairmead in the sales call that he intended to stay at the property occasionally
which Fairmead accepted.
In response, Fairmead provided a copy of the police report which described the property
when they visited immediately after the theft as not habitable. Fairmead said this supported
the LAs finding.
The investigator said Mr B had explained that he was using just a couple of rooms and the
rest of the property was unfurnished. He said the photos showed that the damage to a
collapsed ceiling was in a room directly underneath the exposed area of the roof. And so he
thought it reasonable that this damage occurred in the month up to the LAs visit caused by
rain entering the property. The investigator couldnt see mould in the photos from Mr B taken
immediately after the theft that were in the photos taken by the LA a month later.
The investigator checked Fairmeads underwriting guide and found that it would have offered
cover if it had known Mr B had a settled CCJ. Mr B had provided evidence to show he was
out of the country when the CCJ was issued. He settled the CCJ on his return and the other
party applied for the application to be withdrawn. So the investigator didnt think it
reasonable for Fairmead to use the undisclosed CCJ as a reason to void Mr Bs policy. He
thought Fairmead should put Mr B back in the same position he would have been in if not for
the voidance. He recommended that Fairmead should do the following:
Remove the voidance, amend its records and any central databases to make 
sure any record of the avoidance is removed.
Reconsider Mr Bs claim.
pay Mr B £300 compensation to reflect the distress caused by unfairly voiding the
policy.
Mr B accepted the investigators view. Fairmead didnt agree for the reasons its already
given.
I asked Mr B to provide evidence that the CCJ had been withdrawn as he said. And I asked
for his comments on the police report which described the property as not habitable when
they visited immediately after reporting the burglary. I asked Mr B to provide any photos he
had to demonstrate that the property was in otherwise excellent condition as he described 
and to support his view that the LAs report about the condition of the property wasmisleading.
I asked Fairmead to provide evidence of the CCJ when Mr B applied for the policy.
Mr B has provided further photos, but wasnt able to provide any of a new kitchen extension
which he says shows the LAs report was misleading. He provided further details about the
CCJ and occupancy of the property.
Fairmead provided a screenshot of Mr Bs CCJ history in July 2019 which it relied on. This
shows three outstanding CCJs, including the one which Mr B says was withdrawn.
I issued a provisional decision on 28 October 2021. I didnt think Fairmead could rely on the 
reasons it gave to avoid Mr Bs policy - apart from the history of CCJs recorded against him. 
I thought Fairmead was entitled to avoid the policy due to Mr A misrepresenting the facts 
about the CCJs  and so even if one of them had been withdrawn, there were another two 
recorded against him. And I thought it was something Mr B ought to have reasonably known 
about. So in my provisional decision I said I didnt intend to uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
Fairmead accepted my provisional decision. Mr B didnt agree. In summary he says he 
wasnt aware of all of the CCJs recorded against him. He provided further information which 
we passed to Fairmead to consider. Fairmead said its decision remained unchanged. 
So as Mr B didnt agree, the case has been passed back to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations)
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard
of care is that of a reasonable consumer.
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Fairmead has given several reasons why it voided Mr Bs policy. But it can avoid a policy for
one reason  if it followed CIDRA and acted reasonably and in line with the policy when
doing so.
Fairmead Insurance thinks Mr B failed to take reasonable care not to make a
misrepresentation when he answered a number of questions which are set out on his
Statement of Fact (SOF) following a call between him and the broker. Fairmead has
provided us with a copy of the sales call which Ive listened to.
In my provisional decision I set out why I didnt think Fairmead could rely on all of the 
reasons it gave for avoiding Mr Bs policy. Mr B has provided further documents in support, but as I found in his favour for this part of the complaint and Fairmead hasnt disputed my 
provisional findings here, I dont intend to go over these points again in my final decision. 
I think Fairmeads decision to avoid Mr Bs policy for misrepresenting information about  
CCJs recorded against him was reasonable. Ill explain why. 
The key statement from the SOF which Fairmead is relying on to show Mr B
misrepresented the facts are:
Has proposer ever suffered financial problems: To include any unspent/unsatisfied
bankruptcy? Any individual Voluntary Arrangements (IVAS)? any County Court
Judgements (CCJs)?  None
When the agent asked Mr B if he had any previous CCJs, Mr B said he had one Individual
Voluntary Arrangement (IVA). The agent asked if it was all settled. Mr B said; yes, settled a
few months now.
The evidence provided by Fairmead shows there was more than one outstanding CCJ 
against Mr B when he applied for the policy. There were three outstanding CCJs from July 
2017, January 2019 and May 2019.
Mr B didnt disclose at least one CCJ which I think he would have been aware of at the time 
as he told us a warrant from the utility company arrived while he was out of the country and 
he agreed a repayment plan with them in July 2019  the same month he bought the policy.
In relation to the other two CCJs, Mr B says he wasnt aware of them as one of the 
properties they relate to was being leased out to a third party. So Mr B says he wasnt 
responsible for the bills at the time. He believes the CCJs are wrongly set against his name. 
Mr B says he was out of the country for prolonged periods. He provided a copy of a lease 
agreement he said was in place. 
Fairmead considered the additional information Mr B provided in response to my provisional 
decision. It referred to its underwriters and confirmed its decision remains the same. 
From what Mr B has told us he was acting as a commercial landlord from 2016 to the middle 
of 2019. I dont think it unreasonable for a landlord to have arrangements in place for any 
potential issues - such as unpaid bills by a tenant and the potential consequences of that - to 
be dealt with by proxy. Ultimately the CCJs are recorded against his name over a period of 
three years which I think he ought to have been reasonably aware of.
I think Fairmead asked Mr B a clear question about whether he had a CCJ which  from the
information provided - he didnt answer correctly and so he failed to take reasonable care.
In line with CIDRA, I looked at what Fairmead would have done had it been aware that Mr B
had settled one outstanding CCJ and an application to withdraw was made by the other
party. Mr B provided an email from June 2020 from a utility company in respect of one of the
CCJs. This email says it is attaching a letter of satisfaction  and that the utility company
sent a letter to the Court in July 2019 to suspend the warrant against Mr B.
An insurers underwriting criteria is commercially sensitive and so cannot be shared with
customers. But we can ask an insurer to provide this to us so we can be satisfied its treated
a customer fairly. I think from its underwriting guide that Fairmead would have provided Mr B
with a policy  and this seems to be supported by the fact the agent didnt have any
concerns with Mr B having had a settled IVA, on the basis of the settled CCJ.But the evidence provided from Fairmead means that even if one of the CCJs had been 
settled as Mr B says, Fairmeads underwriting criteria shows it wouldnt have offered him a 
policy based on the remaining undisclosed CCJs.
So Im satisfied that Fairmeads decision to avoid Mr Bs policy was reasonable due to
misrepresenting information about CCJs.
This means Im satisfied Mr Bs misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
In my provisional decision I said that Fairmead hadnt clarified how it classified the 
misrepresentation. But as it refunded the premium Mr B paid, I think it has treated Mr B fairly 
as it seems to have treated the misrepresentation as careless, rather than reckless or 
deliberate. I havent received any new information to dispute my provisional findings here. 
I understand Mr B will be disappointed with my decision. But based on what Ive seen, Im 
not upholding his complaint. I think Fairmeads decision to avoid his policy 
and therefore not meet his claim  was reasonable, in line with CIDRA and the policy terms
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman