DRN-2704445
The complaint
Mr P complains about losses and commission incurred on his foreign exchange contracts for 
difference (CFD) account with Swissquote Ltd. 
What happened
Mr P opened a Swissquote account in July 2019 following an introduction from a third party 
broker who would trade on his behalf. He invested €15,000 but by January 2020 the balance 
had reduced to less than €1,500 so he cancelled his brokers permissions.
 
Mr P made a complaint to Swissquote in March 2020. He wanted his money to be returned 
to him and said, in summary:
the broker had taken over €5,000 in commission  this was a third of his original 
capital
even if the trades had been successful, commission at these levels would still have 
reduced the overall balance 
the broker worked with their own interests in mind  Swissquote ought to be 
responsible for monitoring the good conduct of its brokers to protect clients 
Swissquote didnt tell him about the brokers fees and there was no control or 
warning about the rapid and significant losses  he felt his interests as a client hadnt 
been protected
Swissquote looked into his concerns and sent their final response in May 2020 but didnt 
agree theyd done anything wrong. They said that when Mr P had opened the account, 
theyd informed him of the commissions as well as the risks involved. 
Remaining unhappy, Mr P asked for our help. One of our investigators had a look at what 
had happened but pointed out that Swissquote and the broker were different companies, so 
Swissquote wouldnt be responsible for the actions  including charges and commission  of 
the broker. And as they werent based in the UK, we couldnt look at a complaint about them. 
Regarding Swissquotes actions, he didnt agree theyd done anything wrong. He said they 
were an execution-only platform provider and the commission charged was in line with the 
information shared when the account was opened.
 
Mr P didnt agree. He said he was aware he could lose money trading CFDs but felt the high 
number of trades led to an unacceptable amount paid in commission. He also pointed out he 
was a retail client which meant he was afforded the highest level of regulatory protection, yet 
this hadnt materialised. He shared another spreads and commissions schedule which 
seemed to be associated with a different account.
 
Our investigator considered these points but explained that Swissquote just provided the 
platform for trading  they acted on the instructions of the broker so if he felt trades were 
placed unnecessarily for the purposes of generating commission, hed need to complain to 
them instead. 
Our investigator also agreed that Mr P was afforded the highest level of protection, but the 
issue here was that what was being complained of wasnt something Swissquote were 
answerable for. As our investigator wasnt persuaded to change his mind, the complaint was 
passed to me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I can see the core of this complaint turns on the commission  Mr P thinks 
that trades were placed with commission in mind, and this has contributed to the 
considerable losses on his account. 
Ive reviewed what was shared with Mr P when he opened his account. Swissquotes 
additional spread and commission schedule listed a number of different groups and the 
spreads that would be applied in either pips or Euros. I recognise Mr P has also shared a 
schedule with us that had a different login number associated to it, however the spreads and 
commissions were the same as what was listed on his schedule. 
From the statements Mr P shared, I can see most of the positions entered into were either 
on the Euro Dollar (EUR/USD) currency pair or on the Dow Jones Industrial Average. 
Charges for the former were by way of a 5.5 pip spread and the latter was set at €6. I have 
reviewed the example trades Mr P shared  the spreads would have been worked into the 
currency pair prices and the commission was in line with the index charge. While the 
commission figures looked higher on some trades, this was when Mr P was trading in 
numerous lots. 
So from what Ive seen, Swissquote told Mr P what theyd be charging him and this was in 
line with the trades we have been able to review. If Mr P has paid more by way of 
commission and charges, it is likely this will be as a result of charges incurred through his 
broker by way of payment for servicing his account. And this wouldnt be something 
Swissquote would have shared with him either  it would have been shared by the broker 
given it was their charges.
Ive tried to trace Mr Ps broker and have looked at the regulators register, but I cannot see it 
was an FCA regulated company so its not something that our service would be able to help 
with. While I understand Mr P wont feel the broker was entitled to be paid for working on his 
account given the losses sustained, Im afraid this is something he will need to raise with 
them directly. 
I appreciate that the general thrust of Mr Ps complaint is that he feels Swissquote shouldnt 
have allowed this to happen as he was a retail client and ought to have been protected. But 
Mr P is entitled to the protections afforded to him from such a categorisation  this just 
doesnt extend to us being able to hold Swissquote responsible for another companys 
actions. 
It appears that the third party broker approached Mr P about opening a trading account of 
this sort and Mr P says it was their decision as to which trades would be placed using an 
automated system. So Swissquote cant be held responsible for the brokers decision to, as 
Mr P alleges, trade unnecessarily and generate commission. The account with Swissquote 
was execution-only so it wouldnt be for them to intervene on whatever agreement Mr P 
entered into with the broker who traded on his behalf. 
Ive also thought about the wider circumstances and how Mr P begun his relationship with 
Swissquote as this can be an important consideration when it is alleged that the trading was 
wholly inappropriate and the risks were unknown. As Swissquote are a regulated firm theyre subject to the rules set out in the regulators handbook  the conduct of business (COBS) 
section is whats relevant here. 
Swissquote werent required to assess the suitability of Mr Ps upcoming trading given they 
werent going to be giving him any advice  his account was opened on an execution-only 
basis so it was for him or his appointed agent to decide which trades to make. However, 
COBS 10 required Swissquote to assess his appropriateness for trading as he did. In other 
words, this required them to gather relevant information from Mr P in order to decide whether 
he had the necessary knowledge and experience to understand the risks involved. 
Looking at the answers Mr P provided, he was employed as an engineer when he opened 
the account, he earned €40,000 a year and had €30,000 in savings and investments. When 
asked how often he traded in the last three years, he answered regularly to forex, CFDs, 
spread bets, futures, options, warrants, shares, bonds and exchange traded funds. 
When asked relevant questions about the account, he confirmed that he understood the 
nature and risks of trading on margin (including that he could lose more than his initial 
deposit) and that he understood how derivates transactions are priced. He also had to 
confirm hed read the terms and risks associated with the account. Mr P therefore showed 
Swissquote that he had relevant trading experience and knowledge to open an account of 
this nature so I dont think there was a problem here either. 
From all that I have seen, it wasnt wrong of Swissquote to let Mr P open this sort of account 
and the commissions they have charged are in line with what was agreed at the outset. 
While I sympathise with Mr Ps situation as I can see hes lost a lot of money, it was his 
choice to appoint a third party to trade on his behalf  if he feels hes been charged 
additional commission or isnt happy with the trades they placed, thats something he ought 
to raise with them directly, as its just not something we can hold Swissquote accountable 
for.
Unfortunately Mr P did lose money trading, but as Ive not seen Swissquote did anything 
wrong I dont think his losses are something for which they ought fairly and reasonably to be 
held responsible for.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2021.
 
Aimee Stanton
Ombudsman