DRN-1981042
The complaint
Mr D has complained Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund a payment for £1,600 he didnt 
make.
What happened
On 2 April Mr D got a text from Barclays confirming a payment. He checked his mobile 
banking. As hed not made this payment, he complained to Barclays. They believed the 
evidence showed Mr D must have made this as the transaction was completed on a device 
registered to him. Thered also been another payment to the same beneficiary on 28 March 
made from Mr Ds Barclays savings account.
Mr D brought his complaint to the ombudsman service. 
Our investigator reviewed the evidence which included the mobile devices linked to Mr Ds 
Barclays account. Mr D had confirmed nobody else had access to his mobile banking details 
 and he often accessed this using touch ID. Having reviewed what had happened she felt it 
was most likely Mr D had made these payments himself.
Mr D didnt agree with this outcome. Hes asked an ombudsman to consider his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator and for roughly similar 
reasons. Ill explain why.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The Payment Services Regulations are the relevant law here. These primarily require banks 
to refund customers if they didnt make or authorise payments themselves. Certain other 
circumstances do apply but nothing thats had an impact on the decision Im making here. 
So when we look at whether a bank has acted fairly in rejecting someones fraud complaint, 
one of the things we consider is whether the customer made the transactions themselves or 
allowed them to be made. If they did, then we generally wouldnt ask the bank to refund 
them.
So to help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transactions, as well 
as what Barclays and Mr D have told us. I can see the timeline of events and each partys 
testimony were covered in our investigators view of 18 June 2020. I dont intend to repeat 
everything that was said there. I will, of course, refer to those aspects which form the basis 
of my decision.
The issues Ive considered include:
On the day before the disputed transaction, Mr D received a payment for £1,650. 
Mr D rarely had that much money in this account and it was only this high balance 
which allowed the payment for £1,600 to be made on 2 April.
A few days before that on 27 March Mr D had received £1,300 into his account from 
the same person. Hed sent this money back to the same person using Barclays 
mobile banking service on 28 March.
On 7 April Mr D received a further £120 from the same person but theres no 
evidence any further payments were made into his account after that date.
These aspects taken together makes me wonder whether someone was paying 
money into Mr Ds account, expecting him to transfer funds onwards.
The disputed transaction was made using the mobile device registered to Mr D.
Mr Ds mobile banking records  as our investigator mentioned  show Mr D logged 
in (or certainly a login was accomplished with a device registered to Mr D) more than 
a couple of hours before the payment for £1,600 was made. This happened even 
though Mr D has told us he was asleep at the time he got a text from Barclays 
confirming the payment.
Mr D appears to have made two transfers from his savings account to his current 
account on 2 April. He then transferred this money to another account in two 
amounts (which I presume is his account with another bank).
This indicates Mr D was using his own mobile banking service around the same time 
as the disputed transaction.
Overall I dont think its likely someone else made the disputed transactions without Mr D 
being aware and having consented to these. On this basis it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to 
ask Barclays to refund Mr D.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Ds complaint against 
Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2021.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman