DRN-2572969
The complaint
This complaint is about mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) sold by Lloyds Bank 
plc, trading at the time as Cheltenham & Gloucester (C&G). Mrs B and Mr S say this cover 
was mis-sold to them. 
For consistency, Ill refer mainly to C&G in my decision.
What happened
These events relate to two PPI policies that were sold alongside mortgages. Mrs B and Mr S 
took out an initial C&G mortgage in 1999. They borrowed more money in 2000. PPI cover 
was sold on both occasions to protect Mrs B and Mr S in the event of them losing their jobs 
or becoming too ill to work.
One of our adjudicators looked into this case and said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. But 
Mrs B and Mr S disagreed and so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold 
this complaint. 
I need to first think about whether Mrs B and Mr S were given an option and whether C&G 
properly obtained their consent to add PPI. Mrs B and Mr S told us the PPI may have been 
portrayed as compulsory. Obviously this is possible, but of course to agree with this, Id need 
to think that this happened twice, on occasions a year apart. I consider that unlikely given all 
the other available evidence.
For example, my experience from the C&G mortgage sales Ive seen from around the time 
period in question is that consumers were usually asked to choose whether or not they 
wanted PPI when they completed their mortgage application form. Another step was then 
usually required, in the form of a separate PPI application. This went in to more detail about 
the type of protection required and who should be covered.
From the documentation Ive seen here, this happened in this case both in 1999 and 2000. 
Mrs B and Mr S applied twice for PPI by filling out application forms and apportioning the PPI 
benefit  the amount payable in the event of a claim  on a 30 / 70% basis. 
So, Im afraid I think this strongly implies there would have been a discussion about having 
PPI and that Mrs B and Mr S probably gave some considerable thought to what they wanted 
to do. I think the point of sale documentation Ive seen also represents solid evidence that 
they agreed to the cover on two separate occasions and would have known the choice was 
theirs to make. I accept they may not remember this now, but the evidence is strong, in my 
view, that C&G correctly obtained Mrs B and Mr Ss consent.
Its not disputed that the PPI was recommended each time to Mrs B and Mr S as part of 
advised sales. This means C&G had a duty to ensure the PPI was suitable for them. 
I think it was suitable because they were both eligible for the cover and not caught by any of 
the major exclusions we tend to see in these types of policy. The cost of the PPI also seems 
affordable for them on each occasion, given the protection the policies offered them. To help 
demonstrate that they didnt need PPI, Mrs B told us she already had some sickness 
protection through her job. I understand the point being made, but Im afraid this doesnt 
necessarily mean the PPI wasnt suitable. 
We know, for example, her portion was only part of the overall policy. The mortgage(s) were 
also secured against their home and so the consequences of not being able to make the 
repayments could have been serious for them. The cover also lasted longer than their work-
related benefits, even though I agree Mrs Bs job probably did have certain sickness-related 
benefits which were quite good. Nevertheless, the PPI would have paid out a monthly sum 
for up to 12 months for either applicant and I therefore dont think C&G recommending PPI 
to them was unreasonable. As I say, I think the cover was suitable for Mrs B and Mr S.
C&G also had to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading. I obviously cant 
confirm what would have been said to Mrs B and Mr S and its possible C&G could have 
done a better job in explaining things. But from what Ive seen, I think the disclosure of 
information looks comprehensive on each of the two occasions they were sold PPI. Its clear 
they met with a mortgage adviser each time and the records show they assessed their 
financial situation and provided a lot of detail about what the policy cost and what was 
covered. I see they were given accompanying documents explaining the terms. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs B and Mr S, but I think the evidence shows they engaged in 
these sales and had enough information on which to make an informed choice about what 
they wanted to do. I dont think the policies were mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs B and Mr Ss complaint. And I dont direct 
Lloyds Bank plc, trading as Cheltenham & Gloucester, to do anything to put matters right.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 March 2021.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman