DRN-3812457
The complaint
S, a limited company, complains Arthur J. Gallagher (UK) Ltd (AJG) have caused delays and 
unnecessary distress and inconvenience when renewing an insurance policy. 
S is being represented by its director, who Ill refer to as Mr H.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill summarise the key 
points Ive focused on within my decision.
AJG sent renewal documents to S in February 2022 and Mr H is unhappy that the 
renewal dates hadnt been brought in line with other policies he held with AJG 
S say there were issues trying to speak with AJG on the phone and communicate 
with it about the policy which took time away from it carrying out its day job
Because of the poor service received S decided not to renew the policy but this 
meant having to find alternative insurance at short notice
Our investigator reviewed the complaint but didnt uphold it
Mr H disagreed with our investigators outcome, so the complaint has been passed to 
me, an Ombudsman, to make a final decision on it
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand from Mr H that he says he had two other policies that were renewing around 
the same time. However, this complaint only focuses on the relevant policy for company S. 
S is the named policy holder albeit I acknowledge that Mr H explains these properties are all 
overseen by his management company which Ill refer to as A. But the complainant here is 
for S as the policy holder, meaning I can only look at Ss complaint in this case and therefore 
only consider any inconvenience to S  not A. I say this as A may have represented S in 
setting the policy up, but I cannot make an award to a representative or agent in line with our 
rules.
Mr H discussed with AJG in 2021 about aligning the renewals for all three policies so they 
renewed on the same date of the 23 March 2022, he says AJG over complicated the 
process and it didnt happen. 
As Ive outlined above, I can only consider Ss policy in this complaint. And its not in dispute 
that the renewal for Ss policy was due to take place on 11 March 2022 but in 2021 it was 
agreed that that a 12-day extension would be applied so that the renewal date could be 
brought in line with the other policies. This doesnt appear to have happened and instead 
one of the other policies was going to have its renewal brought forward. So, although I 
appreciate this was a different date to what was agreed in 2021, I can see AJG were trying 
to align the policy renewal dates.
However, as the renewal didnt go ahead and as S/A subsequently decided to change 
insurers. So, it seems any impact here was limited to the administration of arranging the S 
policy at short notice. 
S has also said the terms of renewal (premiums) were not competitive as he obtained a 
policy elsewhere for cheaper. I fail to see any impact of such a concern  given S went 
elsewhere anyway. So, even if I agreed AJG had made a mistake here, I wouldnt look to 
make a direction or award on this point given the limited overall impact.
In summary, S ultimately chose to insure elsewhere, and I appreciate this was because of 
how the process was handled. But our service cant compensate for distress Mr H has 
experienced personally. We can only award for inconvenience to the legal entity of S itself.
In this case the policy for S was on a vacant property and so there was no tenant/landlord 
relationship and Ive seen no other evidence of losses. So, I wont be asking AJG to do 
anything further on this complaint.
My final decision
For the above reasons I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 February 2023.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman