DRN-3206900
The complaint
Mr D has complained that Santander UK Plc continued charging him excessive amounts for 
his overdraft when he was in financial difficulty.
What happened
Mr D complained to Santander about the charges that had been applied to his account from 
around April 2019 onwards. He said hed been experiencing financial difficulties throughout 
this period and the charges had made things worse. Santander didnt uphold the complaint. 
And as Mr D was dissatisfied, he referred the complaint to our service.
Mr Ds complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She explained that she thought 
that Santander ought to have realised that Mr D was experiencing difficulties by 25 April 
2019 and so shouldnt have added any more interest, fees and charges from this point 
onwards. Santander didnt agree so the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when 
applying overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this 
decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im intending to find that Santander acted 
unfairly when it continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees after 25 April 
2019. By this point, it ought to have been clear that Mr D was at significant risk of financial 
difficulties and so might struggle to repay his overdraft. 
I say this because by this point, Santander ought to have realised that Mr Ds use of his 
overdraft was unsustainable. Mr Ds statements show significant gambling  in fact it was 
gambling transaction that had been flagged on Santanders systems as potentially of 
concern regarding rapid spending. But other than a short term block on the account until it 
was bought back into credit, and the refund/waiving of some charges, Santander doesnt 
appear to have done anything else at this time to address what appeared to be an ongoing 
problem. In these circumstances, I think Santander ought to have realised that Mr D was at a 
significant risk of being unable to repay what he owed. So Santander should have stopped 
providing the overdraft on the same terms and treated Mr D with forbearance rather than 
charge even more interest, fees and charges on the overdraft.
I acknowledge that Santander doesnt feel there were any clear signs of financial difficulties 
on Mr Ds account. But Id argue that the number and frequency of gambling transactions 
were a clear indicator that something was wrong, and continuing to lend to Mr D on the 
same terms when there were clear signs he may have a problem with gambling was not 
appropriate.
In reaching my conclusions, Ive thought about what Santander has said about the 
Consumer Credit Sourcebook, the terms and conditions of Mr Ds account, its process and 
any actions it may have taken. But for the reasons Ive already explained, I remain satisfied 
that it wasnt fair to continue adding charges to Mr Ds account from 25 April 2019.
Mr D ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on his overdraft and this ended 
up exacerbating difficulties he already had in trying to clear it. So I think that Santander didnt 
treat Mr D fairly and he lost out because of what Santander did wrong. And this means that it 
should put things right.
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Ds complaint for Santander to put things right by:
Reworking Mr Ds current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it after 25 April 2019 are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made Santander should contact Mr D to arrange a suitable repayment plan, 
Mr D is encouraged to get in contact with and cooperate with Santander to reach 
a suitable agreement. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information 
on Mr Ds credit file, Santander should reflect what would have been recorded 
had it started the process of taking corrective action on the overdraft in April 
2019. Santander can also reduce overdraft limit by the amount of refund if it 
considers it appropriate to do so, as long as doing so wouldnt leave Mr D over 
their limit.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr D along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then 
Santander should remove any adverse information from Mr Ds credit file. 
Santander can also reduce Mr Ds overdraft limit by the amount of refund if it 
considers it appropriate to do so.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander 
must give Mr D a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ds complaint. Santander UK Plc should put 
things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2022.
 
Sophie MitchellOmbudsman