DRN-1325764
 
The complaint
Mr L complains that Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) lent to him in an 
irresponsible manner.
background
Mr L took five instalment loans from Lending Stream. These are:
Loan Date taken Date repaid Amount Highest monthly 
repayment
1 30/01/2018 26/07/2018 250 106
2 19/04/2018 25/06/2018 100 121
3 30/04/2018 25/09/2018 300 250
4 26/09/2018 29/03/2019 900 310
5 28/05/2019 26/06/2019 200 68
 
All five loans were arranged to be repaid over six monthly instalments. 
Mr Ls complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. He sent a letter to both 
parties where he didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint. He concluded that Lending Stream didnt 
need to carry out any further checks at the time it granted the five loans to Mr L and didnt do 
anything wrong. 
Mr L didnt agree with our adjudicator. He said he was in clear financial difficulty at the time 
of lending and Lending Stream were irresponsible to give him the loans.
So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has been passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that Mr L could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Lending Stream did a number of checks before it lent to Mr L. It asked him for details of his 
income and his normal expenditure on each of the five occasions. It gathered data from 
credit reference agencies. And it then used this information to calculate how much 
disposable income Mr L had left over each month. Lending Stream also used the credit 
reference agency checks to gather some more information about Mr Ls financial situation at 
that time.
The repayments that Mr L had agreed to make on his five loans were relatively modest 
compared to the disposable income that hed declared to Lending Stream on each occasion. 
And based on what he had told Lending Stream and the credit checks it carried out, the 
repayments appeared to be affordable. I dont think there was any reason for Lending 
Stream to doubt the information Mr L had provided about his income and expenditure. So 
given these repayment amounts, what Mr L had declared and his lack of borrowing history 
with the lender, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for Lending Stream to ask him for 
the amount of information that would be needed to show the lending was unsustainable. So I 
dont think Lending Stream was wrong to give the five loans to Mr L.
Mr L's representatives say that loans were overlapping and this shows that Lending Stream 
were irresponsible in providing additional loans when Mr L already had credit outstanding. I 
can see that Mr L would have had loans 1 and 2 outstanding when he applied for loan 3. But 
these were for relatively small amounts and with the information Mr L gave about his 
disposable income, it would have been apparent to Lending Stream that he could afford the 
repayments at this stage. 
Mr L has said that he was in financial difficulty and Lending Stream should have picked up 
on this. But as i have already concluded I don't think it would have been proportionate for 
Lending Stream to carry out further checks for the reasons I have already given. The credit checks also didnt show any concerning information such as bankruptcy or court 
judgements. There was one default showing on the report from loan 2 onwards but this on its 
own I dont think would be enough for Lending Stream to have been alerted to carry out 
further checks. 
I do acknowledge what Mr L has said about his circumstances at the time the loans were 
granted. But it wasnt a requirement for Lending Stream to carry out thorough credit checks 
when it agreed to lend, rather it needed to carry out proportionate checks and as I have 
already concluded, I think it did on the five occasions that it did so. 
So in conclusion, I dont think Lending Stream was wrong to give these five loans to Mr L.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ls complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 May 2020.
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman