DRN-3903768
The complaint
Mr G complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc did not follow their procedures regarding overseas 
transfers and they provided him with poor customer service on numerous occasions.
What happened
Mr G says he rang HSBC on 13 February 2022 to arrange a transfer of £178,700 into a third 
party UK account. The agreement he had with the third party provider was that upon the 
receipt of the funds - which needed to be deposited by 12:59 New Zealand Standard Time 
(NZST), they would deposit $363,807.11 New Zealand Dollars (NZD) into an overseas bank 
with a different third party provider. 
Mr G says that the funds were not received in time and he had not received any 
communication from HSBC indicating that there was a problem, even though they knew the 
payment was time critical. Mr G rang HSBC on 16 February 21:00 NZST, where he was 
informed there had been a fraud flag applied, but it shouldnt be a problem. Mr G made a 
complaint to HSBC.
Mr G says that HSBC responded to him and they acknowledged there had been an error in 
them not contacting him. Mr G requested that HSBC transfer the £178,700 from his account 
and make up the shortfall in the exchange rate as it had fallen by $20,000NZD during this 
time. HSBC explained that he would need to process the payment and then they would 
review the difference in the exchange rate.
Mr G attempted to make the transfer again on 9 March. He says a system note was left by 
HSBC to contact him at any time to ensure that the payment could go through. As he heard 
nothing by 05:00 NZST, he had woken early to ring HSBC to check the status of the transfer. 
He says he was informed that there had been no fraud flag applied to the payment and the 
call handler told him the payment would go through and he would follow the payment up. But 
the payment did not go through again and Mr G lost the window to transfer the funds. Mr G 
attempted the transfer again on 14 March, But again, the payment was not successful. 
Mr G brought his complaint to our service. He says his overseas house was on the market 
and he was unable to progress a sale and move without his funds being transferred. He said 
that due to the payment failures, he was faced with taking his house off the market and 
marketing the property to date had cost approximately $2,000NZD, which he felt HSBC 
should pay. He also wanted 8% interest as he was not able to access his money as intended 
between 13 February-30 May 2022.
HSBC told our service that they agreed to refund the shortfall in the exchange rate and to 
pay him £1,500 compensation for distress and inconvenience. HSBC said they couldnt 
agree 8% interest is owed, because there were no blocks on the account that prevented him 
accessing the account. They also said they would not be offering to cover the marketing fees 
he mentioned as these fees would have been payable regardless of the delay.
Our investigator said that as the funds were still in Mr Gs account and the account wasnt 
blocked then HSBC would not be liable for his marketing costs as these may have been 
payable anyway. She said that HSBC had made up the exchange rate shortfall and awarded 
Mr G £1,500 compensation which she thought was fair.
Mr G asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He made a number of points. In 
summary, he said he didnt agree that his funds were not blocked as he made three attempts 
to make the transfer and spent several hours on the phone to HSBC and he was deprived 
access to his money as they would not release his funds, so he thought it was reasonable 
for them to pay him 8% interest on that amount. Mr G said he was withdrawing his claim for 
his marketing costs as he now agrees this would have been payable anyway.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything 
hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be 
focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here.
Ive considered what Mr G has said about his funds being blocked. I can sympathise with 
why he feels this way as a result of the multiple attempts to transfer his money were 
unsuccessful through factors outside of his control, but Im satisfied his funds werent 
blocked. I say this because HSBC have confirmed there were no blocks on his account. 
They have confirmed the reason for the unsuccessful transfers was because of their failure 
to contact Mr G on his overseas telephone number, which meant the transfers couldnt be 
verified and therefore they were reversed. So Im not persuaded that paying Mr G 8% 
interest on the amount would be reasonable here.
I have considered the compensation that HSBC have paid Mr G. They paid him the shortfall 
on the exchange rate between what he should have received and what he did receive. They 
also paid him £1,500 compensation for distress and inconvenience. I must make Mr G aware 
that HSBC have paid him more than our guidelines would permit me to award for distress 
and inconvenience for what happened here, so Im satisfied the compensation HSBC paid 
him for specifically distress and inconvenience recognises the impact the errors had on him 
and the many hours Mr G spent trying to rectify this situation. 
But while Im satisfied the compensation was fair for distress and inconvenience and that 8% 
interest shouldnt be awarded, I have considered the possibility of lost interest in general as 
its possible the funds in the HSBC account could have been receiving a lower interest rate 
than his overseas account. I asked HSBC if they had considered this point and they told me 
that they hadnt looked at a loss of interest. They said they would be happy to agree to pay 
interest on the payment at the interest rate Mr Gs account would have paid overseas if this 
would have been higher.
I asked HSBC what rate of interest Mr Gs account was paying. They confirmed it was 
0.05%. I asked Mr G if he could send me evidence of the interest rate his overseas account 
was receiving between 13 February-30 May including any interest rate changes during this 
time and proof he held the account. Mr G provided evidence of an account in his name and 
the third party provider quoted the account number which matched the evidence Mr G 
showed me for the term investment account and they provided the interest rates for this 
account. 
Its difficult to say exactly what interest would have been paid as there are a number of 
variables here. I say this as although Mr G has evidenced he has a term investment account with the third party, it doesnt evidence the term which the account was over. The 
third party website shows terms available from 30 days-5 years. As Mr G attempted to make 
the first transfer on 13 February, the funds wouldnt have reached his overseas account on 
this date, especially as it was first being transferred through a third party provider. And the 
interest rate had changed more than once over the course of 13 February-30 May. 
I provided HSBC the evidence Mr G provided me regarding the account (he had asked them 
to quote the 90 day term and four month term interest rates) and I asked them to calculate 
the difference in interest between their account and the overseas account from 13 February-
30 May 2022. I asked them to use the higher interest rate of the four month term. To ensure 
fairness I did ask HSBC if they had any objection to the higher interest rate being used or the 
dates being used (for the reasons detailed in the previous paragraph). HSBC provided me 
with an interest calculation for the full time period and the higher interest rate. Their 
calculation did not take into account the different lower tiers of interest that Mr G would have 
received on his overseas account in February, March and April. Their calculation showed 
they used the 1.5% (even though this was only applied from 6 May). So the difference 
between the 1.5% rate of interest on the overseas account minus the 0.05% he was earning 
on his HSBC account was 1.45% and on £178,700 for 106 days, this equated to £752.50. So 
I intend to ask HSBC to put things right for Mr G.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. HSBC did not respond to my provisional decision. Mr G said he did not wish to 
make any further submissions. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party have provided me with any further information to consider, then my decision 
and reasoning remains the same as in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
In my provisional decision I said I intend to uphold this complaint in part. I said I intend to ask 
HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay Mr G £752.50* for lost interest. Im still satisfied this is a fair 
outcome for the reasons given previously.
*If HSBC considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, they should tell Mr G how much theyve taken off. They should also give Mr G a 
tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part. HSBC UK Bank Plc should settle the complaint in line with the 
instructions in the putting things right section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman