DRN-1846900
The complaint
Mr D complains about issues hes experienced with a car supplied with finance from Blue 
Motor Finance Ltd.
What happened
In January 2019 Mr D was supplied with a used car and entered into a hire purchase 
agreement with BMF. At the point of supply the car was 10 years old with 96,000 miles on 
the odometer.
Mr D says that within the first month the starter motor needed replacing. This was carried out 
by the supplying dealer. Following this there was an EGR fault which Mr D had repaired at 
his own expense. In or around July 2019 Mr D had an accident, following which he 
experienced a knocking noise which hadnt been there before. Shortly afterwards there was 
a loud bang and the car broke down.
Mr D reported this to BMF who advised Mr D to have the car inspected. The inspection 
found that the flywheel had seized and said it would be necessary to strip the engine to 
locate the fault.
BMF said it would cover the cost of stripping the engine in order to establish what had 
caused the fault. It said it would cover the cost of repairs if it was found to be responsible.
Mr D didnt return the car for the engine to be stripped but instead asked to reject it. BMF 
said he had no grounds to reject the car because liability for the fault hadnt yet been 
established.
The car was subsequently sold at auction and Mr D has been left with an outstanding 
balance under the agreement. He complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said there was no evidence that the engine 
fault was present at the point of supply and he was unable to conclude that the car was of 
unsatisfactory quality.
Mr D didnt agree.  He said hed been left in debt and without a car.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because BMF has supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement theres an implied term 
that it is of satisfactory quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard that a 
reasonable person would expect, taking into account all of the relevant circumstances such 
as, amongst other things, the age and mileage of the car and the price paid. I would expect a 
second-hand car such as that supplied to Mr d to have a degree of wear and tear. So, in 
order to uphold this complaint I would need to be satisfied that there was a fault with the car 
at the point of supply, as opposed to a fault which arose due to general wear and tear.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, where a fault occurs in the first 6 months, theres a 
presumption that it was present at the point of supply unless the business can show 
otherwise. The business is allowed one opportunity to repair the fault. After 6 months, the 
burden of proof is reversed and its up to the consumer to show that there was a fault 
present at the point of supply.
In this case, Mr D experienced issues with the starter motor within the first 6 months. I can 
see that repairs were carried out by the dealer. Based on what Ive seen the repairs were 
successful.
The fault with the engine arose several months later and after Mr D had been involved in an 
accident. Theres no evidence to suggest that the accident caused the fault. However, 
theres no evidence that the fault existed prior to the accident either. Its up to Mr D to show 
that the fault was present at the point of supply. I cant see that Mr D reported any problems 
with the engine prior to July 2019. If there had been a  fault with the engine at the point of 
supply, In would have expected it to have become apparent much earlier on in the 
agreement, and not after around 6 months later. Ive taken into account the age and mileage 
of the car and as Ive already said, Id expect a degree of wear and tear. On balance, and 
taking into account all of the available information, I dont think theres enough evidence to 
show that there was a fault with the engine at the point of supply.
I can see that BMF offered to cover the costs of stripping the engine to establish the cause 
of the fault. Mr D has said that he was worried about getting the car back in pieces but I 
havent seen anything to suggest that this would have been the case. As an alternative to 
having the engine stripped Mr D was invited to obtain an independent inspection. I cant see 
that he did this. On balance, I dont think BMF has acted unfairly or unreasonably here.
Mr D has said that the timing chain should have been replaced prior to the point of supply. 
Although there is some evidence to suggest that the timing chain snapped, theres been no 
determinative finding as to the cause of the engine fault, so I dont think I can safely 
conclude that the timing chain itself was faulty, as opposed to being a part which was 
damaged as a result of another fault.
In conclusion, there isnt enough evidence to  show that the engine fault was present at the 
point of supply. Because of this Im unable to say that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality 
and I wont be asking BMF to do anything further.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2020.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman