DRN-3071282
The complaint
 Mr B complains about Bastion Insurance Services Limited (Bastion) who declined his claim 
under his gadget insurance. 
 
What happened
 Mr B took out a policy in June 2019 for the cover of his mobile phone. He said that he paid 
premiums for that policy for around 18 months, before making a claim and even renewed the 
policy with Bastion. Bastion declined the claim, as it said that he hadnt validated the policy 
within the first seven days of its inception. 
Mr B complained to Bastion as it had continued to take his premiums, it had been rude and 
lied to him and he had complied with its request to provide proof of ownership and usage. Mr 
B didnt receive a response from Bastion, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
Bastion offered to refund all the premiums Mr B had paid, as it agreed that it didnt seem fair 
that Mr B had paid premiums since June 2019, when there was no risk to Bastion. Mr B 
wasnt happy with this outcome as he said it didnt consider the frustration and unnecessary 
strain Bastion put on him, so he asked our service to investigate further. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and upheld it. She asked Bastion to send 
its full file for review. It didnt send this. Her view was that Bastion ought to have cancelled 
the policy when there was no device on cover, rather than continued to take premiums from 
Mr B. She accepted the impact this had on Mr B and in recognition of the poor customer 
service she recommended that Bastion pay £75 for the trouble and upset it caused. As well 
as refund the premiums, as it had already offered.
Mr B accepted her view Bastion did not. It said that it hadnt been rude so couldnt agree to 
the compensation. It accepted to refund the premiums. It also said:  it wondered why we 
never get awarded compensation for the way we get sworn at and belittled by these clients. I 
am sure sometimes you must feel the same as I understand you guys also get the same 
abuse we do.  And asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, I will uphold this complaint. Hopefully my findings go some way in 
explaining why Ive reached this decision.
Mr B took out the policy and paid premiums for around 18 months before making a claim for 
his mobile device. Bastion accepted that it wasnt fair for it to have continued to take those 
payments, especially as it knew that any claim would be declined, as it said that Mr B hadnt 
validated the phone as required. Consequently, it agreed to refund those premiums. The 
issue with this complaint is whether Bastion ought to pay compensation for the trouble and 
upset it caused. 
Having reviewed the evidence, Mr B explained that Bastion lied to him on occasions, was 
rude to him. And despite knowing that the claim would never be accepted, allowed the policy 
to renew without telling him that the policy was invalid. I have not been provided with any call 
records from Bastion despite a request for it to provide further evidence. Accordingly, I have 
no evidence to doubt what Mr B said.
Additionally, I am satisfied that Mr B gave a persuasive account regarding the customer 
service issues, as Mr B provided some email exchanges between him and Bastion, following 
its decision to decline his claim. Having reviewed them, I agree with Mr B that the tone and 
language used was antagonistic and I can understand why Mr B felt offended by them: We 
cannot be held responsible for your inability to read the information presented to you on 
numerous occasions. And Did you not certify that you had read the policy wording on two 
occasions?
Bastion said that Mr B was made aware of the need to validate the policy within the first 
seven days and I accept that this is a term of the policy. But I think it wouldve been 
reasonable for Bastion to have cancelled the policy - when it realised that Mr B hadnt 
validated it  rather than continue to take premiums or renew a policy that never provided 
cover for Mr Bs phone. Mr B explained the unnecessary stress this put him under, and I 
think Bastion should recognise the trouble and upset that he experienced. 
 
Putting things right
To put matters right, Bastion ought to refund all the premiums Mr B paid (from the inception 
of the policy) as it agreed. As well as pay £75 compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused. 
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint, for the reasons given.
Bastion Insurance Services Limited refund all premiums paid from inception of the policy to 
Mr B.
Bastion Insurance Services Limited should also pay £75 compensation for the trouble and 
upset caused. 
Bastion Insurance Services Limited must pay the above amounts within 28 days of the date 
on which we tell it Mr B accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay 
interest on the above amounts from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 
8% a year simple.
If Bastion Insurance Services Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr B how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mr B a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2021.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman