DRN-2598594
The complaint
The estate of Mrs C complains that Amtrust Europe Limited has turned down a storm 
damage claim that was made on an unoccupied residential property home insurance policy.
The estate is represented by Mr C and Mr C, the executors of Mrs Cs estate.
What happened
On 9 December 2019, roof and internal damage was discovered in Mrs Cs property. Mr C 
and Mr C thought the damage had been caused by recent bad weather conditions and so 
they made a storm damage claim on the home insurance policy.
Amtrust turned down the claim. It said there werent storm conditions around the time of the 
claim. So it said the damage couldnt have been down to storm. It also told Mr C and Mr C 
that itd spoken to one of contractors whod quoted for the roof repairs. Amtrust said the 
contractor had told it that the damage was down to a combination of wind and age-related 
wear and tear. It stated that the policy specifically excluded claims which were caused by 
wear and tear.
Mr C and Mr C were unhappy with Amtrusts decision and they asked us to look into their 
complaint.
Our investigator thought Amtrust had considered the claim fairly. He looked at the policy 
definition of a storm. And he considered local weather records from around the time of the 
claim. He didnt think there had been storm conditions at the time of the claim. And he didnt 
think the accidental damage section of the policy applied to the claim either. So he didnt 
think Amtrust needed to do anything more.
Mr C and Mr C disagreed. They didnt think the investigator had considered the process 
Amtrust had followed when dealing with the claim, or the inaccuracies and false information 
it had relied on. And they didnt think the investigator had taken into account the location of 
the property, which is on a ridge at the top of a hill. They thought the wind speeds wouldve 
been significantly different to other local areas.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think it was fair for Amtrust to turn down this claim. Ill explain why.
As the investigator explained, when we look at complaints about storm damage, there are 
three questions that we need to ask:
 Were there storm conditions on or around the date of the claim? 
 Is the damage consistent with storm damage? 
 Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage? 
If the answer to any of these questions is no then the claim wont succeed. 
Amtrust has set out a definition of what it means by a storm in its policy wording. This says: 
Rain and/ or hail and/ or snow (including the weight of snow) and/or strong winds of 41 
Knots/47mph or more (Beaufort Scale number 9)
In this case, Mr C and Mr C have provided us with copies of inspection records that were 
kept for the property. There was no damage noted during a visit on 5 December 2019  it 
wasnt found until 9 December 2019. So I think it was fair for Amtrust to conclude the 
damage was likely to have happened during this time and to accordingly check the weather 
conditions between those dates.
I turned to look at the local weather report for the week the claim was made. Local weather 
records are the best evidence I have to decide whether it was most likely there were 
prevailing storm conditions at the time. I can see that the highest wind speed was 41 mph on 
8 December 2019. On the days beforehand, the wind speeds were 35 mph; 31mph and 
32mph. On 9 December 2019, the recorded wind speed was 31 mph. While these might be 
strong winds, they dont fall within Amtrusts definition of a storm. And I dont think theyre 
high enough to be considered as storm conditions. The records also dont suggest that there 
was rainfall during this period which was heavy or unusual enough to be considered as a wet 
storm. 
Storm winds of 47mph were recorded on 10 December 2019  but this was after the damage 
had already been found. So I dont think it would be fair for me to say that these storm winds 
caused the roof and internal damage to the property.
Mr C and Mr C have sent us links to news articles and Met Office information about storm 
Atiyah, which affected some parts of the UK on 8 and 9 December 2019. Id like to reassure 
them that Ive looked closely at them. But they mainly refer to very high wind speeds which 
were recorded in the south-west of England and parts of Wales, which is some distance from 
the property. So I dont think these links are enough to show, on balance, that there were 
prevailing storm conditions in the area around the property at the time of the claim. 
Ive noted what their contractor has said about the roof damage being caused by gales and 
that theyd been called out to other properties in the local area to deal with similar damage. 
But based on the available evidence, I think it was fair for Amtrust to rely on the local 
weather reports as the best evidence of the prevailing weather conditions at the time. 
Overall, this means I think it was fair for Amtrust to conclude there werent storm conditions 
around the time the damage happened. As this means the answer to the first question is 
no, it follows I think it was fair and reasonable for Amtrust to turn down the storm claim.
This policy did include some accidental damage cover. But this was limited to damage to 
fixed glass and double glazing; solar panels; sanitary ware; ceramic hobs; oil pipes; water 
supply pipes; sewers, drains and septic tanks; underground gas pipes and underground 
cables. It doesnt cover roof or internal damage repairs. So it doesnt seem the accidental 
damage section of the policy applied to the circumstances of this claim.
I appreciate Mr C and Mr C are unhappy with the way Amtrust handled this claim. I 
understand they feel that if Amtrust intended to turn down the claim, it shouldve inspected 
the roof the property. Generally, its for a policyholder to show they have a valid claim on the property and that the damage is down to something the policy covers. Sometimes though, 
an insurer will investigate a claim on a policyholders behalf.
In the absence of a cause of damage report in the initial repair quotes, I dont think Amtrust 
acted unreasonably by contacting one of the contractors whod quoted for the roof to get 
their opinion on the cause of the damage. Its open to an insurer to be satisfied that a claim 
is down to something the policy covers. This may involve weighing up different pieces of 
expert evidence and deciding which it considers the most persuasive. I also think it was 
entitled to take into account photographic evidence that was submitted to it. So I dont think it 
would be fair for me to find that Amtrust handled this claim unfairly.
Overall, I dont think Amtrust has done anything wrong that it needs to put right.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs C 
to accept or reject my decision before 31 March 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman