DRN-4090750
The complaint
Mrs B complains Nationwide Building Society unfairly blocked her account, she was made to 
feel like she was a criminal, and she was put to unnecessary inconvenience. She says this 
made her underlying health conditions worse and she wants compensation.
What happened
I summarised the background behind why Mrs B brought her complaint to our service in my 
provisional decision. But for the purposes of issuing this final decision I now repeat that 
background here.
Mrs B holds multiple accounts with Nationwide. Large sums credited and also passed 
through some of her accounts. This prompted Nationwide to block all her accounts 
on 28 September 2021 to carry out a review.
Mrs B says the credits represented investments which had crystalized. She told 
Nationwide on a call on 16 November 2021 that she was gathering all her funds as 
she was planning to move abroad at some point. On the same call she said her son, 
who represents her on this complaint, was acting for her on the accounts due to her 
poor health. Nationwide released the blocks on her accounts shortly after the call.
Prior to the call, Nationwide were concerned Mrs B could be falling victim to financial 
abuse due to the activity in question. They wanted to know the source of funds 
behind the activity and Mrs B provided evidence on several occasions during the 
early part of October 2021.
On a call on 14 October 2021, Mrs B was asked to attend branch. She says the 
person she spoke to was rude and accused her of fraud and that going to branch 
represented significant inconvenience due to her health. She says that when she 
went to branch the matter wasnt resolved and she was told to ring customer 
services.
I issued a provisional decision in which I upheld Mrs Bs complaint in part. My findings were:
Ive currently decided to uphold Mrs Bs complaint. But Im not inclined to direct Nationwide 
to pay more compensation than they have offered. I find their offer is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of the complaint. Ill explain why.
Account providers like Nationwide have a wide variety of legal and regulatory obligations to 
meet when providing accounts. Those obligations include protecting their customers from 
harm, such as the risk of being defrauded or exploited by others. They also include trying to 
prevent and detect crime. To these ends banks will monitor accounts and carry out reviews, 
which might mean they ask for information to identify the source of payments and/or to 
ensure their customer isnt falling victim to fraud or undue influence.
Mrs B says the account activity in question was legitimate. She had given permission for her 
son to help her on her accounts due to her health. But the activity on her accounts was 
notable, and Nationwide were entitled to spot and ask questions about the activity and ask 
for information to satisfy themselves about what was happening. Also, Nationwide hadnt 
given Mrs Bs son mandate over the accounts, which can be a relevant concern, and it was 
his phone number attached to the account.
Mrs B says she was aware of all the activity her son was carrying out, but unfortunately 
family members accessing accounts can represent a common circumstance that allows 
financial abuse to happen. So, Nationwide were acting reasonably to be alive to this 
possibility. If they didnt take reasonable action and Mrs B was being financially abused, they 
could be held liable for losses on the account by not taking steps to protect her.
Mrs B may have found Nationwides actions challenging, but their legal and regulatory 
responsibilities were overriding, despite her poor health. So, Im satisfied the block on her 
accounts was a reasonable action for them to take. The block mitigated against potential 
harm that could have otherwise resulted if the accounts werent blocked during the review.
Mrs B referenced a phone call where she says she was accused of fraud and shouted at. 
Ive listened to the phone call where she was asked to go to branch. But I dont find she was 
accused of fraud or shouted at. She was told that they werent able to discuss things further 
over the phone and she should go into branch, which she agreed to do. Considering the 
available evidence and Nationwides concerns, I understand why they wanted her to attend 
branch. Meeting in person would have been a good way to understand and assess her 
circumstances from a risk perspective.
Mrs Bs attendance at branch however wasnt productive. She had expressly asked whether 
an appointment was needed, and she was told it wasnt. But when she presented at branch, 
she says she was simply told to ring customer services. Nationwide havent been able to 
show any beneficial conversation took place, when it appears one should have. So, I agree 
this ended up being a wasted trip, which caused her inconvenience.
Nationwide should carry out reviews efficiently. After all, the longer a customer doesnt have 
access to their funds, the more inconvenience, distress, and loss they can experience. 
Nationwide have failed to show they couldnt have completed their review earlier. 
Considering the timeline of Nationwides review and the actions they took; I find they should 
have made their decision to unblock Mrs Bs accounts by 16 October 2021.
Mrs B thinks she submitted everything Nationwide needed earlier than this, but Im satisfied 
Nationwides review wasnt solely contingent on when Mrs B provided evidence. Nationwide 
isnt obliged to reveal everything about their review to Mrs B, and I dont require them to do 
so now. But Ive considered what they were doing, and Im satisfied awarding 8% simple 
interest on the balances Nationwide held from 16 October 2021 to 16 November 2021 fairly 
compensates her for the cost of not having use of the funds when she should have.
Mrs B wants an exact figure that represents the 8% simple interest. But I find providing the 
basis for Nationwide to calculate the interest is sufficient, and it doesnt allow them the 
discretion to reach a figure that doesnt represent 8% simple interest. Our service often uses 
8% simple interest as a broad-brush basis to account for the cost of being deprived of funds, 
and I find this established methodology is reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.To be clear, its the formula Nationwide need to carry out which I consider to be fair, rather 
than whatever sum results from the calculation and whether Mrs B deems this as sufficient. 
If Mrs B thinks the sum Nationwide pays her doesnt represent 8% simple interest per 
annum, she can raise this further with them.
Im not directing Nationwide to pay compensation for the time her complaint was with our 
service. I dont find it would be reasonable in the circumstances to hold Nationwide 
responsible for this. Instead, Im holding them responsible for the delay they caused by not 
releasing her funds sooner.
Ive considered all the evidence Mrs B presented and I thank her for revealing what are 
understandably sensitive matters for my consideration. Its clear she has been through a 
very difficult time, and I was sorry to read what had happened. But Im satisfied Nationwides 
offer of £275 is fair compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by the delay in 
releasing her funds and the wasted trip to branch.
I have borne in mind that Nationwide were entitled to block her accounts, request her to go 
to branch (despite the trip not being fruitful) and ask for evidence to assure them about the 
activity on her account  so Mrs B would have always experienced a significant shock and 
considerable worry by not having access to her funds, which would still (based on what she 
has said) have impacted her health. I dont find a larger award would be proportionate with 
this in mind.
Nationwide responded to my provisional decision and repeated their willingness to pay Mrs 
B £275 and 8% simple interest per annum. 
Mrs B responded and was unhappy with my provisional outcome. She emphasised she was 
accused of being a fraudster, and she believes this related to her race. She also re-
emphasised how Nationwides actions severely affected her health at a very vulnerable time.
As both parties have now responded to my provisional decision, I have gone on to make my 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Bs complaint in part for the same reasons I gave in my 
provisional decision. I have copied my provisional findings above, and they now form my 
findings for this final decision. Ill now focus on addressing the points Mrs B raised.
Ive listened carefully to what Mrs B said in reply to my provisional decision. But Im still 
satisfied Nationwide had valid concerns about the activity on her account and blocking her 
account to carry out a review was reasonable in view of their legal and regulatory 
responsibilities. 
I was again sorry to hear how Mrs B says her health was impacted, and what a horrible year 
it was for her, but I dont find Nationwides decision to block her account was unfair, even if 
this impacted her health.
Mrs B believes Nationwides actions were based on her race. Ive no reason to doubt this is 
her genuine belief. But based on all the evidence Ive considered; Nationwides actions were not based on her race. Instead, their reason for blocking her accounts was triggered by the 
number of large payments into and out of her account, and this was a valid trigger to 
investigate further. Ive seen no evidence to indicate they would have treated someone else 
in the same circumstances as Mrs B more favourably who didnt share her protected 
characteristic.
Mrs B insists she was accused of being a fraudster. When she brought the complaint she 
referenced being treated like a criminal on a call she made on 14 October 2021, when she 
was asked to go to branch. This was stated in her complaint form, which she completed only 
a few months after the alleged incident. On this call she wasnt shouted out or called a 
fraudster. I appreciate she now cant remember on which call the accusation was made, so I 
have relied on what she said when her testimony was more contemporaneous to the time in 
question. In light of this, I have not found it necessary to ask for every call she had with 
Nationwide, as the evidence Ive available shows what their concerns were, and I also dont 
disbelieve that she felt accused of fraud.
Its not uncommon for customers to believe they are being accused of fraud when their 
accounts have been blocked and they are being asked to prove where their funds derive. In 
Mrs Bs circumstances, Nationwide has explained that they were concerned that she could 
be falling victim to financial abuse  and for the reasons I gave previously, this was a valid 
concern. 
But its important to note that financial abuse can mean a wide variety of things, including 
someone either wittingly or unwittingly being influenced to carry out activity that could be 
fraudulent. So, even if Nationwide had initially considered the activity on Mrs Bs accounts 
through the lens of whether she might be involved in something she shouldnt be, I dont find 
this would have been unreasonable. 
What I find unreasonable would have been for Nationwide to have ignored prominent activity 
on Mrs Bs account because of how long she had been a customer, and for them not to have 
taken pre-emptive action to stop further activity taking place until their concerns were 
allayed. So, Im not compensating Mrs B because she feels she was being accused of fraud.
I still find Nationwide ought to have completed their review sooner for the reasons I gave in 
my provisional decision, and I still find they made her complete a trip to branch which turned 
out to be a wasted opportunity.
Putting things right
Subject to Mrs B accepting my final decision I require Nationwide Building Society to:
Pay Mrs B £275 for the distress and inconvenience they caused by not releasing her 
funds sooner and for not having a beneficial conversation with her when she 
attended branch, which meant her trip was wasted.
Pay 8% simple interest per annum on the balances they held in her accounts from  
16 October 2021 up to and including 16 November 2021. If Nationwide considers that 
theyre required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, 
they should tell Mrs B how much theyve taken off. They should also give Mrs B a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM  
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.My final decision
My decision is I uphold Mrs Bs complaint. Nationwide must pay her compensation according 
to my instruction above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2023.
 
Liam King
Ombudsman