DRN-3399741
The complaint
Mr M complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) failed to pay his costs in full under a legal 
expenses insurance policy.
Where I refer to UKI, this includes its agents and claims handlers.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
an overview of some key events here.
Mr M made a claim under his legal expenses insurance policy to contest his late mothers
will. A barristers opinion was sought which concluded that a claim under the Inheritance Act
had reasonable prospects of being successful but claims for mirror wills or capacity were
unlikely to succeed due to a lack of evidence.
Based on this advice, UKI agreed to cover a claim under the Inheritance Act only. It agreed
terms of appointment with Mr Ms chosen solicitor and cover was put in place.
Following negotiations, the defendant made an offer to settle for £65,000. This was in
response to Mr Ms solicitor making a Part 36 offer for this sum. The solicitor was of the
opinion that the offer was reasonable and should be accepted. They said the prospects of
achieving higher would be slim to none and there was a risk that Mr M could be awarded
less or lose if the matter proceeded to trial.
The solicitor contacted UKI and asked for its agreement to settle the claim for £65,000 on
the basis that UKI would meet the legal costs incurred for the Inheritance Act claim, which
amounted to £15,020.70.
UKI said that the costs incurred had exceeded the amount authorised under the policy. The
terms of appointment stated that a reserve would be made for costs and the solicitor should
request, in advance, increases to the reserve when needed. Despite this, UKI agreed to 
cover the costs subject to an assessment by a cost draftsman, rather than restricting them to
the reserve in order for Mr M to accept the settlement offer.
The solicitors subsequently submitted their costs to UKI, which amounted to £27,040.40. It
appears the costs previously notified to UKI didnt include work associated with accepting
the offer and concluding the claim or disbursements. I believe costs of liaising with the cost
draftsman have also been added.
UKI has agreed to pay £15,020.70 in full and final settlement, leaving the remainder of the
solicitors costs unpaid. The solicitors are unwilling to release Mr Ms settlement of £65,000
to him until their costs have been paid in full. So Mr M has raised a complaint which hes
brought to our service.
Our investigator identified an error in the solicitors email to UKI when it initially set out their
costs. He said its clear this shouldve said £16,888.80 rather than £15,020.70, because
otherwise the breakdown provided didnt add up correctly. Its for this reason that he thought
it was fair for UKI to pay an additional £1,861.10 plus 8% simple interest. He didnt think UKI
needed to pay any more than this.
Mr M didnt agree, so the complaint was passed to me. I issued a provisional decision, which 
said:
Its not in dispute that UKI and the solicitors entered into terms of appointment which made
clear that costs should be authorised in advance in order for a reserve to be set against the
claim. The solicitors failed to do this, but it appears that UKI agreed to waive that condition in
the interest of settling the claim.
The solicitors told UKI that their costs amounted to £15,020.70  which UKI agreed to pay. I
agree with our investigator that there is an obvious error here, as the solicitors provide a
breakdown of retrospective costs amounting to £5,680.20 inclusive of VAT and their WIP to
date of £11,208.60 inclusive of VAT. I think its reasonable to expect UKI to have noticed the
discrepancy here, so I think its fair to ask it to pay the additional £1,861.10.
Ive thought about whether its fair for UKI to pay anything more than this. And my provisional
answer is that it should. Ill explain why.
Starting with the disbursements, I think its clear the solicitors email didnt include these. I
say this because it only made reference to their costs and WIP. The legal expenses policy
covers both costs and disbursements, therefore if there are disbursements that have been
reasonably incurred for the Inheritance Act claim during the time that the policy cover was in
place, its fair that the policy pays these.
I do appreciate that UKI has been reasonable in agreeing costs that it didnt authorise within
its reserve. But Im persuaded that had the solicitors email set out the disbursements also,
UKI wouldve agreed to these in the interests of settling the claim.
I understand that the solicitors incurred costs after giving UKI their grand total. They did so
without prior consent from UKI and I think their previous email where they say legal costs
would be stemmed now implies there would be no further costs incurred.
That said, UKI gave its permission for the defendants offer to be accepted and work needs
to be done in order for that to happen. So whilst the solicitors werent clear on what their
future costs would be nor did they seek approval for them, its not reasonable for UKI to
expect the solicitors to work for free to bring the claim to a conclusion.
Im mindful that UKI wouldve withdrawn cover if Mr M had decided not to accept the offer, as
the legal advice was that the offer was reasonable and there were insufficient prospects in
achieving a higher award. But in situations like this, we do expect the policy to meet the
costs of accepting the offer and bringing the claim to a conclusion, provided that those costs
are reasonably incurred.
Im not persuaded that costs incurred from liaising with UKI or the cost draftsman are met by
the policy terms. The cover is in place to pursue a legal claim. I can see that the terms of
appointment state the following:
Our liability for costscosts you incur in corresponding with Us at times other than those
outlined in the reporting requirements as set out in schedule 1 shall not be recoverable from
the insured person or from Us.
Based on this, I think its fair that such costs are excluded, but the exact details of that are amatter for the cost draftsman.
Responses to my provisional decision
UKI accepted my provisional decision and had nothing further to add. Mr M has advised that 
he has paid the solicitors costs and disbursements. Hes also asked for clarification that my 
instructions to UKI include payment of VAT. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party had any further submissions for my consideration, I see no reason to 
deviate from the outcome explained in my provisional decision.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct U K Insurance Limited to obtain a cost draftsmans 
assessment on the remainder of the solicitors fees with the direction to pay the following:
reasonably incurred disbursements including VAT, for the Inheritance Act claim only, 
during the time that policy coverage was in place including any other disbursements 
agreed and authorised by UKI.
reasonably incurred legal costs including VAT to accept the defendants offer and 
conclude the claim.
Mr M says he has already paid these fees himself. As such, I direct U K Insurance Limited to 
reimburse Mr M directly in addition to paying 8% simple interest* per annum from the date 
he paid the costs and disbursements to the date hes reimbursed. UKI are entitled to ask 
Mr M for proof of payment should it consider it necessary. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
*If UKI considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr M how much its taken off. It should also give Mr M a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman