DRN-1527084
The complaint
Mr B and Miss H applied for a mortgage with Santander UK Plc and were told their 
application couldnt proceed as Santander was over-exposed on that development.
After their broker provided further information the mortgage was able to proceed, but by 
then Mr B and Miss H had applied elsewhere.
What happened
Mr B and Miss H applied for a mortgage with Santander through an independent 
mortgage broker. The initial application was submitted on 19 October 2019 but that had 
to go on hold because whilst the application was for a help-to-buy mortgage, the broker 
hadnt selected a help-to-buy product.
The broker provided the correct product information on 28 October and the valuation 
was instructed the following day.
On 1 November the firm of surveyors that had been instructed told Santander that it had 
reached the maximum exposure limit for lending on that development. Santander 
notified the broker and the application was cancelled.
The broker appealed the decision with Santander, saying there were multiple postcodes 
in the development (rather than just the postcode area that Mr B and Miss Hs potential 
property came under). Santander passed that information to the surveyor and it 
confirmed the exposure level overall was now acceptable so the application could 
proceed. The broker was notified of that decision on 6 November.
By then Mr B and Miss H had applied elsewhere and they decided to proceed with that 
other mortgage, rather than continue with Santander. They complained about the 
distress and inconvenience theyd been put to, as well as the fact there were now two 
credit searches on their credit files. They also complained that Santander didnt 
acknowledge their complaint within the five days set out by the regulator. Santander 
apologised for the issues that had arisen and offered £150 compensation.
Our investigator thought that was a reasonable outcome and didnt recommend 
Santander do anything further. Mr B and Miss H didnt agree and so its been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander doesnt have the expertise to value property, so it employs the services of a 
surveyor. When doing so, its obliged to instruct a suitably qualified surveyor  a 
requirement that was fulfilled in this case by appointing a member of the Royal Institution of 
Chartered Surveyors. Santander is not accountable for any act or omission by the 
surveyor.
Santander is in our jurisdiction, but only for things it did (or didnt do); we cant consider 
complaints against it for things a separate business did (or didnt do). For that reason I cant 
hold Santander liable for the initial information that was given about the exposure level as it 
is entitled to rely upon the professional opinion of the surveyor.
That said, Santander told Mr B and Miss H that it could have done more. As Ive already 
explained, Santander didnt have to anything more as it was entitled to rely on the 
surveyors opinion. In any event, Santander followed the correct process when the broker 
provided further information and Santander referred that back to the surveyor to see if it 
altered the decision not to proceed.
The initial decline was given on Friday 1 November and Santander agreed to proceed the 
following Wednesday, so there was no notable delay. Its just unfortunate that in those few 
days Mr B and Miss H had applied elsewhere and chose to continue with that other 
mortgage. That was their decision they were entitled to make, but I cant hold Santander 
liable for that. As I said, Santander didnt have to do anything further when the surveyor 
initially said Santander was over-exposed in the developement, and what it did do when 
further information became available was completely correct.
Having considered everything I dont uphold this complaint.
I understand Mr B and Miss H arent happy with how Santander handled their complaint. As 
our investigator explained, complaint handling in itself isnt a regulated activity. If I was 
upholding the underlying complaint brought by Mr B and Miss H about the mortgage 
application then I could consider whether any further compensation was due for how their 
complaint had been handled as an extension of that uphold.
But as Im not upholding the underlying complaint about the mortgage application I cant 
award compensation for how the complaint was handled in isolation. Whilst I acknowledge 
how frustrating it is when a business makes mistakes, mistakes do happen and Santander 
has accepted it let Mr B and Miss H down by not acknowledging their complaint within five 
days. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I leave it to Mr B and Miss H to decide if now  on reflection  
they wish to contact Santander UK Plc directly to accept the £150 it offered them. Under the 
rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Miss H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2020. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman