DRN-4277588
The complaint
Mr D complains about the fall in value of his Scottish Widows Limited (SW) pension fund. 
Hes also unhappy that he wasnt able to access his account online, with the amount of time 
he had to wait to speak to SW and with the charges applied to his pension.
What happened
Mr D had a personal pension with SW that was set up in 2012 by an employer who Mr D no 
longer works for. Mr D paid monthly contributions to the pension plan after he stopped 
working for that employer. Approximately 75% is invested within the Pension Protector fund 
and 25% in a cash fund. 
In October 2022, Mr D complained to SW. In summary, he said he no longer had online 
access to his pension. He was unhappy that he had to wait for 45 minutes on hold before he 
was told his fund had significantly dropped in value. Mr D says he asked for details of the 
other funds available but was told this information wasnt available online and it would need 
to be posted to him. He also complained that he thought the fund charges were excessive 
considering the fund had fallen in value.
SW responded to Mr Ds complaint. It explained that the Pension Protector fund aims to 
produce a return that reflected the price of annuities and was aimed at people who wanted to 
buy an annuity at retirement. SW said that as annuity rates had increased recently, the fund 
had fallen in value to reflect this. So, it didnt agree that the fund had been mis-managed. 
SW explained that a recent upgrade to its systems had meant that online access had 
temporarily been lost. It did explain to Mr D where he could obtain information about the 
funds available online. And it apologised for the delays Mr D experienced when trying to call. 
SW offered £75 compensation to reflect this.  
Unhappy with this response, Mr D referred his complaint to our Service. He said hed never 
been made aware that the Pension Protector fund aimed to produce a return in line with 
annuity rates. He said he thought it was designed to protect the pension fund as he neared 
retirement. Mr D also questioned why he was paying charges for such poor service and fund 
returns. Mr D has since transferred his pension to another provider.
One of our Investigators looked into the complaint. She explained that the fall in value was 
reflective of the nature of how Mr Ds pension plan was invested and current market 
conditions. So, she didnt think that this part of his complaint should be upheld. But, our 
Investigator thought that Mr D wasnt able to access information in a timely manner which 
delayed him being able to transfer to a new provider. She wasnt persuaded that Mr D had 
suffered a financial loss as a result of this, but did recommend that SW increase its offer of 
compensation to £150.
SW accepted this, but Mr D didnt. He said hed never been provided with financial advice to 
explain how the Pension Protector fund worked and hed never intended to purchase an 
annuity. He thought the Pension Protector fund simply protected the value. Mr D questioned 
whether hed been charged the correct fees, and noted that he thought the fees were high 
for a passively managed fund.
Our Investigator reviewed things again. She explained that a complaint about whether hed 
been charged the correct fees would need to be raised as a new complaint to SW and dealt 
with separately. She wasnt persuaded to change her mind with regards to the outcome of 
the complaint.
Mr D didnt accept this and asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. So its been 
passed to me to consider and make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill address Mr Ds complaint points individually for ease.
Fall in fund value
Mr D is unhappy that his fund has fallen in value. Fund growth cant be guaranteed and its 
not my role to look into the performance of the investment. Investment performance is not 
something that our Service can consider, as investments are subject to market volatility. 
However, we can consider whether the funds have been managed in line with the terms and 
conditions of the plan and what was agreed when the pension was taken out. How a fund is 
managed is generally a matter for the business commercial discretion.  
Mr Ds pension was predominantly invested within bonds which are generally considered 
lower risk. However, it has fallen in value recently. Thats reflective of wider market events 
and the type of assets Mr Ds fund was invested in. 
Mr Ds pension had a lifestyling feature, which meant that as he neared retirement, more of 
the funds were invested within bonds and gilts or cash. It seems this was chosen by his 
employer when the pension was set up. This was prior to pension freedoms being 
introduced in 2015 when other flexible options werent available. So, the lifestyle approachs 
goal was to invest for an annuity purchase, as that was generally the only option at that 
point. Gilts have an inverse relationship with annuities - when interest rates increase, the 
value of gilts go down and annuity rates go up. This can mean that when annuity rates go 
up, as they have recently, the fund value may go down. But this is because less money is 
required to purchase the same level of income. Therefore, whilst the value of Mr Ds fund 
may now be lower than it was, he is still able to purchase a similar income via an annuity if 
he chooses to. I understand Mr D views this as him having lost money. But given the nature 
of what the fund is trying to achieve and what it was set up to do, I dont agree this is the 
case. 
Mr D says he never intended to purchase an annuity when he came to retirement. This may 
well be the case but there were less flexible options than there are now available when the 
pension was set up. But Mr Ds complaint is against SW, and SW didnt arrange this pension 
for Mr D, it was arranged by his previous employer with the assistance of another financial 
adviser. This means that SW wasnt responsible for ensuring the pension was set up as 
Mr D wanted, or in line with how Mr D wanted to invest. All it had to do was set it up and 
administer it, and I cant see that it hasnt done this correctly. SW sent Mr D annual 
statements explaining how the fund worked and its aims. Ive also noted that the annual 
statements encourage Mr D to get in touch if he wishes to review his investment strategy or 
his pension and retirement options. Had Mr D had questions about this, he couldve got in 
touch with either SW or reviewed things with a financial advisor. Ive seen nothing to suggest he did.
Mr D has asked why around 75% of the fund is within the Pension Protector fund. SW has 
explained that this is in line with its lifestyle fund switching feature. Its confirmed this was 
done in the five years leading up to Mr Ds original selected retirement date of 2019. Ive 
seen a copy of the most recent annual statement sent to Mr D and this investment split is in 
line with the lifestyling option which is part of Mr Ds pension.
Based on this, I dont think that SW has made a mistake or done anything wrong with 
regards to how Mr Ds pension was invested. Or that it hasnt been invested in the way it 
was agreed to be from the outset. 
Online access and delays in obtaining information
I agree with our Investigator that Mr D couldve been provided with better service. From what 
I can see, the SW online system was down for some time whilst being upgraded. Mr D had 
to call to obtain information and has told us he had to spend a lot of time waiting for calls to 
be answered. Mr D has also told us SW couldnt tell Mr D what funds were available to him 
when he first called and was told this information would need to be posted to him. SW hasnt 
disputed this but did explain within its final response letter where he could obtain this 
information.
Because of this, Mr D says he felt the need to move his pension elsewhere. Had SW been 
able to tell Mr D what funds were available to him sooner, he couldve simply switched funds 
rather than change providers. So I agree Mr D has been inconvenienced by this.
Our Investigator explained that Mr Ds fund had actually increased in value by the time he 
was able to transfer it to the new provider, so she didnt think hed suffered a financial loss. 
And Ive seen nothing to suggest this isnt the case. That said, I do think SW shouldve been 
able to provide Mr D with the information he needed, even with its online services down. And 
it couldve explained to him sooner how to find the information about its funds online.
Ive thought about this, and I agree that the £150 our Investigator has suggested for the 
distress and inconvenience this matter has caused is a fair amount in the circumstances. 
Charges applied
Mr D has suggested that the charges are too high in relation to the poor fund performance. 
Generally speaking, charges for pension funds are a set percentage of the value of the fund, 
and so are, in effect, reflective of its performance. As the value of a fund rises, so do the 
charges. But the inverse is also true. And this is the case for Mr Ds fund. Whilst we arent 
able to fully audit the fund to ensure that charges have been applied correctly, from the 
evidence Ive seen there is nothing to suggest they are incorrect here.
Mr D has more recently disputed whether the charges have been applied correctly as he 
believes he should be getting a discount from when the pension was originally set up. I cant 
see hes previously raised this particular point with SW. And SW is entitled to address this 
complaint point before Mr D asks our Service to look into it. So I make no finding on that 
within this decision. SW has told us it will respond to Mr D directly in relation to this point. 
And, if Mr D remains unhappy after he receives this response, he can bring that point to us 
as a new complaint.  
Putting things right
Scottish Widows Limited should pay Mr D £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused by its systems upgrades removing his online pension access which caused delays in 
providing him information. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Scottish Widows Limited to put things right as set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2023.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman