DRN-3078318
The complaint
Mr M complains that MBNA Limited charged him interest on a balance transfer.
What happened
Mr M says he completed a balance transfer to his MBNA credit card account but later found 
out he was being charged interest at over 16%. He says that is unfair and wouldnt have 
carried out the transfer if he had known. Mr M says he thought there was a 0% interest offer 
in place and would like the interest refunded.
MBNA says Mr M made the balance transfer in April 2021 himself. It says the interest rate is 
clearly recorded and there was no 0% offer in place for Mr Ms account.
Mr M brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Mr M made the balance transfer without any advice from MBNA and that he 
incorrectly thought the interest rate was 0%. The investigator thought the interest rate was 
displayed online and on account statements.
Mr M doesnt accept that view and says he is a loyal MBNA customer and hes been badly 
treated.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint.
Im satisfied that Mr M decided to make the balance transfer and that he agreed to MBNAs 
terms and conditions which included the 16% interest rate. Im also satisfied that Mr M made 
that decision himself without any involvement or advice from MBNA. So, I cant fairly hold 
MBNA responsible for what I think is likely to have been Mr Ms mistake. I also make clear to 
Mr M that I think the balance transfer interest rate was clearly displayed on his account 
statements and in the original terms and conditions. And I have not seen any evidence that 
MBNA misled Mr M.
Overall, Im satisfied that Mr M made the balance transfer and in doing so accepted the 
interest rate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman