DRN-4425408
Complaint
Ms A is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC hasnt reimbursed her after she fell victim to a 
scam.
Background
In September 2019, Ms A fell victim to an investment scam. An acquaintance told her about 
an investment opportunity being managed by a man who Ill refer to as Mr C. The details of 
the proposed investment arent entirely clear. Nonetheless, this acquaintance assured Ms A 
that she could trust Mr C to handle things. She was told that an investment of £50,000 would 
yield a return of £25,000 in a period of three to four weeks.
It wasnt until 2023 that Ms A told Barclays what had happened. She hadnt realised that she 
might be entitled to reimbursement from her bank. Barclays considered what happened 
under the terms of the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) 
Code and agreed to refund 50% of the money Ms A had lost. However, it said that one of the 
Codes exceptions to reimbursement applied  it didnt think that Ms A had done enough to 
ensure that the investment opportunity was a legitimate one before agreeing to transfer her 
money.
It was looked at by an Investigator who thought a 50% reimbursement was fair and 
reasonable. The Investigator noted that Ms A had told her she hadnt carried out much in the 
way of checks to ensure that the investment opportunity was genuine. The Investigator also 
thought that Ms A had invested in something without really understanding what it was.
Ms A disagreed with the Investigators view. She said that she had in fact conducted very 
extensive research on the individual she was investing her money with and hadnt found 
anything of concern. She also said that its unfair to say that she didnt know enough about 
the investment. She said that Mr C had told her some general information about it and that 
she doesnt see how she couldve got any more information about it from him. Because Ms A 
disagreed with the Investigators view, the complaint has been passed to me to consider and 
come to a final decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, that isnt the 
end of the story. Barclays is a signatory to the CRM code. This code requires firms to 
reimburse customers who have been the victim of authorised push payment (APP) scams, 
like the one Ms A fell victim to, in all but a limited number of circumstances. 
Under the CRM Code, a firm may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish that:
The customer ignored an effective warning in relation to the payment being made; or
In all the circumstances at the time of the payment, in particular the characteristics of 
the Customer and the complexity and sophistication of the APP scam, the customer 
made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that: the payee was the 
person the customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for genuine goods or 
services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate.
There are further exceptions within the CRM code, but they dont apply here. 
Barclays has already reimbursed 50% of Ms As losses. It shouldve provided her with a 
warning when this payment was made and Ive not seen any evidence that it did, so it didnt 
meet the standards for firms as defined in the Code. However, it continues to argue that the 
second exception set out above is applicable to this case  i.e., that she made this payment 
without a reasonable basis for believing the investment was legitimate. 
Ive considered its arguments carefully and Im afraid Ive come to the same conclusion. The 
returns Ms A was promised were too good to be true. She was told that she could earn a 
50% return on her investment in as little as three weeks. This would be an annual return of 
650%. I think such an unusually generous return shouldve prompted her to take further 
steps to ensure that the investment opportunity was a legitimate one.
Ms A initially told the Investigator that she didnt carry out any checks and didnt really know 
what she was investing in or who Mr C was.  However, in response to the Investigators view 
she said that she conducted checks on social media, Companies House and various other 
sources. She says that she checked extensively all information available in the public 
domain to find anything on Mr C. Although I accept that she didnt find anything that 
suggested a risk of fraud, if information was so difficult to come by should in itself have been 
a cause for concern. If Mr C were genuinely a person involved in a legitimate investment 
company, Id expect that company to have an online footprint of some kind.
From her conversation with our Investigator, it sounds as if Ms A didnt really know who Mr C 
was or who he worked for, but she was persuaded by the recommendation of her 
acquaintance. Unfortunately, I think in the light of the unrealistic returns shed been 
promised, I think she ought to have taken greater care. 
For completeness, Ive also considered whether Barclays did everything it shouldve done 
once Ms A notified it that shed fallen victim to a scam. I can see that it did make contact with 
the receiving bank  i.e. the bank that operated the fraudsters account  but unsurprisingly, 
Ms As money was no longer in that account. The Code doesnt require banks to pursue 
customer money beyond that initial transfer. But in any event, after such a long delay, it 
wouldnt be realistically possible for Barclays to trace Ms As funds.
I dont say any of that to downplay or diminish the fact that Ms A has fallen victim to a cruel 
and cynical scam. I have a great deal of sympathy for her and the position shes found 
herself in. However, my role is limited to looking at the actions and inactions of the bank and 
Im satisfied it didnt do anything wrong in only refunding half of her losses.Final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2023.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman