DRN-2283423
The complaint
Mr M has complained about the service he received from HSBC UK Bank Plc, when he went 
to make a cash deposit.
What happened
Mr M went to an HSBC branch to pay in £10,000 cash. As there was no counter service that 
day, he was advised to use the cash deposit machine. However, this ended up taking over 
an hour, as he had to deposit small sums at a time, meaning he had to pay extra for parking 
and missed two appointments. The machine also retained some if the notes, and Mr M 
needed to go back and forth to get help, which he found stressful. He also felt vulnerable 
carrying large amounts of cash for so long. Mr M feels customers making large deposits 
shouldnt be advised to use the machine.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. She didnt think there was 
evidence that Mr M had been told the machine would accept all the money in one go. Also, 
she explained that a note had been retained, as it was suspected to be counterfeit, then 
again when there was a fault. She recognised the experience must have been stressful and 
frustrating. But she thought that the £50 compensation offered by HSBC was fair in the 
circumstances.
Mr M disagreed. He said he couldnt remember everything that happened that day, but that 
HSBC acted very poorly and it was very stressful. Also, he doesnt feel HSBC ever really 
accepted liability, that it hadnt compensated him sufficiently, and that its apology wasnt 
genuine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigator, for the reasons she gave. Although its clear 
that things didnt run smoothly, Im satisfied that £50 is reasonable to address what 
happened and the effect on Mr M. I dont think it would be fair for me to require HSBC to pay 
more. Its staff did help Mr M and he was able to deposit the money, as hed wanted to do. 
Further, I have no reason to doubt its apology was genuine.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, its my final decision that HSBC UK Bank Plc has done enough 
to put things right. I understand it has already paid Mr M £50  but if not, it should do so now.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2020.
 
Elspeth Wood
Ombudsman