DRN-3328459
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy that Santander UK Plc (Santander) hasnt reimbursed him for his loss 
after he was the victim of a scam.
What happened
In 2020 Mr P was contacted by a scammer claiming to be a solicitor calling from overseas 
where Mr P had invested in a time share some years before that had resulted in a dispute. 
They told Mr P that if he paid a court fee and tax bill up front they could get him 
compensation of around £30,000. They assured him the tax he paid up front would be 
returned to him.
Mr P did some research and found others whod received compensation in similar 
circumstances. He also contacted a friend who lived and worked where the solicitor said 
they were based. This friend confirmed the tax payment up front wasnt unusual.
Mr P was asked to make payments to the scammers Santander bank account overseas. He 
went into branch on 4 September 2020 and made the first payment of £728. He then 
returned on 12 October 2020 to pay an additional £2,043.
Mr P says when he made the second payment he asked for this amount to be transferred to 
the scammer from his Santander credit card account, not his Santander current account. 
Hes said this is because he wanted to make sure he was adequately protected. 
After Mr P didnt receive a refund of the tax bill as expected he carried out further research 
and discovered hed been the victim of a scam. He contacted Santander and discovered the 
payment of £2,043 had been taken from his current account not his credit card account as 
expected. He felt this was Santanders mistake and it had prevented him from receiving 
adequate protection from fraud and this meant it should cover his loss.
Santander had closed the branch Mr P made the payments in. And although the advisor that 
served him had moved to a different branch, due to the time that had passed they could no 
longer recall what was discussed. But, Santander explained that a bank transfer couldnt 
have been made from Mr Ps credit card account. If hed said in branch this is what he 
wanted to do, he wouldve been informed this wasnt possible. 
Santander didnt feel it was responsible for Mr Ps loss and he brought the complaint to our 
service to consider. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. They didnt think Santander 
reasonably ought to have recognised the payment as a scam. And as it wouldnt have been 
possible to transfer money from his credit card account they thought Mr P likely wouldve 
been told this. And although he presented his credit card to make the payments, this was to 
verify his identity and authorise the transfer. They also explained that the protection Mr P 
was referring to wouldnt have protected him against a scam in any event.
Mr P responded and said that:
He wasnt informed his credit card wouldnt have offered him protection against 
scams and had he known this he wouldnt have made the payments to 
scammers at all because he had suspicions about the payments.
He didnt authorise the payment from his current account because hed asked for 
the money to be debited from his credit card account. So the payment wasnt 
authorised.
He maintained he told Santander he wanted to make the payment from his credit 
card account and wasnt told this wasnt possible.
As Mr P didnt accept the investigators findings the complaint has been passed to me to 
make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Did Mr P authorise the payments to the scammer?
Mr P has said that when he went into branch to make the second payment to the scammer 
he specifically stated he wanted the money to be transferred from his credit card to their 
bank account. Santander has no record of what was discussed and I wasnt there. So I have 
to base my findings on the evidence available and what I think was most likely to have 
happened based on the balance of probabilities.
I think its likely that had Mr P been clear about the fact hed wanted to transfer money from 
a credit card account to an international bank account he wouldve been told this wasnt 
possible. I say this because what he wouldve asked isnt possible  Mr Ps credit card isnt a 
bank account and doesnt offer the same facilities, such as direct account transfers. And I 
think it wouldve been clear to the bank staff he spoke to this was the case, so I dont think 
its likely they wouldnt have told him this. And it seems odd that if Mr P expected the 
balance of his credit card to increase by £2,000, he didnt question it when this money was 
taken from his current account instead.
Mr P has said the payment wasnt authorised because he told branch staff the money should 
be taken from his credit card account and not his current account. As Ive said, I dont think 
there is sufficient evidence this is the instruction Mr P clearly gave to staff. Whilst I accept he 
gave staff his credit card and entered his PIN, this was used to verify his identity and confirm 
he had authority to make the payment instruction. 
But, Id also add that whilst I recognise Mr Ps strength of feeling around this point, I dont 
think it makes a material difference in this case. Mr P has said he wanted to pay the 
scammer with his credit card so he would have additional protection. From what I 
understand hes referring to Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 which says in 
certain circumstances, the borrower under a credit card agreement has an equal right to 
claim against the credit provider if theres a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier of goods or services. But Section 75 wouldnt apply to Mr Ps situation because he 
isnt involved in a dispute with a supplier, hes been the victim of a scam and the scammers 
had no intention of providing the goods or services he thought he was paying for.
Mr P has said if he had known this he wouldnt have paid the scammer at all. Information 
about the protection offered under the Consumer Credit Act is publicly available, and isnt 
something specific to Santander. Its also not something I wouldve expected branch staff to 
talk him through when he tried to make a credit card payment. If Mr P was concerned with 
what protection he had in place as hes said he was, he had the opportunity to ask about this 
at the time before he made the payment. Overall I dont think I seen sufficient evidence Santander misled Mr P about the payment he 
was making. 
Could Santander have done more to stop the payments?
For the reasons given Im satisfied Mr P authorised the payments he made to scammers 
under the Payment Services regulations 2017 (PSRs) which are the relevant regulations in 
this case. So as a starting point he is liable for them.
That said, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time I think 
Santander should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
For branch transactions, those steps may include following the Banking Protocol 
where appropriate
Ive carefully considered Mr Ps use of his account in the months leading up to the 
transactions. I think Mr P has regularly made payments of similar amounts to the first 
payment. And although I think the second was higher than the payments generally being 
made on his account, I wouldnt expect Santander to stop every payment slightly larger than 
usual. It has to strike a balance in monitoring accounts and preventing fraud with not unduly 
hindering a customers general use of their account. 
And its reasonable to expect that, occasionally, individuals will want to make purchases that 
are larger than their usual day to day spending. For example, paying for a holiday, home 
improvements or a car. Its also not unusual that these payments might be to new 
beneficiaries as they arent regular purchases or they might be made to international 
accounts.
Overall, having considered Mr Ps account statements I dont think this payment reasonably 
ought to have prompted any intervention from Santander or any of the targeted warnings I 
wouldve expected it to have provided had it considered the payment to be unusual. So I 
dont think the bank missed an opportunity to prevent the payment being made. As such I 
dont think its liable for reimbursing Mr P for his loss.
And as Ive already mentioned, Mr P has said he had concerns about the payment before he 
made it. So even if I did consider Santander shouldve done more here, I would consider Mr 
P partly responsible given despite his reservations he still made the payment because he 
thought the bank was going to be liable if something went wrong. As Ive said, Mr P 
authorised payments to the scammers so the responsibility to ensure the payments were 
legitimate lie with him.Did Santander make reasonable attempts to recover Mr Ps money?
According to Santanders records Mr P contacted it on 26 October 2020 to confirm hed been 
scammed. Within around an hour of this contact Santander contacted the beneficiarys bank 
(an international branch of Santander) to ask for the funds to be returned.
The beneficiarys bank responded to confirm no funds remained, so there was nothing to 
return. Theres nothing more I wouldve expected Santander to have done in the 
circumstances.
My final decision
Your text here
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2022.
 
Faye Brownhill
Ombudsman