DRN-4239014
The complaint
Mr J and Mrs O complain that Euroins AD hasnt paid a cancellation claim on a travel 
insurance policy and it that didnt respond to them at all.
As Mr J brought the complaint to us, for ease, Ive referred mainly to him.
What happened
In June 2021, Mr J booked a holiday and took out a single trip travel insurance policy 
alongside the booking. The insurance policy was sold by a broker Ill call R and was 
underwritten by Euroins. Mr J was due to travel in January 2022.
Unfortunately, Mr J needed an operation and so the trip had to be cancelled. Mr J said he 
made a cancellation claim on his travel insurance policy for the cost of his cancelled flights. 
But he said the claim was turned down because Euroins considered his condition existed 
before the policy was taken out. This was specifically excluded by the policy terms.
Mr J was unhappy that his claim hadnt been settled and so he asked us to look into a 
complaint.
Our investigator looked into things. She didnt think it was clear that Euroins had been given 
the regulators timeframe to investigate Mr Js concerns and so she asked it to do so within 
eight weeks.
Euroins didnt issue a final response to Mr Js complaint. It told us that it had no record of Mr 
J making a claim with it and that R had also told it that Mr J hadnt contacted it to make a 
claim either. It said it couldnt provide us with its business file as there had been no claim to 
consider.
So our investigator assessed the complaint based on the information she did have. She felt 
that as the policy covered cancellation due to illness or injury, Mr J had shown he had a valid 
claim on the policy. She didnt think Euroins had provided enough information to show that 
the claim was excluded from cover. She therefore recommended that Euroins should pay Mr 
Js claim, together with interest.
The investigator also thought that even if Euroins hadnt known about a claim at the outset, it 
should have registered a claim for Mr J when wed got in touch to let it know about his 
complaint. She thought its failure to do so had likely caused Mr J some trouble and upset. So 
she recommended that it should pay Mr J £100 compensation.
Euroins disagreed. It maintained that a claim hadnt been made and that Mr J had never 
been in contact with it.
I issued a provisional decision on 13 June 2023, which explained why I thought Euroins 
should consider a claim for Mr J and pay him £150 compensation. I said:
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. They 
also say that insurers must provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a 
claim. So Ive considered the available information to decide whether I think Euroins has 
treated Mr J fairly.
First, Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Mr Js policy and the relevant policy 
schedule. I can see that Mr Js policy was sold by R, which sent us a copy of the relevant 
contract terms and conditions.
I asked Mr J for some more information about what happened when he tried to make a 
claim. Initially, Mr J said hed called up and was told his claim wasnt covered, as it appeared 
he knew he had an operation planned. Mr J has now told us that he called R in December 
2021 once he learned hed need an operation, but never heard anything back. Its important I 
make clear that R isnt an insurer  so it doesnt have regulatory authority to assess or settle 
claims. Thats Euroins responsibility.
The number Mr J told us he called appears to be a number for R. And Euroins has no record 
of Mr J calling to make a claim. So it isnt clear what happened when Mr J called R, or what 
information he might have been given. But it does currently seem to me that Mr J most likely 
didnt get in touch with Euroins or its designated claims handler using the contact information 
set out in the policy terms and conditions. And it also seems more likely than not that R 
didnt pass on any information about Mr Js wish to make a potential claim to Euroins in 
December 2021. So I dont think I could fairly conclude that Euroins or its designated claims 
handler failed to consider or unreasonably turned down a claim at this point.
I acknowledge that the policy does cover cancellation due to a policyholders illness or injury. 
So if Mr J had to cancel his trip due to an operation, this would appear to be an insured 
event under the cancellation section of the policy.
With that said, its a general principle of insurance that its a policyholders responsibility to 
provide enough evidence to show they have a valid claim on their policy. This would usually 
involve a policyholder completing a claim form; providing medical evidence in support of their 
claim and providing evidence that they have suffered an irrecoverable loss. In this case, I 
havent seen any evidence that Mr J did complete a claim form, provide any medical 
evidence or demonstrate that hes suffered a financial loss that he cant get back from 
elsewhere. On that basis, I dont think I could fairly or reasonably direct Euroins to settle any 
cancellation claim Mr J may wish to make, as I think its reasonably entitled to be satisfied 
that a claim is covered.
However, it seems to me that Euroins was put on notice about Mr Js potential claim in 
November 2022  around seven months ago. At this point, our investigator notified Euroins 
about Mr Js complaint to us and provided it with eight weeks to look into and respond to Mr 
Js concerns. She also sent Euroins a copy of Mr Js policy schedule to allow it to locate Mr 
Js details. It was open to Euroins to contact Mr J to advise him that it had no record of him 
making a claim and to let him know what hed need to do if he wanted to make a claim.
Theres no indication that Euroins did get in touch with Mr J and neither did it issue a final 
response to Mr Js complaint within the regulators timeframe. It appears too that in response 
to our investigators assessment, Euroins indicated it would contact Mr J, but Mr J says hes 
received no such contact from it. Neither did Euroins respond to questions I asked about 
whether it had been in contact with Mr J, or whether it could provide me with any additional 
correspondence to consider.
So I do think there was more Euroins could have done to assist Mr J once we let it know 
about his complaint. I think it ought reasonably to have contacted Mr J to either register a 
claim, or to let him know the next steps in the claims process. And I think its failure to take 
this action or to communicate with Mr J caused him to suffer unnecessary frustration and upset over a period of months.
On that basis, I currently think that the fair outcome to this complaint is for Euroins to contact 
Mr J to register a potential claim and to consider any claim in line with the policy terms and 
conditions. It will be for Mr J to provide Euroins with any information it may reasonably 
require in order to assess his claim. I must make it clear that Im not directing Euroins to pay 
Mr Js claim  simply to consider any claim in line with the contract.
And I also think it would be fair and reasonable for Euroins to pay Mr J a modest amount of 
compensation to reflect the unnecessary trouble and frustration I think its failure to contact 
him once it became aware of his concerns caused him. In my view, an award of £150 
compensation is a fair and reasonable amount to reflect the likely impact of Euroins service 
upon Mr J.
I asked both parties to provide me with any additional evidence or comments they wanted 
me to consider.
Mr J told us that he accepted my provisional findings.
Euroins didnt respond by the deadline I gave.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, as Mr J accepted my provisional findings and Euroins hasnt provided any 
new evidence or comments for me to consider, I see no reason to change my provisional 
conclusions.
So my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint in part.
I direct Euroins AD to contact Mr J and Mrs O to register a potential claim and to accordingly 
consider any such claim in line with the policy terms and conditions.
I also direct Euroins AD to pay Mr J and Mrs O £150 compensation. Euroins must pay the 
compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr J and Mrs O accept my final 
decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the compensation from the 
deadline date for settlement to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 August 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman