DRN-2757598
The complaint
Mr A complains that Gain Credit LLC, trading as Lending Stream and Zebit, lent to him 
irresponsibly.
Mr A is represented by a third party. 
What happened
Using information provided by Gain Credit, here is a brief loan table of the approved loans. 
There are significant gaps in the lending relationship and some loans have been lent through 
Gain Credit trading as Zebit. Loans 1 and 7 were instalment loans with Lending Stream.
 
Loan Approved Amount
(repayment 
amount)Instalment 
numberRepaid
1 4 October 2010 £215
(£473)6
176 days (first 
25 interest free)9 February 2011
Gap in lending
2 7 November 2013 £400
(£500)1 28 November 2013
Repaid one day 
early
3 28 November 2013 £200
(£250)1 23 December 2013
Repaid 8 days early
4 23 December 2013 £400
(£500)1 27 January 2014
Repaid 4 days early
5 27 January 2014 £100
(£125)1 30 January 2014
Repaid 29 days 
early
6 30 January 2014 £400
(£500)1 26 February 2014
Repaid 2 days early
Gap in lending
7 21 September 2014 £300
(£162  highest 
one instalment 
number 2 ) Total 
to repay was 
£7086
160 days29 September 2014
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint. He noticed that there was a large gap in the 
lending relationship between loans 1 and 2 and a further gap of around seven months 
between loans 6 and 7. These gaps do break the lending chain and so here there are three 
loan chains for Mr A. 
The middle period of lending  loans 2 to 6  were payday loans which means they were due 
to be repaid in one instalment. Our adjudicator thought that for most of the loans Gain Credit 
carried out proportionate checks and so he did not think it had done anything wrong. 
In March 2021, our adjudicator did explain to Mr A that for loans 5 and 6, additional checks 
ought to have been carried out by Gain Credit. But without the information needed from Mr A 
for him to be able to see what those additional checks would have revealed if Gain Credit 
had carried them out, he wrote to Mr A to say that he did not think that Gain Credit had done 
anything wrong. He gave Mr A time to send in additional evidence or documents. 
Mr A disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review it. He was asked for his reasons and 
his response was that he disagreed with the outcome, he was sad and angry about the 
opinion and in his view it was clear that irresponsible lending had taken place. 
Mr A was informed that the case would be prepared for an ombudsman and if he had any 
further information to send in then it needed to be received by 14 April 2021. Nothing had 
been received when the case was allocated to me for a decision. I wrote to Mr As 
representative to invite him to send in copy bank statements for a specific period of the 
lending with Gain Credit, and I asked that these be received by 20 May 2021, without which 
I would proceed to issue a decision on the information I had. Nothing has been received. 
I address this in the main part of the decision below.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We have set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
 
Gain Credit needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it did not lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr A 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could include several different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers 
income and expenditure.
 
In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Gain Credit 
should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable 
for the consumer.
 
These factors include:
 having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 the amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
 having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of time 
(reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had 
become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
 coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. Gain Credit was required to establish 
whether Mr A could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This 
is because the Office of Fair Trading Irresponsible Lending Guide (ILG) and later, the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines 
sustainable as being the ability to repay without undue difficulties. 
The customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable 
commitments, and without having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a 
lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower will not be 
able to make their repayments sustainably if they need to borrow further in order to do that.
I have carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr As complaint.
The credit Mr A took with Gain Credit was high cost. Most of the loans were before the FCA 
took over responsibility as the regulator for consumer credit (April 2014), and all the loans 
pre-date the cost cap which was brought in by the FCA in January 2015. I must look at the 
regulatory position applicable at the time. For loans 1 to 6 it was the OFT ILG which applied. 
Loan 7 was subject to the FCA rules (post April 2014). 
Mr A applied for loan 1 and declared that his income was £1,500 and his expenditure was 
£0. He applied for £150 and this was his first application and so it was proportionate for Gain 
Credit to rely on the information Mr A gave to it. There was no requirement to carry out a 
credit check but I can see from Gain Credits records that it did and a summary of the results 
have been sent to us. It shows that Mr A had very little other debt and so I think it carried out 
the checks I would have expected it to have carried out. I do not uphold Mr As complaint 
about loan 1.
The gap before Mr A applied for loan 2 was almost three years. So, I think that it would have 
been reasonable for Gain Credit to have treated him as a new customer. It was 
proportionate for Gain Credit to rely on the information Mr A gave to it. 
Mr A told Gain Credit that he earned £1,500 net each month and his outgoings were £400. 
He applied for a £400 loan. There was no requirement for Gain Credit to carry out a credit 
check, but it appears from its records that it did. The summary of that credit check has been 
sent to us and from that I can see that Mr A had a mortgage and had more debt but there did 
not appear to be any adverse information at all. I think that Gain Credit carried out the 
checks proportionate to the loan applied for and as a new customer at the start of a new loan 
chain. I do not uphold Mr As complaint about loan 2. 
Loan 3 was applied for as soon as Loan 2 had been repaid. Mr A asked for £400 and having 
carried out similar checks Gain Credit approved a loan for £200. There was no requirement 
for Gain Credit to carry out a credit check, but it appears from its records that it did. The 
summary of that credit check has been sent to us and from that I can see that Mr A had a 
mortgage and had slightly less debt, and there did not appear to be any adverse information 
at all. I think that Gain Credit carried out the checks proportionate to the loan being asked for 
and approved him for a sum it felt he could afford. I do not uphold Mr As complaint about 
loan 3.
Mr A applied for loan 4, the day he had paid back loan 3. It was for £400 and he declared a 
larger salary of £1,800 and gave Gain Credit his expenditure figure which was £500. On the 
face of it that would have looked to Gain Credit as if he could afford the £400 loan. It did 
carry out a credit check and having got the information it needed, it approved the loan. For loan 4, I think that its likely additional checks may have been justified to find out if Mr A 
had any other outstanding high cost, short term credit. And I say that because the credit 
search results summary shows that Mr As credit score (generated for Gain Credits 
purposes) had gone down slightly, his debt level had increased and the number of open 
accounts had increased. I dont think that Gain Credit did this, but I have no financial 
information from Mr A other than one of his representatives forms. 
In that form completed for his representative, and sent to us when his complaint was referred 
to this Service, Mr A was asked a series of questions about the loans and he gave some 
figures. Some of the questions he answered were that he could not remember any detail, 
and so I have noted that Mr A s recall of that time in 2013 was not good. This is 
understandable as it was some years ago. This form asked Mr A to list his income and 
outgoings. There was nothing accompanying that form to verify the figures and it is not 
enough, in my view, to conclude what Mr As credit and debt circumstances were around 
Christmas 2013. So, for loan 4 I do not have enough to conclude what would have been 
revealed had additional checks been carried out by Gain Credit. And so, I cannot conclude 
whether Mr A was able to afford loan 4. I do not uphold Mr As complaint for loan 4. 
Mr A applied for loans 5 and 6 in the New Year of 2014, and by this time I do think that Gain 
Credit should have carried out a full financial review into Mr As circumstances. I say this 
because although loan 5 was for £100 I have seen from the records that Mr A applied for 
£500. This was larger than the other payday loans up to that date, and would have led to a 
large repayment amount. The credit search results show that Mr As debt had increased, but 
there are no details as Gain Credit has provided us with a summary only. Gain Credit 
decided to approve a £100 loan. This Mr A repaid in 3 days and almost a month earlier than 
the agreement allowed for.   
Then Mr A applied for loan 6 (£400) in which he said his salary had increased to £2,200 a 
month and his outgoings were £500. The credit search results showed a similar picture to 
loan 5 which is understandable as his loan 5 application had been a few days before loan 6.
So, I do think that Gain Credit ought to have done more for loans 5 and 6. However, we have 
no credit file or bank statements or other financial information from Mr A. And as I have said 
earlier, the form completed for his representative when commencing the complaint is 
unverified and is not enough for me to decide whether Mr A could sustainably repay these 
loans.
We do have some information given to us earlier about loans with other high cost lenders 
and I have looked at that information. It reveals very little and theres not enough for me to 
know Mr As full financial position in early 2014. 
With this in mind, I wrote to Mr As representative inviting Mr A to send bank statements for 
the period September 2013 to February 2014. Mr A has been invited to send in more 
evidence on several occasions: following our adjudicators view letter in March 2021; when 
the case was being prepared for me to look at it in April 2021; and more recently when 
I wrote to Mr As representative in May 2021. We have not received anything other than an 
acknowledgement from his representative. Without more, and on current evidence, I have 
decided not to uphold Mr As complaint for loans 5 and 6. 
Mr A applied to Gain Credit trading as Lending Stream for an instalment loan  loan 7. This 
was seven months after he had repaid loan 6 and was for £300. The highest repayment sum 
for one of the six instalments was £162 and it is that figure which I think is reasonable to use 
when assessing affordability. As there had been a seven month gap, then I think that Gain Credit was able view that break 
in lending as being long enough that when Mr A returned to apply for a different type of loan, 
then it could treat him as a new customer. It was reasonable for Gain Credit to rely on the 
financial information he gave to it.
 
Mr A declared to Gain Credit that his monthly net income was £1,800 with expenditure of 
£650. And although Gain Credit did not need to carry out a credit search, one was done. 
There does not seem to be anything there which likely would have caused it concern. And 
so, the loan was approved. 
I think that Gain Credit carried out proportionate checks for loan 7 and so I do not think it 
needed to do more. I do not uphold Mr As complaint about loan 7. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr As complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2021.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman