DRN-2352916
The complaint
Mrs V complains that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) repaired her boiler with 
used parts, causing irreparable damage.
What happened
Mrs V had home insurance with Admiral, including home emergency cover. She made a 
claim under her policy after noticing an error code on her boiler. Admiral attended and told 
Mrs V it would need to order parts. Mrs V understood Admiral would be going back the next 
day, but it arrived to complete the repair a few days later.
During the repair visit, the engineer replaced two parts, but further error codes appeared on 
the screen. The engineer told Mrs V that the problem was with the printed circuit board 
(PCB). Admiral said the cost to replace the PCB for a boiler that age would mean it wasnt 
worth repairing. Admiral told Mrs V shed need to pay for the PCB replacement because 
shed reached the limit of her cover, or buy a new boiler.
Mrs V was unhappy with Admirals response. She said the engineer damaged the PCB so 
she didnt think she should have to pay for the repair or a new boiler. Mrs V also complained 
that the parts it had fitted werent new. Admiral denied that it had fitted used parts, but it 
offered Mrs V £200 because the cause of the PCB damage wasnt known. It remained of the 
view that the boiler was still beyond economical repair (BER). 
Our investigator thought Admiral had dealt with Mrs Vs claim fairly and in line with the policy 
terms. There was no conclusive evidence that the parts Admiral fitted were used or that the 
engineer had damaged the PCB.
Mrs V didnt agree. She didnt think she couldve reached the limit of her cover; she 
maintained that Admiral fitted used parts, and that the engineer damaged the PCB.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise Mrs V will be disappointed with my decision, Ive decided not to uphold her 
complaint for broadly the same reasons as our investigator. Ill explain.
PCB and new boiler
Mrs V says Admirals engineer damaged her PCB when carrying out repairs to her boiler. 
Because of the cost to replace the PCB, Admiral deemed her boiler BER. Mrs V is unhappy 
that she had to pay for a new boiler. 
There doesnt seem to be any dispute that the PCB was damaged while the engineer was 
working on the boiler, but the exact circumstances are unclear. Admiral didnt fully 
investigate the circumstances so, for that reason, it offered Mrs V £200. I see that Admiral 
wouldve charged less than £200 to replace the PCB, so I think the offer is fair and covers 
Mrs Vs direct loss. 
Mrs V thinks that if Admiral hadnt damaged the PCB, she wouldnt have needed to install a 
new boiler, so she wants Admiral to cover the cost. Mrs Vs boiler was old, and Admiral 
deemed it BER rather than replace the PCB at a cost of under £200. It had also replaced two 
parts and reported that further fault codes appeared during the work, before the PCB was 
damaged. This suggests to me that the boiler was approaching the end of its economic life 
anyway so, on balance, I dont think any damage Admiral mightve caused has increased 
Mrs Vs loss. Ive looked at the policy and I can see that Admiral doesnt offer a contribution 
towards a new boiler:
We will not contribute towards the cost of a replacement boiler if your boileris deemed 
beyond economical repair.
While I realise Mrs V might not have been expecting to buy a new boiler at that point, I cant 
see any reason to ask Admiral to contribute towards it. It paid Mrs V £200 to cover the PCB 
damage, and she replaced rather than repaired her boiler. So, Im satisfied that Admiral 
responded to this issue fairly.
Used parts
Mrs V replaced her boiler after Admiral confirmed it was BER. Because Admiral had only 
recently fitted two parts, she asked the third-party plumber to remove them so she could 
offer them for sale. The job report states that the parts didnt look new because of the 
limescale build up. Mrs V supplied photos of the parts in support of her complaint, but 
Admiral says it ordered in parts for the job, so they wouldve been new.
Ive thought carefully about this issue, but Im not persuaded that Admiral did anything wrong 
here. Firstly, the policy does not state that Admiral will repair the boiler using new parts.
Availability of parts is an important factor in providing emergency repairs. If our engineer 
does not carry the parts needed on the day of your appointment, we will do all we 
reasonably can to find and install parts from our approved suppliers.
We may not replace parts on a like for like basis but will provide a suitable alternative for 
containing the emergency. However, there may be times when replacement parts are 
delayed because of circumstances beyond our control.
That said, I appreciate that Mrs V wouldve had a reasonable expectation that the parts 
would be new. Looking at Admirals contact notes, Ive seen that it couldnt arrange a visit to 
fit the parts the next day because it was taking a little longer to arrive. This suggests to me 
that Admiral ordered new parts. Im not doubting the third-party engineers comments about 
the parts not looking new. But as theyd been sitting in hard water in an unused and old 
boiler, I think Admirals view that the parts wouldnt have looked brand new is reasonable.
The evidence here persuades me that it was more likely than not that Admiral fitted new 
parts. But, even if Mrs Vs view is correct and used parts were fitted, the repair was still 
carried out in line with the policy terms. 
Cover limit
Mrs V had a limit of £500 for emergency cover. She didnt think she could possibly have 
reached that amount because she thought Admiral used second hand parts and labour 
wouldnt have cost very much.  Admiral provided an explanation of how the cover had 
reached a little under £500 before taking into consideration the PCB cost. Mrs V told us that she didnt think the costs were accurate, but she didnt give a reason for her opinion other 
than to say used parts wouldve been much less expensive than new parts. As Ive already 
decided that theres no conclusive evidence that Admiral fitted used parts, I have no reason 
to doubt the costs it evidenced for work already completed. Once Mrs V reached her cover 
limit, Admiral had no further responsibility to provide parts and labour under the policy. So I 
dont think it did anything wrong by telling Mrs V any further work would be chargeable. 
In summary, Admiral repaired the boiler up to the policy limit, deemed it BER, and offered 
Mrs V £200 in recognition of the uncertainty around the damaged PCB. In the 
circumstances, I think it made a fair offer and I see no reason to ask Admiral to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs V to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 March 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman