DRN-2797386
The complaint
Mr D complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as HSBC told him incorrect information 
about cheque clearing timescales and stopped his cheque from being paid originally.  
What happened
Mr D and his wife wrote out cheques to their solicitor to purchase land. Mr Ds wife contacted 
HSBC to inform them of their plan to purchase the land and Mr D says HSBC entered a note 
on their system so that staff processing the cheques would have the background information 
on the purchase. 
The following day, Mr Ds cheque bounced. HSBC said this was because of an alteration on 
the cheque which Mr D had not placed his initials next to the alteration. Mr D was unhappy 
that HSBC didnt contact him to discuss this. His wife contacted HSBC again, stressing that 
the funds needed to be paid within 24 hours or they would risk losing the land they were 
purchasing. Mr D says that HSBC told his wife that representing the check would be the best 
option. 
The cheque was represented but it took longer than 24 hours to clear. Mr D says that as the 
seller had threatened to pull out of the sale if the funds didnt arrive quickly then it was a 
stressful time for him as he had taken the funds for the purchase from his pension, which 
was an irreversible decision, hed needed to pay for financial advice to do this and was 
worried about losing the land. The cheque cleared the following week and Mr D and his wife 
were able to purchase the land. 
Mr Ds wife had attempted to raise a complaint for herself and for Mr D, but due to 
miscommunication with the member of staff, Mr Ds complaint wasnt raised. Mr D spoke 
with HSBC to raise a complaint and authorised his wife to speak on his behalf. HSBC 
explained to her that cheques normally take three to five working days to clear and that in 
the case of suspected fraud (as the cheque looked like it had been altered) then they would 
never call a customer to discuss this as their policy is to write to the customer, but Mr Ds 
wife said she had a call regarding her cheque. The call handler said he couldnt comment on 
why she was called as he was only dealing with Mr Ds complaint, so he couldnt comment 
on her circumstances.
HSBC offered Mr D £50 for the inconvenience and the misunderstanding. But Mr Ds wife, 
acting on behalf of Mr D declined the offer. Mr D brought his complaint to our service. HSBC 
offered to increase the compensation to £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused. Mr 
D declined this offer and wanted £500 to settle the complaint.
Our investigator said that she thought the £100 offer was fair. She said that HSBC had 
followed their procedure for stopping cheques which appear to have been altered and had 
followed their procedure when fraud is suspected, so based on the circumstances of the 
complaint she thought the offer was fair. Mr D asked for his complaint to be referred to an 
Ombudsman.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I must make it clear to Mr D that complaint handling by a business isnt a regulated 
activity and as such, the issue hes raised that relate directly to how HSBC have investigated 
his complaint dont come under my powers to consider (such as the miscommunication in 
raising his complaint). So Ill just be looking at the merits of his complaint.
All parties accept that Mr D was told incorrect timescales of when the cheque would clear. 
So, what I need to decide now is whether the £100 HSBC have offered as compensation is 
fair. Im persuaded that it is fair and Ill explain why.
Im satisfied that theres no doubt that the transaction was time critical. Mr D has already 
pointed out that the funds came from his pension and so if the deal had fallen through then 
this couldve had major repercussions as he wouldnt have been able to reverse the pension 
withdrawal and in addition, he wouldve lost the land that he wanted to buy. Had HSBC given 
him the correct timescales for a cheque to clear then Mr D couldve taken a different course 
of action or explain to the seller that the funds would clear in the following week, so 
everyones expectations of when the funds would clear would be realistic.
In assessing whether the compensation offered is reasonable though, Ive had to consider 
what did actually happen and not would couldve happened. Had the sale had fallen through 
because the seller withdrew from the sale based on not receiving her money within the 
expected timeframe then the outcome of this complaint may have been very different. But 
she didnt withdraw from the sale and the sale completed. So Ive considered what impact 
the incorrect information is likely to have had on Mr D.
Im satisfied that Mr D will have been inconvenienced by being given an incorrect timeframe 
for the cheque to clear. He needed to explain to the seller what happened and hope that she 
will understand and not pull out of the deal. Due to the factors involved this could be 
distressing for Mr D. So in line with typical compensation that this service would usually 
award for Mr Ds individual circumstances, the £100 which HSBC has offered is broadly in 
line with what I wouldve awarded had HSBC declined his complaint. I know Mr D is looking 
for closer to £500 compensation but Im not persuaded that this is fair. I say this as Mr D was 
able to purchase the land so the impact of the incorrect information is much lower than if the 
sale had fallen through.
Ive also considered the actions of HSBC in stopping his cheque originally. Im satisfied 
HSBC were right to do so. Our investigator has highlighted to Mr D that our service cant tell 
HSBC how to run their altered cheque process. So Ive considered whether they have 
followed their own process and Im satisfied they have. I know Mr D thinks they shouldve 
contacted him to discuss this and that they shouldve saw the note on the system that he 
legitimately wrote the cheque. But as the cheque appeared to be altered, I would expect 
them to stop the cheque if they suspected fraud. Especially as Mr D has highlighted that the 
cheque was for a substantial amount. As our investigator explained to Mr D, HSBC followed 
their procedure in stopping the cheque when they suspected fraud. I know Mr D says that 
they did contact his wife regarding her cheque, but I can only consider how HSBC have 
acted towards him as this complaint is brought solely by himself. So it follows that Ill only be 
asking HSBC to put things right regarding the wrong cheque clearing timescales they gave 
Mr D.  
Putting things right
HSBC have made an offer of £100 to settle the complaint which I think is fair in the 
circumstances. This reflects the impact on Mr D for being told incorrect information about cheque clearing timescales.  
My final decision
HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as HSBC has already made an offer to pay £100 to settle the 
complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as HSBC should pay Mr D £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2021.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman