DRN-3238393
The complaint
Mrs P complains Soteria Insurance Limited trading as Co-Op Insurance havent treated her 
fairly when assessing a claim shes made on her motor insurance policy.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision, setting out whatd happened, and what I thought about that. 
Ive copied the relevant elements below, and they form part of this final decision.
On 23 July 2021 Mrs P was unfortunately involved in an accident. She called Soteria the 
following day and spoke to an agent who she says was very abrupt. During this call, Mrs P 
was told her car was a write-off, and that the accident was her fault. 
After a further few conversations with Soteria, on 14 August 2021 Mrs P discussed her claim 
with another agent. During this conversation Mrs P explained she didnt want her car back as 
itd been in an accident. And Soterias agent said rather than considering it as a write-off 
they now believed it was repairable. Mrs P said because shed been told the car was a write-
off shed put a deposit down on another car  and that couldnt be cancelled. 
Mrs P said a courtesy car was delivered to her on 26 August 2021, she wasnt being kept up 
to date by the underwriters  and shed suffered losses. So, she complained about these 
issues.
Soteria said:
Liability  based on the evidence Mrs P had provided she was performing a more 
high-risk manoeuvre when the accident took place. They said this is because she 
pulled out from a parked position, so Mrs P will be held responsible for the claim and 
theyll settle any reasonable claim costs presented to them. Soteria added theyre 
allowed to do this under the policy terms.
Call on 24 July 2021  they said they understood Mrs P was unhappy with how this 
call was conducted, but felt their agent was polite and professional throughout. 
As a result of being told the car was a total loss, Mrs P put a deposit down on a new 
car  they accepted theyd given Mrs P incorrect information about this.
Unhappy with the lack of a courtesy car  they said Mrs P had contacted them 
because the broker had taken the courtesy car off her. They said this was a separate 
benefit, so theyd need to discuss it with the broker, but they confirmed under the 
terms of the policy Mrs P was entitled to a courtesy car for the duration of the repairs.
As a result of the incorrect information regarding Mrs Ps car being a total loss, Soteria paid 
her £500 in compensation  though I can see she didnt accept this, as she wanted her full 
costs paid.
As Mrs P wasnt happy with this, she asked us to look into things. During this time in 
September 2021 Mrs Ps car was repaired and returned to her. When it was, she said the 
bonnet had two dents in it. Mrs P said something heavy must have been dropped on the 
windshield from a height  rather than a stone chip. She said she was told this by her 
mechanic. 
Following this Mrs P got a quote online to sell her car for £15,000  and then when taking 
the car to the showroom, she was offered £14,350, which she accepted. Mrs P told us the 
reason for the difference of £650 in price was due to the bonnet and windshield damage. 
She said she took the offer as she needed to pay a family member back. Mrs P also said 
she checked online and found valuations for between £16,500 and £17,500. And because 
shed been told her car was a write-off, she put the deposit of £1,349 down  and in total 
calculated her losses as £4,429  which included the difference in price shed received for 
her car versus what she thought it was worth, and the deposit. She also said she wasnt 
given the opportunity to hire her own independent engineer.
In conversations with our Investigator Soteria confirmed their position on the damage Mrs P 
had claimed for  saying they didnt think theyd caused it. And they said having carried out 
valuations if the car had been a write-off Mrs P would have received between £13,923.50 
and £14,141 (after the excess of £350 had been deducted).
Our Investigator considered all of the issues raised and felt Soteria had acted fairly on most 
of the points raised. But she felt Soteria should refund the £80 cost of removing the 
personalised plate.
Soteria said they thought it likely Mrs P would have removed this plate anyway, so didnt 
agree to this. And they felt Mrs P had ultimately benefitted from selling her car privately, 
because she got a higher price than theyd have offered.
And Mrs P didnt agree either. Across a number of responses, she said:
The valuation wasnt correct as where she sold the car they originally offered more, 
but then reduced it by £650 due to the bonnet and windshield damage.
Shed suffered by paying out the deposit of her new car as a result of Soterias 
incorrect information.
She wasnt offered an independent engineer to assess her car.
She should have been given a courtesy car from the beginning and has lost out 
because of that.
As neither Soteria or Mrs P agreed with our Investigator, the complaints been passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A large number of issues have been raised in this complaint, so Ive addressed them under 
separate headings.
Id like to make it clear up front that, even when Im satisfied Soteria have made a mistake, I 
need to look carefully at the impact of that mistake, taking into account all of the evidence 
Ive been provided with. This includes all information Soteria have sent us, along with 
anything Mrs P has told us or sent us during her complaint with our service.
LiabilityI think its important to explain I cant decide liability, nor whether Soteria have decided it 
correctly or not, only a court can do that. But, what I can do is look at whether Soteria have 
treated Mrs P fairly when deciding liability.
Ive listened to the call on 24 July 2021 when Mrs P first reported the loss. In the call, Mrs P 
explained shes parked up in a two-way road, with her car facing oncoming traffic.
When the accident happened, she says she waited for traffic to clear, checked all her 
mirrors, saw the way was clear and then started to move off from the right-hand lane she 
was parked in, over to the left-hand lane. She said as shes moved someone has come 
around the bend, must have been going very fast, and cant have been paying attention  
but ended up hitting her car. 
Soteria clarified the sequence of events on several occasions on the call, to ensure they fully 
understood things. And, having done so, theyve decided Mrs P was at fault  because she 
was parked and moving off at the time of the accident.
I can see Mrs P has continued to dispute liability, but Soteria have maintained shes at fault. 
From what Ive seen Soteria have listened to Mrs Ps point of view and taken into account 
what shes said when deciding this.
So, given that, I cant reasonably say Mrs Ps been treated unfairly on this point.
Customer service on 24 July 2021
As Ive said above, Ive listened to the call on 24 July 2021. I can see Mrs P has said the 
agent was very abrupt. But I cant agree with that.
At times, the agent has had to clarify information Mrs P has provided to ensure they 
recorded all the details of the accident correctly. I think thats good practice to make sure 
there are no issues later on with the information provided.
The misinformation provided during 24 July 2021s call, and the impact of that
Theres no dispute Soteria told Mrs P her car would be a write off in the call of 24 July 2021. 
Having listened to the call, its quite a definitive statement from Soterias agent  so although 
Mrs P says shes surprised, and they discuss it, Ive seen no reason why shed question that. 
Soteria have said Mrs P received a follow up letter on 27 July 2021 which said her car may 
be a write-off  rather than it definitely will. Theyve also said the reason they told Mrs P it 
might be a write-off is because of the information she gave them.
But Mrs P didnt get the 27 July 2021 email, because it was sent to an incorrect email 
address  and I dont think itd be fair for Mrs P to be held responsible for Soterias agent 
deciding to categorically state the car was a write-off, when that shouldnt have been the 
position anyway.
So, its not in dispute what was said, and that Mrs P was misled by Soteria about the status 
of her car going forward. But what is being disputed, and Ill now focus on, is the impact of 
this information.
Mrs P raised a number of concerns regarding this point  the first being about having to put 
down a deposit of £1,349 on another car as this caused her financial difficulty.
During the course of the claim I can see Mrs P has, on quite a few occasions, said shed 
have to get her car replaced as its now been in the accident and just wouldnt be the same 
anymore.So, it seems regardless of what Mrs P had been told at this time, she was going to replace 
her car. I cant hold Soteria responsible for what car Mrs P subsequently chose to buy, nor 
that the dealer required a deposit she might not be able to afford. While Mrs P has my 
sympathies for the situation shes ended up in, I dont think itd be right to ask Soteria to 
refund the deposit for her new car.
Mrs P also had concerns over the valuation of her car  saying its worth between £16,500 
and £17,500. But, although Soteria initially planned to say her car was a write-off, in the end 
they repaired it and returned it to her because it wasnt a write-off. Soterias policy terms 
allow them to decide whether to repair her car, replace it (which I can hear she was offered) 
or deem it a write-off. Ultimately, they chose to repair her car. Ive seen the reports from the 
garage showing the car was economical to repair  so I dont think theyve done anything 
wrong in doing so. Mrs P would only be entitled to the value of her car, if Soteria wrote it off.
Ive noted Mrs Ps concerns about the difference in price between the online valuation she 
was given of £15,000, and the final offer she was given of £14,350 from the showroom 
where she sold her car. Mrs P has said the reason for the difference is the damage caused 
to the bonnet and windshield. Soteria have said their engineer could barely notice any 
damage and didnt think they were responsible for it.
Ive looked at all the evidence here and havent seen enough to show the damage Mrs P has 
said was caused by one of Soterias agents. There are some scratches to the car, but I cant 
see any other significant damage. Given Soteria have said they didnt cause the damage, 
and I cant see anything significant in the photos provided, I wont be upholding this element 
of Mrs Ps case.
Mrs P has also said a couple of times during her case she wasnt offered the opportunity to 
have an independent engineer check over her car. But shes also said, Have my own 
mechanic repairer he was going on holiday when I spoke with him, so I became alarmed of 
losing the offer of the £15,000. So, although Mrs P has said she wasnt given the option of 
having her own independent inspection, it seems she was aware she could, but chose to go 
ahead in case she lost the £15,000 offer from the showroom. 
Overall then, I do think Mrs P has clearly experienced some distress as a result of the 
incorrect information given by Soteria  but having reviewed the concerns shes raised, I 
cant see shes suffered a specific financial loss Id reasonably attribute to Soteria. Ill 
consider their offer of £500 at the end of this decision.
Courtesy car
In the call on 24 July 2021 a courtesy car is discussed. Soterias agent tells Mrs P it sounds 
like shes got a courtesy car through an add-on policy with her broker. Mrs P says OK shell 
go and speak to them then.
I can hear in the call Mrs P is told shes not entitled to a courtesy car under the terms of the 
policy. But thats because, in that call, the car has been deemed a write-off incorrectly. When 
the car was being repaired, Mrs P would have been entitled to a courtesy car.
Mrs P has said this has had an impact on her. But, shes not provided any evidence of the 
financial loss, or set out in detail what dates she was without a car and how this impacted 
her. She has at times given us a calculation of her losses  but this has never included a hire 
car cost. As Mrs P has been told shes entitled to a courtesy car with her broker, and hasnt 
mentioned anything regarding her losses here, Ive no evidence to show shes lost out as 
shes mentioned.
So, I dont currently uphold this element of her complaint.
Personalised number plate
Our Investigator felt, but for the misinformation given to Mrs P, she wouldnt have had to pay 
for her personalised number plate to be removed at a cost of £80. Soteria said given Mrs Ps 
intention was to sell the car, shed have had to do this anyway.
Im persuaded by Soterias argument. As Ive said above, Mrs P has been clear and 
consistent in saying she wouldnt keep this car now its been involved in an accident. When 
she was initially told she wouldnt be keeping the car as it was a write-off, she said at that 
time shed get the personalised number plate to be removed. So, Ive no reason to think 
shed have acted differently later on. Because of that, I wont be telling Soteria to pay her the 
£80 fee.
Summary
Ive set out above my thoughts on all the issues Mrs P has raised. Based on what Ive seen 
so far, I think Soteria have reached a fair outcome when they offered Mrs P £500 for the 
misinformation about whether her car would be written off. And for the reasons Ive set out 
above, I dont currently plan to uphold any of the other elements shes raised.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mrs P didnt agree with the outcome I reached. Using the headings above, Ive summarised 
her comments in my own words:
Liability  Mrs P reiterated in detail the circumstances of the accident, and that she 
parked in the only place she could have. 
Customer service on 24 July 2021  Mrs P said the agent was abrupt and sharp and 
she was completely stressed out by the agents mannerisms.
The misinformation provided during 24 July 2021s call, and the impact of that  
Mrs P described the circumstances of what happened and asks if Ive seen the report 
from the salvage yard as Ive not mentioned it. She says Soteria are in the wrong, 
and they admit this, but Im still not refunding her the deposit she paid on the new 
car. She says when she was told about the work on the car anyone in their right mind 
would have declined the car and not taken it back. Mrs P also says she wasnt told 
about the option of having an independent engineer to inspect her car earlier than 
she spoke to her own mechanic.
Courtesy car  Mrs P didnt mention anything regarding this.
Personalised number plate  shes said she only removed the plate and incurred the 
£80 cost because she was told the car would be a total loss. 
Soteria said they had no further information theyd like me to consider or comments they 
wanted to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank both parties for replying promptly, which has allowed me to finalise matters. 
Id also like to reassure both parties, and Mrs P in particular, Ive seen and reviewed all 
information provided by her and Soteria (including information from the salvage yard, and 
other companies) before I reached my outcome on her case.
Liability
I do understand Mrs Ps strength of feeling here. Shes certain shes not to blame for what 
happened. But, as I said in my provisional decision, that isnt something I can decide  only 
a court can do that.
My focus is on whether shes been treated fairly. Ive seen shes said shes not been asked 
for a diagram of the accident. That is a common piece of evidence asked for, but here 
Soteria felt they didnt need anything further information from Mrs P  and I cant see 
anything to obviously say theyve not treated her fairly by not getting this.
Customer service on 24 July 2021
I realise Mrs P believes the agent was abrupt and sharp  but I still dont agree. I think the 
agent handled Mrs Ps call appropriately. So, I dont uphold this element of her complaint.
The misinformation provided during 24 July 2021s call, and the impact of that
Mrs P has detailed her complaint again, for which I thank her for. But  and I think this is the 
key part of her complaint  its not in dispute, at all, that Soteria made a mistake. I accept 
Soteria did make a mistake  but I have to consider what the impact of that mistake was. 
As Ive mentioned above, Mrs P has said on many occasions, and repeated it when replying 
to my provisional decision  she didnt want to keep the car. 
So, in not wanting to keep the car (and needing a car)  shed have always had to buy a new 
one. I cant hold Soteria responsible for who shes chosen to buy a new car from. And, in 
having to buy a new car, shed always have had to pay for the new car. Mrs P has chosen to 
buy a car from a dealer who requires a deposit. That isnt something I can hold Soteria 
responsible for, because although they made a mistake, shes said she was going to sell the 
car. So, if Soterias mistake hadnt happened, shed still have gone and bought a new car  
and, presumably, would have chosen the same provider who asked she pay a deposit.
As for Mrs P not being told she could have an independent inspection I dont think this is 
something Soteria are required to offer unless a dispute is raised. No dispute was raised 
until later on regarding the bonnet and windscreen  so I dont think Soteria have done 
anything wrong here.
I do agree theres been an impact to Mrs P as a result of Soterias error  but not to the 
degree shes claiming for.
Courtesy car
Mrs P hasnt mentioned this, so Ive not said anything further and my provisional findings 
(copied above) stand.
Personalised number plateMrs P has said she only incurred the cost of removing the plate due to being told the car was 
a total loss.
But I again come back to what Mrs P did afterwards. Her intention from the very first call was 
to get a new car  in doing so, shed more likely than not remove the number plate as it was 
a cherished one. Ive commented on that in my provisional decision, and Mrs P hasnt 
provided any further information for me to think about on this point. So, I still think shed have 
removed it, and dont award the £80 cost of doing so.
Summary
Ive considered all the arguments Mrs P has raised, but overall for the reasons Ive set out 
Im satisfied the £500 compensation Soteria have offered is fair.
My final decision
Soteria Insurance Limited trading as Co-Op Insurance have already made an offer to pay 
£500 to settle the complaint, and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that Soteria Insurance Limited trading as Co-Op Insurance should pay 
Mrs P £500.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2022.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman