DRN-2983035
The complaint
Mr B complains that a car that was supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with 
RCI Financial Services Limited, trading as Renault Finance, wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
A new car was supplied to Mr B under a hire purchase agreement with Renault Finance that 
he signed in November 2019. The car had a flat battery in December 2020 but, when it was 
serviced in January 2021, no fault with the battery was found. The car had another flat 
battery in May 2021 and the breakdown service offered to replace the cars battery. Mr B 
declined that offer and complained to Renault Finance. He said that he wanted to reject the 
car.
Renault Finance arranged for the dealer to inspect the car in June 2021. The dealer ran 
diagnostic tests and road-tested the car but no fault was identified and it said that the car 
operated as expected. It said that the battery was draining as a result of low usage which 
was apparent due to the minimal number of miles that the car had driven. Mr B wasnt 
satisfied with its response so complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend that his complaint should be upheld. He didnt think that 
the reason that the car failed was the fault of Renault Finance. It was his opinion that the 
issue was caused because the car wasnt doing enough mileage but he didnt think that 
Renault Finance had been obliged to discuss a minimum mileage figure with Mr B at the 
time of purchase.
Mr B has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He says, in summary, 
that:
he wasnt told that he had to do a minimum amount of miles for the car to operate 
properly;
he uses the car for frequent short journeys but it does have longer runs once or twice 
a week which should be enough to sufficiently charge the battery;
he got the car to get him from one destination to another which it hasnt done 
successfully on two separate occasions at great inconvenience to himself and his 
family so its unfit for purpose;
the car is showing new signs of faults as the engine light has come on and alarms 
have flashed up whilst driving; and
the best possible outcome would be for him to give the car back so someone else 
can drive it more frequently and further. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Renault Finance, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that it was 
of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr B - whether or not it was of 
satisfactory quality at that time will depend on a number of factors, including the age 
and mileage of the car and the price that was paid for it;
the car that was supplied to Mr B was a new car and I consider that it was 
reasonable for him to expect that it would be free from even minor defects;
satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that the components within 
the car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly how long 
that time is will also depend on a number of factors;
Mr B entered into the hire purchase agreement in November 2019 and he says that 
he started to have issues with the car in January 2020  but Ive seen no evidence to 
show that he contacted the dealer about any issues with the cars battery until 
December 2020; 
the car had a flat battery in December 2020 when its mileage was recorded as 1,557 
and the car was serviced by the dealer in January 2021  but no fault with the battery 
was found;
the car had another flat battery in May 2021 and the breakdown service offered to 
replace the cars battery but that was declined by Mr B;
the dealer inspected the car in June 2021, which included diagnostic tests and a 
road-test, but no fault was identified and it said that the car operated as expected  it 
said that the battery was draining as a result of low usage which was apparent due to 
the minimal number of miles that the car had driven;
Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that theres a fault with the 
cars battery or that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality or was unfit for purpose 
when it was supplied to Mr B;
nor am I persuaded that there was any requirement for the dealer or Renault Finance 
to tell Mr B about the minimum mileage that he would need to drive the car to ensure 
that the battery was properly charged; 
Mr B has said that there are other faults with the car but in this decision I can only 
consider the faults that were included in his complaint to Renault Finance and that 
were dealt with in the final response letter that it sent to him in June 2021;
if Mr B wants to complain about other issues with the car, he should complain to 
Renault Finance about those issues and then , if hes not satisfied with its response, 
he may be able to make a separate complaint to this service; and
I sympathise with Mr B for the issues that hes had with the car but I dont consider 
that it would be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require Renault 
Finance to allow him to reject the car or to take any other action in response to his 
complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2021. 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman