DRN-3856409
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) has failed to support them with their 
buy-to-let mortgages, and the interest rate it has charged on the mortgages has been unfair 
and uncompetitive.
What happened
In 2007, Mr and Mrs S took out two buy-to-let mortgages with BOS. Each mortgage was for 
just under £215,000 against a property value of £249,995, over a term of 20 years, on an 
interest-only payment basis.
The interest rate on both mortgages was initially fixed at 5.79% until 31 May 2009, at which 
point it switched to BOSs standard variable rate (SVR). The mortgages have been on the 
SVR ever since.
Mr and Mrs S say the properties were overvalued from the beginning, and as a result they 
havent been able to achieve enough rental income from them to cover their costs, the 
properties are in negative equity, and there have been and continue to be arrears on the 
mortgages. They have asked BOS for help a number of times over the years but say they 
havent been given the right support. 
In 2019, Mr and Mrs S made the complaint at hand here. They wanted an interest rate 
reduction and an interest refund, a significant amount written off the mortgage balances, or 
for BOS to take the properties to sell and not ask them to pay any more. They also said they 
had paid around £50,000 towards one of the mortgages in 2015 to clear all the arrears and 
charges, but the balance still wasnt right. 
BOS didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint, and gave them details of the departments to 
contact to discuss any financial difficulties. Mr and Mrs S referred their complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. 
An Ombudsman colleague set out his conclusions on which parts of this complaint the 
Financial Ombudsman Service can and cant consider. He concluded that we:
- can consider the complaint about the lump sum payment in 2015;
- can consider the complaint about the interest charged, and assistance offered, since 15 
March 2013 (six years before Mr and Mrs S complained to BOS on 15 March 2019); but
- cant consider the complaint about the interest rate charged, and assistance offered, 
before 15 March 2013.
BOS then said that Mr and Mrs S had complained about the interest rate on their mortgages 
in 2013, and it had sent them its final response to that complaint on 24 April 2013. But Mr 
and Mrs S hadnt referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service within six 
months. 
Our Investigator said this meant we could only consider the fairness of the interest rate on 
Mr and Mrs Ss mortgages from 24 April 2013. He looked into the parts of the complaint he 
could consider, but didnt recommend the complaint be upheld.
Mr and Mrs S didnt accept that, so the complaint has come to me for final determination.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First of all and for the avoidance of any doubt, I agree with the conclusions the Ombudsman 
and subsequently, following a further submission by BOS with a copy of a 2013 final 
response letter, the Investigator, reached about the parts of this complaint I can and cant 
consider  that is:
- I can consider the complaint about the lump sum payment in 2015;
- I can consider the complaint about the interest rate charged since 24 April 2013 
(although in doing so, Ill need to consider the impact of earlier changes to the rate, as 
those earlier changes may have influenced the rate charged during the period I can 
consider, and are therefore part of all the circumstances of the case); 
- I can consider the complaint about the assistance offered since 15 March 2013 (six 
years before Mr and Mrs Ss 15 March 2019 complaint to BOS); but
- I cant consider the complaints about the interest rate charged, and assistance offered, 
any earlier than the dates set out here.
I think its also important to be clear that my role is to decide a fair and reasonable outcome 
to this complaint; its not to require BOS to explore with Mr and Mrs S all the options they 
would like it to offer them. Im also not required to answer in detail each and every point 
either Mr and Mrs S or BOS has made, although I confirm Ive considered carefully 
everything both parties have said.  
Financial difficulty
Mr and Mrs S say theyve been asking BOS for help for many years, since soon after they 
took out the mortgages. Its clear from what theyve said, BOSs records, and the arrears on 
the mortgages, that theyve found themselves in a very difficult position. Its unfortunate that 
Mr and Mrs Ss plans havent worked out as they expected. This doesnt mean, though, that 
BOS should fairly have provided them with the level of support and financial assistance that 
they would have liked.
The mortgages in question are unregulated buy-to-let mortgages, so the rules that apply to 
residential mortgages dont apply to them and lenders arent required to provide the same 
level of support as they are for residential mortgage borrowers. These mortgages are for 
investment purposes; they arent secured on Mr and Mrs Ss home. I would nevertheless 
expect a lender to treat buy-to-let borrowers fairly and consider whether and what 
forbearance might be appropriate where there is financial difficulty. What level of support is 
appropriate will depend on the borrowers specific circumstances.
BOS has offered Mr and Mrs S payment breaks, reduced payment arrangements, and to 
discuss term extensions. It capitalised arrears in 2016. Mr and Mrs S dont consider any of 
this to be a viable long-term solution. They want BOS to discuss options with them which go 
above and beyond what it might ordinarily offer, such as a lower interest rate for longer than 
just the short term, or a significant balance reduction. Mr and Mrs S hold BOS partly responsible for their predicament, because it agreed to lend 
against what they consider to be overvalued properties in 2007. They have complained 
about the valuations and lending decisions before, so while theyre not for me to consider 
here, I understand why Mr and Mrs S consider them relevant context. 
In all the circumstances, however, I find no basis on which I might fairly conclude that BOS 
should go further than it has done to support Mr and Mrs S. Theirs is a long-term problem: 
the properties have been in negative equity for years, theres no indication that the situation 
will improve, the mortgage balances have increased due to arrears, and Mr and Mrs S cant 
secure enough rental income from the properties to cover their costs. Forbearance is 
generally intended to give borrowers some breathing space until circumstances change or 
their situation improves. Im satisfied that BOS has been open to discussing options with Mr 
and Mrs S, but its not the banks job to make their investment viable. BOS must also treat all 
its customers fairly and equitably  whilst taking account of Mr and Mrs Ss individual 
circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs S say BOS has overcharged them interest, because its SVR is too high  they 
want a lower interest rate and an interest refund. Ill deal later with the issue of the fairness 
of the rate. However, BOS didnt have to offer Mr and Mrs S a lower interest rate. Theres no 
obligation on lenders to offer new interest rate products to their customers, and there are 
good reasons why a fixed rate product with an early repayment charge attached might not 
be in the best interests of a borrower who cant meet the mortgage payments: it could cost 
more in the long run should the early repayment be applied because the mortgage is 
unsustainable, for example. 
In any event, Mr and Mrs S have said theyve never asked for a fixed rate product  just a 
lower rate. I think its far from clear that a lower interest rate would solve their problems. In 
all the circumstances, I also dont consider that BOS should fairly have offered them a long-
term bespoke rate which wasnt available to other borrowers. 
I think its reasonable that BOS has required the mortgage arrears and charges to be on a 
capital and interest repayment basis where the mortgage is otherwise on an interest-only 
basis  particularly where the property is in negative equity. The alternative is that the 
mortgage balance remains at the increased level and doesnt reduce, so the situation wont 
improve.
Mr and Mrs S say BOS should have discussed the sale of the properties and the process for 
payment of a shortfall with them earlier. However, I think its clear from the copies Ive seen 
of Mr and Mrs Ss correspondence that until recently they simply werent prepared to sell at a 
loss. I understand from what Mr and Mrs S have said that they have now put both properties 
on the market. 
The mortgage interest rate
Mr and Mrs Ss mortgages switched to BOSs SVR in 2009 and have been on the SVR ever 
since. Mr and Mrs S complain that the SVR has been too high compared to rates charged by 
other lenders and relative to Bank of England (BOE) base rate. They say theyve been 
paying a far lower rate on the mortgages they have on other investment properties  in April 
2019, for example, they say they were paying interest at 4.95% on their BOS mortgages but 
1.95% on their other buy-to-let mortgages, in line with the average market SVR.
The Moneyfacts Average Mortgage rate  which is based on lenders SVRs for existing 
customers  was 4.89% in April 2019. BOSs SVR was only slightly above this measure. 
This also suggests Mr and Mrs S had exceptionally low rates on their other mortgage 
borrowing if they were paying 1.95% on their other lender(s) SVRs, particularly for buy-to-let mortgages, which are often more expensive than residential mortgages  or were on some 
kind of preferential rate with that lender or lenders, rather than their SVR.
However, having considered other lenders SVRs during the period I can consider, I dont 
find that the rates BOS has charged Mr and Mrs S have been out of line or manifestly unfair. 
BOSs SVR wasnt tied to BOE base rate, and Im satisfied that the mortgage terms didnt 
suggest it was. The mortgage terms set out the basis on which BOS could vary its SVR. 
That includes, at section 7.10 (a): To reflect changes in the cost to us of raising the money 
we lend to our customers with mortgages.
Theres no general obligation on mortgage lenders for their SVRs to track BOE base rate. 
Ive considered whether BOSs SVR variation terms were unfair and whether it applied them 
in a way which resulted in unfairness, and in doing so Ive also considered relevant law and 
regulations. Having done so, Im satisfied that the bank hasnt managed its SVR unfairly, and 
Mr and Mrs S havent been overcharged interest as a result.
This is because Im satisfied the SVR has been varied in line with the terms and conditions 
of the mortgage, for reasons those terms allowed. And having considered the fairness of the 
changes during the period I can consider, as well as whether BOS was entitled to make the 
earlier changes which might have impacted the fairness of the rate charged during the 
period I can consider, I think the interest rate charged in the six years leading up to Mr and 
Mrs Ss complaint was fair and reasonable. 
While the difference between BOSs SVR and BOE base rate increased between 2007 and 
2009, this was a period of significant economic change, and BOE base rate fell from 5.25% 
when Mr and Mrs S took out these mortgages in 2007 to 0.5% when the mortgages moved 
onto the SVR in 2009. 
It doesnt automatically follow that BOSs costs reduced in line with BOE base rate. BOS has 
provided the Financial Ombudsman Service with information about its funding costs at the 
relevant times and how those costs informed its decisions to set its SVR at the level it did. 
Having taken that into consideration, I dont find that its decision to vary its SVR in the way it 
did was unfair for the period I can consider, up to March 2019.
The 2015 lump sum payments
Mr and Mrs S complain that they made a large payment to one of the mortgages on the 
basis that it would clear all the arrears. They say BOS told them how much they needed to 
pay in order for this to happen, and they did so  but their monthly mortgage payments didnt 
then reduce by as much as they expected as they were still being asked to pay some of the 
balance on a repayment basis. 
BOSs records show that it received five payments of £10,000 and one payment of 
£3,341.01 in February 2015, and that those payments were deducted from the mortgage 
balance. Mr and Mrs S havent said that they paid more than that or that any payments are 
missing.
The mortgage records Ive seen show that the balance reduced to around the amount Mr 
and Mrs S had originally borrowed after they made these payments, and while they hadnt 
made a payment to the mortgage for a few months beforehand, their monthly payments did 
reduce afterwards. The Financial Ombudsman isnt an auditing service, but I find no basis on 
which to fairly require BOS to take any corrective action in respect of these payments or the 
mortgage balance.
ConclusionI recognise that Mr and Mrs S feel very strongly about this matter and theyre in a difficult 
position. However, having carefully considered all the circumstances, I dont find that BOS 
has treated them unfairly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 July 2023.
 
Janet Millington
Ombudsman