DRN-1356276
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited trading as 
Scottish Provident (Scottish Provident) has unfairly refused to pay out on a critical illness 
claim they made for Mrs M under her protection policy.
To resolve their complaint, they want Mrs Ms claim paid in full from the date they lodged the 
claim in 2018, with interest. They also seek compensation for the unnecessary stress and 
upset that Mrs M has been caused. 
What happened
Mrs M took out a life and critical illness policy in January 2003. It offers her £32,000 of level-
term cover for twenty years. 
In June 2018, Mrs M became seriously unwell due to alcohol withdrawal symptoms. She was 
admitted to hospital for seven days. Mr M says she was seen by a cardiology team during 
that time. Mrs Ms doctors thought that she had suffered from a type two heart attack (a 
myocardial infarction (MI) resulting from a restriction in blood supply). It was on this basis 
that Mrs M was placed on two types of medication, given to patients who have had a heart 
attack.  
Mr and Mrs M then made a claim for critical illness benefit under Mrs Ms policy definition of 
heart attack.  
Mr M says Scottish Providents claims handler made extensive enquiries regarding Mrs Ms 
medical circumstances (including alcohol use, blood pressure, and cholesterol levels). He 
felt this was done with a view to invalidating her policy.  
Scottish Provident issued its decision in February 2019. It said it was unable to make the 
claim payment to Mrs M because it did not feel Mrs M had suffered a heart attack in 
accordance with the policy terms. 
Mr M appealed the decision on Mrs Ms behalf. He explained that she had been told she had 
a heart attack and this was identified by the recorded significant rise in troponin levels. 
Scottish Provident issued a further response but was unwilling to change its view. It said that 
while the raised troponin levels were indicative of heart attacks, the wider evidence did not 
show Mrs M had suffered a definite heart attack and that was what the policy wording 
requires.  
Mr and Mrs M still disagreed and appealed again. Scottish Provident provided a third, more 
senior response. Again, it said the claim couldnt be paid, and its chief medical officer 
(CMO) took the view that Mrs M had not suffered a heart attack, as defined by her policy 
terms.  
In July 2019, Mr and Mrs M brought their complaint to this service. They provided a written 
statement refuting Scottish Providents decision. They reiterated how Mrs M had been treated at all times as having had a heart attack. She had been given medication on that 
basis. 
Further, they noted that when she went into hospital for an unrelated matter in November 
2018, the attending doctor recorded her past history of previous Type II MI. Her GP also 
recorded the same. 
Mr and Mrs M say that Mrs M has a valid claim because:
during her hospital stay, multiple doctors attended to Mrs M and all of them agreed 
she exhibited all the signs of having suffered a heart attack;
her medical records also reflect she has suffered a heart attack;
her troponins were elevated from 94 to 356 between tests  well over the benchmark 
of 100% for a heart attack to be present;
her ECG showed inverted T waves, this is also consistent with a heart attack;
Scottish Providents CMO has never met or tested Mrs M;
the consultant Scottish Provident relies on now, Dr S, only met her once;
this doctor has made no attempt to amend Mrs Ms records if she did not actually 
suffer a heart attack;
Scottish Equitable has chosen which medical evidence it prefers and used that to 
refute the claim;
an insurance claim is not a criminal matter, and Mrs M shouldnt have to prove 
beyond reasonable doubt that she had a heart attack;
a reasonable interpretation on the balance of probability of the medical evidence is 
that she did have a heart attack.
 
Mr M submitted that even though none of Mrs Ms medical evidence expressly referred to 
the death of a portion of the heart muscle, the claim should still be met. He explained how 
the very definition of an MI is that death of some cells has resulted from the lack of blood 
supply, so that the diagnosis itself shows that such death has occurred.  
An investigator from this service did not believe the complaint should succeed. Having 
looked at the medical evidence, while he agreed that Mrs M showed raised troponin levels 
and ECG changes, he said the evidence did not show she had suffered a definite heart 
attack, or a death of a portion of the heart muscle. And since Mr and Mrs Ms policy terms 
required both those things, he didnt think Scottish Provident was unreasonable to refuse the 
claim.  
The investigator also considered that Mr and Mrs M had found some heart attack definitions 
on the internet. But he felt that Mrs Ms circumstances ought to be measured against her 
policy terms.  
Scottish Provident didnt have any further comments. Mr and Mrs M asked for the matter to 
be referred to an ombudsman. Mr M also supplied a further detailed written submission of 
his and Mrs Ms case. I have not repeated that in full here, though I have reviewed it in its 
entirety. In summary, he said:
they believe that insufficient weight has been given to some of the evidence; 
undue emphasis has been placed on what appears to be an incorrect interpretation 
of certain parts of the policy wording; 
other important factors may have been overlooked;
the investigator failed to address several of the arguments made in their written 
submission;no mention has been made of Mrs M not having an MI in her medical notes;
nor has the fact Dr Ss medical opinion conflicts will all of the other professionals 
been properly addressed;
the policy does not actually require a diagnosis;
the fact an MI amounts to a death of a portion of the heart muscle has not been 
considered;
the medical definitions supplied were from reputable sources;
Dr S didnt see all of Mrs Ms test results.    
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To be clear for Mr M, whilst I appreciate that he and Mrs M have taken considerable time to 
provide written submissions. I wont be setting out my view on every piece of available 
evidence, nor am I able to provide comment on every point Mr M has made. But I have 
looked at everything theyve submitted, as well as all of the evidence from Scottish 
Provident. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by both parties and reach what I think is an independent, fair and 
reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. That means Ill be concentrating below 
on what I consider are the central issues in this complaint.  
Having done so, I am not able to uphold this complaint. I believe Scottish Provident has fairly 
refused the claim. Ill explain why below.  
To reiterate, to have a valid claim paid, Mrs M must meet the following definition:
The death of a portion of heart muscle, due to inadequate blood supply, that has 
resulted in all of the following evidence of acute myocardial infarction: 
1.new characteristic electrocardiographic changes; 
2.the characteristic rise of cardiac enzymes, troponins or other biochemical markers; 
where all of the above shows a definite acute myocardial infarction [my 
emphasis]. Other acute coronary syndromes, including but not limited to angina, are 
not covered under this definition.
It could be the case that a policyholder suffers a heart attack but doesnt necessarily meet 
the wording above. Critical illness policies will only pay out for claims of a specified severity, 
as required by any relevant policy terms.  Its worth noting that the wording used above is 
taken from the industry guidance issued by the Association of British Insurers for critical 
illness cover. 
Mr M has explained that of itself, myocardial infarction is defined as the death of a portion of 
the heart muscle due to inadequate blood supply. I agree with that submission. It is made 
clear by the policy definition above. 
However, I disagree that the correct balance of the medical evidence is to discount Dr Ss 
evidence. To the contrary, I believe that his evidence ought to be given the most weight. 
I realise Mrs M has been seriously unwell. And I can see how frustrating it has been for Mr 
and Mrs M that Scottish Provident did need to undertake some assessment of her medical history to be sure that there were not misrepresentations on the 2003 application relating to 
hypertension, high cholesterol or alcohol intake. 
When a claim is made, depending on the circumstances an insurer might be prompted to 
visit what it was told at the outset, in the event of conditions or incidents which might have 
pre-existed the policy starting. I can see Scottish Provident does not hold any concern in that 
regard, so I wont be looking at that issue further.
When Mrs M was admitted on 7 June 2018, it is clear that it was believed shed had a heart 
attack. A biochemistry report from that afternoon says, definite myocardial damage, cause 
depends on contextIf this IS the first measurement, repeat in 3 hoursA rise of 
100%/doubling implies acute myocardial damage.
Mrs M did go on some four hours later to have an increase to her troponin levels of more 
than 100%. 
The summary of Mrs Ns treatment was given by Dr A, a specialist in hepatology. He said:
I reviewed [Mrs N] in the clinic today. She was admitted earlier this month due to 
alcohol withdrawal seizures. On admission, she was found to have ischaemic 
changes on her ECG and her troponin was significantly increased at 356.she 
received an inpatient alcohol detox and improved significantly. She was seen by the 
cardiology team during the hospital stay and their opinion was that the patient most 
likely had a type II myocardial infarction due to reduced blood supply to the heart 
during the seizure I will send a referral letter to the cardiology team to see if they 
would want to follow her up regarding these [ECG] findings and a recent possible 
type II myocardial infarction.
I acknowledge that during the course of Mrs Ms hospital stay it was certainly thought, if not 
considered most likely that Mrs M had suffered from an MI. But, this assessment was not 
finalised, nor was it given by a cardiologist or other suitable doctor of that field. 
Scottish Providents documentation says it considers for a claim to be fulfilled, there must be 
specific evidence of ECGs, enzyme results, appropriate investigations and a full 
cardiologists, cardiothoracic, neurosurgeon or vascular surgeons assessment and 
operation notes. While I do not find that to be binding, it is relevant to consider what Dr S 
had to say about Mrs Ms circumstances, as he is an attending cardiologist. 
In her report to Scottish Provident, Mrs Ms GP confirmed that when Mrs M was discharged it 
was with a view to having a further scan on 24 June. Dr S provided a further letter the 
following day. He confirmed the ECG changes and raised enzymes. He also said, her 
recent echocardiogram performed on 24 June 2018, demonstrated good biventricular 
systolic function. Comment was made about very slight hypokinesia (muscle movement) 
affecting the inferior septum and inferior walls. she does not require any specific 
assessment at this point. Nor does she need any further investigations.
Dr S sent a further letter to Mr and Mrs M the next month, on 31 July. This was in response 
to a letter from Mr M. Also, by this time Scottish Provident had also contacted Ds S, as it 
required completion of a medical report. The letter said: 
I have written to [Scottish Provident] and the GP regarding my assessment of Mrs M 
during her recent inpatient stay. Although she has risk factors for coronary artery 
disease, namely hypertension and hypercholesterolaemia, her presentation was not 
that of a heart attack. The blood tests that were [checked] can be elevated in a 
number of conditions, including post generalised seizure. The cardiac ultrasound findings were minor and very subtle. Although these changes 
can be seen following a heart attack, there are other reasons for such changes and 
one may see them in the context of hypertension. 
I have indicated to [Scottish Provident] and your GP that no further cardiovascular 
investigations need to be performed unless she has issues with ongoing chest pain.
In conclusion, I do not think that Mrs M had a heart attack when she recently 
presented to [name of] hospital.
Though Mr M submits that Dr Ss view should be discounted, I disagree. The policy requires 
an assessment from an appropriate heart specialist or surgeon. Dr S is appropriately 
qualified and he was Mrs Ms attending consultant during her admission. His statement is 
unequivocal  he does not believe Mrs M suffered an MI. He considers that this could have 
been caused by another reason, such as her seizure or history of hypertension. 
If Mr and Mrs M feel that there is further evidence that Dr S hasnt considered, then they 
remain free to present this to him or Scottish Provident. But I have no reason to doubt Mr S 
has given an objective view of Mrs Ms circumstances. And whilst she may have 
demonstrated troponin and ECG changes as required by the policy, I have not seen any 
objective evidence of the occurrence of a definite acute MI. 
The possibility of an MI was recorded whilst Mrs M was in hospital, but the consultant 
revised that view. He is a cardiologist who specialises in diagnosing heart attacks. It follows 
that Scottish Provident has fairly refused the claim, because the evidence does not satisfy 
the policy definition above. 
My final decision
Despite my sympathy for Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances, I cannot uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 March 2020.
Jo Storey
Ombudsman