DRN-3686690
The complaint
Mr B complains that a used car he got with a hire purchase agreement (HPA) from Startline 
Motor Finance Limited was mis-sold and of unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
Mr B acquired this car under the HPA on 7 January 2022. The cash price was £15,000 and 
the car was about eight years old with 81,000 miles on the clock. Mr B was unhappy with the 
car from the outset. He says he was told it had a full-service history which wasnt true, the 
car had more owners than advertised and it also had several faults. Mr B refused to take 
delivery and complained to Startline (on 17 January 2022), after the first finance payment 
was taken.
Startline asked Mr B for evidence to show there was something wrong with the car. So, he 
returned to the supplying dealership (which was some distance away) and collected it and 
paid £125 for an independent engineer to carry out an inspection. On 14 February 2022 the 
engineer identified numerous issues including broken backrest handles, the handbrake 
needed adjusting, the gearbox needed investigating, excessive play and knocking in 
suspension, a possible oil leak to the turbo, excessive play in wheel bearings, issues with 
one tyre and evidence of previous bodywork repairs.
Startline contacted the supplying dealer and the finance broker (that Ill call Z) and arranged 
for another independent expert to inspect the car, on 21 February 2022. This expert also 
found faults - an oil leak from the turbocharger and excessive play in a wheel requiring 
adjustment, amongst other things. He thought these issues would have been present when 
the car was supplied and Startline agreed to take the car back and provide a refund. 
Collecting the car and unwinding the HPA took longer than it should have and the parties 
disagree about why that happened and how to put things right. 
Mr B says, aside from any faults present, the car was misrepresented - and Z acknowledged 
this at the time so Startline should have cancelled the finance at the outset. He thinks 
Startline acted unreasonably in that (among other things) it stopped him from using the car 
when he needed transport. This made it difficult to get to work - putting real strain on his 
finances. And Startline wouldnt suspend monthly payments  even after accepting rejection 
and taking the car back. Mr B feels its unfair that hes been left out of pocket - for the cost of 
the inspection, travel to collect the car, alternative transport, car insurance and road tax. He 
wants Startline to provide a full refund and pay appropriate compensation for all hes been 
through. 
Startline acknowledged the matter should have been resolved faster but says rejection was 
agreed within eight weeks. And it considers delays after that were due to Mr B  as his 
behaviour made communication with third parties more difficult, he was unwilling to co-
operate, he failed to provide information needed to unwind the HPA (such as evidence of the 
up to date mileage and the amount of deposit paid, for example) and he refused to let Z 
collect the car.
Our investigator considered the evidence and recommended the complaint should be 
upheld. In summary, she thought it was reasonable that Mr B was allowed to reject the car 
and he should have his deposit refunded as well as the cost of any inspection he paid for. 
She was satisfied that Mr B had little benefit from acquiring the vehicle so its fair that 
Startline should refund any monthly payments made along with any travel costs incurred 
(above the amount of monthly payments refunded) for the time he was unable to use the car 
as well as road tax and car insurance  on proof of payment. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded that all of the delays were Startlines responsibility. She 
didnt think it was unreasonable, for example, that Startline wanted the car back before 
providing a refund. But, she thought the onus was on Startline to show the car was of 
satisfactory quality in this situation and, rather than asking Mr B for evidence of faults, 
Startline could have done more to progress things and assist him. She was satisfied that Mr 
B experienced distress and inconvenience as a result of being supplied with a car of 
unsatisfactory quality and she said Startline should pay £200 compensation for that. She 
recommended Startline should also pay interest on any refunds and remove any adverse 
information recorded about the HPA from Mr Bs credit file. 
Mr B mentioned Startline had sent him a default notice but Startline denied this and the 
investigator left it to Mr B to contact Startline if he still had concerns. Mr B accepted the 
investigators recommendations but Startline didnt agree. It says Mr B was supported to the 
best possible standard the circumstances and it shouldnt be held responsible for delays 
and/or distress and inconvenience or have to pay compensation - in view of Mr Bs 
behaviour and unwillingness to co-operate. Startline asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for review and said (in summary):-
its the consumers responsibility to provide evidence of faults so soon after supply, 
under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA);
faults were present here and rejection was agreed within a reasonable timescale;
it was Mr Bs decision not to collect the car initially and Startline was obliged to 
investigate so waiting two weeks for an experts inspection is not unreasonable - its in 
line with industry standards - and any associated delay caused Mr B no detriment;
it refunded the deposit and covered the cost of experts and Mr B hasnt been charged 
for use  no monthly payments were retained; 
Mr B shouldnt be entitled to a further refund for travel expenses although it will review 
insurance and road tax costs - on receipt of relevant evidence.
Having considered the available evidence, I was minded to uphold the complaint. My 
reasons were a bit different to the investigators and I was inclined to reach a somewhat 
different outcome overall. So, I thought it was fair to let the parties see my provisional 
findings and make further submissions (if they wanted to) before I made my final decision. I 
issued a provisional decision on 3 August 2022. Ive set out below what I decided 
provisionally - and why  and this forms part of my final decision. 
My provisional decision
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light of 
the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
I can see that Mr B has had a very difficult time and I understand both parties want this 
matter to be determined as soon as possible. I have no wish to prolong things unnecessarily. 
But, for the reasons Ive set out below, Im minded to come to a somewhat different view to 
the investigator. And I think its fair to issue this provisional decision and give the parties a little more time now to make further submissions and/or clarify some issues before I make 
my final decision. 
A lot has gone on here, and both parties have made fairly detailed submissions, so Im going 
to have to summarise things in my decision. The rules of our service allow me to do this. I 
want to assure the parties, if I dont mention every single point thats been raised, its not 
because I havent thought about it. I have considered everything thats been said and sent to 
us. However Im going to concentrate on what I consider is key to reaching a fair and 
reasonable outcome. 
I think it might be helpful to make a few things clear at the start. The Financial Ombudsman 
Service provides alternative dispute resolution thats free to complainants. Im not a 
regulator. I dont have the power to tell Startline how to operate on a day to day basis. And 
its not within my remit to punish a financial business or any individual. Instead, my job is to 
look at all of the information available about this particular complaint, without taking sides, 
and consider the merits on a fair and reasonable basis. 
Mr B brings his complaint to our service because Startline supplied the car under a HPA. 
And Im looking at Startlines obligations arising out of that finance agreement here. Again, I 
think its important to be clear about my remit. I can see that Mr B is unhappy about the 
actions of the dealer and others. And I should explain that I cant hold Startline responsible 
for the actions of third parties (except as Ive explained further below). 
Satisfactory quality 
As the cars supplier, Im satisfied that Startline was obliged to ensure it was of satisfactory 
quality when Mr B got it - under the CRA - and failure to do so would amount to a breach of 
the HPA. 
Startline doesnt dispute that the car it provided to Mr B was of unsatisfactory quality so I 
dont need to make any specific findings about that. I can see theres been some 
disagreement however about whether it was for Mr B or Startline to provide evidence about 
the condition of the car. Im satisfied the CRA says its for the consumer to supply evidence 
of faults present in order to exercise the short term right to reject - within 30 days of supply. 
Mr B complained to Startline about ten days after he signed the HPA. So I can see why 
Startline may have taken the view he wanted to exercise his short-term right to reject and 
asked for evidence of quality issues. 
However, I think it looks as if Mr B was concerned about more than just the condition of the 
car here. He says he refused to accept the vehicle because the service history and number 
of previous owners wasnt what he was led to believe before he took out the HPA  in other 
words, he considers misrepresentations were made at the outset.
Misrepresentation
Im satisfied that Startline may held liable for representations made during the course of pre-
sale negotiations in this situation - under section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. Mr B 
says Z acknowledged very early on that hed been told things about the car that were untrue. 
I dont think it would have been too difficult for Startline to check that but Ive seen nothing to 
show that it did so. I note Startline says it had agreed the return of funds initially because 
Mr B had chosen not to collect the car. But Ive got no evidence of Startline informing Mr B it 
accepted rejection and would provide a refund in January 2022. I think Mr B was probably 
still under the impression that he needed to supply evidence of fault to Startline  when he 
took the time and trouble to collect the car and arrange an inspection at the start of 
February.I realise Startline may say, even if misrepresentations were made, it doesnt automatically 
entitle a consumer to reject goods. And I accept Mr B would have to show that he 
reasonably relied on untrue statements when he decided to take out the HPA in order to do 
so. I dont have much evidence about what happened around the time Mr B acquired the car. 
But, I dont think theres any dispute that he didnt accept it at the point of supply. I think this 
seems consistent with Mr Bs version of events  that he realised then the service and 
ownership history was not as promised. And Mr Bs subsequent actions suggest the cars 
history was very important for him - so he probably wouldnt have agreed to finance if he 
hadnt been received relevant assurances. 
On the current evidence, I cant be certain if the car was misrepresented. But, I think it would 
have been reasonable for Startline to look into this. And I understand Mr Bs frustration that 
this aspect of his complaint wasnt addressed properly  as things might well have been 
resolved much faster at considerably less trouble and expense.
Rejection and the deposit refund
I am satisfied that Startline accepted Mr B was entitled to reject the car following the second 
experts report and agreed (in principal) that he should also have his deposit back. Ive seen 
correspondence that Startline sent Mr B to say the car would be recovered and the deposit 
of £6,700 refunded. I think that was probably concerning for Mr B because hed paid a 
deposit of £7,000. I understand Startline considered there was some discrepancy about how 
much was paid so it asked Mr B for evidence. And Mr B was unhappy because he felt this 
was clear from the HPA.
Ive checked the paperwork completed at the time  including the HPA and the sale invoice. 
Both show a deposit of £7,000 was paid. The sales invoice says this consisted of a part 
exchange value of £700 and a deposit of £6,300. The part exchange details arent 
completed so this may be the reason Startline didnt accept the total paid, I cant say. But Id 
have expected Startline to be able to resolve any discrepancy with Z (who arranged the 
finance) and/or the dealer fairly quickly. And I think it might have been quite difficult for Mr B, 
on the other hand, to prove how much he paid by way of deposit - if he didnt have a receipt 
setting that out. So I understand his increasing concern that he wouldnt get all of his money 
back.
Startline has said the dealer was hard to get hold of and I can see Startline acknowledged 
(in an email on 22 April 2022) that the dealer placed barriers to accepting rejection. I think 
this was probably one of those instances. And Im not persuaded Mr Bs responsible for any 
associated delay. It looks as if Startline has now accepted the deposit paid was £7,000 and 
refunded that amount. If Im wrong about that, the parties should let me know. 
Collecting the car
Startline says Mr B caused further delay in collecting the car. I can see (from information 
Startline provided) that Mr B confirmed, at the end of March, that any day was suitable for 
collection  which doesnt sound like as if he was trying to avoid this. It looks as if Z then 
contacted Mr B (around 4 April 2022) but he wouldnt allow Z to take the car. I think its clear 
Mr B was extremely upset and frustrated by events at this point. Startline told us Z had cut 
contact with Mr B previously and Mr B says he didnt trust Z. So, its perhaps not surprising 
that collection by Z proved problematic. And Mr Bs financial situation at the time probably 
didnt help.
I think Mr B may have been reluctant to release the car to anyone other than Startline (the 
lender and owner) partly because of his money worries. He was struggling to get to work (as 
he didnt want to use the car), he was still required to make monthly payments by Startline and he was (understandably) concerned about his liability under the HPA and getting his 
money back.
I realise it was more convenient for Startline if Z collected the car. But I dont think the 
average customer necessarily appreciates the various relationships involved in arranging the 
sale, supply and finance of a car like this. It looks as if Mr B agreed that Startline could 
collect the vehicle on 7 April 2022, without too much difficulty. This was the day after 
Startline sent its final response confirming that a refund would be provided and the finance 
would be settled. And Im not persuaded that Mr B sought to delay or avoid returning the car. 
I can see it was collected 20 April 2022 and Startline ended the HPA just over a week later.
Financial difficulties
Mr B told us being supplied with this car caused him a great deal of upset, inconvenience 
and financial difficulty. He feels Startline was slow to agree that he could reject and process 
a refund and it didnt do enough to help.
I can see (from information Startline provided) that Startline contacted Z about ten days after 
the second experts inspection, about rejection. It looks as if Z struggled to contact the dealer 
and responded to Startline, at the end of March, offering to collect the car. I havent been 
provided with Startlines contact notes so Im not sure what Mr B was told during this time. I 
think he was becoming increasingly upset and frustrated - because he had a car he couldnt 
use and he found it difficult to get to work and pay for essentials. Mr B told our investigator 
that he had to borrow from family in early April 2022 and he offered to send bank statements 
as proof of his financial issues. I can see the investigator asked Startline to consider 
suspending payments but it doesnt seem to have replied.
Wed expect a financial business to show forbearance when a customer is having financial 
problems. Im inclined to find Startline should have responded more sympathetically and 
positively to Mr B here. I think it was open to Startline to take a number of steps to assist - 
the most obvious being it could have considered freezing monthly payments for a time. And 
Im minded to find it would have been reasonable to do so in this situation. I think this might 
have gone a long way to alleviating Mr Bs stress and financial difficulties  and probably 
helped resolve the matter sooner.
Further delay, distress and inconvenience
Just after the car was collected Startline told Mr B, on 22 April 2022, that it was waiting for 
funds to be returned so it could manually allocate these and unwind the finance agreement. 
Startline went on to say without this, the finance payments remain your responsibility and 
anything paid is refunded as per the standard process. This is something we have 
continually made you aware of as per your obligations to the finance to avoid any negative 
credit file impact therefore we ask that . you remain co-operative whilst we await the 
funds.
Mr B found this correspondence extremely upsetting and I can see why. As far as he was 
concerned this suggested that hed remain responsible for monthly payments until funds 
were received from third parties that he had no control over - and failing to maintain 
payments would have a negative impact on his credit record. I think this was particularly 
distressing for Mr B in light of his ongoing financial problems.
I accept Startline confirmed, on 29 April 2022, that it would process Mr Bs refund because Z 
said funds would be provided. And the refund might not have been provided much faster 
even if Startline had started the process as soon as the car was returned. But, I think even a 
few days of uncertainty were likely very difficult for Mr B, given his particular circumstances. I consider this probably caused him additional stress and upset.
It looks as if Startline considers Mr B should have done more to help himself here and he 
could have sorted all of this out with Z  in which case Startline wouldnt have had to act as 
a communicator between both parties. But Mr Bs contract for the supply of this car was with 
Startline, not Z. I understand Startlines reasons for wanting the dealer and Z to be on board 
with any settlement and provide relevant funds before the HPA ended. However, having 
accepted the car was of unsatisfactory quality and should be rejected, I think it would have 
been reasonable for Startline to process the termination without delay. And, if delays were 
unavoidable (as I think some probably were here due to the actions of third parties) Startline 
should have taken reasonable steps to reduce any adverse impact on Mr B  as far as 
reasonably possible. 
Im satisfied that Mr B experienced a significant degree of distress and inconvenience as a 
result of being supplied with this car. I think he went to some trouble to collect it and arrange 
for an expert to inspect, after Startline asked for evidence. And he was stressed and upset 
because he was required to make payments for a car which (for the most part) he was 
unable to really use - leading to money problems. 
For the reasons Ive explained, I consider Startline should have done more to assist Mr B, in 
these particular circumstances. And, taking everything Ive seen so far into account, Im 
inclined to find it is fair and reasonable overall for Startline to pay Mr B £350 compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience he experienced.
I realise Startline considers it shouldnt have to pay any compensation due to Mr Bs 
behaviour and barriers he put in place to resolving the matter. For the reasons Ive given, I 
dont think Mr B was responsible for any significant delays here. Startline hasnt supplied any 
evidence of the unacceptable behaviour it refers to. But, even if I was satisfied about that, it 
doesnt take away from distress and inconvenience that Mr B experienced because Startline 
supplied a car of unsatisfactory quality, in breach of its obligations under the HPA. And I 
consider it is fair and reasonable Startline should compensate Mr B for that. 
Putting things right
I understand Startline has collected the car and refunded the deposit of £7,000 paid - plus all 
of the monthly payments made towards the finance (consisting of two payments of £233.93 
totalling £467.86). I find that fair in the circumstances. If Im wrong about these refunds 
having been paid already the parties should let me know in response to this provisional 
decision.
Startline seems to accept Mr B had little benefit from the car - it hasnt retained any monthly 
payments for use. And Im inclined to find it is reasonable (in all the circumstances) for Mr B 
to have any car insurance and road tax reimbursed as well  on proof of payment. Just to be 
clear, this means Mr B needs to provide evidence of the amounts incurred. It would be useful 
if he could do so in response to this provisional decision - so I can consider it and make a 
specific award in my final decision, if appropriate. 
There seems to be no dispute that Mr B collected the car and arranged an inspection in 
order to obtain evidence for Startline. Ive seen paperwork that shows the cost of the 
inspection was £125. Mr B hasnt got a receipt for his train fare but he sent a ticket that cost 
£53.75 on 9 February 2022 from his home to the dealers location. Im satisfied that Mr B 
would not have incurred these costs if the car had been of satisfactory quality when it was 
supplied. So Im minded to find it is fair that Startline should refund both amounts plus 
interest. Startline told us it has covered the cost of expert evidence already but Im not sure if 
that includes this inspection. For the avoidance of any doubt, Startline should reimburse the inspection fee of £125, if it hasnt done so already.
The investigator recommended that Startline should also reimburse any travel costs that Mr 
B can evidence in excess of the monthly instalments refunded. There seems to be some 
confusion about this. Ive seen reference to Mr B incurring train fares to work in 
correspondence from Startline. But Ive got no evidence from Mr B about that. And, in one 
call I listened to, he was clear that he couldnt get the train to work  which was one of the 
reasons being without a car caused so much additional stress and upset.
I think its fair that Startline has refunded all of the payments made towards the finance. That 
means Mr B hasnt paid anything towards the car. I think its fair he should pay something for 
transport. I dont have any evidence to show he reasonably incurred additional travel costs. 
And Im not presently minded to find Startline should provide an additional refund for this. If 
Mr B disagrees, its open to him to supply further evidence in response to my provisional 
decision and Ill consider that when I make my final decision.
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that Mr B experienced a significant degree of 
distress and inconvenience here and Im minded find it fair and reasonable for Startline to 
pay him £350 compensation. Like the investigator, I consider Mr B should receive interest on 
any refunds and I think Startline should also remove any information recorded about the 
HPA from his credit file. As things currently stand, for the reasons set out above, I am 
minded to uphold this complaint and require Startline to take the following steps to put things 
right:-
refund the cost of road tax and car insurance incurred by Mr B - on receipt of relevant 
documentary evidence;
refund £125 for the experts inspection Mr B paid for (if it hasnt done so already); 
refund Mr Bs train fare of £53.75 for his journey to collect the car; 
pay interest on the above refunds at 8% simple a year from the date of payment to 
the date of settlement; 
pay Mr B £350 compensation for distress and inconvenience; and 
remove any information recorded about the HPA from Mr Bs credit file.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I invited the parties to consider my provisional findings and let me have any further 
comments and/or new evidence by 18 August 2022. Startline accepted my provisional 
decision but Mr B was disappointed with the outcome. He said (in summary) I havent got the 
facts or the law right in my provisional decision and hes been left hugely out of pocket. 
Mr B supplied additional information about some but not all of his insurance payments along 
with a link to his insurers website - which didnt work for me unfortunately. He also told us 
that road tax cost £25 a month but he couldnt provide documentary evidence of that. 
I was sorry to hear that Mr B was disappointed with my provisional findings and felt I hadnt 
got things right. I asked the investigator to remind Mr B that I hadnt yet made my final 
decision and it was open to him to let me know why he disagreed with my provisional 
conclusions and/or provide further information. I extended the time for Mr Bs response to 22 
August 2022 - and I said Id consider extending this further if Mr B needed more time. 
I also explained (via the investigator) that working out what a financial business should do  
or pay  in this sort of situation isnt an exact science. In order to decide whats fair and reasonable, I need to consider (among other things) to what extent the business getting 
things wrong caused Mr B to incur any losses. And whether the business have reasonably 
expected its failure to cause such losses  or if more could have been done to reduce (or 
mitigate) any loss. The investigator invited Mr B to provide more evidence of his out of 
pocket expenses including dates and amounts and supporting documents - such as receipts, 
invoices, bank statements and the like - where possible. 
The time set (or any extension to this) for responses has now passed. Mr B hasnt sent us 
any new information. I dont think its fair or reasonable to delay matters any further. Having 
reviewed all of the evidence available, I see no reasonable grounds to depart from my 
provisional conclusions. For the reasons set out above, I remain of the view that it is fair and 
reasonable to uphold this complaint and Startline should take the steps below to put things 
right. 
I cant be certain how much Mr B paid exactly for insurance and road tax from the evidence 
Ive seen. This means I cant fairly require Startline to reimburse a specific amount for that. I 
remain of the view however Mr B should have these costs refunded if hes able to provide 
documentary proof. I dont think that should be too difficult - it looks as if Mr B paid for his 
insurance via direct debit, for example, so its open to him to supply paperwork such as bank 
statements to show the relevant payments were made.  
I realise this decision may disappoint both parties and Mr B, in particular, because this is not 
the outcome he wanted. Im sorry if he feels let down. Mr B is not obliged to accept what Ive 
said - in which case it remains open to him to pursue this matter by any other means 
available. 
My final decision
Your text here My decision is I uphold this complaint and I require Startline Motor Finance 
Limited to :-
1. refund the cost of road tax and car insurance incurred by Mr B - on receipt of relevant 
documentary evidence;
2. refund £125 for the experts inspection Mr B paid for (if it hasnt done so already);
3. refund Mr Bs train fare of £53.75 (for his journey to collect the car);
4. pay interest on the above refunds at 8% simple a year from the date of payment to 
the date of settlement;
5. pay Mr B £350 compensation for distress and inconvenience; and
6. remove any information recorded about the HPA from Mr Bs credit file.
If Startline considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax 
from the interest part of my award, it should tell Mr B how much its taken off. It should also 
give him a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate
If Startline does not pay the £350 compensation for inconvenience and distress within 28 
days of the date on which we tell it that Mr B accepts my final decision then it must also pay 
interest at 8% simple a year on this, from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2022. 
Claire JacksonOmbudsman