DRN-3846789
The complaint
Mrs D complains U K Insurance Limited unfairly declined a claim against her pet insurance 
policy. 
What happened
The background to the complaint is known to all parties so I wont repeat it here in detail. In 
my decision Ill mainly focus on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome I have. 
In summary, Mrs D took out pet insurance for her dog in 2020. 
In 2022, her dog had a right eye problem that required surgery. Mrs D raised a claim to UKI, 
but they declined it and referred to the policy terms. They say the clinical history notes show 
Mrs Ds dogs right eye problem started in 2018  before the policy start date. 
Mrs D didnt agree. She says shes never been made aware of a problem with her dogs right 
eye, nor has treatment taken place  only the left eye which was injured during puppyhood. 
She says her previous vet confused which eye was which in 2018 and incorrectly noted the 
right eye problem in the clinical history notes. 
Mrs D registered her dog with a new vet in 2019 and they carried out the 2022 claim-related 
treatment. Although they said Mrs Ds dogs right eye condition was an occurring condition of 
weeks, if not months, prior to Mrs D saying she first became aware of it, it was a new 
condition and not related to the historic left eye injury. 
UKI reconsidered the claim but maintained their decision. They say the previous vet was 
unable to confirm the 2018 record was incorrect, or amend it, and it was fair for them to rely 
on the clinical history notes to decline the claim as pre-existing. Mrs D didnt agree so she 
approached our service for an independent review. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought UKI fairly 
considered the claim and declined it in line with the policy terms. He wasnt persuaded the 
2018 clinical history record was made in error based on the evidence available. Mrs D didnt 
agree and maintained the claim should be paid. So, the case was passed to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy says UKI wont pay claims relating to or arising from a pre-existing condition. This 
is defined as any condition or symptoms, or signs of injury or illness, that happen or exist in 
any form before the policy starts. 
Mrs D says she wasnt made aware her dog had a right eye problem, nor did her dog ever 
require treatment until 2022. But the policy doesnt require treatment to start before the 
policy for a condition to be considered as pre-existing. As above, it says any condition or 
symptoms, or signs of injury or illness, that happen or exist before the policy start date are 
considered pre-existing. 
UKI say the clinical history notes show Mrs Ds dog had a right eye problem in 2018. The vet 
says they identified a scar and saliva staining on the right eye cornea they suspected to be 
due to a stress response or stereotypical behaviour of a skin problem. The notes also 
suggest Mrs Ds dog has had ongoing treatment for a skin problem. 
Mrs D says the previous vet got confused with which eye was which. She says her dog has 
a scar on their left eye which was the result of an historic injury. The clinical history notes 
support that in 2016 the vet identified an historic left eye injury, but they also identified in 
2018, a right eye problem which they considered to be due to a stress response or skin 
condition. This suggests the vet identified two separate issues and causes. 
When Mrs D contacted the previous vet for clarity on the 2018 record, she says the vet were 
unable to confirm whether this record was made in error, and they were unable to amend the 
clinical history records. As such, her previous vet has been unable to support that this 2018 
record was made in error.  
The purpose of a pets clinical history notes is for keeping an accurate record of their 
medical history. And Im satisfied its fair for an insurer to rely on these records when 
considering when a condition or injury first presented itself. In this case, I find the clinical 
history notes reasonably demonstrate Mrs Ds dog had a problem with their right eye in 2018 
which is before the policy start date of 2020. 
Ive also considered the treating vets clinical history records and comments in respect of the 
2022 claim. Following surgery, the vet noted Mrs Ds dogs right eye didnt have lesions 
consistent with starting from when Mrs D says she first noticed the right eye problem. And 
this condition was a much longer occurring condition of weeks if not months prior to this. The 
vet also stated they held no record of any problems or treatment for Mrs Ds dogs right eye 
during the period they were registered with them. 
This  in my view  suggests the condition has been occurring over time and a longer period 
than when Mrs D first became aware of it. And although the vet has no record of any 
problems with Mrs Ds dogs right eye for the duration they were registered, Mrs Ds previous 
vet identified a scar and saliva staining on the right eye cornea they considered was the 
result of a stress response or a skin problem. These previous vet records were available to 
UKI as part of their claim decision making, and Im satisfied it was fair for them to rely on 
these as its Mrs Ds dogs medical history record, kept by a veterinary professional. 
The treating vet also wrote to UKI in 2022 after reassessing Mrs Ds dog. They said, broadly, 
the right eye condition was a new condition and not linked to the historic left eye condition. 
The claim notes suggest all parties agree this was the case, but I dont think the treating 
vets comments support that Mrs Ds dogs right eye wasnt displaying a scar and saliva 
staining  likely due to a stress response or a skin problem  in 2018. 
I understand why Mrs D is frustrated with UKIs claim decision having said she had never 
been made aware of a previous right eye problem in 2018. But, having reviewed the 
information available to me, Im satisfied UKI considered the claim fairly and it was 
reasonable for them to rely on Mrs Ds dogs clinical history records to decline the claim. So, 
I wont be requiring UKI to do anything here. 
I accept my decision will come as a disappointment to Mrs D. But my decision ends what we 
 in attempting to resolve her dispute with UKI  can do for her. My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is I dont uphold it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2023.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman