DRN-3710339
The complaint
Mr F complains that Flagstone Group LTD declined his application to open an account and 
didnt provide a reason.
What happened
Mr F applied for an account with Flagstone. His application was declined, and he says he 
wasnt provided with a reason for this. He says this is affecting him going forward and he 
wants to know why his application was declined. 
Flagstone said that Mr Fs application was assessed against its internal policy and it wasnt 
able to provide him with an account at that time. 
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She said that it was Flagstones commercial 
decision not to proceed with Mr Fs application. She said it wasnt uncommon for businesses 
not to provide the specific reasons as to why it made this decision.
Mr F didnt agree with our investigators view. He said the decision wasnt transparent and 
there wasnt evidence to show it was fair. He said he that he had been materially affected as 
certain products were only offered through intermediaries and he had lost the opportunity to 
access products through Flagstone. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Fs complaint is that his account application was declined without a clear reason being 
given which he says lacks transparency. He is concerned that by not knowing the reason he 
cannot address any issues and potentially will be declined for other products and maybe 
even discriminated against, without recourse.
I understand why Mr F is upset by not being provided an account by Flagstone. As our 
investigator said, it is a commercial decision for Flagstone as to who it provides services too, 
but we can consider whether Mr F has been treated fairly and reasonably. In this case, 
Flagstone has explained it has various criteria that need to be met and it carries out a risk 
assessment before offering an account. It has explained that Mr Fs didnt meet its criteria 
and it decided not to progress his application. While I appreciate that Mr F wants further 
details, having looked at the information provided I cant say Flagstone did anything wrong 
by not progressing his application. 
While I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr F wants, I do not find there is evidence that he 
has been treated unfairly and I accept that the details of Flagstones checks are 
commercially sensitive. Mr F was told that his application hadnt been progressed because 
he didnt meet Flagstones internal checks and while I this doesnt provide the details Mr F 
wants, it does explain why his application wasnt progressed. Therefore, I do not require 
Flagstone to do anything further.
I note Mr Fs comment about the impact this issue has had. However, I cannot comment on 
products he may have been able to access through the Flagstone platform and I do not find 
this means other financial services wouldnt be available to him. I have no evidence that this 
situation has resulted in Mr F experiencing any financial loss and while the process has been 
upsetting, as I do not find I can say that Flagstone has done anything wrong or treated Mr F 
unfairly I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman