DRN-3028912
The complaint
This complaint is about two mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policies. The first 
policy was taken out in 2000. The second policy was taken out in 2004. Mr and Mrs C say 
Yorkshire Building Society (YBS) mis-sold those policies. 
What happened
Although Mr and Mrs C had a joint mortgage, the PPI was set up to cover Mr C only  not 
Mrs C. For both policies, their mortgage repayments would have been covered if Mr C had 
become unemployed. He was not covered for accident and sickness for either policy. 
It looks as though Mr and Mrs C applied for their mortgage initially through an introducer in 
early March 2000. They indicated in that application form that they were interested in a PPI 
policy and so YBS sent them an insurance illustration on 11 March 2000. Mr and Mrs C then 
completed a separate PPI application form on or around 17 March 2000. 
In June 2004, Mr and Mrs C applied for a further advance to their mortgage. They amended 
the PPI policy at or around the same time. And YBS accepts that the sale of this cover was 
initiated in one of its branches. 
Other than that, the background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which 
includes Mr and Mrs Cs circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the benefits of both 
policies, and the limitations and exclusions of cover arent materially disputed. So I havent 
repeated all of that information here. 
Those representing Mr and Mrs C indicated they didnt agree with our adjudicators opinion, 
but they didnt raise any new or additional points. It looks as though they just repeated the 
same complaint points and arguments previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me to make a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like this. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive decided YBS should have disclosed the 
commission it received - but that YBSs offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to 
compensate for the unfairness caused is fair in the circumstances. Ive summarised my 
reasons for each of these conclusions below. 
Was PPI mis-sold? 
As there were two sales in this case, Ive dealt with each separately below. 
The 2000 sale 
As I said above, it looks as though Mr and Mrs C were provided with some initial information 
face to face. But the sale looks as though it took place some days after the mortgage 
application was made when Mr and Mrs C completed a separate PPI application form. With 
that in mind, I think theyd have been able to complete the PPI application in their own time 
and at their own pace. 
The first thing Ive considered is whether Mr and Mrs C would have known the cover was 
optional and they didnt have to take it out if they didnt want it. As Mr and Mrs C made 
separate applications for both their mortgage and the PPI, I think theyd have realised they 
were separate financial products and that they didnt have to fill the PPI application form out 
if they didnt want cover. 
For this sale, I dont think YBS recommended the policy after taking a detailed account of 
their personal circumstances. So I havent treated this as an advised sale. That means YBS 
didnt have to check the cover was right or suitable for Mr and Mrs C. But it did have to give 
them enough clear and timely information so they could decide whether the cover was right 
for them. 
I accept it is possible the information YBS gave Mr and Mrs C wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But I dont think theyd have acted differently even if YBS had told them 
everything it should have done. 
I say this because I can see that Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage repayments would have been 
covered for up to 12 months if Mr C had been made redundant. I appreciate he would have 
had some redundancy entitlement but looking at how long hed worked for his employer 
when he bought the cover, I think the PPI would have lasted for longer than his redundancy 
entitlement. 
I appreciate that Mr C also had some other means that he could have used to repay the 
mortgage if he was out of work. But with PPI, Mr and Mrs C could have put those existing 
means towards their other essential expenditure at what would have no doubt been a very 
difficult time if Mr C wasnt working. I must stress that the mortgage was secured on Mr and 
Mrs Cs home and it could have been at risk if they fell behind with their mortgage 
repayments. 
Mr and Mrs C told us they both had death in service benefit and a life insurance policy. But 
both of those policies would have only paid out in the unfortunate event of their death  not if 
Mr C lost his job. Ive been told about some medical conditions Mr C had sometime before the policy was 
taken out. But as he wasnt covered for accident or sickness, I dont think more information 
about the exclusions relating to medical conditions would have affected Mr and Mrs Cs 
decision to take PPI out.  
It was argued on behalf of Mr and Mrs C that additional restrictions on claims for back or 
mental health conditions would have affected their decision to take this cover out. But having 
considered the terms and conditions of the cover, I find there were no such restrictions on 
the cover. Even if there were, I cant reasonably say they would have affected Mr and Mrs 
Cs decision to buy the PPI if Mr C was not covered for accident and sickness. 
Putting all of these things together, Im satisfied Mr and Mrs C would have still bought the 
same policy even if YBS had given them more or better information about the cover. I can 
see how it could have been helpful to them if Mr C lost his job. So I find that the 2000 policy 
wasnt mis-sold. 
The 2004 sale 
In 2004, Mr and Mrs C took out a further advance to their mortgage. The PPI policy was 
amended to include the new borrowing, and this has been deemed a separate PPI sale. 
YBS accepts the sale for this policy was initiated in one of its branches during a face to face 
meeting. I cant know what was said during that meeting. And Mr and Mrs C havent really 
told us anything about this second sale. So Ive relied on the documentary evidence to help 
me decide whats most likely to have happened. 
Ive looked again at whether it would have been clear to Mr and Mrs C that the PPI was 
optional, and they didnt have to take it out if they didnt want it.  I can see they had to 
complete a separate PPI application form - the cover was not dealt with on their mortgage 
application form. The PPI application was completed a few days after they applied for their 
mortgage. So I think Mr and Mrs C would have reasonably known PPI was a separate 
product. And as they applied for PPI after they applied for the mortgage, I think theyd have 
reasonably known they didnt have to take the cover out if they didnt want it. 
This time, it looks as though YBS initially recommended the cover during the face to face 
meeting between the parties. So it had to check the PPI was right for Mr and Mrs C. To help 
me decide whether the cover was suitable for their circumstances, Ive looked at what we 
know about the terms and conditions of the cover. And Ive also given careful thought to 
what we know about Mr and Mrs Cs circumstances at the relevant time. 
Again, the policy was set up to cover Mr C for unemployment. So he wasnt covered for 
accident or sickness. And I can see that if he lost his job, Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage 
repayments would have been covered for up to 12 months for each claim. 
At this point, Mr C had been in a new role for around 18 months, so he wouldnt have had 
any statutory redundancy entitlement. And I think the PPI would have lasted for considerably 
longer than any contractual redundancy he would have had at that time. 
I understand Mr and Mrs C still had some savings and life insurance. I further understand 
that by this point, Mr C had a critical illness policy as well. As I said above, with PPI, I think 
Mr and Mrs C could have used their savings on their other essential expenditure if Mr C was 
out of work. And he wouldnt have been able to claim on the critical illness or life insurance 
policies if he was made redundant. As Mr C wasnt covered for accident and sickness, the medical conditions hed told us he 
had some time before the cover was set up wouldnt have affected the suitability of the 
policy. And for the avoidance of doubt, there were no additional exclusions or limitations 
around back or mental health conditions. There was nothing unusual about Mr Cs 
employment circumstances that would have stopped a successful claim being made. So I 
think the cover was most likely suitable for Mr and Mrs Cs needs. 
Even so, YBS still had to give Mr and Mrs C enough information about the PPI so they could 
decide for themselves whether it was a good fit for their needs. And again, I accept its 
possible the information YBS gave them wasnt as clear as it should have been. But Ive 
found that they chose to take PPI out - so it looks like they wanted this type of cover. The 
cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr and Mrs C as I concluded above, nor too dissimilar 
to what they reasonably thought they were buying from the information most likely given to 
them. I havent seen anything to suggest the cover was unaffordable. And I stress again that 
the mortgage was secured on their home, so I can see how the cover could have been 
useful if Mr C was out of work. As I said above, I dont think Mr and Mrs C would have 
declined the 2004 cover if YBS had given them more or better information about it.  
The representative raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, which 
it says apply to all PPI complaints, including both of these sales. These general points 
include: a claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the 
regulators rules and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor 
value because of the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with 
the low claims ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant YBS should have disclosed the 
poor value and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it 
had on the chances of making a claim.
But the representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of this individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in this particular case. But these 
points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the mis-
sale element of this complaint. 
This means YBS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs C. 
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided YBS should have disclosed the commission it received and that 
YBSs offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness caused is 
fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
YBS didnt tell Mr and Mrs C about the high levels of commission and profit share they paid 
in this case. So taking into account: - The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the non-
disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
- the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
YBS and Mr and Mrs C was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 
because YBS didnt tell them about the high levels of commission and profit share in this 
case 
I dont think YBS acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr and Mrs C because it 
failed to disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
The representative made a number of submissions about this part of the complaint including 
the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the Consumer Credit Act 
on the complaint.
In summary they have said Mr and Mrs C should get back all the money they paid for the 
PPI because: YBS failed to tell Mr and Mrs C about the high commission and profit-share 
rates paid, the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because they 
say that meant the PPI was poor value, I should find that Mr and Mrs C wouldnt have taken 
out the policies had they known about the level of commission and they should receive a 
refund of all the premiums paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
- A court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a 
court would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a 
consumer would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; 
and
- The FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge 
the considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance 
about mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) 
and that the impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it 
should be considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation in order 
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipto remedy the unfairness caused by YBS not disclosing the high level of commission before 
the cover was sold.
So, taking into account: 
- The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
- refunding some of the money paid for the PPI in this way is an order which, in my view a 
court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of the Consumer 
Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
- I am not, as the representative suggests, driven to conclude that the cover wouldnt 
have been purchased but for the failure to disclose the level of commission, for the 
reasons Ive given above.
I think it was fair for YBS to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance and 
return some of the money Mr and Mrs C paid for the PPI. 
I consider this fairly removes the source of the unfairness. This is because it leaves Mr and 
Mrs C with the policies Ive concluded above would still have been taken out if YBS had 
done everything it should have done  but with lower commission and profit share levels.
So I consider that YBSs offer of payment of an amount equivalent to the commission and 
profit share paid in excess of 50% of the PPI costs (plus associated interest where 
applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance to firms is fair in all the circumstances.
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of the complaint or make any award for this 
part of the complaint.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that 
Yorkshire Building Society should pay Mr and Mrs C an amount equivalent to the 
commission and profit share paid in excess of 50% of the PPI cost (plus associated interest 
where applicable) if it hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 November 2021.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman