DRN-3576299
The complaint
Mr G has complained that Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd 
unreasonably refused to pay his claim under his pet policy.
What happened
Mr Gs policy started on 4 September 2020. In November 2021, Mr G made a claim for bi-
lateral cruciate ligament treatment for his dog. Casualty said Mr Gs policy doesnt provide 
cover if the pet is overweight, and Mr Gs dog was overweight, so it declined to pay his 
claim. 
Mr G and his vet appealed this decision, but Casualty wouldnt change its stance, so Mr G 
brought his complaint to us. Very sadly the operations failed, and Mr Gs dog had to be put 
to sleep. 
The investigator was of the view that the complaint should be upheld. Casualty disagreed so 
Mr Gs complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why.
 
First, I would like to extend my condolences to Mr G on the loss of his dog due the very sad 
fact that operations didnt succeed, which must have made this issue so much harder for him 
and his family.
 
Casualty are relying on the following detailed in the insurance product information document 
in refusing to pay Mr Gs claim:
What is not insured?  Any claims resulting from Your pet being medically 
overweight or underweight and this results in Your pet needing Treatment as a result 
of not being the recommended medical weight for its age, breed type and sex as 
recommended by a Vet.
This is also detailed in the policy document as follows: 
Veterinary Fees What is not insured?  Any claims resulting from Your pet being
medically overweight or underweight and this results in Your pet needing Treatment 
as a result of not being the recommended medical weight for its age, breed type and 
sex as recommended by a Vet.
Casualty decided that because there were references to the increased weight of Mr Gs dog 
in the vet history on 9 October 2020, 4 June 2021, 4 October 2021, and 6 October 2021, this 
meant it was entitled to decline his claim. 
However, in order to do this, I consider that Casualty must show the causal relationship 
between the need for the treatment or the operations and the weight gain. This is because 
the clause is clear that the exclusion only applies if the claimed treatment results from the 
pet being medically overweight, (my emphasis). 
I consider Casualty hasnt done this here, as Mr Gs vet explained the following:
I refer you to the following articles by specialists in cranial cruciate ligament disease
which discuss the current understanding of the pathophysiology of this condition: 
"Cranial cruciate ligament (CrCL) disease is the most common cause of pelvic 
lameness in the adult dog and typically caused by progressive ligamentous 
degeneration of unknown origin. Degeneration of the CrCL has been attributed to 
a variety of factors that may be broadly classified as genetic, conformational, 
environmental, immune mediated and inflammatory; none of these, however, have 
definitely been proven to be causative.
A review of the pathogenesis of canine cranial cruciate ligament disease as a
basis for future preventive strategies, Vet Surgery 2010 Jun;39(4):399-409
"Trauma accounts for a minority of CCL ruptures in dogs, whereas progressive
degeneration of the ligament has been attributed to a variety of factors that may be
broadly classified as genetic, conformational, environmental, immune-mediated, and
inflammatory"
[Name of dog] was overweight, but we do not believe that his weight was the cause 
of the cruciate ligament degeneration that was observed at surgery. Degeneration of 
the cranial cruciate ligament is a common condition which we see all too frequently in 
lean dogs as well as overweight dogs.
I dont consider Casualtys response to Mr Gs vet meets its own policy definition. It said the 
following: 
Whilst I appreciate that the cause of a Cruciate Rupture is multifactorial, of
which I agree, the fact remains that the normal vertical force on a pets joints is
increased if the pet is overweight. Also leading to greater ground force and
tension on the ligaments.
A dog, much like a human who is overweight, may not only experience issues
with joint mechanics but with inflammation, as fat tissue can cause systemic
inflammation throughout the body. The by-products of which can alter the
enzymes that keep cartilage and connective tissue healthy, which can lead to
degeneration in the cartilage and joints.
I appreciate that there have been numerous studies into the cause of a Cruciate
Rupture which have all noted that there are multiple factors involved, the fact
remains that these studies have also shown that weight is one such factor. 
First, cruciate ligament disease doesnt affect either the cartilage or the joints in the manner 
Casualty has said as the actual ligament (rather than any cartilage or joint) frays and 
degenerates, which then of course might damage the cartilage and then the joint. But neither 
the joint nor the cartilage cause the fraying of the ligament from my observation of the 
studies produced by Mr Gs vet. Casualty, whilst noting the varying and numerous studies into cruciate ligament disease 
havent shown me any research study, which details weight being the single causative issue 
of cruciate ligament disease as its own policy clause demands. Its scientifically suspect, in 
my view, to unilaterally decide with no evidence being produced, that all overweight issues 
will cause inflammation too, more so when the mechanism of cruciate ligament disease is 
the fraying of the ligament. That isnt a scientific fact in my view relevant to the process of 
cruciate ligament disease as detailed by Mr Gs vet, and I find it a deeply flawed argument. 
Secondly, the clause in the policy demands the cause of the claim to be from the pet being 
overweight. And quite simply here, Casualty hasnt discharged its own burden of proof for its 
own clause. In fact, in cruciate ligament disease, the dogs weight is rarely a factor as Mr Gs 
vet explained, as it can sadly happen to any dog with any type of body condition score, so 
that includes an lean perfect body condition score too. It is for Casualtys to discharge this 
burden of proof and I consider it simply hasnt done that here at all. It is singularly 
unreasonable in my view to trawl through the vet notes looking for any evidence of weight 
issues and base the claims decision on that. Thats not what this clause is about. The 
clause is very clear that the weight issue must be causative of the claim, properly and 
coherently so too. 
Lastly, Casualty proffered no vet evidence of its own to counter the evidence of Dr Gs vet. 
And obviously without that, I find the evidence from Mr Gs vet far more persuasive than this 
view presented by Casualty, as an insurer, seeking unreasonably and unfairly in my view, to 
not pay a valid claim. 
Therefore, I consider Casualty should now pay this claim subject to the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy with interest if Mr G has already discharged these vet fees. 
My final decision
So, for these reasons, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. 
I now require Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd to do the following:
Pay Mr Gs claim subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. 
If Mr G has already discharged his vets fees, add interest of 8% simple from the date 
Mr G discharged to the date Casualty reimburses him. 
If income tax is to be deducted from the interest, appropriate documentation should 
be provided to Mr G for HMRC purposes. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2022.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman