DRN-2688175
The complaint
Mrs B complains about the execution of orders on a trading account she held with Revolut 
Ltd (Revolut).
What happened
Mrs B held a trading account with Revolut. On 24 April 2020 Mrs B placed market orders to 
buy DNR and OAS shares. The orders were placed at 15.38 and 15.54 respectively and 
were executed at 17.24 and 17.11 respectively. As the requests were still pending after two 
hours, Mrs B attempted to cancel the orders but the cancellation wasnt processed. The 
value of the shares had changed during this time and Mrs B says she sustained a loss. 
On 8 June 2020 Mrs B bought 126 LTM shares. On 9 June, LTM was delisted and Mrs Bs 
orders to sell on 10 June were rejected. Mrs B says she repeatedly attempted to contact 
Revolut via the chat function, but only received a response after five hours. Mrs B says she 
lost out because she was unable to sell the shares.
Revolut maintain that an indicative price was shown before Mrs B selected to buy the shares 
in April. The price was then subject to market volatility, which delayed market execution and 
was a matter outside Revoluts control.  As to cancellation, Revolut pointed to the terms and 
conditions for the account, which explained that cancellation requests could not be 
guaranteed for pending orders.
As to the LTM shares, Revolut highlighted that they provided an execution service only. It 
was for Mrs B to decide which orders to place. However, Revolut did post factual information 
about the business filing for bankruptcy on the trading section of the Revolut app and this 
information was also publicly available. Revolut say they did nothing wrong in executing the 
order Mrs B placed as at that time the shares were still available in the market. Revolut 
apologised to Mrs B at the time for the delay in responding to her queries, which was due to 
the large volume of chat traffic. Whilst Mrs B was unable to sell her shares on 10 June, 
Revolut did notify all shareholders of the opportunity to sell the shares on 17 June 2020.
Our investigator considered the complaint and decided not to uphold it. She thought Mrs Bs 
instructions to buy shares were completed when the system was able to process them and 
the risk of delay in execution due to market volatility had been highlighted in Revoluts terms 
and conditions. Further, Revolut had explained that they werent always able to cancel a 
pending order. As to the de-listing of LTM shares, Revolut had shared information about the 
business and as an execution only service provider, they acted on the instructions given by 
Mrs B to buy the shares. Whilst Mrs B was unable to sell the shares on 10 June, she was 
provided with an opportunity to do so on 17 June. Our investigator accepted there had been 
a delay responding to Mrs Bs queries using the webchat but this was due to the high volume 
of chat enquiries and again Revolut had specified in their terms the risks when using the 
app. Overall, our investigator didnt think that Revolut had done anything wrong. 
Mrs B disagrees with the view, she maintains that the delay in executing the market order 
was unacceptable. As to the LTM shares, Mrs B maintained that Revolut did not provide a 
warning about the de-listing and it was unacceptable to cancel the execution of the sale 
order on 10 June.
As the parties do not agree, the matter has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its helpful to explain at the outset that our service has no disciplinary or regulatory 
role. So, we have no power to tell a business how to operate, which falls to the regulator. We 
provide an informal dispute resolution service, where decisions are made based upon the 
balance of probabilities, in other words, what is more likely than not to have happened and 
we look to put things right on a fair and reasonable basis. 
Revolut offered an execution only service, which meant no advice was given to investors  
about which trades to place. Revolut processed instructions given by investors using a third-
party broker, subject to the terms and conditions for the account.
Ive seen that Mrs B placed two orders to buy DNR and OAS shares. Revolut acknowledge 
the longer timeline for processing these orders but says execution was delayed because of 
market volatility, which was a matter outside their control. Revolut have highlighted the terms 
of the account, which said that they would do their best to execute orders as quickly as they 
could. They point out that information had been provided to Mrs B when she opened the 
account that the third-party broker may take action, which included delay in the execution of 
an order, for reasons such as market conditions and capacity limitations. Further, information 
had been provided that it may not be possible to cancel a market or limit order once it had 
been placed.
And whilst Mrs B requested cancellation of the orders, under Revoluts terms and conditions, 
once a trade was pending, cancellation wasnt guaranteed. So, whilst I understand Mrs Bs 
frustration with the timeline, I cant fairly say that Revolt did anything wrong. And it isnt 
disputed that the final price was correct for the time of sale.
As to the LTM shares, Ive seen that Revolut did provide information in the Trading section of 
the app about the status of the particular business and public information was also available 
about the de-listing. It was for Mrs B to decide which shares she wished to purchase and as 
Ive explained, Revolt wasnt required to provide advice about whether to make a particular 
purchase. Its unfortunate that Mrs B was unaware of the situation with LTM, but I dont think 
Revolut did anything wrong in processing her request to purchase the shares given the 
nature of the service provided. The subsequent de-listing was a matter outside Revoluts 
control. 
The terms of the account explained the instruments not supported by the app may result in 
action being taken to close such positions. In this instance, whilst Mrs B wasnt able to sell 
the shares on 10 June, Ive considered that she was provided the opportunity to sell directly 
from the Revolut app on 17 June 2020.
There was a delay by Revolut in responding to Mrs Bs chat query and its clear that Mrs B 
was distressed at the time. I think its more likely than not that the delay was due to a high 
volume of queries. I appreciate that on 10 June Mrs B was frustrated by the situation and 
lack of prompt response, but by this time the shares were already de-listed. When Revolut 
replied they apologised to Mrs B and explained about the de-listing. I dont think Revolut 
needed to do anything more.I dont underestimate Mrs Bs strength of feeling about these matters, but for the reasons 
given, I cant fairly say that Revolut have done anything wrong.
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs B, but I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
Sarah Tozzi
Ombudsman