DRN-4323823
The complaint
Miss B complains about the way Tesco Personal Finance PLC (TPF) handled a claim she 
made to it.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to the parties  so I will cover this briefly and 
focus on giving reasons for my decision.
Miss B purchased some cosmetic treatment from a clinic (the supplier) and is unhappy with 
it. In summary, she says there were no results from the treatment and she wants her money 
back because she looks the same as before. She also says that the experience has had a 
detrimental impact on her health.
Miss B raised a claim with TPF under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 
75). It didnt uphold her claim.
This service looked into the complaint Miss B had about how TPF had handled the claim. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. In summary, he concluded there was a lack of 
evidence to show the supplier of the treatment had breached or misrepresented its contract 
with Miss B.
Miss B asked for an ombudsman to look at things again and make a final decision. In 
summary, she says:
There is more than enough evidence to show she did not get the results advertised; 
and 
She trusted the treatment would make a difference (and it is common sense that it 
would not leave her looking the same) and there is nothing she was given to state 
there will be no improvement.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered the submissions by the parties  however, I wont be commenting on 
everything here  only what I consider to be central to this complaint. This isnt intended as a 
discourtesy to either party but reflects my role in resolving disputes informally.
I think it is important for me to make it clear from the outset that I am not upholding this 
complaint. But also to underline that I am also very sorry to hear what Miss B has said about 
her experience and how she was hoping it would make her feel better about her appearance 
but has actually caused her mental health to worsen. I am also sorry to hear about the 
financial strain she says it has caused on her having to pay for this.
My role here is not to look directly at the actions of the supplier. I am considering the actions 
of TPF in how it handled the dispute Miss B brought to it, and whether its response to her 
claim was a reasonable one in the particular circumstances. In doing so I am looking at TPF 
in the context of how it might have reasonably helped her in light of its role as a provider of 
financial services. 
I know Miss B feels strongly about this case not being upheld. This is not to say that she 
might not have other routes to pursue his case against the supplier  such as court  but that 
will be a matter for her to decide and potentially seek legal advice on.  All things considered, 
in its role as a provider of financial services I dont think TPF acted unfairly in not refunding 
Miss B as part of the dispute she raised with it.  I will go on to explain why below.
Here I consider Section 75 particularly relevant so it is this I have focused on. I will also 
briefly deal with chargeback which is also relevant to disputes about goods or services 
purchased using a credit card.
Section 75
Section 75 in certain circumstances allows Miss B to have a like claim against TPF for 
misrepresentation or breach of contract by a supplier of goods and services paid for using 
her credit card.
Section 75 has technical criteria that needs to be satisfied in order for there to be a valid 
claim against TPF in respect of the actions of a particular supplier. For example, relating to 
who was involved in the agreement, how it was paid for and what the goods or services cost. 
In this case I am satisfied the criteria is met for Miss B to have a valid claim against TPF for 
a possible breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier. 
Here Miss B purchased a surgical cosmetic treatment to the face. It is described by the 
supplier as lifting and tightening the chin/jaw. 
In order to determine if there has been a breach of contract by the supplier I have considered 
any specific terms and conditions of the package Miss B bought along with any terms 
implied by consumer law.
In this case I consider the Consumer Rights Act 2015 is particularly relevant as it implies 
terms into consumer contracts in respect of goods and services as follows:
 that services will be performed with reasonable care and skill 
It is important to note here that Miss B purchased a complex medical product involving a 
surgical procedure on the human body and something which I do not have expertise in. It is 
commonly known that there are many variables and risks with a medical treatment  and 
unlike some other less complex services there is often a reasonable expectation that things 
may not always turn out as planned. So judging whether the supplier has acted without 
reasonable care and skill or breached the contract in some other way (even if discussions 
took place about desired results at the outset) is not straightforward in situations like this. I 
have taken this into account when deciding if TPF acted fairly in its response to Miss B. 
It is particularly challenging with a lack of independent expert evidence to say there has 
been a breach of reasonably expected professional standards here, further compounded 
with a lack of paperwork to show what was explicitly agreed between the parties (along with 
any conditions on this). This service (unlike a court) is not able to compel witnesses for cross 
examination either  which makes getting to the bottom of things much more difficult.Furthermore, there do not appear to be any contractual documents provided to TBF setting 
out what was agreed  which would have made it more difficult for TBF in assessing the 
claim. I note there are some surgeons notes available but as a non-expert it is difficult to 
interpret these. 
It isnt entirely clear if more paperwork does exist but in the absence of this or any other 
persuasive evidence (such as an expert report) and considering the complexities and 
variables involving a medical treatment I am not able to fairly say TPF acted unreasonably in 
declining the claim Miss B brought to it here. I will explain more.
I have considered what Miss B has said she was told by the supplier about the results she 
would get and I consider it more likely than not that the supplier did discuss the potential 
benefits of the procedure on her appearance. However, it is difficult to base a finding of 
breach of contract on this alone where there is a lack of supporting evidence and no outright 
admission of wrongdoing by the supplier. Particularly noting where in the field of medical 
procedures there is usually some kind of agreement around the risks and variables, and the 
possible subjective factors involved in cosmetic treatments more generally.
In this case I see that TPF contacted the supplier and it has not accepted any wrongdoing  
responding to say that it outlined to Miss B that the results of the cosmetic procedure are not 
guaranteed and may or may not meet patients expectations. It indicates that Miss B did not 
contact it to express her dissatisfaction with the results and at the time appeared pleased. 
I have carefully considered the promotional information which Miss B was given pre- 
treatment but I dont think this alone is enough to demonstrate a breach of contract has 
occurred here. I am satisfied it shows that ultimately the aim of the procedure is to improve 
appearance  but I dont think it serves as a clear contractual guarantee of the results Miss B 
would receive.
I accept it isnt clear what actually took place in the consultation but the difficulty here is that 
there isnt persuasive evidence of what was explicitly promised and what was actually 
received and how these might differ. In light of that, and considering the type of service in 
question here (taking in mind what I said earlier) it is difficult for me to say that TPF should 
have upheld Miss Bs claim for breach of a specific term of the contract here. 
Furthermore even if I were to agree that Miss B did not receive the cosmetic appearance she 
was expecting (and it isnt clear what results she received) this does not automatically lead 
to a conclusion the procedure was not carried out with reasonable care and skill according to 
the standards in that particular industry. There are likely to be variables which will influence 
the success of results from person to person (which the supplier has touched on) that are 
not necessarily due to wrongdoing of the supplier. It would also be difficult to come to the 
conclusion that reasonable skill and care was not demonstrated without some more 
persuasive (likely expert) evidence. 
In summary and noting the complexity and possible variables I am unable to fairly say that 
the evidence here shows a clear breach of contract by the supplier in respect of explicit 
terms or the implied term regarding the manner in which the procedure was carried out.  So I 
dont think TPF has acted unfairly in declining Miss Bs claim in respect of breach of contract.
For completeness, I have also considered the possibility that TPF could have upheld the 
claim if there were persuasive evidence of misrepresentation by the supplier. In order to 
show misrepresentation there would need to be evidence the supplier had made a false 
statement of fact to Miss B which caused her to enter the contract. But the evidential issues 
around the breach of contract are similar here in respect of misrepresentation too. Overall there is a lack of persuasive evidence of false factual claims made by the supplier either in 
writing or otherwise here. So I dont consider TBF acted unfairly in declining the claim in 
respect of misrepresentation.
For completeness, I note there has also been a suggestion that Miss B did not receive all the 
treatments she was promised. The supplier denies this. However, due to the lack of 
information about exactly what was agreed it is difficult to conclude that TBF made an error 
in declining the claim here.
Furthermore, it is worth noting that even if there were persuasive evidence of a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by the supplier  determining fair redress would not 
necessarily be straightforward - noting that Miss B has explained the ongoing impact of the 
treatment of her quality of life and mental health. While I am sorry to hear about this our 
service is unable to make certain types of awards in respect of consequential loss in any 
event  including those for loss of amenity. 
Chargeback
I know Miss B wanted TPF to look into Section 75. But for completeness I have considered 
chargeback as this is another way TPF might have been able to help Miss B with a dispute 
about a card transaction. However, it isnt guaranteed to succeed and not all circumstances 
will suit a chargeback. 
It appears TPF didnt raise a chargeback here. However, even if it did raise a chargeback it 
is difficult to say it would likely have succeeded in any event considering the complex nature 
of the dispute, the evidential issues (as discussed above) and the apparent lack of 
admission by the supplier that it did anything wrong. So I dont think in not raising a 
chargeback TBF has made a mistake here or it is more likely than not to have caused Miss 
B to lose out.
In conclusion, for the reasons given above I dont think TBF has made an error in the way it 
handled Miss Bs claim. So I am not going to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 November 2023.
 
Mark Lancod
Ombudsman