DRN-2504230
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Bs complaint is about a secured loan they have with Elderbridge Limited. The 
complaint is that in March 2019 Mr and Mrs B say that Elderbridge promised to find them a 
lower rate of interest with a new provider, but has failed to do so. To resolve the complaint 
Mr and Mrs B want Elderbridge to compensate them for the unnecessarily high interest they 
say they have paid since March 2019.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B had a secured loan, originally taken out with FirstPlus, but which was later 
transferred to Elderbridge for administrative purposes. In March 2019, after a complaint had 
been made to the Financial Ombudsman Service, FirstPlus carried out a remediation 
exercise for Mr and Mrs Bs account, as a result of which the account balance was reduced 
by £34,444, leaving just £2,700 outstanding.
In its offer of settlement, FirstPlus said:
If Mr and Mrs [B] are unhappy with the rate now charged by Elderbridge on the loan, 
we will help them move to a lower rate with another provider by covering any early 
settlement charge they have to pay (on proof of payment), If Mr and Mrs [B] are 
unable to do so because of any financial or other difficulty or fee that this is not 
appropriate wed be happy to consider how we may help. If Mr and Mrs [B] would like 
to discuss this, they should contact Elderbridge, who continue to administer the loan 
.
Mr and Mrs B say they contacted Elderbridge and asked what the current interest rate was. 
When they were told it was 7%, they asked Elderbridge to find them a better loan with a less 
punishing interest rate. Mr and Mrs B say Elderbridge promised to do so, but has failed to 
contact them.
Elderbridge says that on 14 March 2019 Mr and Mrs B called to accept the offer and asked 
what the remaining balance would be and how much would be required to settle the loan in 
full. FirstPlus put the settlement in place on 3 April 2019. Statements of account were sent to 
Mr and Mrs B on 17 and 29 April 2019 and redemption statements were issued in July and 
August 2019.
On 27 September 2019 Elderbridge wrote to Mr and Mrs B to explain that, if they wanted to 
change to a new provider, Elderbridge would be happy to assist with this.
In September 2020 Mr and Mrs B raised a new complaint about Elderbridge. By this time 
theyd paid off the loan, but they were very unhappy that Elderbridge had failed to offer them 
a new loan. Mr and Mrs B said that FirstPlus had offered to change their interest rate or to 
find them a better interest rate and that FirstPlus had said they should contact Elderbridge if 
they wanted to do this. Although Elderbridge had promised it would research this and come 
back to them, it never did, so they had to continue with the higher interest rate until the loan 
was paid off. Mr and Mrs B thought Elderbridge should cover the cost of this.
An investigator looked at the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He thought Mr 
and Mrs B had misunderstood the letter from FirstPlus dated 8 March 2019. FirstPlus had 
never said it would change the interest rate or offer a new product, or that it (or Elderbridge) 
would arrange a new product for Mr and Mrs B. All FirstPlus was offering to do was to cover 
any early settlement charge if Mr and Mrs B wanted to move their loan to a new provider.
The investigator also found no evidence that Elderbridge had promised to look into this and 
come back to Mr and Mrs B with its findings. There was also nothing to suggest Mr and 
Mrs B had told Elderbridge they were unable to move to a new provider.
Mr and Mrs B disagreed with the investigators findings. Mr B replied to say that Elderbridge 
commenced a campaign of harassment and bullying despite the balance of the loan being 
reduced. They were continuing to pay 7% interest. FirstPlus knew it had treated Mr and 
Mrs B appallingly for years, which is why the payment of £34,444 was made  it was not out 
of goodness. The Financial Ombudsman Service took four years to resolve that complaint, 
and Mr B thought that the handling of this complaint has been typically woeful, so he 
wanted it escalated to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator, for broadly the same 
reasons.
Its important here to explain that Elderbridges role is to administer the account  that is to 
collect payments, apply them to the account, and to deal with any arrears or payment 
arrangements. The interest rate is set by FirstPlus, not Elderbridge.
I think Mr and Mrs B may have misunderstood FirstPluss letter of 8 March 2019. That letter 
does not say that Elderbridge will source a new loan for Mr and Mrs B if they want to move 
to a new provider, or that Elderbridge will reduce the interest rate. What it does say is that if 
Mr and Mrs B want to find a new lender, FirstPlus will assist by covering any early settlement 
fee that Elderbridge  as loan administrator  would otherwise be entitled to apply. The letter 
also says that if Mr and Mrs B cant move to another lender, FirstPlus (not Elderbridge) 
would see what it could do to help.
Mr and Mrs B havent provided any evidence to persuade me either that they found a loan 
from another lender, or that they tried to find a new loan but werent able to. To be clear, 
Elderbridge does not offer any new lending, and is not a broker in the market. So although 
Mr and Mrs B may have misunderstood the situation, I dont think it is as a result of anything 
Elderbridge did or said that led Mr and Mrs B to misinterpret its role.
Mr B has also complained about what he says was a campaign of harassment by 
Elderbridge after the settlement from FirstPlus was applied to the loan balance in April 2019, 
which led to Mr B complaining to FirstPlus in June 2019. But this is not borne out by the 
evidence, which shows that Elderbridge responded to Mr and Mrs Bs requests for account 
statements and redemption statements in April, July and August 2019. I have seen nothing 
to suggest any undue pressure from Elderbridge once the settlement had been applied to 
the account.
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr and Mrs B were hoping for. I can see that they feel 
very strongly about this matter. But for the reasons given above, Im satisfied that Elderbridge hasnt done anything wrong and so isnt required to pay any compensation to 
Mr and Mrs B.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 April 2021.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman