DRN-1875002
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as E, complains about the handling of its motor insurance 
claim by Ageas Insurance Limited.
Mr L, who is a director of E, brings the complaint on E's behalf.
What happened
On 8 October 2019, Mr Ls van collided with a bus at a junction subject to temporary traffic 
lights. 
Mr L phoned the claims number provided by his broker which took him through to a claims 
management company. The claims management company investigated Mr Ls claim but 
ultimately passed it to Mr Ls insurer, Ageas, on 3 December.
Mr L says that at no point was it made clear to him that the claims management company 
was not his insurer. Mr L was frustrated that the claims management company could not 
address his claim, and at being passed two months after the accident to his insurer. Mr L 
has complained to our service about how his claim was handled by the claims management 
company. However, as we are responding to that complaint separately, I do not discuss it 
further here.
Mr L is also pursuing a claim for his personal injury. However, as this claim is separate to his 
motor claim with Ageas, I also do not discuss it further here.
On 3 December, immediately following the transfer of Mr Ls claim, Ageas contacted Mr L to 
ascertain the location of the van and to begin the claims process. 
On 9 December, Ageas provided Mr L with a settlement offer for the total loss of his van, 
based on an estimate of its market value at the time of the accident. Given that liability for 
the accident had not been clearly determined, Ageas treated the claim at this time as an 
insured loss. Mr L was unhappy with this valuation.
On 23 December, Ageas increased its offer, based on valuations obtained from industry 
guide books, taking into consideration the mileage and condition of Mr Ls van. However, Mr 
L remained unhappy. He believed he should be paid the amount necessary to buy a new 
replacement van. Ageas explained this wouldnt be possible as the purpose of the insurance 
policy was to put him into the position he would have been in but for the accident and not 
into a better position.  
On 16 January, Ageas increased its offer again, this time by including the cost of VAT in the 
settlement. Mr L again refused this offer as he continued to ask for the amount necessary to 
buy a new replacement van. 
In January, Ageas also offered Mr L use of a temporary vehicle in accordance with the terms 
of his policy.
A further point of dispute related to the cost of racking in the van but, given Mr L took this out 
of the van before it was salvaged, Ageas excluded this amount from its offer.
Mr L complained to Ageas about how it had handled his claim. He was unhappy with how 
Ageas had administered his claim, including how it had interacted with the other parties 
involved, and about the amount Ageas had offered him in settlement for his van. Ageas 
responded but, as Mr L remained unhappy with how he had been treated, he brought his 
complaint to us.
Our investigator considered Mr Ls complaint and found that Ageas had done nothing wrong. 
She said that, while she recognised a number of different businesses had been involved, 
adding to the stress of an already difficult situation, Ageas had done nothing wrong in its 
handling of the claim.
As Mr L did not agree, he asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L is understandably unhappy that his motor insurance claim was initially investigated by 
one firm only to be passed two months later to a different firm. With several parties involved 
in managing his claims arising out of the accident, I can understand how the whole process 
has been bewildering.
However, the complaint I need to consider is against the actions of Ageas, and whether it 
has appropriately considered and administered Mr Ls claim. 
I note that liability for the accident has still not been established, but this is on hold pending 
the resolution of Mr Ls separate injury claim.
Following the accident, Mr L had a choice whether to contact the claims number provided by 
his broker on his renewal documents, which took him through to a claims management 
company; or to contact the claims number provided by his insurer on his policy documents. 
As he contacted the number provided by his broker, the claim was initially handled by the 
claims management company. I can see that his insurer, Ageas, opened a file for the claim 
but did not pursue the claim while it was being handled by the claims management 
company. I dont believe Ageas did anything wrong in this period.
Ageas then took over handling the claim on 3 December, and contacted Mr L the same day. 
Within a week, it had made an offer to Mr L. Two weeks later it increased this offer. In 
January 2020, it added the cost of VAT to the offer, increasing the value of settlement 
further. Ive seen that, throughout this period, it contacted Mr L several times both by phone 
and letter.
In January, Ageas also offered Mr L use of a temporary vehicle in line with the terms of his 
policy.
On the basis of this evidence, it appears to me that Ageas acted reasonably in seeking to 
resolve Mr Ls claim.
I understand that Mr L is unhappy with the value offered by Ageas for his vehicle because he 
would like to replace his van with a new one. However, motor insurance does not work in 
this way. Rather, the offer made by Ageas on the basis of the market value of his vehicle at the time of the accident, taking into account its age, mileage and condition, is entirely 
appropriate. I have checked Ageass offer against industry guides, and the amount offered to 
Mr L is fair.
Therefore, while I understand Mr Ls frustration with the whole way in which his case has 
been handled, with multiple parties involved, I dont believe Ageas has done anything wrong 
since it became involved. For this reason, I shall not be requiring it to take any further action.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2021.
 
Andy Wright
Ombudsman