DRN-2528422
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that Lloyds Bank PLC advised them to put £6,000 into an investment 
which posed too much risk to their money.
What happened
Their representative, a Claims Management Company (CMC) said:
They were inexperienced investors and their only previous investment, taken out in 
1996, was later deemed to have been mis-sold; so this doesn't constitute investment 
experience
The early closure of their investments  in less than a year - was linked to the fact 
that they still had an outstanding mortgage of £70,000 outstanding
They had just invested in a car repair business, which carried further expenses, so 
weren't in a position to invest
There is no evidence that a meaningful attitude to risk assessment was carried out at 
the time.
An investigator at this service did not feel there was sufficient evidence to uphold their 
complaint, saying:
Mr and Mrs R had secure, well-paid jobs (he was an MD) and they enjoyed a healthy 
monthly income surplus
They had nearly £238,000 in instant-access savings accounts and an existing 
investment worth £15,000 at the time
Aside from this £6,000 investment, they were recommended to put £75,000 in a 
capital-secured product. This left more than £156,000 of their money in cash 
accounts
Their mortgage was £30,000, and this sum could easily have been paid off through 
their deposit/savings accounts, particularly given their surplus monthly income
While there was no evidence of how their attitude to risk was established, the 
advisors report recorded that they were looking for a medium risk investment
This medium risk investment represented a fraction of their overall money, the rest of 
which was all in capital-guaranteed products
The advisor noted that he had discussed paying off their mortgage with them but they 
were content to keep it for the time being and go ahead with the investment
While their CMC said they needed to close the investment early to cover business 
expenditure, there is no evidence that they made the advisor aware of this potential 
need at the point of advice
Mr and Mrs Rs CMC did not agree, saying:
It was the advisor who recommended that they didnt pay off their mortgage
Had Mr & Mrs R been informed of the clear benefits of reducing their debt, they 
would have paid this off. This would in turn have significantly reduced the amount 
available to be invested
While it is recorded that they were 'medium risk' investors, the onus is on the bank to 
assess this and to provide suitable advice. They had no idea what medium risk or 
other risk levels meant in real terms and it would have been necessary for further 
questioning to assess this; theres no evidence that this occurred
 Mr & Mrs Rs only previous investment experience was of a product which the 
business has subsequently accepted was mis-sold. So it is not appropriate to place 
any weight on their so-called experience whatsoever
It was not appropriate for an inexperienced investor to be sold a fund which is 
completely equity-based when both were in their late 50s
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with a number of Mr and Mrs Rs representatives concerns, but I still do not believe 
these are sufficient to uphold this complaint given the specific factors at play here.
Firstly, I agree that one cannot fairly described Mr and Mrs R as experienced investors given 
they had made one previous investment, especially when the business has since accepted 
they were mis-sold this product. I also have not seen sufficient evidence to conclude that the 
advisor took adequate steps to assess Mr and Mrs Rs attitude to risk or to fully explain the 
significant of the term medium risk.
On the issue of paying off their mortgage, I dont think there is conclusive evidence to say 
who said what. More importantly, given Mr and Mrs R had nearly £238,000 in the bank at the 
time of advice I am satisfied they were in a position to decide whether to pay off the 
remainder of their mortgage, both before and after this modest investment. I think the same 
argument applies to the issue of Mr Rs subsequent, apparent need to access this money for 
business reasons. The invested sum was a modest fraction of their overall assets.
Given all this, I have considered whether it was reasonable advice to recommend investing 
£6,000 of their £238,000 savings in a product which exposed this money to a fair degree of 
investment risk (irrespective of whether Mr and Mrs R were fully aware of what this might 
mean). And, ultimately, I dont think one can fairly say this was poor or unsuitable advice.
Mr and Mrs R were in a comfortable financial position with a significant monthly surplus 
income, part of which itself could replace any investment loss, along with a substantial 
amount in cash sources. In this context I think the advisors recommendation that they only 
invest £6,000 in risk-based investments was a modest and reasonable one. I dont believe 
their lack of investment experience, ages or likely retirement dates made this advice invalid.
Had he recommended a significantly larger investment in a product with such a risk level, I 
might well have taken a different view. But I am satisfied that Mr and Mrs R were in a 
position to risk this very modest portion of their capital. I also have not seen evidence to 
indicate that the advisor was made aware of any reasons why they might need to cash in 
this investment in the near future; so I dont think its medium-term nature made it unsuitable 
either. My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 March 2021.
 
Tony Moss
Ombudsman