DRN-1917412
 
The complaint
Mr G complains that Fairmead Insurance Limited (Fairmead) have unfairly declined his claim 
for escape of water under his home insurance policy.
What happened
In late January 2019, Mr G purchased his first home. It needed renovation, so he intended to 
stay at the property on weekends to carry out the work. He took out a home insurance policy 
that defined the occupancy as a weekend home. 
In early February Mr G attended the property to find water leaking from the loft and it had 
caused significant damage to the two floors below.
Mr G made a claim under his policy but after several months Fairmead declined the claim. 
Fairmead says the escape of water was caused by a copper pipe in the loft space bursting 
due to frost damage. The pipe carried cold water to the storage tank and because the mains 
water supply had not been isolated by closing the stop cock, water was able to escape freely 
and continuously. Fairmead said an endorsement on the policy was not complied with when 
the property was unoccupied. 
Our investigator didnt think Fairmead had done anything wrong in applying the endorsement 
and declining the claim. But he did think there had been some avoidable delay and said 
Fairmead should pay £100 compensation. Fairmead agreed with his opinion but Mr G didnt 
and asked for his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to partly uphold this complaint, for largely the same reasons as our investigator. 
Ill explain why.
Ive looked at the terms of the policy and it says Your insurer will not pay for: Loss or 
damage during any period when the home is unoccupied for longer than permitted period of 
unoccupancy
The permitted period of unoccupancy on Mr Gs policy schedule is 45 days. I can see Mr G 
purchased the policy on 16 January 2019 and the leak was discovered on 9 February. The 
damage can therefore not be excluded due to the unoccupancy limit being exceeded. 
However, the home insurance policy Mr G took out with Fairmead was set up as a 
holiday/weekend home occupancy, as he only intended to stay at the property to do the 
renovation work on the weekend. These types of policies commonly have endorsements 
added to help reduce the risk of a claim whilst the property is empty.Ive looked at the policy, and the endorsement Fairmead have relied on, it says: 
Holiday/Weekend Homes  The cover which is excluded from your policy when your home 
is unoccupied is reinstated provided that when you home is unoccupied:
during the period between the 1st November and 31st March you have turned off water 
supplies at the mains and drained the water system, unless the central heating system is 
kept running to maintain a minimum of 10 degrees centigrade throughout the home and any 
loft hatch is left open.
Im satisfied the endorsement is clear and legible on the schedule of insurance and is 
typically applied to holiday/weekend property policies. 
Mr G hasnt denied that the water supply had been left on and the central heating had been 
left off when the property was unoccupied during the week. Mr G has said is thinks it 
unreasonable to have to drain the water system as he only leaves the property unoccupied 
for four days. I agree draining the water system every week would probably not be practical, 
but Mr G told the insurer the heating system was working, and he used it on the weekends.  
The endorsement clearly says drain the water system unless the heating system is kept 
running. I therefore think Mr G shouldve heated the property as directed by the 
endorsement on his policy on the days that the property was empty.
I understand Mr G doesnt think leaving the property for four days constitutes the property 
being unoccupied. 
I have therefore looked at the definition of unoccupied in the policy:
Means when either.
i.The home will not be lived in or;
ii.There is not enough furniture within the home for normal living purposes
Mr G has told us he was at staying at the property from Saturday afternoons until Monday 
afternoons. He has said the property wasnt furnished as he was renovating it, and the little 
belongings he did have at the property  food, clothing and bedding he was able to salvage 
after the leak, and he had therefore removed them. Ive considered Mr Gs comments, but 
Im persuaded that the definition does still apply in this instance, the home wasnt being lived 
in part of the week and there wasnt furniture within the home for normal living purposes so 
I think its fair to say the property wasnt occupied. In any event the endorsement was added 
to the policy as Fairmead recognised that Mr G wasnt living in the property full time. 
As the property wasnt occupied the heating shouldve remained on with the loft hatch open, 
this mayve prevented the pipe from freezing. From the evidence Ive seen Im satisfied that 
Fairmead have applied the terms of the policy fairly, so I wont be asking it to consider the 
claim any further. 
Fairmead agreed that our investigator could also look at the delays in the handling of the 
claim. He identified there had been some avoidable delay and recommended £100 
compensation for the trouble and upset. Ive also looked at this and although I can see 
Fairmead were actively investigating the complaint there was a small period of delay whilst 
awaiting an update from the underwriters. So, I think £100 is fair in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
My final decisionIm upholding this complaint and directing Fairmead Insurance Limited to pay Mr G £100 in 
compensation. Fairmead must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it Mr G accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 July 2020.
Angela Casey
Ombudsman