DRN-3885308
The complaint
Mr Z complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) has obtained personal information from his 
computer, without his consent. He considers this a serious violation and a data breach.
What happened
In September 2022, When Mr Z was attempting to complete an online transaction, Lloyds 
informed him that its fraud prevention system had detected potentially hazardous software 
on his PC. It said it was concerned Mr Z may be the victim of a scam. 
Mr Z was shocked that Lloyds were able to access his personal PC and complained that his 
human rights and privacy had been violated as a result. He stated that he felt Lloyds had 
committed a data breach. 
Lloyds said it understood his concerns but that no data breach had occurred. It said it was 
required to undertake certain checks to prevent Mr Z from being a victim of fraud. It 
reassured him that any information gathered is only used to keep his banking information 
safe and that it isnt used for any other reason. It also said that Mr Z had agreed to this when 
he accepted the terms and conditions for internet banking.
Mr Z remained unhappy, so brought the complaint to our service. One of our investigators 
looked into the complaint but didnt think Lloyds had done anything wrong so didnt uphold 
the complaint.
Mr Z was still unhappy. Therefore asked for the complaint to be looked at by an 
ombudsman, so the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand how strongly Mr Z feels about this complaint. He has raised a number of points 
and although I may not mention every point raised, Ive considered everything he has said 
but limited my findings to the areas which impact on the outcome of the case. No discourtesy 
is intended by this. It just reflects the informal nature of our service.
Having looked at the complaint fully, my review has led me to the same
overall conclusions as the investigator previously set out and for much the same reasons. I
will explain why.
I can understand why Mr Z was surprised to learn that some information is passed from his 
personal computer to Lloyds Bank when signed up for internet banking. However, I dont 
think Lloyds has done anything wrong here. 
Section 7.2 of Lloyds Internet Banking Agreement states:
 We may use software and other technology to help us identify you, and to detect viruses or 
malicious software (malware) on the computer or device you use to access Internet Banking. 
If we detect these things, we may suspend, restrict or block your access to Internet Banking 
or the use of your security details. 
When Mr Z agreed to the terms and conditions, he agreed to the above. Lloyds Bank has 
acted in line with these terms.
When a customer uses internet banking or an on-line application, the information the bank 
has access to helps prevent fraud occurring on the account. Businesses collect certain 
information such as device specifics and IP addresses. It can also detect software which 
may allow a fraudster to access the device without the individual being aware. It is common 
practice for all banks that offer internet banking to have such measures in place and it 
prevents a lot of fraud from occurring. 
I appreciate that Mr Z is concerned about Lloyds holding potentially personal and private 
information about him. Mr Z is particular worried that the bank is taking more than it is 
entitled to  for example, accessing personal folders. However, there is no suggestion its 
taken anything more than it is entitled to under the terms and conditions of internet banking. 
Lloyds have also shown me a copy of their privacy policy, which states that it will keep all 
information safe and private and wont sell any personal information. However, if Mr Z isnt 
happy to continue with on-line banking, he can opt for telephone banking (with a personal 
security number) or bank through the branch network.   
Mr Z has said that he considers what has happened to be a data breach. The Financial 
Ombudsman Service does not have the power to determine whether there has been a data 
breach contrary to UK law. Thats for the Information Commissioners Office. Mr Z has been 
given the contact details for him to contact them directly, if he wishes.
I appreciate that Mr Z will be disappointed with this outcome. But after having considered 
everything, I dont think Lloyds have done anything wrong. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2023.
 
Sarah Green
Ombudsman