DRN-3614333
The complaint
Mr S says that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) acted irresponsibly by allowing 
him to increase the limits on the overdrafts he had with it and continuing to apply charges to 
his accounts when he was in financial difficulty.
What happened
Mr S had four bank accounts with NatWest. NatWest have told us the overdrafts on the 
accounts were as follows:
Account number ending 6615 
15 February 2017 overdraft limit of £2,000
Account number ending 7107
17 February 2017 overdraft limit of £1,000
Account number ending 7105
17 August  29 August 2017 overdraft limit increases from £2,500 to £5,000
Account number ending 2522
1 September 2017 overdraft limit of £2,000
Total lending £10,000
Mr S complained to NatWest that it acted irresponsibly by providing him with the increases to 
his overdrafts when he had a gambling addiction and that it has left him in financial difficulty. 
NatWest says all applications were correctly assessed for affordability using his declared 
income and it wouldve factored in additional borrowing including external lenders. It says at 
the time of the applications it had a strategy rule in place to identify gambling activity and Mr 
Ss applications did not meet the relevant gambling criteria to decline his overdraft increases. 
Furthermore, NatWest says that as all fees and charges were applied correctly in line with 
the terms and conditions of the accounts it is unable to refund any of the charges or interest. 
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ss concerns but thought NatWests checks went far 
enough and didnt think there was enough in the statements to conclude the overdrafts 
werent sustainable. 
Mr S disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. So the complaint came to me for a 
decision. I issued my provisional decision on 20 June 2022. In my provisional decision, 
I explained why I was proposing to uphold Mr Ss complaint. I invited both parties to let me 
have any further submissions before I reached a final decision.
NatWest made an offer to settle the complaint in-line with the recommendations outlined in 
my provisional decision but also agreed as a gesture of goodwill to wipe the remaining 
balance of two of Mr Ss three active accounts after the amount of the refund had been 
applied. This would mean Mr S would be left with an outstanding overdraft balance on only 
one account. If Mr S accepted this offer NatWest has said that charges and interest will 
continue to be applied until a repayment plan is put in place.
Mr S did not want to accept this offer unless NatWest agreed to not charge any interest or 
fees on the balance of the remaining account.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I said that: 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including 
the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive referred to this 
when deciding Mr Ss complaint. 
NatWest needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
NatWest needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr S 
would be able to repay what he was being lent before providing any credit to him. Our 
website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. 
Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of 
how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship. But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income 
was low or the amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the 
greater the risk of it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial 
difficulty. 
Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about whether NatWest did what it needed to 
before agreeing to Mr Ss overdrafts and limit increases. Mr S was given what was an open-
ended credit facility. So overall this means the checks NatWest carried out had to provide 
enough for it to be able to understand whether Mr S would be able to repay his overdrafts 
within a reasonable period of time. 
NatWest says Mr S had initial overdrafts of £2,000 (account ending 6615) and £1,000 
(account ending 7107) approved in February 2017. NatWest say all overdraft applications 
were fully credit scored taking into account information Mr S provided about his income and 
how Mr S had managed his accounts held with it, as well as information held by other 
lenders provided through credit reference checks. And based on this information NatWest 
was satisfied his score was high enough to provide him with the overdraft facilities and limits 
he requested.
I accept that Mr Ss financial position may well have been worse than the credit check 
carried out showed or in any information he disclosed to NatWest at the time. And it is 
possible that further checks might have told NatWest this. But NatWest was reasonably 
entitled to rely on the credit check it carried out. And given there wasnt any adverse 
information shown on the credit check, and there was a healthy regular salary coming into 
one of his accounts and the net free funds result on its calculations showed a comfortable 
pass, initially I think NatWests checks went far enough. But wed expect a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer 
irresponsibly. So Ive considered whether there were instances where NatWest didnt treat 
Mr S fairly and reasonably and having carefully looked at Mr Ss statements for all of his 
accounts from February 2017 I think  that it was clear from August 2017 that the borrowing 
was no longer sustainable and that Mr S was struggling financially and wasnt in a position to 
repay what he owed in a reasonable period of time let alone any further lending.
I say this because it is clear from the statements that Mr S was having difficulty managing 
his money. Mr S hadnt seen or maintained a credit balance for an extended period of time 
on accounts ending 6615 or 7107. While on account ending 7105 Mr S spent most months 
overdrawn only seeing a credit balance for a short period when his salary came in. 
NatWests own literature suggests that overdrafts are for unforeseen emergency borrowing 
not prolonged day-to-day expenditure. 
NatWest say that the lending was affordable because the net funds he had free (1912 from 
August 2017) was a comfortable pass on the threshold it had in place at the time. But I cant 
see how net funds of £1,912 is enough to repay overall lending of up to £10,000 over a 
reasonable period of time.
So I think that Mr Ss overdraft usage should have prompted NatWest to have realised that 
Mr S wasnt using his overdrafts as intended and shouldnt have continued offering them on 
the same terms and should not have offered further lending. In these circumstances, it ought 
to have been apparent that Mr S was at a significant risk of experiencing financial difficulty 
and so should have been treated with forbearance rather than being provided with further 
credit and having had even more interest, fees and charges added to his overdrafts. 
As NatWest didnt react to Mr Ss overdraft usage and instead continued charging in the 
same way, I think it failed to act fairly and reasonably.
Mr S ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on his overdrafts and this ended 
up exacerbating difficulties he already had in trying to clear them. So I currently think that 
NatWest didnt treat Mr S fairly and he lost out because of what NatWest did wrong. And this 
means that it should put things right.
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Ss complaint for NatWest to put things right by:
Reworking all of Mr Ss overdraft balances so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to them from August 2017 onwards are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on any of the overdraft once these 
adjustments have been made NatWest should contact Mr S to arrange a suitable 
repayment plan. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mr 
Ss credit file, NatWest should reflect what would have been recorded had it 
started the process of taking corrective action on the overdrafts from August 
2017. NatWest can also reduce overdraft limits by the amount of refund if it 
considers it appropriate to do so, as long as doing so wouldnt leave Mr S over 
their limit.
ORIf the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr S along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then 
NatWest should remove any adverse information from Mr Ss credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires NatWest to take off tax from this interest. NatWest must 
give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if they ask for one.
As neither party has provided any further evidence and Mr S does not wish to accept 
NatWests offer, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional 
decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I uphold Mr Ss complaint against National Westminster Bank 
Plc and direct it pays the fair compensation as outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman