DRN-4001820
The complaint
Ms D complains Clydesdale Bank Plc  trading as Virgin Money  hasnt refunded two 
transactions that shes disputed and didnt stop them going out in the first place.
What happened
Ms D has an account with Virgin Money and an account with another bank  who Ill refer to 
as B throughout the rest of this decision.
Ms D says B contacted her in February 2022 to say that it had identified some unusual 
transactions on her account which it wanted to check were hers. Ms D says they werent, 
and they were all stopped. Ms D says she then checked her Virgin Money account, saw six 
transactions that she didnt recognise and contacted Virgin Money straightaway.
Ms D says that only two of the transactions  totalling just over £1,300  went through. But 
she was unhappy Virgin Money hadnt contacted her and had let them go through. She 
complained to Virgin Money and asked it to refund the transactions in question. Ms D says 
she received no response, so she complained to us after eight weeks.
One of our investigators looked into Ms Ds complaint. Following our involvement, Virgin 
Money accepted that it took too long to investigate Ms Ds complaint and credited her 
account with £175 in compensation. But it also said that the evidence showed the 
transactions Ms D was disputing had been accepted via her mobile banking app so they 
wouldnt be refunded. Our investigator ultimately didnt agree, saying that the evidence 
Virgin Money had sent didnt show that Ms D had authorised the two transactions when the 
evidence was taken as a whole. So, our investigator recommended Virgin Money refund 
them along with interest. Virgin Money didnt reply to our investigators recommendations, so 
an ombudsman was asked to consider this complaint. Thats what Ive done.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Virgin Money has accepted that it took too long to investigate Ms Ds complaint  and it has 
paid her £175 in compensation for the distress that it feels this caused Ms D. Thats not an 
issue that Ms D appears to feel particularly strongly about now. Shes more annoyed about 
the fact that Virgin Money allowed the two transactions shes complained about to go 
through, particularly in light of the fact that her other bank  B  contacted her to check 
whether or not similar transactions were genuine. There might be a good explanation for this 
 wed only expect a bank to flag a transaction that was unusual and that will, in part, be 
based on the accounts previous activity. That means, for example, that a transaction is less 
likely to be flagged if transactions of a similar size are normal for that account. And that 
might vary from account to account. In any event, the more important issue here, in my 
opinion, is whether or not Ms D should have been held liable for the two transactions that 
went through. So, Ill turn to this now.
Virgin Money has held Ms D liable on the basis that the two transactions that went through 
were authenticated using her mobile banking app  its sent us evidence to demonstrate this. 
But in response Ms D has explained what happened that day, including where her mobile 
phone was, what security it had on it and what other items were with her mobile phone. Im 
satisfied, based on what Ms D has told us, including what happened to her account with B:
that her accounts could have been compromised that morning  she was in a meeting all 
morning at work and her mobile phone, wallet and a notebook were all in one place;
that she has explained how she discovered her accounts had been compromised; and
that she contacted Virgin Money straightaway to report what had happened.
Our investigator put what Ms D had told to Virgin Money and asked for its comments. They 
did so because they didnt think, in light of what Ms D had told us that Virgin Money had 
shown that the transactions were made with Ms Ds knowledge or authorisation. Virgin 
Money didnt reply to this additional information. So, our investigator issued their 
recommendations. And then referred this complaint to decision as Virgin Money didnt reply 
to those either.
We still havent heard back from Virgin Money. More importantly, I agree that in this 
particular case, based on everything that Ive seen, that Virgin Money hasnt shown that a 
third party didnt make these transactions without Ms Ds knowledge or authorisation, and 
that it should, therefore, refund them. Nor do I think Ms D was grossly negligent.
Putting things right
I agree, given what Ive just said, that Virgin Money should refund both transactions.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im upholding this complaint. I require Clydesdale Bank Plc to refund 
the two disputed transactions totalling £1,302.99 along with 8% simple interest from the date 
of payment to the date of settlement in full and final settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 May 2023.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman