DRN-3414998
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy The Co-operative Bank Plc, trading as Smile (Co-Op), hasnt refunded 
him £30,000 he lost in an authorised push payment (APP) cloned investment firm scam.
What happened
The details of this case have been clearly set out by our investigator. As such, the facts are 
well-known to both parties, so I dont need to repeat them at length here. All accept Mr G 
was the unfortunate victim of an investment scam, where fraudsters posed as a legitimate 
firm. 
The fraudsters operated what is known as a cloned firm. That is they copied the genuine 
branding, information and paperwork of a legitimate firm, and posed as employees, but 
changed contact details in an attempt to trick victims.
In August 2020, Mr G had been looking to invest and carried out a search online. Mr G 
provided his information to a website and was then subsequently called from whom he 
thought was a legitimate company (whom I shall call Company C) the next day. 
Mr G was then provided with paperwork and brochures which all appeared entirely 
legitimate. Mr G decided to invest and completed the application form. Mr G thought he was 
investing £30,000 into what he believed was a three-year fixed bond. He made two 
payments, one of £19,000 and one of £11,000, through online banking. Mr G then received 
what he thought was legitimate bond certificates.
Later in the month Mr G went to invest with a different company. This was also unfortunately 
a cloned investment firm scam. However, in that scam, the fraudsters tried to open an 
account in Mr Gs name with a payment service provider (PSP) and get Mr G to route the 
payment through it. The PSP sent correspondence to Mr G about opening the account and 
this put Mr G on alert as he hadnt opened the account. The scam was uncovered and 
ultimately Mr G received he funds back as the PSP had blocked the account. 
Mr G then uncovered that the payments he had made at the start of August 2020 were also 
as a result of a cloned investment firm scam.
Mr G contacted Co-Op to report the matter. 
The case was considered under the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code). 
This is a voluntary scheme Co-Op has signed up to, designed to reimburse customers that 
have fallen victim to a scam. The starting position under the CRM Code requires Firms to 
reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP scams like this in all but a limited 
number of circumstances.
The circumstances where a Firm may choose not to reimburse include (so far as they might 
be relevant to this complaint) where the Firm can establish that:
the customer ignored an effective warning by failing to take appropriate steps in 
response to that warning; or
where in all the circumstances, the customer made the payment without a 
reasonable basis for believing that: the payee was the person the customer was 
expecting to pay, the payment was for genuine goods or services, and/or that the 
person or business with whom they transacted with was legitimate. 
When assessing whether it can establish these things, a Firm must consider whether they 
would have had a material effect on preventing the APP scam.
Co-Op, in reviewing what had happened, considered that it had sufficient fraud prevention 
measures in place and that Mr G hadnt carried out enough checks prior to proceeding with 
the investment. So under the provisions of the CRM Code, Co-Op considered Mr G wasnt 
liable for a refund. 
Mr G formally complained to Co-Op. Co-Op offered Mr G £150 for the level of service he 
received after he had reported the fraud. It recognised there were delays in providing him an 
outcome and for the lack of updates and information provided during its investigation. 
However Co-Op, remained of the opinion that Mr G wasnt entitled to a refund of the funds 
he had lost to the scam.
Unhappy that he had not been reimbursed, Mr G referred the matter to our service.
Our investigator looked into things and upheld the complaint. They initially considered that 
as Co-Op hadnt provided a copy of the warning to our service then it hadnt evidenced that 
Mr G had ignored an effective warning. So they considered it was unfair to decline re-
imbursing Mr G on those grounds. And they also considered Mr G had a reasonable basis 
for belief when making the payment given the sophistication of the cloned investment firm 
scam. So they didnt think it was reasonable for Co-Op to choose not to reimburse Mr G in 
full, under the provisions of the CRM Code.  
The investigator said Co-Op ought to refund the outstanding amount lost as a result of the 
scam and either pay 8% simple interest on the amount, or the applicable rate of interest if 
the funds had come from an interesting bearing account such as a savings account  and 
this should be from the date Co-Op should have reimbursed Mr G under the CRM Code.
Co-Op responded. It accepted that it could have done more to protect Mr G but also felt that 
he had a duty of care when making the payments. It went on to explain that while it didnt 
doubt that Mr G had a reasonable basis for believing he was paying a genuine investment 
firm, he had selected investment as the reason for the payment and would have seen its 
investment warning. Co-Op say that the warning specifically states to check the Financial 
Conduct Authoritys (FCA) website. Co-Op considered that had Mr G checked the FCA 
website he would have seen warnings that Company C had been cloned. 
Our investigator responded. They acknowledged there were warnings present on the FCA 
website but concluded that Company C were well-known and given the sophistication of the 
scam and that Mr G was sure he was dealing with a legitimate firm wouldnt have thought to 
conduct further checks. And even if Mr G had searched Company C it wasnt conclusive that 
he would have been alerted to the fact he may have been at risk of financial harm. The 
Investigator also considered that the warning to check the FCA website came towards the 
end of the warning with the warning talking about scammers placing pressure on consumers 
to make a payment. So they didnt think the way the warning was presented would have had 
an impact on Mr G continuing with the payment.They remained of the opinion that none of the exceptions under the CRM Code applied for 
Co-Op to choose not to reimburse Mr G in full.
As the matter wasnt resolved, it was passed to me to decide.
I reviewed the complaint and wrote to both parties. I agreed that the complaint should be 
upheld, and I set out my initial thoughts as to why Mr G should be reimbursed fully under the 
CRM Code but that I was minded to depart slightly from our investigators view, in terms of 
what I consider to be fair and reasonable compensation in this case. In short, I considered 
that it was likely Mr G would have invested had it not been for the scam he fell victim to. I 
considered that it would be fair and reasonable to take this into account. 
I considered fair compensation in this case would be for Co-Op to refund the monies Mr G 
lost  in full, and pay interest on that amount at the monthly average rate for two-year fixed 
rate bonds as published by the Bank of England for the month of August 2020 from the date 
Mr G made the payments on 7 August 2020 to the date of settlement. Those rates should be 
applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
I set a deadline for both parties to respond with any comments by 26 May 2022. Mr G 
responded agreeing with my overall initial thoughts on his complaint and also with the 
redress I had recommended. Co-Op didnt respond by the deadline set. 
As Mr G responded agreeing  and I received no further comments from Co-Op, I will now 
confirm my formal findings on this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am satisfied that:
Under the terms of the CRM Code, Co-Op should have refunded the money Mr G 
lost. I am not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to reimbursement apply in 
the circumstances of this case. 
In the circumstances Co-Op should fairly and reasonably refund the monies lost.
Co-Op should pay interest on that amount at the monthly average rate for two-year 
fixed rate bonds as published by the Bank of England for the month of August 2020 
from the date Mr G made the payments on 7 August 2020 to the date of settlement. 
Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
I dont intend to comment in detail on whether the bank provided effective warnings or not. 
Its already said it didnt do enough here. But for completeness Im satisfied the warning 
Mr G was presented with wasnt an effective warning as set out by the CRM Code. The 
warning Mr G was presented with initially focuses on scammers putting pressure on 
consumers to make payments. Given Mr G had been corresponding with the scammers and 
hadnt been pressurised to make the payment I can see why the warning wouldnt have 
resonated with him. While the warning does go on to mention that before consumer s 
commit to an investment that they should do an online search and check the FCA warning 
list it doesnt bring to life what cloned investment firm scams would look and typically feel like 
 that scammers can imitate genuine firms. So the warning isnt effective as it doesnt help a 
consumer to understand the reason why they may need to carry out further checks. Im also satisfied Mr G had a reasonable basis for belief. This was sophisticated fraud which 
involved a cloned financial services firm. Mr G found the details online and genuinely 
believed he was interacting with the genuine firm. Cloning a genuine firm and mirroring its 
processes gives the interaction legitimacy. I think it is reasonable that this went undetected 
by Mr G. 
From what I have seen, the correspondence Mr G received is in line with what he would 
have expected to receive in connection with a genuine investment of this type. In addition, 
the investment appears to be based on a genuine product that was available at the time.
Co-Op is particularly concerned that Mr G did not search the FCA register to find and verify 
information about the firm. But I dont agree it was unreasonable for Mr G not to have done 
so in the circumstances of this complaint. Mr G was in a position where he had no reason to 
suspect he wasnt engaged in something completely above board  particularly in the 
absence of an effective warning from Co-Op about cloned investment scams and how to 
avoid them. He wasnt an experienced investor and I cant see there were any red flags to 
suggest that all might not be as it seemed. At the time, Mr G was fully in the belief he was in 
contact with a genuine firm. Ive not seen anything that makes me think Mr G had any 
knowledge or awareness that firms could be cloned. 
Im also mindful that the average consumer will probably not know exactly what information 
they are looking to verify on the FCA register unless they are given guidance of the 
significance of that additional search. 
In the particular circumstances of this case, Im not persuaded Co-Op has shown that Mr G 
lacked a reasonable basis for belief when making the payments.
So for the above reasons, I uphold this complaint. I am satisfied that, under the CRM Code, 
no exceptions to reimbursement apply.
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put 
Mr G as close to the position he would probably now be in if he had not been the 
unfortunate victim of a scam. So I consider Co-Op should re-imburse Mr G the funds he 
lost, being £30,000. 
Where a consumer has been out of pocket / deprived of funds, our service can award 
additional compensation to acknowledge that loss.
Here, I think that an award of 8% simple interest would represent significant betterment to 
Mr G  given that I understand his intention was to invest the money in such a way that his 
capital was not put at risk and such a rate of return would be unachievable without doing 
so.
On the other hand, I dont think that paying interest at the account rate of his savings 
account is fair either. The evidence does not suggest that Mr G would have left his money 
in that account but invested it in products similar in nature to the fraudulent investment.
I think Mr G would have likely purchased a legitimate three-year fixed rate bond elsewhere 
and continued to invest his money without risking the capital. However, it hasnt yet been 
two years since the scam happened and Mr G will receive his money back before two years 
have passed.  So, I dont think its fair to award Mr G the rate he might have achieved for a 
three-year bond as he hasnt had his money locked away for that period of time. Instead I 
think an interest rate calculated using the monthly average rate for two-year fixed rate 
bonds as published by the Bank of England for the month of August 2020 should be used. Mr G, now his funds will be returned, can also now invest those funds should he wish to, 
and I note that interest rates have increased since August 2020  so I dont think this will be 
to his detriment.
As I say, it is not possible to say precisely what he would have done differently. But I am 
satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and reasonable and puts Mr G in a position 
he would have been in, as far as is possible, had he not been the victim of a scam and 
deprived of his funds.
Putting things right
To compensate Mr G fairly, Co-Op should:
Refund the £30,000 Mr G lost.
Pay interest* on that amount at the monthly average rate for two-year fixed rate 
bonds as published by the Bank of England for the month of August 2020 from the 
date Mr G made the payments on 7 August 2020 to the date of settlement. Those 
rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
(*Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded. If HM Revenue & Customs requires The Co-
operative Bank Plc to take off tax from this interest, The Co-operative Bank Plc must give Mr G a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.)
My final decision
For the above reasons, I have decided it is fair and reasonable to uphold this complaint 
about The Co-operative Bank Plc  and I require it pay compensation as set out above 
within 28 days of receiving notification of Mr Gs acceptance of my final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2022.
 
Matthew Horner
Ombudsman