DRN-3502403
The complaint
L complains that Barclays Bank Plc have not effectively defended chargeback claims made 
against them.
 
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them in 
detail here. Ill summarise by saying this complaint concerns a number of chargeback claims 
that were raised against L, which provides guided tours, following cancellations due to 
COVID-19. 
Three chargeback claims had been either unsuccessfully defended by Barclays or they had 
chosen not to defend them further and this formed the basis of Ls complaint.
The complaint was referred to our service and the Investigator issued a non-uphold view. 
They explained that we can only consider Barclays actions and not those of the card 
issuers. They felt that Barclays had attempted to defend the chargebacks in line with the 
agreed process as set out in the terms and conditions of the account and the procedure 
guide. 
L disagreed with this and the complaint was passed to me for a decision. I issued a 
provisional decision in which I explained that based on what Id seen so far, I did not think 
Barclays needed to refund L with the three unsuccessfully defended chargebacks. My 
provisional decision read as follows:
It should be noted that Barclays no longer holds evidence relating to the arbitration process 
or chargeback correspondence with the card issuers/account providers. Ive based this 
decision on the evidence provided by L as well as the statements, contact notes, complaint 
notes and account documentation provided by Barclays. 
Ive firstly considered the terms and conditions of the account as well as the procedure guide 
to see what they say about chargebacks. This sets out that the card issuer or account 
provider in certain circumstances will have the right under the scheme rules to request a 
reimbursement from Barclays for a payment that has already been settled. One such 
circumstance is when Barclays receives a claim in connection with the goods or services L 
has provided. It goes on to say that Barclays alone can decide to dispute the validity of any 
chargeback or issue a credit to the cardholder. In those cases, L will be liable and will 
indemnify Barclays for that loss. Having considered these terms and conditions, I dont think 
the expectation was that Barclays had a responsibility to defend every chargeback brought 
against L. And that it was reasonable for Barclays not to continue defend a claim it did not 
feel had a reasonable chance of success.
I can appreciate Ls comments that previous chargebacks had been successfully defended 
at the first stage, and so they felt there was no reason why the remaining three with similar 
circumstances did not succeed. However, it does not necessarily follow that a successfully 
defended chargeback at the first stage would have succeeded at the arbitration stage had it 
been reviewed by the card scheme. Or that it would be successful in court. It is possible that 
the card issuer or account provider chose not to pursue the claim further after the merchant 
represented its evidence. So, I dont think that the previous successfully defended 
chargebacks indicates the remaining three should have also been successful. And I dont 
think it follows that it proves Barclays has not followed the correct process when defending 
the chargeback claims.
One chargeback was defended by Barclays at the initial stage and was challenged by the 
card issuer. Barclays made the decision to take the case to arbitration, and I think this shows 
that it has been willing to defend and escalate claims for L. The card scheme which set the 
rules for the dispute here then determined the defence was not strong enough and the funds 
had to be returned to the consumer. I can see this claim was categorised as goods/services 
not received. Its important to note that I am unable to comment on the decision made by the 
card scheme as I can only consider Barclays actions.
L thinks that Barclays did not put forward all the information they provided and therefore did 
not defend the claim as they should have done at arbitration. As mentioned previously, 
Barclays no longer holds the documents relating to the arbitration process so I cannot know 
for certain what was provided to the card scheme. When I do not have evidence available to 
me, I have to consider all the other circumstances of the complaint to determine what I think 
is more likely. 
I appreciate Ls comments that Barclays had been late to respond to correspondence and 
had not sent a letter for many months even though it had been drafted, and they feel this 
shows Barclays were disorganised. But I have to consider that it was also in Barclays 
interest to be successful at the arbitration stage and that it is a formal process in which they 
were required to provide information to defend the claim. Barclays has also stated that they 
put forward all the evidence L provided.
In the complaint notes provided by Barclays, it sets out the reasons the card scheme gave 
as to why the defence failed. This says that the first stage of the chargeback, which is what 
the customer put forth, said the tour had been cancelled and the service had not been 
provided. At the next stage, Barclays put forward their defence which pointed to the terms 
and conditions stating the service was non-refundable. But the scheme said there was no 
mention in the terms and conditions what would happen if aspects of the tour had to be 
cancelled by the merchant, L. And there was no indication that the service had been 
provided by L, so the defence was rejected.
Looking at this, on balance, I think its more likely Barclays did provide sufficient information 
as part of the arbitration process as the reasons for rejecting the defence from the card 
scheme specifically mentions the terms and conditions of the account, which formed part of 
Ls evidence. However, the defence was not deemed enough by the independent card 
scheme. 
L is unhappy that the same customer whose chargeback claim was brought to arbitration 
had a second chargeback claim, which Barclays explained they were unable to defend 
further. Looking at Ls statements, I can see the transaction amount was debited from Ls 
account in April 2020, but was then credited back soon afterwards. And I think this is most 
likely because Barclays sent the card issuer the evidence L had provided as a defence. 
However, the card issuer challenged the defence of both claims and Barclays sent one of 
the claims to arbitration as a test case. 
I can understand why Barclays would make the decision to send just one case to arbitration 
as it can be a time consuming and costly exercise. And I think that when it became clear the 
case at arbitration was not going to succeed, it was reasonable for Barclays not to pursue 
the second case further. As stated earlier, the terms and conditions of the account make it clear that it is up to Barclays which cases they dispute the validity of and once they saw they 
did not have a reasonable chance of success with the other case, I think it was reasonable 
not pursue the defence on this one. 
The final chargeback claim I have considered was for £3,670. L has expressed frustration 
that the same customer had two chargeback claims which led to two different outcomes. I 
can see both were initially defended and both initially were credited back to Ls account. 
However, it appears that pushback was received from the card issuer on the claim for 
£3,670 and this was eventually re-debited from Ls account. L has provided a letter dated 10 
June 2020 in which L thanks Barclays for explaining the case was being raised to Visa 
international to arbitrate. The specific timeline of events is unclear, but the fact the 
transaction was re-debited from Ls account in December 2020, around five months after the 
previous two chargebacks which were unsuccessfully defended were re-debited, suggests 
this claim was reviewed after the separate claim failed at the arbitration stage. 
Ive looked at the claim that failed at arbitration and compared it to this claim, to see if they 
are comparable. I can see that L has provided near identical evidence to defend both claims 
and that the services provided to each customer was relatively similar. Again, its not my role 
to determine if it was correct for the claim that went to arbitration to have failed, and I can 
only consider Barclays actions. Barclays made the decision not to continue to defend this 
claim and I think its more likely this was due to the previous claim failing at the arbitration 
stage. And I think this was a reasonable decision for them to make, given that decisions on 
chargebacks like this are ultimately made in line with the relevant scheme rules and here, 
the scheme itself had already reviewed a claim and given its findings on arbitration. I cant 
see that this claim was so different that they could expect a different outcome had they 
defended it further, even considering that it was a different scheme that applied.
In summary, I think Barclays received push back from the card issuers on three claims and 
in response to this, Barclays put one of these forward to the card scheme for arbitration. It 
was decided that the defence was not strong enough and Barclays then applied this bar to 
the remaining two claims. Meaning they did not defend them further. And based on what Ive 
seen so far, I think this was reasonable in the circumstances. 
L thinks that the incorrect chargeback codes were chosen on the cases which were not 
successfully defended. It should be noted that it is the card issuer or account provider who 
chooses the relevant code that should apply to a case. And regardless, I can see the 
affected cases were categorised as either goods/services not received or goods/services 
cancelled. And there were both successful and unsuccessful chargeback claims under both 
categories, so I dont think this has disadvantaged L in any way. 
I can see L is also unhappy with how their complaint has been dealt with and they feel 
Barclays has not provided good customer service throughout. I can appreciate that a letter 
was drafted and then not sent for many months which was an inconvenience to L. I can see 
that Barclays refunded a total of £111.52 of invoice charges as a gesture of goodwill, and 
they waived the full service charges for 6 months, but this appears to be in relation to issues 
with transactions following the failed chargebacks. L has also complained that Barclays 
asked for unnecessary information regarding the chargeback claims and their letters 
appeared to be copied and pasted. 
I dont think its unreasonable that Barclays had more generic letters relating to the 
chargeback claims and that this could have resulted in unnecessary information being 
requested. This is because, as Barclays has pointed out, they deal with a high volume of 
chargeback claims and personalised requests on each one would be almost impossible. And 
as the categories covered both goods and services, this can at times result in unnecessary 
information being requested. But even with this in mind and acknowledging that there may have been some delays, I dont think this has materially changed the outcome of the 
chargeback claims. And for the reasons set out above, based on what Ive seen so far I think 
Barclays acted as they should have done when deciding not to defend the three chargeback 
claims further.  
Barclays did not respond to my provisional decision with any comments or evidence for me 
to consider. 
L responded with some additional comments and points for me to consider. In summary they 
said:
There is a second representation stage before a chargeback claim is sent to 
arbitration, its at this stage that they feel Barclays did not send the correct 
information to the card issuers. 
The fact Barclays have not been able to provide evidence of what was sent to the 
card issuers is a red flag and they feel there is not enough to show full evidence was 
sent when defending the chargebacks. 
They said I had stated in my provisional decision that two chargebacks from the 
same customer Ill call D were challenged by the card issuer but clarified this was 
incorrect. The first chargeback was successfully defended at representation and they 
still feel the second chargeback should not have been treated differently, especially 
as they think it had stronger evidence. 
They highlighted that Barclays sent a letter stating the chargeback claim for £1,755 
was not defended further as L did not provide proof that the cardholder viewed and 
agreed to the terms and conditions at the time of the booking. They have then 
provided documents showing that they gave this evidence to Barclays and say this 
shows a complete misunderstanding of the evidence L submitted to them.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Ls additional comments as well as the evidence they sent in, though I note 
some of this was already on file. And Id like to thank L for the amount of evidence and 
commentary they have provided on this case overall. 
Firstly, I would like to apologise if the terminology used in the provisional decision has 
caused any confusion. To clarify, there is a representment stage where evidence is 
provided by the merchants bank to the card issuer to defend the claim, and if needed there 
is a  pre-arbitration stage where there is a further chance to defend and clarify anything that 
is unclear. Then there is final stage of arbitration. 
I appreciate Ls comments that Barclays charge L for a chargeback claim whether it is 
successful or not and I take this point on board. As they have noted, I have to base my 
decision on the balance of probabilities and what is more likely in the circumstances. Based 
on the limited notes available to me and what was included in the arbitration response, 
though I appreciate these were not communicated to L, I explained in my provisional 
decision why I feel its more likely Barclays did provide a full response to the card issuer. Id 
like to again remind L that I am unable to comment on the decision made by the card 
scheme as I am only focusing on Bs actions. I can appreciate Ls frustrations that Barclays no longer has all the correspondence from the 
chargeback claims. This can make the investigation more challenging considering the nature 
of the complaint. However, it is not unusual for documents to no longer be on file by the time 
a complaint is referred to our service, which is why I have to base my decision on what I 
think is most likely in the circumstances, considering what I do have available to me. And 
this is what Ive done on this case. Ive explained in my provisional decision why I feel its 
more likely Barclays did provide the relevant evidence to the card issuers in relation to the 
chargeback claim that went to arbitration and on balance I think its more likely this was also 
the case for the other chargeback claims raised against L.  
L has said that I stated two chargebacks that were raised by the same consumer, D, were 
challenged by the card issuer. However, I stated that both were initially defended, one 
successfully so, and that the £3,670 chargeback was challenged by the card issuer and was 
re-debited. L has said that Barclays should have asked the card issuer why the first claim 
was successfully defended but the second was being challenged. And they made the point 
that the customer said they would push the chargeback process as far as possible so would 
not have just accepted the first successfully defended chargeback claim. 
However, the decision to pursue the chargeback claim further is not up to the customer and 
instead it is up to the card issuer. If the card issuer accepted the first claim but decided to 
challenge the second, there is not much Barclays can do. I dont think this decision alone to 
challenge one claim and not another made by the same customer is an indication that 
Barclays did not provide all the relevant evidence on the claim. Ive explained in my 
provisional decision why I think, on balance, its more likely Barclays did provide the relevant 
evidence on the case that went to arbitration. And on balance I think Barclays provided the 
relevant evidence on the other chargeback claims made against L. I also explained why I felt 
it was reasonable Barclays did not defend this particular claim further in my provisional 
decision and Ls comments have not changed my opinion.
L has said that Barclays letters show a complete misunderstanding of the evidence L 
submitted to them and they have pointed to a letter connected to the chargeback claim for 
£1,755. The letter states that Barclays has chosen not to defend the claim further as L had 
not provided proof that the cardholder viewed and agreed to the terms and conditions at the 
time the booking was made, and no refund was processed by them for the disputed amount. 
L has highlighted that they sent the terms and conditions to the customer so feel this shows 
Barclays did not understand the claim made against L. 
I appreciate Ls concerns and I can understand why they feel let down by Barclays. Looking 
at Barclays response, it is short and doesnt expand on their reasoning why they feel the 
terms and conditions as they were presented to the customer were not sufficient to defend 
the claim. While I do think a more detailed response would have been reasonable in the 
circumstances, I have explained in my provisional decision why I feel it was reasonable that 
this claim was not defended further by Barclays. As the same customer had already had a 
case fail at the arbitration stage for a very similar claim, I felt it was reasonable that Barclays 
did not pursue this claim as it did not have a reasonable chance of success.
I know this outcome will be disappointing for L and I do appreciate how challenging this 
situation has been for them as a business. Having carefully reviewed everything available to 
me, I think Barclays acted reasonably when it took the first claim to arbitration and its more 
likely it provided all the relevant evidence for that claim. And I think it was then reasonable 
that it chose not to defend a further two claims following the rejection of the arbitration case. 
So I do not think Barclays needs to refund L with the chargeback claims that were debited 
from its account. And it now needs to discuss with Barclays its options moving forward with 
the outstanding debt on the account. My final decision
I do not uphold Ls complaint against Barclays Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2023.
 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman