DRN-3494409
The complaint
Mr W complains that J D Williams & Company Limited lent to him irresponsibly. He says the
lending was unaffordable for him.
What happened
Mr W opened a catalogue shopping account with JD Williams in May 2020.
Mr W says that J D Williams shouldnt have provided him with the credit because it was clear
that he had financial difficulties.
Our adjudicator did not uphold Mr Ws complaint. They didnt think J D Williams had done
anything wrong in its initial lending decision or how it managed the account afterwards. The
adjudicator considered that the checks J D Williams said it had done prior to extending the
credit were appropriate.
Mr W disagreed, so the case has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our
website and Ive taken that into account when considered Mr Bs complaint.
I issued a provisional decision in this case in April 2022. I invited further comments from both 
parties. Mr W agreed with my provisional decision. J D Williams made a comment which I 
address later in this decision but which does not materially change the outcome.
J D Williams needed to take reasonable steps to ensure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr W
could afford to repay what he was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the
repayment amounts, Mr Ws lending history and Mr Ws income and expenditure.
JD Williams says it completed checks when opening Mr Ws accounts and that it made
checks each month when it reviewed his lending limits. It says these show that when Mr W
applied for his credit that it didnt see anything that should have stopped it lending to Mr W.
Specifically, J D Williams told Mr W in its final response to him that the checks it conducted
included information provided by a credit reference agency. I think that such a check was an
appropriate and proportionate step for J D Williams to take.
J D Williams has provided a copy of the outcome of those checks to this service, however
the information it has provided is quite limited and appears to be missing most of the
information at the time of the application. I can see that in the first two months there is
apparently nothing of concern. But in the third month there is a significant change in the
outcome of these checks. And they contradict the two previous months results.
J D Williams points out that the information provided to this service in relation to the first two 
months after the account opened isnt showing correctly due to issues with their internal 
systems. J D Williams sets out that this doesnt mean there has been a drastic change in 
circumstances in the following months. 
This may well be a shortcoming in J D Williams internal data. In my provisional decision I 
had worked on the basis that this information was missing rather than a realistic 
representation of Mr Ws situation at the time of application. This was because it was the 
only sensible explanation for the apparent sudden change in Mr Ws situation.  
Mr W has provided this service with a copy of his credit report. It shows that in the months
preceding his application to J D Williams he was in significant arrears to several lenders and
had defaulted on a number of credit agreements. Given the lack of information J D Williams
has provided about the credit checks it did, I think its reasonable to place significant weight
on what Mr W has provided as an indication of what J D Williams will likely have seen.
If J D Williams had conducted the checks it says it completed before opening Mr Ws
account I think they would have seen this information. J D Williams indicates that it took a 
few months for the information to filter through. But this isnt satisfactory. I think the 
information about Mr Ws financial situation was available to J D Williams and it should have
realised Mr W was not able to afford to repay what he was being lent in a sustainable
manner. J D Williams should have realised that Mr W was in financial difficulty and would
have had trouble paying back even a modest amount of credit. So I dont think it should have
provided Mr W with a credit account at all.
Putting things right
As I dont think JD Williams ought to have opened Mr Ws account, agreement. But I think Mr 
W should pay back the amounts he borrowed. Therefore, J D Williams should:
Rework the account removing all interest and charges that have been applied.
If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Mr W along with
8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment to the
date of settlement. J D Williams should also remove all adverse information
regarding this account from Mr Ws credit file.
Or, if after the rework there is still an outstanding balance, J D Williams should
arrange an affordable repayment plan with Mr W for the remaining amount. Once Mr
W has cleared the balance, any adverse information in relation to the account should
be removed from his credit file.
If J D Williams sold the outstanding balances on any of these accounts to a third
party debt purchaser, it either needs to buy the accounts back from the third party
and make the necessary adjustments; pay an amount to the third party so it can
make the necessary adjustments; or pay Mr W an amount to ensure that it fully 
complies with this decision.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires JD Williams to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must give Mr W a
certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ws complaint in full. J D Williams should pay compensation to put things right 
as I have set out above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2022.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman