DRN-3366313
The complaint
A company Ill call L has complained that Society of Lloyds (Lloyds) unfairly turned down its 
business interruption insurance claim after it was forced to close its business premises due 
to the Covid-19 pandemic.
Mrs G, a director of L, has brought the complaint on Ls behalf.
What happened
L held a business interruption insurance policy with Lloyds. It operates a pub and restaurant.
As a result of the restrictions imposed in response to Covid-19 L closed its business on 
20 March 2020. 
L claimed on the policy for its business interruption losses. Lloyds declined the claim. It 
considered the claim under the damage section of the policy and the extensions for denial of 
access, infectious disease and public emergency. It said the claim wasnt covered by any 
part of the policy.
L complained to Lloyds. Unhappy with Lloyds response, L brought its complaint to us. 
Our Investigator investigated Ls complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld as she 
didnt think the policy provided cover for the circumstances of its claim.
L asked for an Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
L has made a number of detailed points. I wont address them all but will instead focus on 
what I see as the central issues to this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions had an impact on 
Ls business. But I dont intend to uphold its complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in 
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see 
whether Lloyds has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy when declining Ls claim. There are four parts within the policy which might be 
relevant to Ls claim. Ill consider each of them in turn.
The core business interruption part of the policy covers:
Loss of Gross Income occurring in the Indemnity Period following an Incident during the 
Period of Insurance caused by the operation of a Specified Peril insured under Material 
Damage Section.
Incident is defined as:
an Event of Damage to insured Property used by Your Business carried on at the 
Premises.
Damage is defined as:
physical loss or destruction of or damage to Property.
The Specified Perils or causes of damage in the Material Damage section of the policy 
include events such as fire and storm. Regardless of the cause of damage there has to be 
physical damage to property in order for a claim to be valid.
I havent seen anything to indicate that Covid-19 caused physical damage to Ls property. 
So, I think Lloyds was correct to say Ls claim was not covered under this part of the policy.
There is an extension in the policy for business interruption, covering losses arising from:
Interruption or interference with Your Business in consequence of an Incident as insured by 
this Section, occasioned by Damage to Property in the vicinity of the Premises which 
prevents or hinders the use or access to the Premises, whether the Premises or Your 
Property suffers Damage or not 
... 
Again, there must have been physical damage to property in the vicinity of Ls premises 
which prevented or hindered the use or access to Ls premises. Since I havent seen any 
evidence to suggest that Covid-19 caused physical damage to property in the vicinity of Ls 
premises, I dont think this extension covers Ls claim.
Mrs G has referred me to the case of Corbin & King v AXA Insurance UK PLC. That case 
is relevant to what are known as Non-Damage Denial of Access clauses where the 
claimant doesnt have to prove that damage prevented access to their premises. There is 
no such cover in Ls policy. So, this case is not relevant to Ls complaint.
Another extension covers:
 interruption of or interference with Your Business in consequence of closure of the 
Premises or part thereof on the order advice or stipulation of any government or local 
authority as a result of
1) any human infectious or human contagious Disease (excluding Acquired Immune 
Deficiency Syndrome [AIDS] or an AIDS-related condition) manifested by any person whilst 
at the Premises, or within a 25mile radius of the Premises
The term Disease is defined as any of the following diseases sustained by any person 
acute encephalitis, acute infectious hepatitis, acute meningitis, acute poliomyelitis, anthrax, 
botulism, brucellosis, cholera, diphtheria, enteric fever (typhoid or paratyphoid), food 
poisoning, haemolytic uraemic syndrome(HUS), infectious bloody diarrhoea, invasive group 
A streptococcal disease, legionellosis, leprosy, malaria, measles, meningococcal 
septicaemia, mumps, plague, rabies, rubella, SARS, scarlet fever, smallpox, tetanus, 
tuberculosis, typhus, viral haemorrhagic fever(VHF), whooping cough and yellow fever.The list of diseases doesnt include Covid-19. Since Covid-19 might not have been in 
existence at the time the policy was drafted, I wouldnt expect it to be included in the list of 
diseases. But there were similar policies on the market that provided cover in the 
circumstances of the pandemic, for example policies which covered all notifiable diseases 
as set out and updated on a Government-defined list. Ls policy is not like this  it sets out a 
defined list of the diseases which are covered. And there is nothing in the wording of the 
policy which implies it would provide cover for any new diseases which might emerge. So, I 
dont think the policy can fairly be read as covering any new diseases. 
The list of covered diseases does include SARS, so Ive considered whether this would 
extend to cover Covid-19. However, I dont think SARS and Covid-19 are the same disease. 
The Governments list of notifiable diseases lists them as two separate diseases. And the 
World Health Organisation has also confirmed that while related, the two viruses [that 
cause the diseases] are different, and it announced that Covid-19 was the name of this 
new disease. So, based on the evidence Ive seen, I dont think I can reasonably say that 
these two diseases are the same. Therefore this policy extension doesnt provide cover for 
Ls claim.
Lastly theres a public emergency extension. This covers loss due to:
the actions or advice of a competent Public Authority due to an emergency likely to 
endanger life or Property in the vicinity of the Premises which prevents or hinders the use of 
or access to the Premises, excluding:
1) Any loss during the first 4 hours
2) Any period other than the actual period when access to the Premises was prevented
3) Any loss occurring in Northern Ireland
4)Infectious or contagious diseases
Although there is some cover for loss arising from a public emergency, this extension has 
a specific exclusion for infectious or contagious diseases. Its worth noting that the word 
diseases in this clause is in lower case and does not have the specific meaning given to 
Disease as a defined term. So it has its everyday meaning. Since Covid-19 is an 
infectious or contagious disease, this extension does not apply.
I appreciate my decision will be disappointing to L. But, having considered the matter 
carefully, I dont think I can fairly require Lloyds to pay its claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2022.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman