DRN-2162703
The complaint
Mrs H is unhappy Santander UK Plc didnt raise a chargeback for the cost of her delayed 
flight and the additional expenses she incurred. 
What happened
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She was satisfied Santander 
didnt treat Mrs H unfairly when it didnt start a chargeback for her delayed flight and 
additional costs against the merchant who sold her the flight. She explained this was 
because although the flight was delayed, Mrs H still took the flight home. Our investigator 
said the rules for making a chargeback were set by the card issuer not Santander, and that 
her issue didnt fall within any of the categories of a chargeback. She added that even if the 
chargeback had been raised, this would only be for the cost of the delayed return flight and 
not the additional expenses Mrs H incurred. 
Mrs H disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. She said she incurred additional 
costs and an unacceptable delay on her return flight which she wanted to be compensated 
for.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I know Mrs H feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a 
disappointment to her, so Ill explain why.
I need to consider whether Mrs H was treated unfairly by Santander when it said it wouldnt 
raise a chargeback for her delayed flight. 
I reviewed the card scheme rules for a chargeback and the terms and conditions of the 
merchant who sold Mrs H her flight. Having done so, Im satisfied Santander was correct 
when it told Mrs H it couldnt raise a chargeback on her behalf. I note Mrs Hs flight was 
delayed and this did cause her additional costs and inconvenience. But although it was 
delayed, she did take the flight. And the merchants terms and conditions say it cant be held 
responsible for any changes in departures times because it has no control over airlines 
schedule changes. So, Im not satisfied Santander did anything wrong when it told Mrs H it 
wouldnt raise the chargeback here. 
I also agree with the investigator that even if Santander agreed to raise the chargeback, 
Mrs Hs additional expenses wouldnt have been covered by the card scheme in the 
circumstances. And that Santander fairly referred her to the airline she used or her travel 
insurer to see if she had an alternative to claim back the cost of her flight and/or her 
expenses. 
So, Im not going to ask Santander to do anything more here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2020.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman