DRN-3544738
The complaint
Ms B is unhappy with a lack of ongoing advice/service from 2013 to 2019 from St Jamess 
Place Wealth Management plc (SJPWM).  
What happened
Ms B instructed SJPWM in 2011 in connection with a pension transfer. In 2019 Ms B 
contacted SJPWM about taking benefits from her pension. She wasnt happy with how her 
SJPWM adviser dealt with her request and she ended up instructing a new SJPWM adviser. 
She complained to SJPWM about how her request to take benefits had been dealt with and 
that complaint came to us. I issued a final decision about that complaint on 12 October 2021.   
Ms B had also raised wider concerns about the service (or lack thereof) shed received over 
the years. Those issues were considered separately by SJPWM. A final response letter was 
issued on 17 August 2021. SJPWM said it was unable to uphold Ms Bs complaint but it 
made an ex gratia offer of £1,636.72 (which superseded a previous goodwill offer of £1,250). 
In not upholding the complaint SJPWMs main points were:
The illustration and key features booklets Ms B received explained the total charges 
that applied. At that time there was separate charge for ongoing advice and service. 
SJPWM did make payments to its advisers but the majority of these are paid in 
relation to the recommendation made at outset and the cost of such payments is 
factored into the total deductions taken from Ms Bs plan. They are met from the 
charges noted in the illustrations Ms B was given and havent been deducted 
separately.
New rules had come into effect on 31 December 2012.Since then clients are 
contractually entitled to ongoing advice in return for an explicit ongoing advice charge 
which could be switched off if the client decided they no longer required advice. 
Ms Bs plan had commenced before then so she didnt pay an ongoing advice charge 
in that way and her plan couldnt be retrospectively changed to reflect the rule 
changes. 
No explicit charges for service had been made but in recognition of the concerns Ms 
B had raised an ex gratia payment of £1,636.72 was offered which reflected the 
equivalent cost of ongoing service between 2013 and 2020. Ms B had requested a 
refund of that sum as well as the 0.5% annual ongoing advice fee. But any fees paid 
to the adviser werent in addition to the fees and charges noted on the illustration 
which the offer effectively covered.  
One of our investigators considered Ms Bs complaint. But she didnt uphold it. In summary 
the investigator said:
SJPWM had offered to reimburse the equivalent cost of the commission paid to the 
adviser during the period which was £1,636.72 which the investigator felt was fair. 
Ms Bs agreement with SJPWM preceded the Retail Distribution Review (RDR). No 
ongoing adviser fee had been charged and there was no obligation to carry out 
regular reviews. SJPWM charges 0.5% of the fund value for that service. But Ms Bs 
adviser hadnt received those payments. 
Instead of the 0.5% being deducted, SJPWM had paid the adviser on a commission 
basis. This commission wasnt strictly deducted from the plan but was funded from 
the annual management product fees. The same product fees (annual management 
charge and investment management fees) wouldve still applied regardless as to 
whether the adviser had been linked to Ms Bs plan or not. Ms B hadnt been 
financially disadvantaged as the same product fees wouldve applied either way. 
The advisers obligations were different too. The idea was for there to be ongoing 
advice but the adviser wasnt required to proactively contact Ms B to arrange a 
review. That might have been considered good practice but often the expectation 
was for clients to let their adviser know if they wanted a meeting. The position 
changed following the implementation of RDR but only for new agreements.
SJPWM had recognised there was an expectation thered be some ongoing contact 
and had offered to reimburse the commission that had been paid to the adviser. Ms B 
was correct in saying that was only a fraction of the fees shed paid. But those were 
product fees which shed still have had to pay whether an adviser was linked to the 
plan or not. So it wouldnt be reasonable to expect SJPWM to refund those fees. 
Ms B didnt accept the investigators view. She said shed been told over the telephone by 
SJPWM she was paying the 0.5% ongoing advice fee. Her current adviser had confirmed 
that the 0.5% ongoing advice fee had been deducted. SJPWM hadnt provided the 
information requested. 
Ms B has since submitted detailed comments as to why she disagrees with SJPWMs final 
response letter and the investigators views. Ive read and considered all Ms B has said but 
Im only going to include a summary of some of her points here.
SJPWMs adviser made no effort to contact her or undertake any financial reviews for 
seven years. Yet shed continued to be charged for ongoing advice. SJPWM hadnt 
upheld her complaint but had offered to refund the fees paid to the adviser. SJPWMs 
letters dated 28 October 2020 (which should read 2021) and 19 May 2022 confirm 
that the adviser was paid ongoing advice fees. 
Ms B referred to SJPWMs literature, setting out SJPWMs covenant and SJPWMs 
open and honest approach aimed at understanding the clients requirements and 
recommending options to help them achieve their goals. From what the adviser had 
said, shed expected thered be regular face to face meetings as referred to in the 
recommendation letter dated 26 June 2012, a section of which was devoted to 
Reviews. 
She hadnt signed the key facts document about SJPWMs services and costs. The 
adviser hadnt gone through it with her or discussed anything in relation to 
commission payments or how he was going to be paid. 
Wed limited our investigation and focused solely on the payments totalling 
£1,6736.72 without considering the wider issues. 
Some of the advisers failings were documented in the final decision I issued on 12 
October 2021 on Ms Bs linked complaint. 
Shed had to undertake her own research to try to understand RDR and how it 
affected her. And shed found dealing with the matter frustrating, distressing and time 
consuming, particularly as her personal circumstances were difficult. Shed suffered a 
great deal of emotional distress, anxiety, sleepless nights and inconvenience. And it 
had taken time and energy to repeatedly seek information from SJPWM which should 
be readily available. She set out how she wanted to put things right. Shed lodged a 
further complaint about delay in providing information shed requested.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered everything. Ms B has set out in detail her concerns. But I hope she 
wont take it as any discourtesy that Im not going to comment on each and every point shes 
raised. I appreciate her strength of feelings and the time and effort shes invested in this 
complaint and, in particular, in explaining why she considers the views reached by our 
investigator were wrong. But Im going to focus on what I see as the key issues. 
I think the central questions are whether SJPWM was entitled to the payments it received 
between 2013 and 2019 and if SJPWM was obliged, in return for the payments, to provide 
further services, reviews or advice.  
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account any relevant law and regulations, 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and what I consider to have 
been good industry practice at the relevant time.
I think the payments which SJPWM has received between 2013 and 2019 were whats 
termed trail or renewal commission. That said, Ive seen a letter from SJPWM to Ms B dated 
28 October 2020 (Ms B has pointed out that should be dated 2021) saying SJPWM had 
been asked to provide the amount of the ongoing advice fee that was paid to Ms Bs former 
SJPWM adviser. The letter confirmed the amount paid between 2013 and 2020 was 
£1,636.72. But SJPWM has confirmed there was no ongoing advice fee as such. My 
understanding is that it was trail or renewal commission paid to SJPWM
Trail commission is paid by a product provider to a financial advisor on an ongoing basis. At 
the time Ms Bs pension arrangement was set up, trail commission wasnt uncommon. Whilst 
often funded by a deduction from the contributions paid, having no advisor, or no renewal 
commission being paid, wouldnt increase the value of the pension contributions  the same 
level of deductions would be made, and simply retained by the product provider. Following 
RDR in 2012, renewal or trail commission wasnt allowed to be paid from new investments. 
RDR aimed to improve industry standards and help ensure more transparency about the 
charges consumers paid to, and the services they received from, their financial advisors. 
Post RDR, an adviser charge, agreed with the customer in advance, may be paid for 
ongoing advice. 
But existing arrangements which predated RDR could continue. So, even though Ms Bs 
complaint is about what happened (or didnt happen) between 2013 and 2019, her complaint 
relates to the pension arrangement she entered into in 2012 and so the pre 31 December 
2012 position remains relevant and when, as Ive said, RDR didnt mean that commission 
could no longer be paid on investment products purchased before that date.  
SJPWM has said that the payments that were taken were in line with what was agreed to at 
the time. Ive considered the information Ms B was given in 2012 about the charges (or 
commission) shed pay. 
A key facts document was provided. Under the heading, What will you have to pay us for 
our services, it said it would be on the basis of commission. The document went on to set 
out: 
Paying by commission (through product charges)There is no additional cost for our advice above the cost of the products we may 
recommend; the charges on the products are partly used to provide us with direct 
remuneration and administration services. The value of this remuneration and services 
varies depending on the type of investment you make. For example:
If you make a single investment the value is up to 5.0% of the amount invested and up to 
0.5% of the value of the fund every year.
I wouldnt expect the document to have been signed by Ms B. I dont think she disputes she 
was given a copy, although she says the adviser failed to go through it with her. I bear in 
mind that any discussions wouldve been about ten years ago and its possible that it was 
discussed at the time even if Ms B doesnt now recall. Shed elected to pay by commission 
but I think shed have wanted to know exactly how much would be taken. I think its unlikely 
shed have agreed to go ahead with the recommendation if she hadnt understood how it 
was going to be paid for. The key features document was clear in showing that the 
commission payment consisted of an initial amount (up to 5% of the amount invested) plus 
up to 0.5% of the fund value each year. 
I further note that the recommendation letter dated 20 June 2012 included a section about 
the impact of charges and an illustration and appendices explaining the applicable charges 
and providing a product comparison were provided. The personalised illustration Ms B was 
given took into account all the charges and deductions (which included the cost of 
commissions, expenses, charges etc).
From what Ive seen, the charges and commission were disclosed to Ms B at the time. On 
that basis, SJPWM was entitled to the trail commission payments. 
Ive next considered whether ongoing services were specifically agreed through the trail 
commission. Whether or not there was any obligation on the adviser to give any kind of 
ongoing service was a matter between the consumer and the adviser and depended on what 
was agreed between them. Crucially, it didnt depend on whether or not the product provider 
agreed to pay trail commission  although sometimes it was specifically agreed that trail 
commission would entitle a consumer to further services, including regular reviews and/or 
other policy management services. 
But Ive not seen that there was that sort of agreement here. Ms B has referred what was 
said about how SJPWM operated, the service it provided and she says the need for reviews 
was highlighted. As shes mentioned, the recommendation letter included a section headed 
Reviews which said:
I strongly recommend that we conduct a review of your circumstances at regular intervals. I 
will write to you each year on the anniversary of your plan to provide you with an annual 
statement in respect of your funds so that we can arrange for a review.
The recommendation letter also referred, under the heading, The St Jamess Place 
Approach to Investment Management to Ms B liking the facility of having face to face advice 
on [her] pension planning from [her] chosen Adviser.
I can understand that Ms B may have expected shed get ongoing advice. Or it would at 
least be offered. As Ive noted below, I think SJPWM recognises that too. But Ms B didnt 
enter into any ongoing service agreement with SJPWM. 
Sometimes an adviser will stay in touch (although I think here theres some suggestion that 
the adviser thought someone else was looking after Ms B). As well as ensuring the 
consumers needs continue to be met and making adjustments to reflect changes in circumstances or overriding legislation and/or the availability of new products, it will benefit 
the adviser in terms of possibly (and legitimately) generating further business. But, in the 
absence of a specific agreement for ongoing services, SJPWM wasnt obliged to provide 
such services even though it was receiving trail commission. I dont think SJPWM did 
anything wrong by continuing to receive the trail commission and not providing any further 
advice or services.
I know Ms B is very unhappy about that. She clearly regards it as unacceptable and 
unethical for SJPWM to receive payments over several years without providing any further 
services. As Ive explained, things work differently now. I agree with a lot of what Ms B says. 
But some of what she says  for example what the regulator says about ongoing charges 
having to be in return for an ongoing service  reflects the current position whereas Ms Bs 
position is different as her pension arrangement predated RDR. And I dont disagree with 
what shes said about her expectations as to how she shouldve been treated  for example, 
about an adviser needing to know their client and acting in the clients best interests. Those 
obligations wouldve arisen had further advice been given. But Ms B didnt, until 2019, seek 
further advice and there was no requirement on SJPWMs part to provide ongoing advice.  
Ms B now thinks regular reviews wouldve been preferable. I can see that might have led to 
recommendations to make changes to her retirement plan, possibly resulting in improved 
performance or other benefits. But, even though reviews werent proactively offered, it was 
open to Ms B to get in contact at any time, especially if shed expected and had understood 
from her initial meetings and conversations with the adviser and the recommendation letter 
that shed have regular face to face meetings. 
SJPWM has offered to refund the commission payments. I know Ms B might not think thats 
the point but my view is that SJPWM was contractually entitled to the payments and they 
werent in return for any ongoing advice or services. So I dont think SJPWM was obliged to 
offer a refund. But, as Ive noted above, Ms B may have expected from what was said in the 
recommendation letter that shed get ongoing advice. I think SJPWMs offer recognises that. 
I think the offer is fair and reasonable to reflect the fact that Ms Bs expectations werent met. 
Ms B has emphasised the stress and inconvenience shes suffered at a very difficult time. 
But Ive been unable to agree with her that she was entitled to ongoing advice. I dont think a 
further payment in respect of distress and inconvenience is warranted and when I consider 
that SJPWM was entitled to the payments and didnt have to give ongoing advice in return. 
I dont agree that we havent considered all the points Ms B has made. Or that weve limited 
our investigation. To clear up any confusion arising from what I said in the final decision I 
issued on 12 October 2021, I set out there Ms Bs comments in response to the 
investigators view on that complaint, which was about how Ms Bs request to take pension 
benefits in 2019 had been dealt with. I didnt reach any findings on the points Ms B had 
raised  I explained that shed raised wider concerns about the historic service (or lack 
thereof) shed received. And that I thought I could fairly decide that complaint separately. 
Ive dealt with that complaint in this decision. Ive considered the points Ms B has made 
about the lack of financial reviews. But, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont agree there 
was an obligation to provide reviews. So the points about the impact of the failure to provide 
ongoing advice on the advisers ability to know his client, understand her requirements and 
provide a bespoke financial advice service, fall away.
My final decision
St Jamess Place Wealth Management plc has already made an offer to refund the 
commission payments of £1,636.72 to settle the complaint. I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. So my decision is that St Jamess Place Wealth Management plc should pay 
Ms B £1,636.72.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2022.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman