DRN-3169186
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited acted unfairly when it 
cancelled their term assurance policy. As a result, they werent able to make a claim.   
What happened
Mr and Mrs M applied for their joint policy in 2002. It offered them of life and critical illness 
cover alongside their mortgage lending until 2025. The policy was taken out through a third 
party financial adviser, which I will call Business I. 
Mr and Mrs M also took out two additional term assurance policies; one in 2006 (at which 
time they increased their borrowing) and one in 2013 for lifestyle cover. These policies 
offered life cover only, and no additional critical illness benefit.  
In late 2019, Mrs M was unfortunately diagnosed with a type of cancer. She and Mr M made 
a claim to Aviva. However, they discovered the policy had lapsed earlier in 2019.  
Mr M then undertook a series of direct correspondence with Aviva via email. Mr M said that 
Mrs M had cancelled two Aviva direct debits in March 2019  however, she believed these 
were for the 2006 and 2013 life assurance policies which were no longer required. 
Mr M explained that they had recently moved to a new house in early 2019 and they had 
reviewed all of their direct debits at that time and cancelled several at once. Though Aviva 
had sent lapse letters, Mr and Mrs M did not realise she had in fact cancelled the direct debit 
for their longstanding life and critical illness cover.  
Mr M also explained how they had changed financial advisers in 2016. At that time, Mr M 
had asked for the new adviser -which I will call Business M- to be added to the 2002 policy, 
but this was not actioned. If it had been undertaken, then Business M would have also 
received lapse letters and the loss of the wrong cover could have been avoided.  
Aviva said it had acted fairly in response to Mr Ms request of 2016. At that time, it wrote to 
Business M directly setting out the required steps. However, Business M didnt make any 
further contact. It therefore did not add Business M to the policy, and was only required to 
send lapse information to Mr and Mrs M directly  which it did. And, as explained to Mr and 
Mrs M already, it was unable to reinstate their policy because of the amount of time that had 
passed since it lapsed, as well as the fact that it would require fresh underwriting.  
Mr and Mrs M therefore brought a complaint to this service, where it was considered by one 
of our investigators. He reviewed the email Mr M had sent to Aviva regarding the change of 
adviser and the letter Aviva had sent in response to Business M. Mr M was working for 
Business M at the time and sent his email from his work address. 
The investigator said it was reasonable for Aviva to ensure an adviser was acting with the 
authority of policyholders, and that the email came from Mr Ms work address did not negate 
this requirement. 
Further, he noted Aviva had sent a correctly addressed letter dated 4 March 2016 to the 
same address supplied within Mr Ms email. He felt a letter was a reasonable means of 
communication  and Mr and Mrs M hadnt followed it up. 
The investigator did not believe it was reasonable to assume that if the adviser had been 
changed that the error could have been avoided  but even if this was the case, Aviva was 
not at fault for the letter not being followed up in 2016.  
Mr M said he and Mrs M disagreed. He made a number of further submissions, noting:
the investigator had said Business I ceased to be regulated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority in 2015 and Aviva removed Business I from its records accordingly  but 
they had no knowledge of this;
if they hadnt requested the change to Business M and the direct debit was 
cancelled, Business I would not have been informed  and that would have been 
Avivas error;
given Mr M works in a specific role, he has access to Avivas records and there is no 
record of the letter dated 4 March 2016 in its electronic correspondence history;
it must be the case that the letter was never sent, if neither Aviva nor Business M has 
record of it;
the lapse letter did not make clear that it was the policy with critical illness cover that 
was being cancelled  because both policies held were called term assurance;
if (as the investigator said) Aviva would have written to Mr and Mrs M when the new 
adviser was added to the policy, why didnt it also write to them on 4 March 2016?;
this would lend weight to the argument that no letter was ever sent;
even if it was fair to send a letter rather than reply to an email  Aviva didnt follow up 
the lack of response from Business M either;
the investigator suggested they could have used Business M to cancel the policy, but 
the instruction in 2016 was to appoint Business M for the life and critical illness cover 
only, so it would never have been involved with the cancellation of the unwanted life 
assurance policy;
Mr M worked for Business M and so he can categorically state that if Aviva had 
properly appointed Business M in 2016 as it was asked, it would have identified Mrs 
Ms error and prevented the wrong policy from lapsing;
they accept Mrs M made one error, but Aviva has made two  it removed the 
previous advice firm without telling them and confirmed it received an instruction to 
appoint Business M to the life and critical illness policy but then failed to issue any 
chaser to Mr and Mrs M when it heard nothing more.  
Our investigator reviewed the complaint again. However he was not persuaded to change 
his view. He still believed Aviva had acted fairly in the circumstances.  
Mr and Mrs M asked for the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman. They said that the 
letter from Business I in 2015 asking to remove it from the policy changed matters  Aviva 
never notified them about it, and removed the adviser without their consent. Business I is still 
operational and it has said it would have invited Mr and Mrs M to continue the critical illness 
cover, as it provided protection for their mortgage. Business I or Business M could have 
provided safeguarding with the direct debit cancellation, but Aviva prevented that.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I was sorry to learn of Mrs Ms diagnosis. Im also glad to read that she is now making a 
recovery. Having reviewed all of the information carefully, I do not believe this complaint 
should succeed. I know this will be a disappointment to Mr and Mrs M, but Ill explain why 
Ive reached that view below.  
The crux of this matter, in my view, is the cancellation of the direct debit in 2019. If that 
hadnt happened, the policy would remain on risk. Mr and Mrs M have provided an 
understandable explanation for why the policy was cancelled in error, and I accept their 
reasoning. But Aviva is not at fault for that  it maintains the policy providing it received 
ongoing premiums as agreed from the outset.  
I can understand that Mr and Mrs M say they could not identify that they had cancelled the 
wrong policy from three protection policies because they were all labelled as mortgage life 
insurance. But again, that isnt the fault of Aviva  the three policies were term assurance. 
They were identifiable by their policy number and premiums. Mr M works with policies of 
these nature and I believe he could reasonably have differentiated between them.   
Looking at the lapse letters  for example that of 12 March 2019 relating to the 2002 policy  
the particulars were set out by Aviva. It asked Mr and Mrs M to make up the arrears of 
premiums before 11 April 2019 and what the relevant amount was. In this case it was £56.26 
 two missed premiums. I believe Mr and Mrs M could reasonably have identified which 
policies they held and which were cancelled from that correspondence. The policy for the 
other lapsed policy was notably different, being £10 for two missed premiums.   
Mr and Mrs M do not deny that each of them received lapse letters  they simply didnt 
appreciate the wrong policies were cancelled. I understand why this oversight occurred and 
why Mr and Mrs M had acted as they did. I also do not doubt their intention was to retain the 
longstanding policy as it offered additional critical illness benefit. But, as Ive concluded 
above, Aviva fairly lapsed the policies when the premiums were unpaid  and the terms for 
each respective policy permitted it to do so. 
Regarding the request in 2016 to appoint Business M as a representative, again I think Aviva 
has acted fairly in these circumstances. Mr M emailed Aviva from a Business M email 
address, quoting the reference number for the 2002 policy and he said, please take this 
email as authority to change agency to [Business M]. 
However, that email gave no confirmed authority from himself or Mrs M as policyholders. It 
didnt explain that Mr M was acting for the business so Aviva did not identify this. Even if it 
could be said that Aviva ought to have realised Mr M was a policyholder, it couldnt act on 
the email request as it stood. It did not have any authority from Mrs M, the email didnt give 
appropriate signatures and it did not have a confirmed capacity of the agency of Business M.  
On that basis, Aviva sent its letter of 4 March 2016, which said:
Unfortunately were unable to transfer the servicing rights of this policy to your 
agency at the moment, as the letter of authority was not signed by the policyholder.
What we need you to do
So we can transfer this policy to your agency please send us a letter of authority 
signed by the policyholder.
I know there has been dispute about receipt of this letter, but it was properly addressed. I 
have seen no objective evidence as to its validity or why Aviva wouldnt have sent it. And 
though I recognise Aviva didnt write to Mr and Mrs M, I dont accept that it was required to 
do so. The communication had come from Business M  and that advice business said it had authority to be the representative for the 2002 policy. On that basis, the further letter 
was rightfully sent to Business M to obtain the missing information.  
In the circumstances, I dont believe Aviva was required to follow this matter up  the change 
was not of its making, the request was from a third party business and Business M could 
reasonably have chased the matter in the absence of a reply to the email. As it was, 
Business M did not act further and therefore Aviva wrote only to Mr and Mrs M in 2019 and 
not Business M. I believe that was reasonable.  
Finally, Mr M has explained that Business I ought to have otherwise remained as a 
representative business for the policy  and Aviva had unfairly removed it. 
Firstly, I do not consider the right approach to this complaint is to assume Business I would 
have remained a representative. That cannot be the case as Mr and Mrs M wished for 
Business M to act on their behalf from 2016 onwards  it was merely the case that Aviva 
never received authorised confirmation of that request.  
Secondly, Business I told Aviva in April 2015 that it would not be providing advice or support 
to customers and it expressly asked that please update your records accordingly and 
ensure that, in future, all relevant correspondence is sent directly to our customers as 
appropriate. We are advising customers to contact you directly with any product queries. 
That Business I remains an active business does not alter that it told Aviva on 7 April 2015 
that it would no longer provide financial or investment advice to its customers. Aviva wasnt 
unreasonable in 2019 for failing to write to Business I as the business that assisted Mr and 
Mrs M with the policy in 2002. It had been expressly informed to write to Mr and Mrs M 
directly going forwards, and it did as such.  
I do not believe that any intervention would have been possible in 2019 with either Business 
I or Business M as representatives, such that I could fairly conclude the policy would have 
remained in place. Aviva did not have knowledge of either business acting for Mr and Mrs M 
when the direct debit was cancelled, and that was a reasonably held belief based on the 
withdrawal of Business I in 2015 and the absence of a response from Business M in 2016. 
Despite my sympathy for Mr and Mrs Ms error with the direct debit, Aviva is only obliged to 
consider a critical illness claim under a valid contract of insurance  that being one which is 
in force at the time of the event being claimed. And since it has fairly lapsed the policy in 
accordance with the policy terms, I am not able to direct it to consider a claim outside of 
those terms. 
As an aside, I understand that since this complaint has been pursued Mr and Mrs M now 
have reason to question the ongoing commission payments between Business I and Aviva 
following the sale of the 2002 policy. That is not something I have considered within this 
decision as it does not form part of the complaint made to Aviva or referred to this service. 
My final decision
I cannot uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 February 2022.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman