DRN-3254402
The complaint
Mr F says Loans 2 Go Limited irresponsibly lent to him when it provided a loan that was 
unaffordable. 
What happened
Loans 2 Go provided the following loan to Mr F:
Date 
takenPrincipal 
amountScheduled 
termMonthly 
repaymentTotal 
repayableLoan 
status 
28 June 
2020£250 18 months £57.14 £1,028.52 ongoing
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Fs complaint. 
Mr F disagreed with our adjudicators view and he asked for it to be re-assessed. So it 
comes to me to make a final decision.
   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible lending complaints 
on our website - including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. 
Id like to reassure Mr F that I've looked at the complaint afresh and independently reviewed 
all the available information. Having done so, I agree with our adjudicator and I am not 
upholding Mr Fs complaint. Ill explain my reasons. 
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. Lenders must work out if a borrower can 
sustainably afford the loan repayments alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower 
also has to pay. This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation  a proportionate check might also 
require the lender to find out the borrowers credit history and/or take further steps to verify 
the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think about whether theres any other 
reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender shouldve 
realised that the loan was likely to lead to significant adverse consequences or more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
Ive thought carefully about what this all means for Mr F complaint. 
When Mr F applied for this loan, Loans 2 Go asked him for information about his finances 
and carried out a credit check. 
Loans 2 Go checked what hed said about his salary by using an online income verification 
tool and recorded his minimum monthly income was around £1,555. It allowed for Mr F 
having to pay monthly outgoings of approximately £1,314. And it also added a 10% buffer 
to take account of fluctuations in his monthly income or expenditure. Taking all this into 
account, these figures didnt suggest that Mr F would have any difficulty meeting the loan 
repayments for this loan and he shouldve had ample disposable income to cover the 
instalments he had signed up to pay each month.  
The credit checks Loans 2 Go carried out showed that Mr F wasnt involved in any sort of 
arrangement with creditors and bankruptcy wasnt flagged up. He had no active county court 
judgements registered and no recent defaults on his record. 
I think its fair to say that the information Loans 2 Go had gathered tended to suggest overall 
that Mr F seemed to be managing his credit without any signs that he had a serious debt 
problem. Whilst the credit checks Loans 2 Go obtained showed that Mr F had some money 
problems in the past and there was a particular problem with one of his accounts, that was 
some years earlier. The repayments on all of his other active accounts were up to date. It 
wouldnt be unusual for someone applying for this type of lending to have other debt  and 
sometimes even an impaired credit history. And these wouldnt necessarily be fair reasons 
not to lend. I dont think the debt shown on Mr Fs credit checks was excessive having 
regard to his income or that anything else revealed in the credit checks Loans 2 Go carried 
out was enough for me to say that a responsible lender shouldve realised it needed to find 
out more before lending or that it ought to have refused this loan application. 
Id expect Loans 2 Go to decide Mr Fs lending application based on the information it was 
reasonably entitled to rely on at the time  and I dont think the lending decision Loans 2 Go 
made here was unreasonable. I say this because there wasnt anything obvious, in the 
information it had, to suggest Mr F wouldnt be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way. 
I dont think proportionate checks for this particular loan wouldve required Loans 2 Go to 
probe any more deeply into Mr Fs finances or ask Mr F to prove what he was saying or 
check other information sources to verify what he had told them (or omitted to say) about his 
financial circumstances. 
I dont think Loans 2 Go had any reason to think that Mr F wouldnt be able to sustainably 
repay the loan and it went ahead only when it had provided information explaining the main 
loan costs and Mr F signed the loan agreement to confirm he wanted to proceed. 
Im sorry that Mr F has an ongoing problem with debt. I accept that Mr Fs actual 
circumstances possibly werent fully reflected either in the information he provided, or the 
other information Loans 2 Go obtained.
But in order to uphold this complaint I have to be able to say a lender did something wrong. 
In this case, I dont think that Loans 2 Go did anything wrong in deciding to lend this loan to 
Mr F. And I havent seen enough to make me think that Loans 2 Go acted towards Mr F in 
any other way that wasnt fair and reasonable.
I appreciate that my decision will likely come as a disappointment to Mr F and Im sorry. But 
I hope my explanations help him understand why Ive reached these conclusions. My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman