DRN-1371200
Complaint
Mr N says Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him a credit card payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
Mr N says he bought the PPI policy alongside a credit card in 1995. The PPI wouldve 
helped him with his credit card repayments if he was unable to work because of accident, 
sickness or unemployment. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ns case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Neither Lloyds nor Mr N have all paperwork from the time of sale. I dont think thats 
unreasonable given how long ago the policy was sold. But where I have limited information 
about a sale, I have to decide what I think is more likely based on everything I have seen. 
This includes both Lloyds and Mr Ns testimony. 
Mr N says he was led to believe that taking the PPI would help him get his credit card 
approved, so he didnt know it was optional. But Lloyds says the optional nature of the PPI 
wouldve been made clear and only added to his account if hed agreed to it.  
Lloyds has provided a sample copy of the application form it says it was using in 1995 when 
Mr N believes the PPI was added. This form has a brief description of what the PPI covered 
and brief cost details  customers had to tick a box to select the cover. There was nothing on 
this form indicating that customer had to tick this box, so it couldve been left blank if they 
didnt want it. So, it looks like the policy was set out as optional and customers had to select 
cover. 
While I have thought carefully about Mr Ns testimony, based on what Ive seen, I think its 
more likely the policy was presented as optional to Mr N and he agreed to take it knowing he 
had a choice.  
Lloyds doesnt know if it recommended the PPI to Mr N but Mr N says it did. Mr N also said it 
was sold during a meeting in branch with an advisor. Lloyds has therefore agreed to 
consider this case as if it did recommend the PPI and Ive done the same. This means 
Lloyds had to check that the PPI was right for Mr N  and based on what Ive seen of his 
circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example, he was eligible for the policy and 
wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. He also seems to have 
had a need for the cover.  
Mr N was employed and says he had six months full followed by six months half sick pay 
provided by his employer. He also says hed be entitled to redundancy pay. But this policy 
wouldve paid out on top of his sick pay and any other employee benefits he had for up to 12 
months  so I still think he couldve found it useful had he found himself unexpectedly unable 
to work, especially for the period he wasnt receiving his full sick pay 
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr N about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But I think he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And it 
seems like it would have been useful for him if something went wrong. It also looks like it 
was affordable. So, I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him off 
taking out the cover. 
Which means I dont think this policy was mis-sold and Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr N.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr N because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr N about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell Mr N, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank PLC does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr N.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have to pay back to Mr N any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2020.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman