DRN-4271075
The complaint
Ms B, as executor, has brought a complaint on behalf of the estate of the late Ms S, about 
Santander UK Plc not refunding transactions which Ms B says were unauthorised.
What happened
Ms B has explained that Ms S was housebound, so between 2019 and 2023 Ms S allowed 
her ex-partner to make payments for her. Ms S lent the ex-partner her card and told him the 
PIN so that he could shop for her.
However, Ms B points out that there were numerous cash withdrawals in that period in 
addition to the shopping, totalling about £11,000. She says Ms S would not have needed 
cash and would not have wanted the ex-partner to withdraw that. Ms B says the ex-partner 
intercepted Ms Ss post so she wouldnt see her statements.
Ms B also says Ms S sent the ex-partner money which she shouldnt have done. For 
example, Ms B says Ms S gave the ex-partner £5,000 to pay for a funeral plan, but says he 
did not spend it on a funeral plan.
Santander did not think it was liable for the disputed payments.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. They 
explained that by giving the ex-partner her card and PIN in the way she did, Ms S had given 
him the apparent authority to make the subsequent payments  even if she didnt intend for 
him to make those specific withdrawals.
Ms B appealed, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Broadly speaking, Santander can hold Ms Ss estate liable for the payments in dispute if the 
evidence suggests that they were made with Ms Ss authority.
I should explain that in this complaint between Ms Ss estate and Santander, I can only 
consider the dispute between Ms Ss estate and Santander. I cannot consider the separate 
dispute between Ms Ss estate and the ex-partner, over which I have no jurisdiction. So that 
means I cannot resolve Ms Bs claims about things like the ex-partner not paying for a 
funeral plan when he said he would. As it is not in debate that Ms S willingly paid him that 
£5,000, that was definitely authorised, and Santander have no liability for refunding that. Im 
afraid that matter is a civil dispute between the estate and the ex-partner, which would need 
to be resolved between the two parties directly. It is outside the remit of our service.
Turning to the cash withdrawals in dispute, I need to note that Ms S never raised any 
concerns about them herself. And having listened to Ms Ss calls with Santander, it looks like 
she wouldve been aware of them at the time.
For example, in a call in June 2022, Ms S confirmed her credit balance as being about £20, 
and checked that her overdraft was available for her to spend. By this point, thered been 
about £10,000 of since-disputed cash withdrawals. So as Ms S was aware of her balance, if 
it was about £10,000 lower than it shouldve been, then its most likely she would have 
raised concerns at the time.
Similarly, in a call in July 2022, Ms S reported that shed received a suspicious spam call, so 
Santander checked that the latest spending on her account  at her local supermarket  was 
her. This was the same supermarket where the cash withdrawals predominantly took place. 
Ms S confirmed that shed authorised this spending, explaining that her ex-partner would 
take her round the shop in her wheelchair. So it sounds like Ms S was often present when 
the spending was taking place. And she had no concerns about her recent account activity.
In August 2022, Ms S explained to Santander that she hadnt received her last months 
statement, which was unusual for her as shed otherwise been receiving her statements 
monthly. She ordered another copy of the last months statement. So it appears that Ms S 
had in fact been receiving her monthly statements as usual, and it appears that if she didnt 
get one, she was willing to call the bank and get another copy.
This all suggests that Ms S was most likely aware of the activity on her account. And she 
didnt tell Santander anything was wrong with that activity. So it doesnt seem particularly 
likely that her account was being used without her consent.
I should also note that even before her ex-partner became involved in 2019, Ms S withdrew 
cash at much of the same locations for similar amounts. Indeed, she actually withdrew much 
more cash in 2018 than in subsequent years. So the disputed withdrawals were not out of 
character for her account. They were in fact made at a slower rate than previously.
However, even if I accept that Ms S did not intend for her ex-partner to make the disputed 
withdrawals, Im afraid I still could not hold Santander liable for them.
Essentially, under the relevant rules, if you willingly hand control of your account over to 
someone and ask them to make payments on your behalf, then they are effectively acting as 
your agent. And you are then responsible for all the spending they make during the period 
they had your authority to use the account  even for spending which you might not have 
asked them or wanted them to make.
So when Ms S gave her ex-partner her card and PIN, and gave him permission to spend on 
her behalf, she was then responsible for all the payments he made during that period, 
including the cash withdrawals  even if she didnt tell him to make those withdrawals. Under 
the relevant rules, those withdrawals are considered as authorised  after all, they were 
made by someone who the accountholder had authorised to use their account. And by giving 
her physical card away, along with the secret PIN which only Ms S was supposed to know, it 
meant that Ms S allowed the ex-partner to bypass the security of her account, so to 
Santander it would have looked like it was Ms S herself authorising the withdrawals.As these withdrawals are considered as authorised, I cannot hold Santander responsible for 
them. I appreciate that Ms B strongly disagrees with this, and I do understand that she thinks 
things should work differently. But nonetheless, Im afraid this is the way it works.
I also appreciate that Ms B feels Santander should have blocked the withdrawals. But as 
I noted above, to Santanders systems it would have looked like it was Ms S herself who was 
authorising them, being made with her genuine card and the correct PIN. And the starting 
point in law is that banks are expected to process payments which theyve been authorised 
to make. I cant see that Santander were given sufficient cause for concern by Ms S. And as 
discussed before, it looks like Ms S let them know she was aware of her account activity, 
and she even confirmed recent activity as being genuine. The withdrawals were spread out 
over a very lengthy period, averaging about two withdrawals a month, and were broadly in 
line with Ms Ss previous genuine spending, which had even been higher. Ms B also made 
arguments about the Banking Protocol, but thats relevant to branch interactions; Im afraid 
its not relevant to these ATM withdrawals. I have not found that Santander needed to block 
these payments.
So for the reasons set out above, I cannot hold Santander liable for the withdrawals in 
dispute. That means Santander do not need to refund them. This is a difficult message for 
me to give, and I know its a difficult message for Ms B to receive. But given the evidence 
and circumstances at hand, Im unable to reasonably reach any other conclusion.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision marks the end of our services consideration of the case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Ms S 
to accept or reject my decision before 12 December 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman