DRN-2977224
The complaint
Mr M has complained about Experian Limited recording soft searches of his credit file.
What happened
Certain actions  such as a new credit report being generated or Mr M looking up his report 
 are recorded as soft searches on Mr Ms credit file. Mr M is unhappy with this.
Experian explained that these soft searches acted as a record of who was accessing Mr Ms 
file, which helped keep things secure. They explained that these types of searches could not 
be seen by lenders and wouldnt affect Mr Ms credit file or credit score.
However, Mr M remained unhappy with the searches, and felt that Experian should have 
explained more clearly up front that they would be recorded. He was also unhappy with the 
way that Experian handled his complaint.
Experian accepted that when handling his complaint, there were occasions where their 
customer service hadnt been as good as it couldve been. They offered Mr M £50 
compensation. Mr M did not feel this was sufficient. 
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. They 
explained that recording the searches was just a normal part of the service, it did not impact 
Mr M negatively, and it ultimately benefitted him by helping to keep things safe. They found 
that Experian had already made a fair offer to resolve the issues in their complaint handling.
Mr M didnt agree. He particularly felt that when it came to Experians handling of his 
complaint, our investigator had taken Experians word for what happened over his. The 
complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator explained, these soft searches cant be seen by lenders and dont affect 
Mr Ms credit applications or credit scoring. I do understand that Mr M is unhappy they are 
recorded, but they are not unfairly disadvantaging him or impacting him negatively  in fact, 
they help keep his file secure.
I would only award compensation here if I could see that Experian had done something 
substantially wrong which had caused Mr M a substantial loss.
I dont think Experian did anything wrong by recording these searches  thats how their 
service is supposed to work and it ultimately helps keep things secure.
Even if I were to agree that Experian should have made it clearer to Mr M that these 
searches would be recorded, this has not caused him any substantial loss  the searches do 
not negatively affect his credit file, or credit scoring, or lending applications, and so on. And 
they are a reasonable and normal function, not a cause for alarm.
I also understand that Mr M is most unhappy with the way Experian handled his complaint. 
Strictly speaking, this isnt something I can normally consider or award compensation for, as 
I can only decide complaints about regulated activities  such as credit referencing. 
Whereas handling complaints is not a regulated activity in and of itself.
But even if I put that aside and accept what Mr M has told us about the way Experian 
handled his complaint, it looks like Experian have already offered to resolve that fairly. Its 
worth bearing in mind that were not here to fine or punish businesses. And while the issues 
Mr M has raised  such as Experian not contacting him when they said they would or not 
responding with the detail hed like  could understandably have caused him some 
frustration, they would not have caused him severe losses. Taking into account all the 
circumstances of this case and our approach to compensation, I think Experian have already 
resolved things with an offer we would consider fair.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman