The complaint
Mr K complains that National Westminster Bank Plc ("Natwest") are responsible for the theft 
of his money. 
What happened
Mr K went into his local Natwest branch on 26 April 2019 to withdraw £3,000 in cash. He 
was given the money by the bank teller and put it in his pocket. He says there were quite a 
few people loitering both inside and outside of the banking hall at the time. 
Mr K left the branch and was making his way to his car, when somebody told him there was 
paint over the back of his suit jacket. He took his jacket off to check and saw that there was 
paint on his jacket. Mr K unlocked his car and put the £3,000 into the glove compartment. At 
this moment the same person who alerted him to the paint said that he had dropped four £5 
notes on the floor, which he retrieved. 
It wasn't until a while later when Mr K had driven away from the bank, that he checked on 
the money and realised it was no longer in the glove box where he had left it. He realised it 
had likely been stolen when he was distracted and bent down to pick up the money from the 
floor. Mr K reported the matter to the police, but they were unable to identify the 
perpetrators, and Natwest did not have any relevant CCTV recording. 
Mr K complained to Natwest, as he considers they are responsible for the theft of his money. 
He says that it was in their branch that he was targeted, as he remembers smelling paint on 
his jacket while he was walking out of the bank, and he has since realised this was likely 
applied by the perpetrators that stole his money. As a result, he feels it was Natwest's 
responsibility to ensure he did not fall victim to a crime, so he wants them to reimburse the 
£3,000 that was taken, and submits that they should also pay compensation for the distress 
it has caused him.
Our investigator didn't uphold the complaint. She didn't consider it would be fair to hold 
Natwest liable for a crime that was committed outside of the branch, and which was outside 
of their control. Mr K disagreed, so the matter has been passed to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I've decided not to 
uphold it. 
First, I'd like to express my sympathy to Mr K for the crime he has fallen victim to, and the 
distress this must have caused him. I appreciate the impact such an experience must have DRN-1090260
had and I'd like to reassure Mr K that I have carefully considered everything he has said on 
the matter. But in the circumstances, I am unable to fairly hold Natwest responsible for the 
money that was stolen by the perpetrators, and for something that is ultimately a criminal 
matter for the police.
I appreciate that it was in branch that Mr K may have been targeted. And while Natwest have 
said they will look to question those who come into branch to find out the purpose of their 
visit, it's not always possible for them to do this with every single customer, particularly 
during busy periods. And even if they had done this when the perpetrator(s) were present, 
there is no guarantee this would have made any difference, as scam artists are often 
prepared to deal with such scenarios. So I do not think there is anything more they could 
have reasonably done in these circumstances to have prevented the crime from happening.
And given that the theft ultimately took place outside of the branch, I cannot fairly or 
reasonably hold Natwest responsible for  the actions of the perpetrators. I also understand 
that Mr K is unhappy that Natwest were unable to provide the relevant CCTV footage, 
seemingly because it wasn't kept or requested close to the date of the crime. But I'm afraid it 
would ultimately be down to the police to have requested this. Even if there was 
CCTV footage available, there is no guarantee it would have made any difference to the 
police investigation or would have led to the recovery of Mr K's money. So this is not 
something I can fairly ask Natwest to compensate him for either.
I understand Mr K will be disappointed with this outcome, but in the circumstances, the theft 
of his money outside of Natwest's premises is not something I can fairly hold them liable for.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2019.
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman