DRN-2526086
The complaint
Miss K is unhappy National House-Building Council (NHBC) has declined a claim she made 
on her NHBC Buildmark warranty.
What happened
Miss K bought a new home which was covered by a ten-year NHBC warranty. She got in 
touch with NHBC about a problem with the mortar in the brickwork of her home.
NHBC declined the claim because it said the cost of repair was below the minimum claim 
value (MCV).
Miss K didnt think this was fair and complained. The cost was based upon localised patch 
repairs of the damaged mortar only. She thought it would be more appropriate to replace all 
the mortar to ensure a comprehensive repair was carried out. She questioned whether the 
cost should also include an amount for alternative accommodation as she has a young child 
with respiratory difficulties and the work might create dusty conditions. Miss K asked for 
compensation to reflect the impact of the mortar problem on the market value of her house.
NHBC said the repair it had costed was the recommended one for dealing with the mortar 
problem. It considered the repair would provide a strong mortar which could withstand the 
weathering that caused the current problem.
Unhappy with this, Miss K referred her complaint to this service and said the mortar problem 
had got worse since she first reported it to NHBC. The investigator considered NHBC had 
acted fairly when it had responded to Miss Ks complaint. But Miss K was entitled to get in 
touch with NHBC if the problem had developed and needed further consideration.
An agreement couldnt be reached, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because the claim was made more than three years into the policy, NHBC has considered it 
under Section 3 of the warranty. In summary, NHBC will pay the cost, if it is more than the 
MCV, of putting right any physical damage to the home caused by a defect (a breach of 
NHBCs mandatory requirements by the builder).
NHBC has accepted the mortar problem is physical damage caused by a defect. It 
considered a patch repair of the affected areas of mortar would put right the damage and 
produced a scope of work based on this. It came to around £1,100, including VAT.
When the policy began, the MCV was £1,200. At the time Miss K made her claim, as a result 
of annual index linked increases, the MCV had increased from to £1,578. As that was more 
than the cost of repair as estimated by NHBC, the claim was declined.
Under the policy NHBC is required to pay to repair the physical damage caused by a defect. 
It must ensure any repair is lasting and effective. NHBC based its method and scope of 
repair on the opinion of its claims investigator who inspected the damage. Im satisfied that 
was a reasonable thing to do. I havent seen any other expert opinion which challenges the 
method or scope of repair NHBC proposed.
When she complained, Miss K thought it would be more appropriate for NHBC to produce a 
scope of work based on a more comprehensive repair, such as replacing all the mortar. I 
understand this was in part due to a concern that more areas of mortar could deteriorate 
over time.
I can understand why Miss K suggested this. It would avoid the need for further work if any 
of the rest of the mortar where to become damaged by the same defect. But NHBCs policy 
only requires it to pay for damage which has happened  not which may happen. I havent 
seen any evidence to show further damage had happened or was considered inevitable at 
the time NHBC responded to Miss Ks complaint.
NHBC has said the damage  and corresponding repairs  are external, so there would be 
no need for alternative accommodation. As a result, Im satisfied it was reasonable not to 
include a cost for alternative accommodation when considering the claim value.
NHBCs policy says it isnt liable for any reduction in the value of a home. And I havent seen 
anything to show NHBC has caused such a reduction. So Im not persuaded it should pay 
compensation for this.
Overall, Im persuaded NHBCs position was fair at the time it investigated the claim and 
responded to Miss Ks complaint. The reasonable cost of the appropriate work required by 
the policy was less than the MCV. Because of that, Im not going to require NHBC to do 
anything further in this decision.
Since NHBC responded to Miss Ks complaint, shes reported the mortar problem getting 
worse. Shes provided photos and described the damage spreading in the areas of existing 
damage and appearing in new areas. She says repairing the additional damage will increase 
the cost to NHBC beyond the MCV and mean the claim is covered.
NHBC has reviewed the photos and suggested a claims investigator inspect the damage 
and carry out the appropriate tests. I agree this is a reasonable next step. After the 
inspection and testing, I would expect NHBC to produce an updated report, and scope of 
work if appropriate, and let Miss K know what impact this has on her claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 March 2021.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman