DRN-3414432
The complaint
Mrs P complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax failed to refund several 
transactions she didnt recognise.
What happened
Mrs P had an account with Halifax which she hadnt used for some time when she noticed 
four withdrawals had been made from an Automated Teller Machine (ATM) near to her 
home. Mrs P didnt recognise making these withdrawals and approached Halifax about 
them.
Mrs P explained that she was mainly at home during the period of these withdrawals (which 
took place over several months) due to the covid pandemic and she still retained her card. 
She confirmed she hadnt given her card to anyone or told anyone else her personal 
identification number (PIN) for the card. There were other family members living at the same 
address, but they didnt have access to the card or PIN.
Halifax were contacted about the withdrawals and cancelled Mrs Ps card and re-issued her 
PIN. After looking into the withdrawals, Halifax declined to make any refund because the 
genuine card and PN were used to make the withdrawals. They told Mrs Ps rep that CCTV 
may assist to identify who was using the ATM and the matter should be reported to the 
authorities. 
Mrs Ps rep notified the police and Action Fraud about the withdrawals and attempted to 
obtain the CCTV from the ATM owner. It wasnt possible to get a copy of the CCTV. Halifax 
continued to deny Mrs P a refund and she then made a complaint.
Halifax relooked into the situation but didnt change their position. Mrs P, through her 
representative, brought her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman for an independent 
review. Mrs Ps representative thought it was unusual that an alert hadnt been raised due to 
these withdrawals because they were out of character. It was also commented that a 
statement was missing which delayed identification of the disputed transactions. It was 
speculated that the card might have been cloned.
Mrs Ps complaint was looked into by one of our investigators who thought it was reasonable 
for Halifax to hold Mrs P liable for the transactions.
Mrs P disagreed with the investigators outcome and asked for a further review. It was 
commented that:
All attempts were made to obtain the CCTV and get the authorities to investigate. 
Mrs P wasnt negligent and didnt give her card or PIN to anyone.
Mrs P  via her representative was critical of the way Halifax handled the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017. The 
basic position is that Halifax can hold Mrs P liable for the disputed payments if the evidence 
suggests that its more likely than not that she made them or authorised them. 
Coming to the question of authorisation, this is made up of two parts. Authentication and 
consent. Authentication is usually referred to as the technical information about the  
transactions. Halifax have supplied that evidence and Im satisfied it shows the disputed 
transactions were authenticated.
I asked Halifax for further evidence to fully understand how the withdrawals were carried out 
(authenticated). This is important to establish if the genuine card was used to make the 
withdrawals. The evidence supplied confirms that the chip on Mrs Ps card was read by the 
ATM. Its accepted that there hasnt been a case of these type of cards (the chip) being 
cloned. 
Cloning usually involves the details on the magnetic strip being copied, but that wasnt the 
case here because if the magnetic strip was read by the ATM , it would generate a different 
code on the audit. That means it was the specific card issued to Mrs P that was used on 
each occasion to withdraw funds from the ATM.
Consent is a formal step in the payment process and refers to the way in which Halifax and 
Mrs P agreed to use the card for transactions. For example, when using the card and PIN 
together, Halifax agree to accept that this is a legitimate payment instruction made by the 
cardholder or another approved user and make the payment on their behalf.
Because the transactions in this case have been shown to be properly authenticated and 
they used the genuine card and the correct PIN - Im satisfied that consent was given, and 
the disputed transactions were authorised. But, there are exceptions where it wouldnt be 
appropriate for Halifax to hold Mrs P responsible, for example if the card was used without 
her permission. 
Mrs P was able to confirm that she hadnt given her card to anyone, nor told anyone else her 
PIN and that she retained the card. So, Ive considered how these withdrawals could have 
been carried out. Given the circumstances described by Mrs P, it seems unlikely the card 
was used by an unknown third party. For that to be the case, they would have had to 
repeatedly gain access to the card and acquire the PIN that no one else knew, before 
returning the card to Mrs Ps possession without her being aware. 
Alternatively, the card could have been taken and replaced by someone with access to it, but 
Mrs P has confirmed only she knew the PIN. So, even if someone with access took her card, 
they still wouldnt know the PIN. I cant find a plausible explanation for how these 
withdrawals were made without Mrs P being aware. 
I appreciate the lengths Mrs Ps representative went to, to try and obtain the CCTV. Im sure 
it was a frustrating experience not being able to acquire it as Mrs P believed whoever was 
using her card, did so without her permission.
At the point the disputed transactions were notified to Halifax, they told Mrs Ps rep that 
because there was no point of compromise of the card or the PIN, they couldnt consider a 
refund. They did say that contacting the authorities may help and acquiring the CCTV may 
provide a further explanation they could consider. At that point Halifaxs position was they werent going to refund Mrs P. 
There was then a gap of some months while Mrs Ps representative tried to elicit the 
assistance of various law enforcement bodies to assist, but unfortunately this was 
unsuccessful. Mrs P, via her representative went back to Halifax and then made a complaint. 
I appreciate Mrs P thought that Halifax should have done more, but I dont think they needed 
to at that point. Thats because theyd already told Mrs P they werent going to make a 
refund. Once Mrs P came back to them and complained, Halifax issued their final response 
and declined any refund. Mrs Ps representative was expecting further updates from Halifax, 
but as theyd already explained they werent going to make a refund, I dont think it was 
unusual for them not to further consider the matter until Mrs P got back in touch with new 
evidence. 
Mrs Ps representative explained that a statement was missing which prevented the disputed 
transactions from being noticed earlier. Ive looked at the dates the statements were issued, 
and they show that three (monthly) statements contained the disputed transactions. Ive not 
seen any evidence that there was a problem issuing the statements or with postal problems. 
I cant say how it was that Mrs P missed these statements, but I dont think Halifax were 
responsible for the later notification of these disputed transactions.
I understand Mrs P will most probably disagree with me, but the evidence Ive considered 
leads me to an objective conclusion that these withdrawals were more likely than not made 
by or with the knowledge of Mrs P. Thats because the genuine card and PIN were used 
which were still in the possession of Mrs P. No-one else knew the PIN so I think its unlikely 
that the card could have been taken and used without her knowledge or consent.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Bank of Scotland plc trading 
as Halifax. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 May 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman