DRN-2679854
The complaint
Mr J complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited, trading as BMW Financial Services (BMWFS). 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint BMWFS, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr J acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then BMWFS, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. It also says we 
should take into account whether a car has proven to be durable when considering if it was 
of satisfactory quality.
This was a brand-new car so I wouldnt expect it to have any faults when it was supplied and 
as Mr J was able to drive over 50,000 miles in it before the engine failed in September 2020, 
I think there most probably werent any or they would have been noticeable earlier.
However, I dont think a reasonable person would consider the car to have been suitably 
durable. 
The independent expert engineer has suggested that the damage to the engine was most 
likely caused by faulty injectors. Unfortunately, the old injectors were not available for 
inspection but on balance I think theres enough evidence to suggest this was likely to be the 
problem. From our experience, diesel fuel injectors last around 100,000 miles and it would 
seem likely these have failed prematurely and have not proven to be suitably durable.
BMWFS have suggested the damage may have been caused by remapping but theyve 
provided very limited evidence of this and Im therefore persuaded by the expert inspectors 
view that faulty injectors caused the problem.
In those circumstances the relevant legislation gives the business one chance to affect a 
repair. But here, a repair may not be the most commercially viable route and the finance 
agreement is ending so the car will be returned to BMWFS anyway.
 
Putting things right
BMWFS will need to collect the car at no cost to Mr J, if they havent already done so.
Mr J hasnt been able to use the car since it broke down in September 2020. BMFS should 
therefore refund any finance instalments hes made since the car broke down and add 8% 
interest to that refund as Mr J has been deprived of that money.
Mr J made an advance payment to secure the car for the full term but as he hasnt been able 
to drive it for the whole of that period BMWFS should provide a pro rata refund of his 
advance payment. They should refund him for the proportion of time his car has been off the 
road and they should add 8% interest to the refund.
Mr J had to pay for an independent inspection to demonstrate the origin of the fault on his 
car. This would not have been necessary if the car had been suitably durable. So, BMWFS 
should refund the £300 the report cost him and add interest to that refund.  
Mr J will have exceeded the mileage allowance provided under the agreement so its fair for 
BMWFS to deduct any excess mileage charges from the refund they provide.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell BMW Financial Services 
(GB) Limited to:
collect the car at no cost to Mr J, if they havent already done so;
refund the finance instalments Mr J has paid since the vehicle broke down and add 
8% simple interest to this refund from the date of payment to the date of settlement;
provide a pro rata refund of the advance payment for the time Mr J has not been able 
to drive the car and add 8% simple interest to this refund from the date of payment to 
the date of settlement;
refund the £300 cost of the independent engineering report and add 8% interest from 
the date of payment (January 2021) to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse reports they may have made to mr Js credit file in respect of 
this issue;
the business may deduct any excess mileage charges from the refund they provide.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 April 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman