DRN-3650710
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy that Madison CF UK Limited, trading as 118 118 Money (118), recorded a 
fraud marker against his name using the Cifas database.
What happened
Mr P approached Cifas and asked it what information it held on him after he had issues with 
existing, and obtaining, financial products. 
Cifas responded to Mr Ps data request confirming that a misuse of facility marker had been 
placed against his name by 118 on 5 June 2019. The reason for the filing was listed as 
Evasion of payment. Mr P complained to 118 as he was unhappy it had loaded the marker. 
118 responded to Mr Ps concerns stating that in December 2018 hed made an application 
for a loan. After the loan was approved and paid to Mr P, he failed to make any repayments 
on it. He also failed to make contact with 118 despite numerous attempts by it to engage 
with him until he eventually made contact in March 2019 to explain his circumstances.
It concluded that an evasion of payment marker is used where it is confirmed that a 
customer took out a product but never had the intention of honouring their commitment to 
repay that product. It felt this correctly reflected the circumstances and therefore didnt 
uphold the complaint. It also later added that Mr P had failed to provide any evidence of his 
financial difficulties other than a third-party debt management form, that didnt contain any 
reference numbers or relevant details, and information of his benefit payments. Despite 
being asked for more info, Mr P wasnt forthcoming.
Mr P was unhappy with this response. He said that in December 2018 he was self-employed 
and was earning money at the time hed taken the loan. But in January 2019 his 
circumstances changeddue to his friend who he worked for losing jobsand was laid off. 
This placed him into financial difficulty, and he had to seek help from a debt management 
charity. Mr P was unhappy as hed informed 118 of this when he did make contact in March 
2019. Yet it still decided to go ahead and load the marker. 
Mr P remained unhappy with 118s response to his complaint, so he brought it to our service 
where it was looked at by an Investigator. During the investigation, 118 disclosed that the 
Cifas marker had been removed against Mr P due to an internal error. It told our service that 
it didnt intend to reapply the marker but stood by its decision to load it initially.
Upon considering the evidence provided by both parties, the Investigator concluded that 118 
hadnt loaded the marker fairly. Broadly summarised, they felt that 118 were aware Mr P was 
in financial difficulties prior to loading the marker. And as Mr Ps circumstances meant it was 
unlikely he was intent on defrauding the business at the point of application, the Cifas 
standards for loading hadnt fairly been met. They recommended that 118 pay £250 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused.
118 questioned the impact caused. It asked if Mr P had provided any evidence of this 
impact, such as account closures and employment issues. It also pointed out that itd 
received evidence directly from Mr Ps bank that itd closed his account due to abusive 
behaviour toward staff.
Mr P felt that 118 were further attempting to delay matters regarding his complaint and 
therefore chose to not accept the Investigators findings. He asked that the matter be 
reviewed by an Ombudsman and that the compensation be increased to £750 (plus interest) 
to reflect this. He also supplied emails from two third-party banks which evidenced they had 
terminated their products with him due to the Cifas loading.
118 also responded to the points made in the view; the points I deem to be relevant are 
summarised as follows:
When Mr P made it aware of his circumstances in March 2019, the account was put 
on hold until April 2019 and Mr P was asked to ensure he made arrangements to pay 
or for the debt management charity to contact it. Neither of these occurred.
Following a review of Mr Ps credit file, 118 discovered that Mr P had taken out three 
historic credit agreements where he failed to make any payments on the debt, and 
one after where hed not made payments in the final five months.
It pointed out that Cifas itself had agreed with the loading.
As both parties disagreed with the outcome reached, the matter has now been passed to me 
for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
One of the relevant considerations here are set out by Cifas: the fraud marker database 
controller. In its Handbookwhich members must adhere to when loading markersit 
sets out the burden of proof the member must meet. The relevant standards regarding this 
complaint are:
1. That there are reasonable grounds to believe that a fraud or financial crime has 
been committed or attempted.
2. That the evidence must clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member [118] 
could confidently report the conduct of the subject [Mr P] to the police.
When considering these standards, my interpretation of the bar for recording a Cifas 
marker is a high one. I must also take into consideration what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. Having done so, I dont find that the marker was applied fairly here: Ill 
explain why.
There is no dispute that Mr P contacted 118 and informed it that he was in financial 
difficulties in March 2019. This was prior to the loading, which was applied in June 2019. 
In Mr Ps email, he clearly explained that hed lost his job, fallen into financial difficulties 
and was being evicted from a family members home. He also highlighted that due to his 
financial difficulties his phone was being cut off. Mr P provided documents to support he 
was seeking help from a debt support charity and evidence he was in receipt of benefits.
118 did respond to this sympathetically and asked Mr P to contact the debt support charity 
and ask it to link in with 118 to provide support. It also placed Mr Ps account on hold and 
provided him appropriate guidance and signposting. But it was after this point where I find 
communication between both parties broke down.118 has claimed that beyond this point, Mr P made no effort to make repayment or discuss 
repayments in a meaningful way. While Mr P hadnt made any payments, he was 
communicating with 118 between March and June 2019. 
On 23 April 2019 Mr P registered a complaint via email against 118 regarding the 
debt and incorrect reporting of it.
On 24 April 2019 Mr P sent an email to 118. In the email he again informed 118 
that he didnt have the means to make any repayments.
On 23 May 2019 Mr P contacted 118 complaining of incorrect information recorded 
on his credit file. He also reiterated that he didnt live at the address on his 
application and therefore couldnt receive letters.
There are a number of other emails and telephone calls between the ones I have included 
above, but Ive highlighted these specifically to show that Mr P was in contact with 118 
between letting it know of his financial difficulties and the loading of the Cifas marker. He 
didnt disengage with it, he was clearly unhappy with way he was being treated and some 
of the actions of 118.
These dont appear to me to be the actions of someone intent on defrauded a business. 
Mr P didnt merely take a loan out and disappear with the money hed obtained. He 
contacted 118, albeit two months after his first payment was due, informed it of his 
financial difficulties and provided evidence of his intention to seek help and his income 
from benefits. While 118 has provided a number of speculative reasons for believing Mr P 
was intent on never repaying the loan at the point of taking it, Im not persuaded by these.
118, and I, arent aware of the circumstances around each of the credit agreements Mr P 
historically held. It could equally be argued that poor management of finances or 
repeatedly falling into financial difficulties does not reasonably amount to a fraud or 
financial crime. There are also circusmtances where consumers are provided credit where 
its unaffordable. Nevertheless, I dont think this supports Mr Ps intentions when taking out 
this specific loan.
Also, while Cifas has agreed with the loading, Im not bound by its decision. Im unaware 
of the intricacies of Cifas investigation and what information it has relied upon. However, I 
have taken into account any relevant comments Cifas has made as part of my decision, 
along with the evidence provided by both parties.
Taking into consideration what is fair, I dont find that falling into financial difficulties or 
poor management of finances reasonably amounts to a fraud or financial crime. And as 
the required burden of proof outlines, members must have reasonable grounds to believe 
that one of these has been committed or attempted. It must also have robust evidence that 
supports the consumers conduct or actions were deliberate or intentionally dishonest such 
that they could be confidently reported to police. I dont find that 118 has been able to 
demonstrate that here. And as 118 was given reasonable notice and evidence of this fact 
prior to loading the marker, I find that it did make an error in loading it. 
Putting things right
As 118 has already removed the marker from Mr Ps name, I dont need to direct it to do 
anything further in regard to this. However, Mr P has requested that compensation be 
provided for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Cifas markers do have a detrimental impact on a consumers finances. As tends to be seen, 
Mr P has provided evidence that one of his accounts was closed. And in the closure letter 
from the bank, Mr P was directed to Cifas for further information. Mr P has also provided evidence that another account he attempted to open was closed after due diligence checks 
were completed. Again, the bank highlighted the Cifas marker as the reason for these 
actions. So, Im persuaded that the marker did have an impact on Mr Ps finances. 
It's also clear that Mr P has been frustrated by what he describes broadly as the drawn-out 
process of this dispute. While Im not suggesting this is Mr Ps fault, he has contributed to 
this, and the delays, in some way. Mr P has frustrated 118s investigations and ability to 
respond to his concerns by contacting it an unreasonable amount of times and sometimes 
making inappropriate comments toward its staff over the telephone. While I understand that 
emotions can run high in disputes like this, I find that its only fair to acknowledge these 
issues when awarding compensation for the impact caused. 
For the reasons Ive given, I dont find the figure of £750 that Mr P has proposed is fair. I 
realise he feels 118 has deliberately delayed the process as a whole and with our service, 
but 118 is entitled to defend its position and ask questions where it feels appropriate 
evidence should be provided. Therefore, I find the £250 recommended by the Investigator to 
be fair in the circumstances.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Madison CF UK Ltd, 
trading as 118 118 Money, to pay Mr P £250 for the impact the marker caused without delay.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2022.
 
Stephen Westlake
Ombudsman