DRN-2908970
The complaint
Mr B has complained about the service he received from Assurant General Insurance 
Limited (Assurant) when he made a claim under his Tech Pack insurance policy when his 
laptop computer was damaged.
References below to Assurant include its managing agents.
What happened
The background to this case is known to both parties and has been summarized by our 
investigator in his view of Mr Bs complaint, so I wont repeat it here at length. 
Briefly stated, when Mr Bs laptop was damaged, he needed a repair or a replacement as 
soon as possible for an academic assignment. He maintains that in the circumstances 
Assurant couldve facilitated this earlier than it did. Our investigator didnt consider that 
Assurant had acted unreasonably, and that the £100 redress it paid to Mr B was reasonable. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusion reached by our investigator and Ill give my 
reasons. 
Assurant wasnt able to repair Mr Bs laptop as its repair facility had recently been forced to 
close due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Mr Bs policy states that Assurant may replace a 
damaged device with one of the same make or model which may be a re-manufactured (not 
brand new) device. After initially offering Mr B £695, which it agreed was too low, Assurant 
then offered Mr B £779.83. This was at the higher end of the range of on-line comparisons it 
made for the cost of refurbished laptops of a similar specification. I consider this was a fair 
means of arriving at a cash settlement figure. 
I consider that Assurant acted reasonably in increasing the settlement figure the following 
day to £816 so that Mr B could order a replacement laptop from a company that offered 
next-day delivery given the urgency with which Mr B needed a laptop.
Mr B says that when he made his claim on 4 February 2021, Assurant told him that a claim 
would take seven days from the date the laptop was received. Assurant has also said that 
laptop repairs typically take up to 10 working days. Mr Bs laptop was received by Assurant 
on 8 February 2021. He therefore expected a response by 15 February. When he contacted 
it on 16 February to check on the progress of his claim, Assurant acknowledged that it 
couldnt arrange a repair and agreed to provide a replacement or a cash settlement within 
three working days. I consider that this timescale was reasonable. Its initial cash settlement 
was in fact offered within two working days.
I can appreciate Mr Bs frustration that on top of the pre-settlement delays he experienced 
there would be a further delay of up to five working days for Assurants settlement payment 
to clear into his bank account. However, I dont consider that its unreasonable for Assurants 
settlement payments to take this amount of time to reach a customers bank account.
Mr B had told Assurant that he urgently needed a laptop to complete academic work which 
was subject to a deadline. Mr B had to initiate all contacts with Assurant to chase it for a 
replacement laptop and I can quite understand that this took up a lot of his time and 
wouldve been very stressful for him. He argues that settlement of his claim couldve been 
agreed much earlier. He says Assurant shouldve been aware that it couldnt attempt a repair 
because its repair facility had recently been closed, so it couldve gone directly to consider 
whether it could offer a replacement, or failing which, a cash settlement.
However, whilst I consider that its reasonable for Assurant to be allowed some time to 
assess a claim, I dont consider that it has provided a sufficient explanation as to why it took 
eight days for Assurant to realise that its repair facility had been closed and that it would 
therefore have to offer Mr B a replacement laptop or a cash settlement. 
Assurant doesnt dispute that there was a delay in dealing with Mr Bs claim, although it says 
it wasnt an extensive one, and its acknowledged that Mr B was caused distress. Once it 
had recognised that it would need to provide a replacement laptop or a cash settlement, it 
offered a cash settlement within two days, and then increased its settlement offer from 
£779.93 to £816 so Mr B could have his replacement laptop the next day. It also offered to 
provide a letter that Mr B could use to support his claim for an extension for his academic 
work. I consider that Assurant acted fairly and reasonably here.
My conclusion is that the only part of Assurants service that was unreasonable and unfair to 
Mr B was the delay between Mr Bs laptop being received and Assurant recognizing that it 
couldnt be repaired and that it would need to provide a replacement or a cash settlement. I 
consider this delay was longer than it need have been, and that it would be reasonable for 
Mr B to receive some compensation for the upset and inconvenience he experienced as a 
result. Assurant initially offered Mr B £75 as redress for this, and then increased this to £100. 
In the circumstances I dont consider that the £100 compensation that Assurant has already 
paid Mr B is unfair or unreasonable. It is also in line with awards made in similar cases.
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint, as I consider Assurant General 
Insurance Limited has already paid a reasonable sum in satisfaction of the complaint.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2021.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman