DRN-3081524
complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken in 
2003. Mrs J says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold her PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, including Mrs Js health at 
the time of the sale, the 10% policy benefit and 12-month limit on claims, and the exclusions 
for existing health issues, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here. 
The policy imposed no additional limitations, exclusions or evidential requirements for claims 
for back or mental health conditions.
From what shes told us, at the time of the sale Mrs J was employed as a project manager, 
had been there eight years and was entitled to less than three months full sick pay, at least 
three months full pay for redundancy and didnt have anything else, like savings, to pay her 
card with if she couldnt work.
Mrs J has said she bought the PPI online and it is still running. Barclays has sent Mrs Js 
postal application form, showing she bought the PPI when she applied for her credit card by 
post  and has sent information showing the PPI was cancelled the year after the sale.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the mis-sale complaint, but my colleague thought Barclays 
offer to pay back some of the cost of the PPI because of the non-disclosure of high 
commission and profit share Mrs J paid, was fair in the circumstances.
Mrs Js representatives disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new 
or additional points but repeated complaint points and arguments theyd previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Js. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mrs Js complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive decided Barclays should have disclosed the 
commission it received - but that Barclays offer to refund some of the cost of the PPI to 
compensate for the unfairness caused, is fair in the circumstances. Ive summarised my 
reasons for each of these conclusions below.
In summary, my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint are:
Mrs J has said the PPI was just included with her card. But her postal application form 
for the card had a separate Barclaycard Payment Protection section for the PPI with 
boxes for her to tick to say either yes or no to the cover. On Mrs Js form, which she 
signed to take the card, the yes box was ticked  and I think she wouldve known to tick 
the no box instead if she didnt want the cover. Also, nothing on the form said the PPI 
had to be taken. With all this in mind, I think Barclays made it clear Mrs J didnt have to 
take the PPI and she chose to take it. 
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs J - so it didnt have to check the PPI was right 
or suitable for her. But it did have to give Mrs J enough clear and timely information so 
she could decide for herself if it was right for her.
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mrs J about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose to take it, and her application form told her the PPI was to 
cover her account against unemployment, accident, sickness or death - so it looks like 
she wanted this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for her either. It 
looks like it couldve been useful for her if something went wrong  for example benefit 
payments couldve been paid for longer than her sick pay lasted and she didnt have 
savings to fall back on. It also looks like the cover was affordable.
 
Also, Mrs J wasnt affected by the significant exclusions on or limits to the cover  for 
example, nothing about her job or employment wouldve made it hard for her to claim 
and she didnt have health issues so wasnt affected by exclusions for pre-existing health 
issues. There were also no additional restrictions on cover for mental health or back 
problems. Overall, I dont think its likely the cover was too dissimilar to what its likely 
Mrs J, from the information she was given, thought she was buying. With this and all Ive 
said above in mind, I dont think she wouldve declined the cover had Barclays done 
anything more.
Overall, I consider Mrs J wouldve still taken the PPI. It was sufficiently close to what its 
likely she thought she was getting and, given her circumstances, couldve provided a useful 
benefit at a difficult time if she couldnt work in the circumstances the policy covered. And, in 
those circumstances, I think she wouldve taken the policy in any event.
Mrs Js representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; that these policies represented poor value because of 
the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and that the duty of utmost good faith meant Barclays should have disclosed the poor 
value and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had 
on the chances of making a claim.
Mrs Js representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mrs Js individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mrs Js particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint. For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold the 
mis-sale element of this complaint. 
This means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs J.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and, if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Barclays should have disclosed the commission it received and 
that Barclays offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness 
caused is fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Barclays didnt tell Mrs J about the high levels of commission and profit share paid in this 
case. So taking into account: 
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the non-
disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
- the FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
- the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
Barclays and Mrs J was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act because 
Barclays didnt tell her about the high levels of commission and profit share in this case 
I dont think Barclays acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mrs J, because it failed 
to disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
Mrs Js representatives have made a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint, including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on her complaint. In summary they have said Mrs J should get back all 
the money she paid for the policy because: Barclays failed to tell Mrs J about the high 
commission and profit-share rates paid, the low claims ratio and the restrictions and 
exclusions on cover. Because they say that meant the policy was poor value, they say I 
should find that Mrs J wouldnt have taken the policy had she known about the level of 
commission and she should receive a refund of all the premiums she paid.
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipBut I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
- A court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a court 
would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a consumer 
would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; and
- The FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge the 
considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance about 
mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) and that the 
impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it should be 
considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for 
Mrs J in order to remedy the unfairness caused by Barclays not disclosing the high level of 
commission to her before she purchased the policy.
So, taking into account: 
- The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
- refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
- I am not, as Mrs Js representative suggests, driven to conclude that she wouldnt have 
purchased the policy but for Barclays failure to disclose the level of commission for the 
reasons Ive given above;
I think it was fair for Barclays to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance and 
return some of the money Mrs J paid for her PPI policy. 
I consider this fairly removes the source of the unfairness. This is because it leaves Mrs J 
with the policy Ive concluded above she wouldve still taken if Barclays had done everything 
it should have done  but with lower commission and profit share levels.
So I consider that Barclays payment of an amount equivalent to the commission and profit 
share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where applicable) in 
line with the FCAs guidance to firms, is fair in all the circumstances. 
 
As Barclays has already paid Mrs J compensation on this basis, I dont consider it should do 
anything further. Barclays has told us the payment was paid to Mrs J in 2018.my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of Mrs Js complaint or make any award in 
favour of her for this part of the complaint.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that 
Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mrs J an amount equivalent to the commission and profit 
share paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where applicable). 
As Barclays Bank UK PLC has already paid compensation on this basis, I do not consider 
that Barclays Bank UK PLC should do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs J to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 October 2021. 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman