DRN-2873474
The complaint
Mr A says his trading account (including his Contracts for Differences (CFD) positions and 
trading profit) was manipulated by HYCM Limited between 20 and 21 April 2020; and that, 
as a result, he was prevented from withdrawing part of his trading profit.
What happened
Mr A traded in two long rolling Spot USOIL CFD positions. The first was half a lot and was 
opened at 17:56 hours on 20 April, at the price of 0.26 USD; the second trade was also half 
a lot and was opened 15 seconds afterwards on the same date, at the price of 0.15 USD; the 
first trade was then closed, on the same date, at 23:14 hours and at the price of 21.47 USD; 
the second trade was also closed, six seconds later, at the price of 21.48 USD; the first trade 
recorded profit of 10,817.10 USD and the second recorded profit of 10,878.30 USD.
Both trades were based on the underlying USOIL CFD Futures contract for May 2020, which 
expired on 20 April 2020. In the context of the rollover feature, the contract that followed was 
for June 2020 and that expired on 15 May 2020.
HYCM has shared pricing data with this service. It shows that the settlement price for May 
2020 USOIL futures was -37.63 USD, however its platform could not support negative 
prices, so the spread of 0.00/0.06 USD was applied instead, with the mid-price at 0.03 USD. 
HYCM has referred to the widely publicised extraordinary event on 20 April 2020 in the 
global Oil market, where Oil prices worldwide went into negative prices for the first time in 
history. It has also referred to publications about this in the media at the time. Those 
publications explain the cause as being a sharp drop (to zero) in the demand for Oil resulting 
from the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic and explain that Oil producers were therefore 
paying buyers in order to get rid of their Oil, and to avoid storage costs and avoid breaching 
their storage capacities. This, in turn, led to the negative USOIL futures prices for May, 
expiring 20 April.
HYCMs pricing data also shows that the settlement price for June 2020 USOIL futures  the 
next contract  at the time was 20.43 USD. The same media publication evidence it 
submitted refers to the same price for the June 2020 USOIL futures. 
According to HYCMs terms of business for the trading account, the rollover effect was/is 
applied to spot trades that are not closed-out as of 5.00pm Eastern Time on the relevant 
business day. In practice, this meant an offsetting exercise, whereby the trade would be 
closed based on the closing price for the expiring futures and re-opened at the relevant price 
derived from the following futures contracts settlement price.
HYCM concedes that this would normally have been applied in real time, but in Mr As case 
and on 20 April 2020 that did not happen. It says that was due to the unprecedented events 
in the global Oil market on that date, the resulting negative prices and the platform issue it 
had with the negative prices. The rollover adjustment was therefore applied the next day, on 
21 April 2020. It says the price derived for rolling USOIL spot, based on the June futures 
price, was 20.40 USD, so the adjustment was to treat relevant trades as having closed at the 
price of 0.03 USD per lot (mid-price for the May contract, which expired 5.00pm 20 April) and 
having re-opened at the price of 20.40 USD per lot (the new rolling spot price for the June 
contract). It explained that the difference  20.37 USD  then translated to either credit of 
23,370 USD for short trades or debit of the same amount for long trades. [Based on the 
lot/contract size of 1,000.] 
HYCM says Mr As trades were subject to the rollover effect, that the effect did not apply in 
real time because of the platform issues at the time, that the effect was applied the following 
day, that the application resulted in reversing the previously recorded profit in each of the 
two trades by 10,388.70 USD and that it is for this reason that Mr As withdrawal request 
(which was made after the trades were closed but before the adjustment was applied) was 
cancelled. It says no manipulation of his account took place and that it is the rollover 
adjustment that changed the state of the account. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. Some of the additional information and 
evidence produced by HYCM was produced in response to her enquiries. Overall and on 
balance, she accepted HYCMs explanations and the account/trading/pricing related 
evidence it submitted. She concluded that the complaint should not be upheld. She noted 
that a part of Mr As complaint related to the lack of real time notice of the rollover 
adjustment and of its effect, but she was satisfied with HYCMs response [as summarised 
above] to her query about this. She included this in her view on the complaint.
Mr A disagreed with this outcome. He maintained that HYCM had done something wrong 
and he said HYCMs closure of his account indicates its guilt for its wrongdoing. The matter 
was referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the main, Mr As case rises or falls on the facts of the relevant events in his trading 
account, on factual evidence of the prices related to those events and on the terms of 
business that applied to his account. 
With regards to the last point, and in brief, I am satisfied with the terms for Mr As account 
which made provisions for the rollover adjustment and its application to trades that passed 
from one contract to another. Those terms are reflected in sections 3.4 (application of 
rollover) and 11.3 (rollover fees) of the customer agreement for his account. Furthermore, 
available evidence is that he had a number of trading accounts with HYCM and was 
experienced, so it appears that he would have been familiar with the rollover adjustment.
It is not disputed that Mr As trades showed profits immediately after they were closed and 
for some time thereafter. His trading account statement shows that he made his withdrawal 
request at 23:26 hours on 20 April, 12 minutes after the trades were closed (with, it appears, 
the account still showing the profits stated earlier). 
However, HYCM has given a reasonable explanation why the platform (and his account) did 
not reflect the adjustment in real time and how the adjustment was subsequently applied the 
following day. I accept its explanation. Without any market wide history of negative prices 
ever occurring, it is understandable that its platform was not prepared for the unprecedented 
Oil futures price crash (into negative territory) that happened on this date  and it is equally 
understandable that platform issues arose in this context and had to be addressed before a 
later rollover adjustment could be applied.The delayed rollover adjustment is what led to cancellation of Mr As withdrawal request. The 
adjustment appears to have erased all but around 920 USD off the total profit that he thought 
he had made, so the profit he sought to withdraw was not there. Available evidence and 
facts show that the adjustment and this effect were legitimate.
In straightforward terms, Mr As trades closed at the wrong prices. At 23:14 hours on 20 April 
2020, which is when they were closed, both trades had already been rolled over. They had 
already crossed the 5.00pm Eastern Time rollover threshold on that day, being the day the 
May Oil futures contract (on which the Spot product was based) expired and the June 
contract began (unto which the spot trades were rolled). As such, the rollover adjustment 
should have had the effect of closing his trades at a rolling spot price based on the closing 
price for the May contract and then reopening them, if the state of the account permitted, at 
a rolling spot price based on the price for the June contract. 
This means the closing price of 0.03 USD, as HYCM has explained (and as I summarised 
above), should have applied to both trades  instead of the prices of 21.47 USD and 21.48 
USD. Then they both should have been re-opened at the price of 20.40 USD, as HYCM has 
explained (and as I summarised above). The trades were long, so that meant they were to 
be sold at 0.03 USD  in order to complete/close both buy trades  and then re-bought at 
20.40 USD in order to roll them into re-opened and ongoing buy trades. The sale price was 
less than the re-purchase price. That was the reason why the difference of 20.37 USD (or 
20,370 USD, when multiplied by 1,000/the contract size) applied as a debit (not credit) 
adjustment in Mr As account. 
For the sake of completeness, I consider that all account activity, trading and pricing 
evidence that has been shared with this service  and on which the above analysis and 
findings are based  are reliable, and I have not seen reason to doubt their credibility.
It is unfortunate that the adjustment could not be applied in real time  which might have 
avoided Mr As reliance on the profits he would have initially seen  but, for the reasons 
given above, I do not consider that HYCM behaved unreasonably in this respect. Evidence 
suggests the adjustments had been applied by 10:51 hours the following morning, which is 
when Mr As withdrawal request appears to have been cancelled. I do not consider that 
HYCM unduly delayed the adjustment after addressing the platform problem it experienced 
the day before.
I have not seen evidence that establishes, on balance, that HYCMs decision to close Mr As 
account was related to the complaint events (and/or the complaint), and section 17 of the 
customer agreement permitted it to close its customers accounts at its discretion. HYCM 
says the closure resulted from a business changes decision. 
Overall, on balance and for the above reasons, I do not consider that Mr As account was 
manipulated as he alleges. Besides the issues addressed above, he does not appear to 
have referred to any other matter of alleged manipulation.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 October 2021.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman