DRN-4025943
Complaint
Mr W has complained that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays 
Partner Finance (BPF) rejected his claim against it under Section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974.
Background 
Mr W bought a solar panel system (the system) for his home in 2015. The purchase was 
funded by a loan from BPF, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions 
of the installer under the relevant legislation. In this case, Mr W alleges that the installer 
misled Mr W into believing that the panels would be self-funding.
Mr Ws complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. They thought that the benefits 
of the panels were mis-represented to Mr W and recommended BPF offer redress to 
compensate Mr W.
BPF disagreed. It pointed out that the documents from the time of sale indicated that the 
system would not be self-funding. It added that it had not identified any systemic issues with 
the way this particular supplier sold solar panels and other cases had not been upheld in the 
consumers favour.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved by our adjudicator, the case was passed to me.
In my provisional decision of 2 March 2023, I set out why I wasnt going to uphold the 
complaint. I invited both parties to provide any further submissions they may wish to make 
before I reached a final decision. BPF confirmed it accepted the provisional decision while 
Mr W (through his representative) made some additional comments which I will address 
below.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I explained the following: 
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mr W paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, BPF agrees that section 75 
applies to this transaction. This means that Mr W could claim against BPF, the creditor, for 
any misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier in the same way he could have 
claimed against the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding what is 
fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr W and 
the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by the supplier as an agent of BPF.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Having carefully considered everything provided, currently, I do not intend to uphold this 
complaint and Ill explain why. 
Firstly, Id like to explain that each case is decided on the individual merits of that complaint. 
We look at a number of factors when deciding whether we think a complaint of this nature 
should be upheld in a consumers favour. All evidence is considered including the customers 
testimony as well as the sales documents still retained. When looking at the documents 
submitted, we need to think about how those documents were presented and how the 
information on them (i.e. the specific facts and figures of that case) is set out on the 
documents. Wed also need to consider whether these documents and the information 
contained within them were likely presented to each consumer before the sale. 
Overall, we must decide whether we are satisfied based on the facts and wider 
circumstances of that case  whether its likely that a supplier misrepresented the benefits of 
the system and the consumer relied on that or whether it was likely the information contained 
within the sales pack was clearly given to that particular consumer. This could vary on a 
case by case basis  so we do not generally decide to uphold (or not uphold) a complaint 
solely based on who the supplier was, and whether there were any identified systemic 
issues with that supplier. 
However, having reviewed everything provided, I do think in this particular case, that the 
evidence suggests there was unlikely a misrepresentation that would enable me to uphold 
this complaint. 
Im satisfied that Mr W was provided with the sales documents, as his representative sent us 
a copy. The sales contract and the credit agreement were signed by Mr W on the same day. 
The contract for the sale of the solar panels sets out the cash price of the solar panel system 
is £9,495, that Mr W was to pay a deposit of £100 and the option finance has been circled 
indicating finance was to be used to cover the remaining amount. 
This is contained within the suppliers own contract  and it indicates that the sales 
representative discussed the total cost of the system, the deposit Mr W was going to pay as 
well as the method of repayment for the remaining amount - which was finance. I dont think 
its likely that Mr W would agree to take out finance for almost £10,000 without asking for 
and discussing some of the basic details of the loan, such as the total amount owed or the 
term of the loan. 
Separately, but on the same day, the supplier arranged for Mr W to sign BPFs credit 
agreement. This also set out the cash price of £9,495, that a deposit of £100 is to be paid. It 
also sets out that the total cost including interest and charges was of £14,676.40, the 
monthly cost was £121.47, and the term of the loan was 120 months i.e. 10 years. Mr W 
signed this agreement, so Im satisfied he saw these figures. 
Ive also seen a page headed System Performance Information which set out the estimated 
benefits the system is likely to generate. This was submitted by Mr Ws representative, so it 
seems like he had a copy. I also dont think its likely that he agreed to this purchase without 
considering what benefits the system might likely produce  and given this document breaks 
down the specific benefits his system might produce - I think this is therefore reliable 
evidence of the benefits set out by the supplier. The benefits are contained on one page and it sets out the likely income from the Feed in 
Tariff scheme as well the savings Mr W was estimated to achieve. This shows that Mr Ws 
system will likely produce 4180 kWh annually. It also set out his benefit in financial terms 
and his total benefit for year one was set out as £1,014.27. 
 
So it looks to me like the sales representative discussed the cost, including the finance as 
well as the benefits Mr W could expect to achieve on the day of the sale. 
I think its apparent (without doing any calculations) that in order to repay £14,676 over 10 
years, Mr W would need over £1,400 annually to meet those payments. And his total benefit 
amount (1,014.27) was significantly less than that amount. I also think that its clear that 12 
payments of £121.47 is more than his annual benefit amount of around £1,000. 
As explained above, I think the sales documents likely reflect the nature of the discussions 
Mr W would have had with the supplier. Overall I dont think its likely that the supplier sold 
the system on the basis that it would be self-funding, when the facts and figures presented to 
Mr W clearly display a significant shortfall between the total cost and the expected year one 
benefit. 
While Ive carefully considered Mr Ws testimony, I find the documents from the time of sale 
to be more persuasive in terms of what information he was likely given at the time of sale. 
So, on balance, I think the evidence suggests that it is unlikely there was a 
misrepresentation that would enable me to uphold this complaint. So I dont think BPF acted 
unfairly by not accepting Mr Ws claim.
Further submissions 
In response to my provisional decision, Mr Ws representatives have re-iterated that they 
dont believe the system is producing sufficient benefits to cover the cost of the loan. They 
add that the sales contract did not include details about the finance, and Mr W was not 
aware that he would be charged interest on the loan. When looking at the cash price of the 
system (£9,495), the benefit of £1,014.27 over 10 years, would have been sufficient to make 
the system self-funding during the term of the loan. Mr W says he purchased the system on 
that basis. 
I have considered Mr Ws comments, but as explained in my provisional decision, the 
consumer credit agreement was signed on the same day as the sales contract. The sales 
contract that Mr W also signed, circled the method of payment as finance  indicating that 
when Mr W signed this contract, he was aware he was using finance. The credit agreement 
is clear, and it sets out that the total amount payable under the agreement was £14,676.40. I 
dont think its likely that Mr W agreed to a credit agreement without thinking about the most 
basic details of the loan such as the total amount payable  and this was clearly set out on 
the credit agreement. So, I think its more likely that when Mr W signed the credit agreement, 
and the sales contract, he was aware that the total amount he would be charged would be 
more than the cash price of the system as he was using an interest bearing loan to fund the 
purchase. 
Overall, I still find the documents to be more persuasive in terms of what information he was 
likely given at the time of sale. And I think this information makes it clear that the system will 
not be self-funding in the way Mr W says he was led to believe. 
So having re-considered this complaint against in its entirety, I find no reason to depart from 
my original findings as set out in my provisional decision. With this in mind, I still think the 
evidence suggests that it is unlikely there was a misrepresentation that would enable me to 
uphold this complaint. So I dont think BPF acted unfairly by not accepting Mr Ws claim.
My final decision 
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman