DRN-1455964
 
Complaint
Mr B complains MYJAR Limited lent to him irresponsibly.
Background
Mr B took four loans with MYJAR between November 2017 and June 2018. I issued a 
provisional decision on Mr B's complaint on 12 February 2020, concluding MYJAR shouldn't 
have given Mr B loans 2 to 4. The most relevant part of my provisional findings is set out 
below:
"Loans 1 to 3
The evidence provided by MYJAR shows it asked Mr B about his income and regular 
expenditure as well as completing a credit check. Ive seen a summary of those credit 
checks and I dont think they showed anything that should have caused additional concerns 
to MYJAR. MYJAR says if Mr B declared other expenses which were lower than information 
using the Minimum Income Standards (MIS) database, it would replace the expenses 
declared with the MIS data.
For loan 1, Mr B said his income was £1,700 per month and declared housing costs of £600 
and credit commitments of £250. For this loan the MIS data obtained by MYJAR showed it 
was likely Mr B had other expenses of £436, so it used this figure in assessing affordability.
At this point, I dont think the circumstances were such that MYJAR needed to complete 
further checks, such as completing a full review of Mr Bs finances. So with monthly 
repayments no higher than around £52, I agree with the adjudicator that it was reasonable 
for MYJAR to think this loan was most likely affordable and sustainable. I dont think, 
therefore, that MYJAR was wrong to give Mr B this loan.
The overall repayments Mr B was expected to make for loan 2 also appeared quite small 
relative to the monthly income he declared of £1,400. At this point however Mr B declared 
his overall expenses to be £1,400 as well, made up of housing costs (£300), credit 
commitments (£400) and other expenses (£700). So it appeared, from the information Mr B 
had given MYJAR, that he could not afford to take a loan of any amount at this time. I think it 
should have been clear to MYJAR that this loan was not going to be sustainably affordable 
and it therefore shouldnt have lent it to Mr B.  
Mr Bs declared income and expenses didnt appear to change for loan 3. So this would also 
have indicated that any loan repayments werent affordable. By this point, the lending had 
also increased significantly to £625 and the loan was repayable over 12 monthly instalments. 
This loan was also taken out the same day that loan 2 had been repaid. I dont think MYJAR 
should have given Mr B loan 3, for the same reasons as loan 2, but Ive also thought about 
what MYJAR would have seen had it sought to verify the information Mr B had given about 
his income and expenditure. And I think if it had done so it would have discovered that his 
financial situation was in fact worse than the figures hed declared.From what Ive seen of Mr Bs circumstances, I think its clear he was having problems 
managing his money. It appears he was relying on other lenders to support his regular living 
expenses and financial commitments. He also appeared to be struggling to repay his regular 
commitments, with a significant number of direct debits being returned unpaid.
So regardless of whether MYJAR had chosen to rely on Mr Bs self-declared income and 
expenditure, or carried out a more detailed review of his financial situation, I think it should 
have been clear that it wasnt responsible to grant him loan 3.
Loan 4
As it appears MYJAR agrees it shouldnt have given Mr B loan 4, theres no longer a dispute 
about whether it should have been lent.
MYJAR has agreed to waive the outstanding interest for this loan and to use the repayments 
that Mr B has paid as principal payments. MYJAR has said this reduces Mr Bs outstanding 
balance for this loan to around £686. MYJAR has also agreed to remove adverse 
information about this loan from Mr Bs credit file and, when the loan is repaid, to remove the 
entire credit file entry."
Mr B didn't reply to the provisional decision. MYJAR, after asking some questions about the 
source of the expenditure figures Mr B had declared for his second and third loans, accepted 
the provisional decision and said it would settle the case as I had outlined.
The case has been passed back to me to issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
MYJAR has accepted my provisional decision, and Mr B hasn't put forward any other 
comments, evidence or arguments for me to consider. I therefore see no reason to depart 
from the findings I made in my provisional decision.
It follows that I find MYJAR was wrong to give Mr B loans 2 to 4.
Putting things right
MYJAR shouldnt have given Mr B loans 2 to 4, so its not right that he should have to pay 
interest, fees or charges on these loans, or have them affect his credit file in a negative way. 
Given the fact it should have been immediately obvious to MYJAR that it shouldnt have 
given Mr B some of the loans, and taking into account the impact the irresponsible lending 
has had on Mr B, I also dont think he should be asked to pay any outstanding principal 
balance either. So to put things right I think MYJAR should:
1. Calculate a refund of all interest, fees and charges Mr B paid towards loans 2 and 3.
 
2. Add 8% simple interest* to the amounts calculated in A, calculated from the date 
Mr B originally made the payments in question, to the date the complaint is settled.
 
3. Remove all outstanding interest, fees and charges from any outstanding balance 
Mr B still has on loan 4, and treat any repayments he has made towards his loan as though they had been made towards the principal. Then, apply the amounts 
calculated in A and B to repay anything left over, paying any excess to Mr B. If the 
outstanding balance exceeds the amount of the refund available, then there will be 
nothing to pay to Mr B, but MYJAR should write off the remaining balance and not 
pursue it any further.
 
4. Remove any adverse information about the loans from Mr Bs credit file.
 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires MYJAR to take tax off this interest. MYJAR must give Mr 
B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off, if Mr B asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I uphold Mr B's complaint and direct MYJAR Limited to take the 
actions set out in the "putting things right" section of this final decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2020.
 
Will Culley
Ombudsman