DRN-1072755
 
The complaint
Mr P complains that Covea Insurance plc cancelled his motor insurance policy. Covea is the 
underwriter of Mr Ps policy and reference to it includes reference to its agents.  
What happened
Mr Ps motor insurance policy with Covea started in December 2018. He arranged to pay the 
premium by monthly direct debit. On 8 June 2019, Covea wrote to Mr P and told him that 
there was an issue with the direct debit instruction. It gave Mr P notice that it would cancel 
his policy within seven days if it didnt received valid account details in order to set up a new 
direct debit. It followed that by a text and e-mail to Mr P.
Mr Ps partner called Covea on 13 June 2019 to pay the arrears using Mr Ps card but Covea 
said that it needed to speak to Mr P. When Mr P called to make payment later that day, 
Coveas system wasnt working, so it couldnt take payment. It gave Mr P a link, so that he 
could make payment on line. 
On 17 June 2019, Covea cancelled Mr Ps policy and wrote to him to tell him that his policy 
was cancelled. On 18 June 2019, it sent Mr P a text and an email confirming cancellation. 
Covea told Mr P that there was a balance outstanding of £449.63.
Mr P says that Covea didnt take his payment on two separate occasions. He says that it 
cancelled his policy without proper notification and that he was driving for two days without 
insurance in place. Mr P says that Covea took a payment of £449.63 without authority. He 
says that he had to take out a new policy, which cost more. Mr P wants Covea to pay him 
compensation. 
In response to Mr Ps complaint and as a gesture of goodwill, Covea reduced the balance 
outstanding to £255.64.
One of our adjudicators looked at what had happened. She thought that Covea had given 
appropriate notice of the cancellation of Mr Ps policy. The adjudicator didnt think that she 
could ask Covea to do anything more. 
Mr P didnt agree with the investigator. He said that Covea should have given him extra time 
to make the payment, as its system wasnt working when he called it on 13 June 2019. He 
asked that an ombudsman consider his complaint, so it was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On 7 June 2019, Covea received notification that Mr Ps direct debit payment had been 
cancelled. Even where an insurer has good reason to cancel a policy for non-payment, I still 
need to be satisfied that it acted fairly and reasonably and in line with the policy terms and conditions in doing so. In this case, Im satisfied that Covea issued the appropriate written 
notice to Mr P about the threat of cancellation of his policy. 
Covea couldnt take payment when first Mr Ps partner and then Mr P called on                   
13 June 2019. When Mr Ps partner called Covea, it said, correctly, that it needed to speak 
with Mr P, as the payment was to be with his card. When Mr P called, Coveas systems 
werent working. That was unfortunate but it gave Mr P an alternative way to pay. I dont 
think that Covea was required to give Mr P extra time to pay as it gave him an alternative. Mr 
P could also have called again the next day. I dont think the fact that Coveas systems 
werent working when Mr P called alters the outcome here.
Because of the serious implications of being uninsured, we expect an insurer to provide 
immediate confirmation to a policyholder when a policy is actually cancelled. This is to 
provide an opportunity to arrange cover elsewhere. Covea wrote to Mr P when it cancelled 
his policy. And it followed that up with a text and e-mail. I think that Covea did enough to tell 
Mr P that his policy had been cancelled. 
In the letter telling Mr P that his policy had been cancelled, Covea told him that it would take 
the outstanding payment from the payment details it had on file on the last working day of 
the month or on another date that had been arranged. So, I dont think that Covea was at 
fault in subsequently collecting what Mr P owed. I note that it has since reduced the 
outstanding balance as a gesture of goodwill. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr P but there are no grounds on which to direct Covea to pay him 
compensation. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2020.
Louise Povey
Ombudsman