DRN-3186053
The complaint
Mrs H complains that a claim on her buildings insurance with UIA (Insurance) Limited has 
not been dealt with correctly and as a result of the advice given, she replaced the roof at the 
property when this wasnt necessary.  
What happened
Mrs H owns a house. She doesnt live in the house now and its now occupied by her son, 
Mr H. He is representing her in this complaint.
In late 2017 Mr H noticed a damp patch to the side of the house. He also said there was 
cracking all over the house. He made a claim on the policy on behalf of Mrs H. UIA 
investigated the issue during 2018 and arranged for some monitoring of possible subsidence 
at the property as well as repairs to the drains. A schedule of internal repairs was prepared 
and UIA dealt with this by making a cash settlement.
Mr H said there was further cracking. UIA arranged for a further report following suggestions 
the cracks may be caused by the roof. In June 2019 the report was issued, and said the roof 
was performing adequately but deflection of the timbers was the likely cause of cracking to 
the ceiling. It said there were cracks in the property due to a combination of factors which 
also included missing mortar behind areas of cracked plaster and settlement near one 
corner of the building (the subsidence that had led to the claim).
Mr H instructed builders to replace the roof. He later claimed that this work was unnecessary 
and didnt solve the problem, as the cracking has continued. He made a complaint on behalf 
of Mrs H, seeking re-imbursement of the cost of replacing the roof.
UIA says the cause of damage to the roof is not an insured peril, and is excluded under a 
policy term relating to defective design. So it wont cover this. Mr H says this is unfair, as the 
building consultant appointed by UIA mis-led him and he relied on the advice given when 
replacing the roof, which was in a good condition. 
Our investigators view was that UIA had dealt with the subsidence claim correctly and made 
a cash settlement which was accepted. She thought the roof itself was in good condition and 
UIA didnt need to cover the cost of replacing it under the policy terms. But she said Mr H 
had relied on the advice given about replacing the roof. And as replacing the roof didnt stop 
the cracking she thought that advice had been wrong. So she said UIA should reimburse the 
costs of the new roof, though she limited this to paying 70% of the cost, to reflect that fact 
that Mrs H had the benefit of a new roof.
Mr H didnt accept the investigators view on behalf of Mrs H. He said: 
the full cost to be claimed was £15,000, which included not just the roof but other 
items such as scaffolding, new windows, plasterboard and decorating costs;
he was seeking compensation for the amount of time hed been forced to spend 
dealing with the claim and the complaint, time hed had to take off work, and the 
effect on his mental health of all the stress caused by the way the claim was dealt 
with;
he doesnt see the point of any further monitoring of the property  hed instructed his 
own experts who said further work was needed, not monitoring, and when they 
carried out work on the property this resolved the issue, with no further cracking 
since then; and
hes acting on behalf of his elderly mother and needs reassurance that his mother is 
getting value for money.
UIA also disagreed with the investigator. Amongst other things, it said:
its a matter of fact that the roof is overstressed, as confirmed by the independent 
engineers report;
the property had suffered subsidence causing cracks internally and externally, and 
the subsidence has been addressed;
all the cracks now present in the building can be identified on the site records from 
2017 and so its satisfied there was no ongoing subsidence or further cracking; and 
it has never been suggested that the internal wall cracks are due to the weight of the 
roof, so the investigators view was based on an incorrect interpretation of the facts.
After reviewing all the comments, our investigator said she still thought her proposal was fair,
because:
it was fair for UIA to reimburse some of the cost of the roof because Mr H had relied 
on the advice given to him, but this should be limited to the roof only, and would not 
include the scaffolding for the roof works without proof of the cost, or other items;
if UIA was essentially saying Mr H was complaining about the same damage, it 
wasnt clear why UIA didnt simply explain to him that it was all related to the 
subsidence and so the recommended repair works would be enough;
the key point was whether the advice given was correct and it was reasonable for 
Mr H to rely on it;
she had spoken to the engineer who investigated the issue and he had confirmed 
that replacing the roof wouldnt have an effect on the cracks.
As no agreement was reached, the complaint was passed to me to decide. I issued a 
provisional decision as, although I agreed that the complaint should be upheld in part, I 
intended to make an award that was different from the investigators proposal. In the 
provisional decision I said:
The relevant industry guidance says an insurer must deal with a claim promptly and fairly; 
provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate 
information on its progress; and not unreasonably reject a claim.
In settling a claim, the policy terms give UIA the option to deal with this in several ways, 
which include:
paying for the necessary repair or replacement (but not improvements);
paying the cost of reinstating the damage, less an amount for wear and tear or 
depreciation.
The policy includes cover for subsidence. So if the damage at the property has been caused 
by subsidence then on the face of it, its covered. But there is an exclusion for damage 
arising from defective design, faulty workmanship or defective materials. Theres also a 
general exclusion in the policy for Any loss or damage arising from wear and tear or any 
gradually operating cause.
UIA accepted there was a valid claim for subsidence and looked into this. It arranged for 
monitoring of the movement, expert reports to be provided and some repairs to the drains, 
and made a cash settlement for Mr H to get internal repairs done. Although it did take a while to deal with all of this, it was necessary to monitor the property for a period to see 
whether there was still movement. Once the expert advice was that there was no further 
movement it was appropriate to go ahead with repairs. Im satisfied UIA dealt with the 
subsidence in accordance with the policy terms and in line with normal practice, and it was 
reasonable to rely on the expert evidence obtained.
The particular issue that has arisen in this case concerns the roof. There was a report that 
some of the cracks may be due to the roof. UIA says the roof itself isnt covered under the 
policy terms because of the exclusions for wear and tear or anything caused by a gradually 
operating cause. I think this would apply in this case; theres nothing to suggest there was 
damage to the roof caused by an insured peril.
But Mr H, who has dealt with things throughout on behalf of Mrs H, says he only replaced 
the roof because he was told this was necessary. UIA says it never advised that the roof 
needed to be replaced; it simply provided information following the experts report that the 
roof was overstressed and left it to Mr H to decide what to do. And it says it has never been 
suggested that the internal wall cracks are due to the weight of the roof.
The consultants appointed by UIA said it was possible the subsidence triggered deflection of 
the roof, or that the loft conversion created the weakness. A report was commissioned which 
said the roof was theoretically overstressed but performing adequately; and deflection of 
the roof timbers was a likely cause of minor cracking to the ceiling, but otherwise internal 
cracking was mostly not related to the roof.
It now seems clear that replacing the roof hasnt made  and wouldnt have made  any 
difference. Most of the cracks were due to the subsidence. Some was likely due to lack of 
support around some internal doors. And although cracking in the ceiling may have been 
related to the roof, the expert advice is that replacing the roof wouldnt have made any 
difference. Overall, the weight of the evidence is that any issues with the roof caused only 
minor cracks in a ceiling and most of the cacking was related to the subsidence or other 
issues.
Ive looked carefully at the information given to Mr H. He was given advice by someone 
acting on UIAs behalf, who said very clearly that cracks were caused by the weight of the 
roof; the roof was the main priority; and reducing the weight of it was essential before 
repairs were carried out. There was a clear recommendation to reduce the weight of the 
roof.
Taking all of this into account, Im satisfied the roof was replaced because of the advice 
given that this needed to be done  indeed it was described as essential. But it wasnt 
needed and wouldnt resolve the problem. So I agree its fair there should be some 
reimbursement of the cost. On the other hand, the roof had been in place for some time and 
would have needed to be replaced at some point. So I think a contribution of 70% would be 
fair, since Mrs H has the benefit of a new roof that will last longer than the old one.
Our investigator recommended that Mr H be reimbursed for this. However, its Mrs H who is 
the policyholder. Mr H isnt a party to the insurance contract and is acting as representative 
for Mrs H. So any payment needs to be made to her, as the insured person.
Mr H has asked for reimbursement of other costs and compensation for all the time hes 
spent dealing with the matter, including time hes had to take off work. With regard to the 
cost of the works, I agree this should be limited to the roof replacement. As for the 
scaffolding, the policy terms say evidence of expenditure must be provided on request. This 
isnt unusual or unfair. So if Mr H is not able to provide evidence of that cost I wouldnt 
expect UIA to make a payment for this.As Mr H is not the insured party Im unable to make an award directly to him. I appreciate 
that he was the one having to deal with all of this and Ive no doubt it has been very stressful 
for him. But he was dealing with it as representative for Mrs H. So while this may be very 
upsetting for him, Im not able to direct UIA to make any payment to him for the time hes 
spent dealing with the matter on behalf of Mrs H or for any distress or upset caused to him.
From the evidence Ive seen, the cost for the roof was £8,491. So payment of 70% of that 
would be £5,943.70. 
On that basis, I was minded to uphold the complaint in part and direct UIA to pay that 
amount in compensation, together with interest on the payment at 8% if the payment was not 
made within 28 days.
Replies to the provisional decision
Mr H has replied to the provisional decision on behalf of Mrs H. In summary he says:
the outcome is very disappointing - if thats the final decision he will have to accept it, 
but it doesnt seem fair that hes not entitled to any compensation for the days off 
work hes had to take and the fact hes ruined both financially and mentally; 
while he accepts the roof would have needed to be replaced at some point it would 
have lasted for some years, and hes wasted thousands of pounds on a roof that 
hasnt made a difference.
UIA has also replied, saying in the absence of any further information to alter the provisional 
decision it will make the payment of £5,943.70.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr Hs frustration  hes been dealing with this matter for a long time and it has 
caused him a lot of distress. But I only have power to make an award to Mrs H as the 
policyholder; I cant consider any distress or inconvenience caused to Mr H as her 
representative. 
With regard to the financial loss, I set out in the provisional decision my reasoning for the 
conclusion that UIA should pay the sum of £5,943.70 towards the cost of the roof. It remains 
my view that other costs relating to, for example, decorating should not be reimbursed. And 
Mr H hasnt provided documentary evidence of the cost of the scaffolding. 
In the absence of any new evidence I see no reason to change my provisional decision.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint in part and direct UIA (Insurance) Limited to 
pay compensation of £5,943.70 to Mrs H.
UIA (Insurance) Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it Mrs H accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2021.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman