DRN-4273913
The complaint
P, a company, complains about The New India Assurance Company Limiteds (New India)
decision to decline cover for a claim it made under its commercial insurance policy for legal
expenses. New India also voided the policy and retained the premium paid by P. P is
unhappy with this as well as the handling of its claim more generally.
The complaint is brought by Mr A, a director, on behalf of P.
All references to New India include their claims handlers and agents.
What happened
P made a claim on its New India commercial insurance policy for legal expenses in response
to a claim made against it by one of its customers for personal injury.
New India accepted the claim and instructed a panel firm of Solicitors to act for P. In May
2022 New India wrote to P saying they were not prepared to continue funding the claim, that
they would be voiding the policy and retaining the premium.
They said this was because they had discovered P had not made a fair presentation of risk
when taking out insurance because it had answered no to a question about Mr A being a
director for another company that had been dissolved a year before he applied for insurance
to New India, when he had been asked a specific question about this. As such New India
concluded that there was a qualifying breach of Ps duty to it and that the breach was
deliberate or reckless.
After some initial correspondence about another Director that New India identified as related
to P, it became clear that that the policy hadnt been taken out in Ps legal business name. It
was missing a word in the name which meant the policy was taken out in a different
registered businesses name. New India said this meant P wasnt entitled to indemnity under
the policy in any event.
P argues that the disclosure it failed to make wasnt significant, such that it would have
meant it didnt give a fair presentation of risk to New India. Thats because it says that Mr A
dissolved another company as part of a routine restructure and that there were no debts to
creditors as a consequence. As such, P said that Mr A didnt present any risk to New India
at all. P also says that the mistake it made in insuring itself under a different name related to
the omission of one word and the insurance it took out was clearly in relation to itself and its
associated profile so it would be unfair for it not to be covered by the policy now.
P wants New India to provide cover now and compensate it for having to fund its own legal
fees when it was left without legal representation. It also wants to be compensated for the
way in which New Indias panel firm conducted its claim when they were instructed, and it
wants to be covered for any adverse cost risks as a result of the panel firms conduct.
Our investigator considered Ps complaint and concluded that it should be upheld. New India
didnt agree, so the matter was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision earlier this month in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding Ps complaint. Ill explain why.
It appears that when P took out insurance with New India, it noted the wrong company name
on the proposal form. It did this by omitting a word from the company name. P says this was
an oversight as it generally referred to its business as the company name it gave, but this
wasnt its legal name. P says that the risk information presented within its proposal form was
accurate and related to the correct business entity. As such it doesnt think its fair for New
India to decline cover based on this as it was a simple error that could be amended.
Ive thought about what both parties have said including the submissions New India made
about this issue which I noted in the background section of this decision under the title What
happened above. I think the name that P registered as its company name does pose a
problem because it is not the legal name of the entity it wanted to insure. And given theres
another entity with the same legal name that P wanted to insure, I can see why New India
have taken the position they have. For the purposes of this decision however, I dont think
this makes any material difference to the outcome of Ps complaint. Thats because I think
New India was entitled to decline Ps claim, void the policy and retain the premium. So P
wouldnt be any better off even if I decided the company name issue in its favour. Ive set out
my reasons for my decision on the main issue Ive decided in this complaint below.
When the policy was renewed, the relevant law was the Insurance Act 2015, under which
theres a duty to make a fair presentation of the risk. This duty applied at each renewal of
the policy. When buying or renewing the policy the party seeking insurance  in this case, P
 was required to disclose every circumstance they knew, or should have known, which
would influence a prudent insurer in deciding whether to underwrite a risk or what premium
to charge. In addition to the legal position, the documents provided to P made clear how
important it was to provide relevant information. Mr A himself accepts that he was under a
duty to provide material evidence. And he was specifically asked to confirm that whether he
or any partners or directors in connection with P had been the director of any company
which went into liquidation, administration or receivership or is currently undergoing any
voluntary or mandatory insolvency or winding up procedures. Taking into account the
statements in the form that P was asked to confirm, the warnings about disclosing
information and the need to say if anything was incorrect, and the wider legal duty to
disclose anything that would influence the insurers decision about offering cover, my 
judgment is that P knew (or should have known) that New India would have wanted to be
told about Mr As involvement in another company that was liquidated a year before P was
applying for cover. So, this should have been disclosed. By not telling New India about this,
P mispresented the risk and failed to meet its legal duty  whether the duty of utmost good
faith or the duty make a fair presentation of the risk.
If the insured party fails to disclose this kind of circumstance, and the insurer can show it
would not have offered the policy if it had been disclosed, its entitled to void the policy. And
if the breach was deliberate or reckless, it doesnt have to refund the premium to the insured.
Ive considered whether New India has shown the failure to disclose Mr As involvement in
another company that was liquidated would have made a difference. The underwriting
evidence shows the starting point in these circumstances is that the risk would be
considered unacceptable, and the underwriter has confirmed this. So, cover wouldnt be
offered. P doesnt think Mr As involvement in another company being wound up wouldvechanged its risk profile because that company was liquidated for the purposes of a company
restructure with no financial concerns or unpaid creditors. Ive considered this but dont think
the reason for the liquidation, or the way in which that company was liquidated matters
much. Thats because New Indias underwriting criteria was wide enough to cover a situation
like this irrespective of the financial risk P perceives it has to New India. And its up to New
India to decide what circumstances its prepared to insure. Looking at the underwriting
evidence Im satisfied what the underwriter has said is consistent with the guidance New
India was following when it discovered Mr As involvement in the liquidation of another
company. So, I think its reasonable to rely on their evidence.
I appreciate that P might think its failure to disclose Mr As involvement with another
company that was liquidated might simply be a mistake and there wasnt a deliberate or
reckless breach of duty. New India has considered the breach to be either deliberate or
reckless. Having considered this carefully I agree this was reckless. An insolvency is a
significant event and it occurred only a year before P applied for cover, so I dont think its
something one would simply forget. In my judgment, its something P must have been aware
of, and failing to disclose it in these circumstances was reckless. So New India doesnt have
to repay the premiums.
Taking account of the relevant law, the policy terms and all the circumstances, I think New
Indias decision was fair.
I know that P is unhappy with the panel firms handling of its claim under the policy terms
when New India appointed them. New India isnt responsible for that firms conduct. The
panel firm of Solicitors are independent professionals with their own codes of conduct and
regulator. So, if P remains unhappy with their conduct, it will need to raise this with the panel
firm first or refer it to The Legal Ombudsman to consider.
I asked both parties whether they had any further comments or evidence they wanted me to 
consider in response to my provisional decision. New India hasnt replied. Mr A, on behalf of 
P has replied. Hes made some detailed submissions, most of which have already been 
advanced when P brought its complaint to this Service. For the sake of completeness Ive 
summarised, in brief, what Mr A has said below:
Its correct that Ps business name was incorrectly stated in their proposal form however 
all the information provided related to P, so couldnt have materially influenced New 
Indias underwriting risk.
The mistake in name had no bearing on anything from New Indias point of view other 
than connecting P to the organisation that was stated on the proposal form at a later 
date.
I have fundamentally misunderstood the basis on which the previous business Mr A was 
involved in was wound up. It wasnt insolvent nor was there any other financial concern 
in relation to this; it was wound up for the purposes of a restructure. This business wasnt 
connected to P and didnt present any financial risk to New India.
He doesnt agree that Ps failure to disclose the correct information was reckless. He 
says this was a high bar and requires the proposer not to care as to the accuracy of its 
proposal and that this requires more than carelessness on Ps part. He considers the 
question asked of P to be reasonably interpreted to refer to financial failure and as such 
it wasnt reckless to answer no to it.
He hasnt seen New Indias underwriting criteria. He doesnt accept that its reasonable 
for New India to have declined cover just because one of Ps directors was previously 
involved in a business that was wound up, without the issue of financial problems being 
a feature. This is an unusual position to adopt and uncommercial.He wants me to require New India to provide evidence from their underwriting guide to 
support what theyve said and a witness statement with a statement of truth attached 
from them saying they have never knowingly insured a business where a director has 
been involved in the solvent winding up of another company.
Its not fair and reasonable for me to allow New India to void the policy in this case.
New India acted in a contradictory way for several months by appointing lawyers and 
making case management decisions including not responding to a Part 36 offer to settle 
before voiding the policy. Because of this New India have waived their right to void the 
policy now. 
Ps position has been prejudiced by New Indias decision to avoid cover because the 
advice it received has now meant it cant settle the claim on the same terms it might 
have if it had accepted the offer made at the time. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I remain of the view that Ps complaint should not be upheld. Whilst New 
India havent responded to my provisional decision, Mr As additional submissions havent 
persuaded me that the outcome I provisionally reached was incorrect. 
I dont intend to address Ps submissions about the wrong company name being insured 
because, as I said in my provisional decision, I dont think this makes a difference to the 
outcome of this complaint.
The submissions Mr A has made in relation to whether the other company he was involved 
in was in financial difficulty or not also dont make a difference to the outcome of this 
complaint. I say so because the question Mr A was asked when taking out the insurance on 
Ps behalf was clear; namely whether he or any partners or directors in connection with P 
had been the director of any company which went into liquidation, administration or 
receivership or was currently undergoing any voluntary or mandatory insolvency or winding 
up procedures. 
I appreciate that the reference to winding up procedures formed part of a series of questions 
that might have given the impression that financial risk was something New India was 
considering but I dont accept this meant the question could reasonably be misinterpreted. 
As such I remain of the view that Ps failure to answer the question correctly couldnt be 
anything other than reckless for the reasons Ive already set out.
I know Mr A hasnt seen New Indias underwriting criteria, but I have. That information isnt 
something a business usually shares with policyholders because its commercially sensitive. 
For that reason, we wouldnt share it with customers either. What Ive seen is wide enough 
to cover a situation where Mr A was involved in another company that was wound up, 
irrespective of the way in which it was wound up and the financial risk Mr A perceives this 
might have had to New India. And as Ive said, its up to New India to decide what 
circumstances its prepared to insure. Looking at the underwriting evidence, Im satisfied 
what the underwriter has said is consistent with the guidance New India was following when 
it discovered Mr As involvement in the liquidation of another company. So, I think its 
reasonable to rely on their evidence. 
I appreciate that Mr A feels the position that New India has taken is uncommercial and that it 
must have insured other businesses where their directors had been involved in companies 
that had been wound up before. That may well have been the case at different points in time 
either before or after the underwriting criteria Ive seen was applicable. But even if it wasnt, I dont think it matters. Thats because New India were entitled to take the position they have 
based on their underwriting criteria at the time and the fact that they were reasonably able to 
rely on that. 
Mr A feels that the position New India have taken has prejudiced P given the work thats 
already been undertaken on Ps behalf by the Solicitors appointed. I have no doubt that 
cover being avoided in this way left P in a difficult position, but for the reasons Ive set out I 
dont think New India did anything wrong by avoiding cover. And Im satisfied that P had the 
benefit of cover it wouldnt have been entitled to had it given New India the correct 
information about Mr As history with the other company from the outset. So, in my view P 
has received more than it was entitled to. P did obtain representation itself after New India 
voided the policy. The fact that the advice it might have received from new Solicitors might 
have differed from that of New Indias appointed representatives isnt something New India is 
responsible for. As I said in my provisional decision, those Solicitors are independent 
professionals with their own codes of conduct and a separate regulator. If Mr A is unhappy 
with the advice P received, he can raise this with that firm directly or contact the Legal 
Ombudsman. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ps complaint against The New India 
Assurance Company Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 August 2023.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman