DRN-2374513
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain OneSavings Bank Plc trading as Kent Reliance didnt apply their 
mortgage rate change when they think it should have.
 
What happened
Mr and Mrs F have a mortgage with Kent Reliance. On 10 March 2020 it wrote to Mr and 
Mrs F to say that their current mortgage rate was due to expire on 31 May 2020. The letter 
set out the steps that Mr and Mrs F needed to take to select a new product. It asked that this 
be responded to within 14 days. Mr and Mrs F returned the paperwork with their chosen new 
rate on 26 April and it was received by Kent Reliance on 1 May. In early May, Kent Reliance 
sent a mortgage offer to Mr and Mrs F. They returned this on 22 May. Mr and Mrs F say this 
was received and signed for on 31 May  a Sunday.
Kent reliance says that as this was a Sunday, a non-working day, it wasnt picked up by their 
staff until Monday. It said that as it wasnt received before Mr and Mrs Fs previous mortgage 
product ended, their mortgage would revert to its Standard Variable Rate (SVR) for the 
month of June before moving to the new rate theyd chosen from 1 July. Its processes 
meant that it wouldnt change a rate midway through a month, and the rate change 
paperwork needed to be with it before expiry of the previous rate for their mortgage to avoid 
going on to the SVR.
Mr and Mrs F complained to Kent Reliance. They said theyd posted the acceptance of the 
offer in plenty of time and it wasnt their fault that problems with the post had delayed its 
delivery. They asked Kent Reliance to refund them the difference between the SVR and the 
product they think shouldve been in place from 1 June. Kent Reliance explained its process 
and explained that it needed 7 to 10 working days to apply the rate change which is why it 
asked Mr and Mrs F to indicate their preferences within 14 days of its first letter.
Mr and Mrs F didnt accept this and referred the complaint to us. They said that they were 
never told that Kent Reliance needed 7 to 10 working days to process the change and that 
their signed acceptance was received before their existing mortgage rate had expired.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld. Mr and Mrs F didnt agree with the investigator and asked for their complaint to be 
considered by an ombudsman. So, its been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having thought about everything, I agree with our investigator, and for the same reasons. Ill 
explain why. 
Mr and Mrs F have said that they were never told that the offer acceptance needed to be 
received seven to ten days before the previous offer had expired. I agree that I havent seen 
anywhere they were told this. But I dont think this point is relevant in my considerations 
here. Instead Ive considered the deadlines they were made aware of. Both the need to 
return the rate preference form within 14 days, and for Kent Reliance to have received the 
offer acceptance before the previous product expired. Neither of which I consider they met. 
I know Mr and Mrs F feel they did return the offer acceptance in time. But they have told us it 
was received on a Sunday  a non-working day. In reality, this wasnt received by Kent 
Reliance, on a day when it could be dealt with, until 1 June. And this date was after their 
mortgage rate had expired.
I understand that Mr and Mrs F think they shouldnt lose out because of delays in the post 
reaching Kent Reliance. But at the same time, this isnt the fault of the business either. 
Delays here were likely caused by the current Covid-19 pandemic which is affecting a 
number of services such as post. Kent Reliance wrote to Mr and Mrs F nearly three months 
before their mortgage rate was due to end. So, Im satisfied they were provided with plenty 
of time in which to make their choice and return the paperwork to Kent Reliance. It was their 
decision to not return the paperwork until very near to their existing rate expiring. And there 
was always a risk that the paperwork wouldnt be received on time. 
Ultimately, Kent Reliance did give Mr and Mrs F almost three months to make their choices 
and return the completed paperwork. And the initial deadline it gave them of making their 
choice within 14 days wasnt complied with. It also did make it clear that the paperwork had 
to be received before the previous rate expired if they wished to avoid going on to the SVR. 
Because Kent Reliance didnt receive the paperwork before their previous rate expired, Im 
not going to ask it to backdate the rate to the start of June when their previous rate expired. 
I do have sympathy for Mr and Mrs F. I can understand why they feel they shouldve been 
given more information about the various deadlines. And I understand Mr and Mrs F have 
had other things going on as well about when information should be returned. But overall, 
Im satisfied that Kent Reliance gave them enough information to make it clear when the 
paperwork needed to be returned. And Ive not seen anything to suggest they werent able to 
comply with Kent Reliances deadlines.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 January 2021.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman