DRN-4249674
The complaint
Mr K complains that West Bay Insurance Plc (West Bay) declined to cover a claim relating to 
his dog in full, under his pet insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr Ks dog became ill. A vet recommended a chemical castration to see if this improved the 
condition before consideration of a surgical option. Unfortunately, this wasnt successful. Mr 
Ks dogs condition worsened. A surgical castration was then needed due to the 
development of tumours.  
Mr K says West Bay only paid him £150.66 out of a claim that cost £676.11. He says he 
expected full settlement less his policy excess. 
In its complaint response West Bay says it deducted the correct amounts from Mr Ks claim 
as per his policy terms and conditions. It says this information was made available to him at 
the inception of his policy and at its renewal. West Bay didnt agree to pay any more. 
Mr K referred the matter to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold his complaint. He 
didnt think West Bay acted unfairly when deducting costs relating to the castration and the 
policy excesses. 
Mr K disagreed. He says the terms relating to the deductions werent mentioned in the key 
facts documents. He says the terms changed at renewal in order for West Bay to avoid 
responsibility. Mr K says it isnt fair that he should have to look up clinical definitions online, 
in conjunction with his policy terms, to understand what is and isnt covered. Because he 
disagreed with this outcome Mr K asked that his complaint be considered by an 
ombudsman. 
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding Mr Ks complaint. Im sorry to disappoint him but I will 
explain why I think my decision is fair. 
West Bay accepts its liable to cover some of the costs associated with Mr Ks claim. But it 
has relied on its policy terms to decline the remainder. These costs relate to the chemical 
and surgical castration procedures. 
Ive read Mr Ks policy terms to understand the cover he has in place. The terms say:
Section 1: Veterinary Fees:
What is not covered?
Your fixed excess and (if applicable) the additional 10% co-insurance as shown in your 
policy schedule If your pet turns 5 years of age mid policy year, the co-insurance will apply 
in respect of any treatment that takes place on or after your pets 5th birthday..
And:
Any cost for neutering or spaying your pet unless these procedures are part of the 
treatment specifically for pyometra or cryptorchidism. No other condition will have these 
costs covered.
I think these policy terms are clear that any cost relating to neutering isnt covered unless 
this relates to either of the two conditions specified. Ive read the clinical notes made by the 
vet that treated Mr Ks dog. A record from mid-April 2023 states, Book in to x-ray and 
castrate. A note made five days later says, Complex castration. Poor prognosis. 
I can see that West Bay asked Mr Ks veterinary practice to provide further comment on the 
reasoning behind the treatment it provided. In its response the practice said:
A suprelorin implant was used initially in the hope that it would be effective enough that we 
could avoid a general anaesthetic and surgery in [Mr Ks dog]. However the condition 
progressed rapidly and it was felt that surgery was necessary in view of the rapid growth of 
suspected secondary tumours in the testes.     
The claim notes show West Bays underwriter deducted both the chemical castration and the 
surgical castration costs from Mr Ks claim. The notes say this is because its policy terms are 
clear that neutering is only covered for cryptorchidism and no other purpose. 
I understand Mr Ks comments that this wasnt a routine castration, but rather an attempt to 
remove a cancerous growth. Im very sorry for the upset Mr K has been caused as a result of 
his dogs illness. But the policy terms are clear that neutering (castration) will only be 
covered in the event of two specified conditions. Neither of these apply in Mr Ks dogs case. 
So there is no cover under his policy for the costs associated with the chemical or surgical 
castrations that were performed.  
In these circumstances, I dont think West Bay behaved unfairly in deducting these costs 
from the claim payment. 
Mr Ks dog was more than five years old at the time of the claim. His policy terms say a fixed 
excess and 10% co-insurance excess are payable in these circumstances. So, I dont think it 
treated him unfairly when deducting these fees either. 
Ive thought about Mr Ks comments that he has no idea what pyometra or cryptorchidism 
are and this information is buried deep within the policy booklet. Also, that this information 
isnt contained in the key facts sections of the policy documents. 
I acknowledge Mr Ks comments, but I wouldnt expect this term to be included in a key facts 
section. His policy booklet contains approximately 50 pages detailing a large number of 
terms and conditions. It wouldnt be possible to include all this information in a key facts 
section. However, West Bay must clearly set out any exclusions in its policy documentation. 
Im satisfied that it did so here, and this information was made available to Mr K. 
In summary although Im sorry to disappoint Mr K, I dont think West Bay treated him unfairly 
in relying on its policy terms when paying the claim amount it did. So, I cant reasonably ask 
it to do anymore.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman