DRN-2190437
The complaint
Mr H and Mr L are complaining about Aviva Life & Pensions (UK) Limited (Aviva) in relation 
to a life protection policy they held. They feel Aviva did nothing to help them when they 
requested a payment holiday for their premiums at the start of the COVID-19 pandemic.
What happened
Mr H and Mr L held a term assurance with Aviva. They took it out in November 2013, and it 
provided terminal illness benefit along with a death benefit of £140,000 for a thirteen-year 
term.
On 24 March 2020 Mr L spoke to Aviva about the policy. He explained due to the COVID-19 
pandemic and the uncertainty born out of this he was concerned about his job and wasnt 
sure he would be able to maintain the payments on the policy for a while. He asked if he 
could take payment holiday until he could be certain about his employment.  Aviva explained 
to Mr L that his particular policy didnt allow for such things in its terms and conditions, so it 
wasnt able to help him at that point. It did however explain the policys cancellation process 
and how long it would take for the policy to finally end from the date of the first missed 
premium  thereby giving Mr L some time until he could find a way of maintaining the policy.
Mr L wasnt happy with this answer and so raised a complaint. He also cancelled his 
premium payments at this point.
When Aviva responded to this Service in May 2020 it explained that recent Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) guidance had allowed Aviva to introduce a premium deferral 
procedure for life protection policies. It explained that under the deferment period three 
months premiums could be deferred. The balance owed would then be spread over a nine-
month period to bring the policy up to date. Aviva explained this had only become available 
on 18 May 2020 and confirmed that it had contacted Mr L immediately to offer this to him. In 
Mr Ls case as the last premium paid was in March 2020 the deferral would count for the 
payments due in April, May and June and payments would recommence in July 2020. Over 
the next nine months the revised increased premium would be collected and regular 
collections would then resume from April 2021 onwards. Aviva also explained to us that it 
hadnt received confirmation of an agreement to this from Mr L at that time.
Following this Mr H and Mr L confirmed to this service that regardless of the new position 
they were still unhappy with Aviva and wanted us to look into why it had taken Aviva nine 
weeks to provide the payment holiday.
The complaint was assessed by one of our investigators who felt it couldnt be upheld. While 
he appreciated the difficult position Mr L was in, he was satisfied Aviva hadnt done anything 
wrong as it had acted in line with the policys terms and conditions and it wasnt 
unreasonable Aviva wanted to wait for guidance from the FCA before making such decision 
about these particular policies. He also felt that the situation Mr L had faced wasnt unusual 
at that point in time due to the pandemic, but the fact that shortly after Mr L had spoken with 
Aviva, the deferment period was implemented and meant that Mr L was effectively put into 
the position he wanted to be in had this been implemented from March 2020.
Mr L didnt agree with the assessment and remained of the view Aviva had done something 
wrong. The investigator considered Mr Ls comments but wasnt persuaded to change his 
initial outcome.
As no agreement could be made the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have thought about whether Aviva acted incorrectly in its dealings with Mr H and Mr L and 
whether it treated them unfairly. Having done so I dont think it has so I am not upholding this 
complaint.
The COVID-19 pandemic hit the UK hard in March 2020 effecting peoples health, jobs and 
lives in general. It was an unprecedented time and people and businesses alike had to find 
ways to survive. Mr L seems to have been adversely affected during this time due to the 
nature of his work so I can appreciate how worrying this period would have been for him.
Businesses had to adapt to the changing environment as quick as possible to provide the 
best service they could to their customers. Some implemented the necessary changes 
sooner than others but given the sudden change in the world its not unreasonable that some 
businesses took a few weeks to adapt effectively.
In this specific situation when Mr L called Aviva it hadnt amended any of its processes in 
relation to protection polices in the wake of the pandemic. Thats not to say it wasnt going to 
but it was waiting on guidance from its regulator (the FCA) to provide it with a framework 
within which to make any changes. Aviva wasnt alone in this and I dont think it was 
unreasonable to wait for the FCA to provide the necessary guidance.  And while the FCA 
had published some guidance pertaining to payment holidays when Mr L initially called life 
protection policies hadnt yet been addressed.
When Mr L called Aviva it explained the terms and conditions of the policy didnt allow for 
any payment holidays and having looked at these myself Aviva was correct, so it didnt do 
anything wrong in not accommodating Mr Ls requirements when he first called. All a 
business can do is work within the terms and conditions it is required to follow and as I have 
explained above given the impact of the pandemic had only recently started, so its not 
unreasonable Aviva wasnt able to agree to the payment holiday at that point in time.
When the FCA did provide guidance that related to the specific policy in question in May 
2020 Aviva called Mr L immediately to explain this to him. To me this indicates that Aviva 
wanted to help and had finally been provided with the framework within which it could do so.
I know Mr L feels Aviva didnt do enough for him and that other providers had granted him 
payment holidays at that time but Aviva cant be compared to them as the policies and the 
terms and conditions might have been very different from the outset.
So while I understand Mr Ls difficult position, in my view Aviva didnt do anything wrong 
when he initially spoke to it and I am pleased to see it tried to help Mr L as soon as it felt it 
was able to. And I know Mr L has said this caused him much stress but what Aviva offered 
him in May after it had received guidance effectively would have put Mr L in the same 
position he would have been in had a payment holiday been given by Aviva when he called in March. I also dont think the time it took Aviva to receive guidance from the FCA and act 
upon it was unreasonable given the impact of the pandemic at the time.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 November 2021.
 
Ayshea Khan
Ombudsman