DRN-3802607
The complaint
Ms S complains Yorkshire Building Society trading as Chelsea Building Society (Chelsea) 
didnt action a transfer of money from her account correctly.
What happened
On 20 March 2021 Ms S contacted Chelsea by phone with a request to transfer a sum to a 
separate Cash ISA provider. After being advised it wasnt possible to do this by phone on 
her account, she wrote to them. Shes unhappy as the payments werent made to that 
provider until the 6 and 7 April 2021. That was after the close of the 2020-21 tax year, which 
meant Ms S couldnt utilise her cash ISA allowance for that period.
In its Final Response Letter Chelsea didnt uphold the complaint as they felt no errors were 
made at their end. They said before the transfer Ms S was advised of the daily limit. And the 
transfer was made at the earliest opportunity once theyd received her written request, which 
they said, was on 6 April 2021. But as theyd previously offered Ms S £50 redress, they said 
they would honour making such a payment as a goodwill gesture. Ms S referred the matter 
to us.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said Chelseas records show it received Ms 
Ss final letter confirming the instruction on 6 April 2021 and processed the payment as soon 
as it was able to. He didnt think hed been presented with any evidence to show Chelsea 
was at fault for the fact Ms Ss letters hadnt been received and processed before the 
deadline for the 2020-21 tax year.
Ms S didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to look at the matter. Her main concern was 
that shed sent the letter Chelsea said they needed to make the transfers on 24 March 2021, 
13 days before the new tax year began on 6 April 2021. She said they whole saga had 
caused her stress and strain and she regarded the good will gesture of £50 paid into her 
account as adding insult to injury.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive come to the same conclusion as out investigator, Ill explain why.
In her letter of 20 March 2021 making the initial requests Ms S acknowledged shed been 
advised when shed phoned that, as she wasnt registered for online access, she couldnt 
make the transfers by phone, so had to send written instructions, which she did.
Chelsea told us they wrote to Ms S on 29 March 2021, when they got her above letter as 
they needed to confirm, in light of the daily limit on this account for faster payments, whether 
she wanted her request fulfilled by two separate faster payments or by issuing a cheque for 
the whole balance. And that, although the branch Ms S contacted also tried to call her to 
chase a response on 31 March 2021, they couldnt as they didnt have a contact number for 
her on record. Their Customer Communication notes detail this attempt along with the 
Postal request to transfer on 6 April 2021 and show the first tranche of payment being 
authorized on the same date.
I know Ms Ss main concern is she made the initial request to transfer a number of days 
before the end of the 2020-21 tax year. But there were a number of days in that period which 
werent normal working days. The Easter Bank Holiday began on Friday 2 April and the first 
working day after was Tuesday 6 April 2021. So, on the information before me, I think 
Chelsea actioned Ms Ss request and sent the first transfer as soon as theyd received and 
clarified it in writing, as required by the terms and conditions on this account. So, for the 
reasons Ive given, I dont think Chelsea have done anything wrong here or acted unfairly 
here so I cant uphold this complaint.
In respect of the payment Chelsea have made I dont think its for me to interfere with 
anything which has been made as a gesture of goodwill. If Ms S remains unhappy about the 
credit to her account, she can ask for it to be removed.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2023.
 
Annabel O'Sullivan
Ombudsman