The complaint
Mr W has complained about National Westminster Bank Plc. He is not happy about the way 
it set up and marketed his home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr W is a long-standing customer of Nat West and feels that it didnt make it clear that his 
insurance policy was provided by a separate insurance company. He feels that this 
misrepresentation has led him to pay more for his home insurance as he trusted Nat West. 
Mr W suggested that he wouldnt have bought insurance had he have known the insurance 
wasnt provided by Nat West direct.
Nat West explained to Mr W that the policy documentation and letters made it clear that the 
policy was underwritten by an insurance company. And so it didnt think it had done anything 
wrong. So Mr W complained to this service.
Our investigator looked into things for him but didnt uphold his complaint. She explained that 
she wasnt looking into the pricing increases or a complaint about a different policy, as these 
were being looked at as separate complaints. But she thought that the policy documentation 
and letters made it reasonably clear that the insurance was provided by and underwritten by 
a separate insurance company. So, she didnt think that Nat West had done anything wrong.
As Mr W didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review. He maintained that he 
didnt know the policy wasnt provided by Nat West and felt that the documentation was 
unclear and misleading.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I can understand Mr Ws position, as he simply just didnt realise that his Nat West branded 
home insurance policy was underwritten by a different insurance company. But, having 
considered all of the information, I dont think Nat West has done anything wrong. Ill explain 
why.
This complaint stems from a policy that Mr W took out in 2014. And I agree with the 
investigator that the letters and policy documentation make it reasonably clear that the 
insurance policy was underwritten by a different insurance company. Indeed, it says this on 
most of the letters that were sent to Mr W about the policy. 
DRN-1796227Ive considered Mr Ws point that the text explaining that the policy is provided by another 
company is in small writing on his letters. And that not everyone would understand what 
underwritten means. I can understand this. But I think the letters are clear enough, especially 
when considered alongside the policy documentation that was provided.
Ive looked at the policy documentation that was sent to Mr W when he took this policy out 
and at renewal. Each document says that the policy is underwritten by another company. If 
Mr W was unsure what this meant he couldve queried this with Nat West at that time. And I 
agree with the investigator that this gives a strong indication the insurance company 
identified has a clear involvement with the policy. 
Furthermore, the credit agreement and policy documentation all clearly refer to the insurance 
company. And I would expect a consumer to read over these when they took out the policy 
and at the time of renewal. These confirm that the other company is providing insurance 
cover. And it also makes it clear that Nat West will administer and look into things if there 
was a claim. It isnt unusual for insurance policies to be set up through brokers and for 
administration of policies to be carried out separate to the underwriter of the policy. 
I accept that Mr W wasnt aware that the policy was underwritten by a separate insurance 
company. But I think it is clear from the policy documentation and information provided that 
the actual insurance cover wasnt provided by or underwritten by Nat West. 
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr W, and Im not commenting or looking at his 
other complaints about the insurer and another policy, but Im not upholding his complaint.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 30 July 2020.
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman