DRN-2075014
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in
connection with a store card account. AXA France IARD (AXA) didnt actually sell the PPI, 
but its accepted responsibility for this complaint. So Ill refer to AXA as the seller to keep 
things simple.
Miss H says AXA mis-sold her the PPI.
What happened
Miss H took out the PPI policy when she opened a store card account in a shop in 2002.
The policy would have paid part of the outstanding monthly balance on Miss Hs card each 
month if shed made a successful claim for injury, sickness or unemployment. It also 
included some purchase and price protection cover and life cover.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Miss H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Hs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive seen a copy of Miss Hs application for the store card. It includes a short section on 
Account Cover (a form of PPI). The section is headed Protecting your account. It 
instructs the applicant only to sign if they required the cover. It says Yes, I would like to 
protect my Account with Account Cover, and it continues Please debit my Account with 
the relevant monthly premium until further notice. Theres a space to sign. Miss H 
signed specifically to indicate that she wished to take the cover, in addition to signing the 
form overall.
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied that Miss H would have realised that the PPI 
wasnt compulsory. And I think the policy was added to her account because she chose 
to take it. But I can understand how she may no longer remember this, so long after the 
event.
AXA didnt advise Miss H to take the policy. This means it didnt have to check that it was 
suitable for her. But it did need to make sure it gave Miss H enough information to 
enable her to decide for herself if she wanted PPI, knowing what alternative means shed 
have had of making her monthly repayments if she was unable to work.
Ive borne in mind that Miss H has told us that shed have been entitled to four months 
full sick pay from her employer at the time. But if shed made a successful claim on the 
policy for accident, sickness or unemployment, it would have paid a monthly benefit of 
15% of what she owed on her store card. And it would have done this each month until 
her credit agreement ended, or she returned to work, or the outstanding balance at the 
time of her claim had been repaid - whichever was the earliest. Whats more, it would 
have paid out in addition to any payments Miss H received from her employer. So she 
could have used those to cover other day-to-day expenses.
I acknowledge that Miss H has told us she had some endowment policies. But I think its 
unlikely, on balance, that shed have wanted to cash those in to enable to her to make 
her monthly store card repayments. Shes also mentioned that family and friends would 
have helped her financially if need be. But circumstances can change, and I cant be 
sure that Miss Hs family and friends would have been in a position to help if the need 
had arisen. So taking everything into account, I think the PPI could have been useful to 
Miss H.
Its possible the information AXA gave Miss H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But Ive explained that Im satisfied that she chose to take out the PPI - so it 
looks as if she wanted this type of cover, even if shes understandably forgotten that now. 
Based on what shes told us about her circumstances at the time, Miss H was eligible for 
the policy, and she doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the main things it 
didnt cover (for example, provisions regarding unusual working arrangements or existing 
medical conditions). Ive seen nothing to suggest that the policy was unaffordable for 
Miss H. And since she was paying for it monthly, she could have cancelled it at any time 
if her circumstances changed, or if she decided she no longer wanted the cover.
Taking everything into account, Im not convinced that better information about the 
PPI would have put Miss H off taking it out. It follows that I dont think Miss H has lost out 
as a result of anything AXA may have done wrong.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 November 2020. 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman