DRN-3420818
The complaint
Ms S complains Vanquis Bank Limited agreed to lend her money on a credit card when this 
was irresponsible and unaffordable.
 
What happened
Ms S complained to Vanquis that they should not have increased the credit limit on her credit 
card in February 2013, July 2013, February 2016 and April 2016.
 
Vanquis responded to say they hadnt done anything wrong in offering Ms S these increases 
and shed accepted them at the time when she couldve opted out. 
Ms S wasnt happy with Vanquis response so referred her complaint to our service. An 
Investigator considered her concerns and he agreed, in summary that all of the increases 
were unaffordable for Ms S taking into account her circumstances at the time. He 
recommended Vanquis should:
Refund all interest and charges applied to the account since the February 2013 limit 
increase and the balance increased beyond the initial £500 limit, plus 8% simple 
interest from the date the amounts were applied. This should first be used to reduce 
any balance still owed on the account.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Ms S credit file in relation to this 
account.
Pay Ms S £200 for the trouble and upset caused by Vanquis decision to increase 
her credit limit without carrying out the appropriate checks.
Both Ms S and Vanquis accepted this outcome. But Ms S later asked for an Ombudsmans 
decision because she said she hadnt realised exactly what the Investigators 
recommendations would mean for the balance of her account. 
As Ms S asked for an Ombudsman to make a decision, the complaints been passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties agreed with the Investigators assessment that the credit limit increases on 
Ms S credit card from February 2013 onwards were unaffordable. So I will focus my 
decision on the area that remains in dispute. 
Ms S is unhappy with Investigators recommended redress. She would like all of the interest 
and charges applied to her account since February 2013, when the first unaffordable 
increase took place, refunded. But we wouldnt usually recommend all interest and charges 
are refunded on lending we considered had been agreed correctly. So I dont think Vanquis 
need to refund these charges.  
Ms S also says that Vanquis should rework the account so that payments she has already 
made go to reducing the interest-bearing part of balance first i.e the first £500. But, this 
usually applies to accounts where only part of the balance is interest-bearing on a 
contractual basis. Not where interest refunds are being applied to an account later. So again 
I dont think Vanquis need to do what Ms S is suggesting. 
Vanquis have already re-worked Ms S account to reflect the Investigators 
recommendations and I find that fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Ms S complaint.
 
Vanquis Bank Limited have already settled the complaint in line with Investigators 
recommendations so I dont require them to do anything else. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2022.
 
Eleanor Rippengale
Ombudsman