DRN-3859662
The complaint
Mr S complains that a TV he bought with credit provided by American Express Services 
Europe Limited (AESEL) wasnt of satisfactory quality. He wants AESEL to refund the cost 
to his card, plus instalment and uninstalment costs. He also complains about the way 
AESEL handled his claim.
What happened
Mr S bought a TV from a shop I will refer to as A, using his AESEL credit card, in 
November 2019. He noticed a fault with the TV, within six months of purchase, and 
contacted A. He says the screen was blurred and bleeding.
He contacted A at least three times, but it didnt provide him with any help. It eventually told 
him to refer to the manufacturer. He says he contacted the manufacturer and provided 
evidence of the fault. The manufacturer confirmed there was a fault and told him to go back 
to A for a refund or replacement. But when he contacted A, it didnt reply.
So, in March 2021, Mr S raised a payment dispute with AESEL through its online portal. 
After Mr S supplied it with evidence and it investigated, AESEL said (in May 2021) that it was 
too late to raise a dispute and referred him back to A. Mr S still failed to get a response from 
A and referred back to AESEL in August 2021. He asked it to re-open his case  but AESEL 
again told him he was out of time and would need to refer back to A.
Mr S referred his complaint to this service. He said he wanted the cost of the TV, plus 
delivery and installation (£402.95) to be refunded, plus the expected cost of uninstalling the 
TV, a further £100.
AESEL investigated his complaint and said it couldnt locate a section 75 claim from Mr S. It 
set up a claim and asked Mr S to complete its claim form and provide evidence, but it didnt 
hear back from him so didnt progress the claim.
Since referring his complaint to us, Mr S again contacted A to try to get a refund. He says 
the store manager issued him with an £80 gift receipt, which he says he accepted on the 
understanding that it wasnt in full and final settlement of his claim.
Our investigator didnt think AESEL had treated Mr S fairly. She thought AESEL should have 
initially treated Mr Ss dispute as a section 75 claim and that it didnt need any additional 
evidence to proceed with the claim. She recommended AESEL pay Mr S £50 for the poor 
service he received, and £69 as a price reduction for the faulty TV. She didnt recommend a 
higher refund as Mr S had continued to use the TV.
AESEL didnt agree, saying that it didnt proactively offer section 75 claims as it had to 
protect the interests of all its customers, including merchants. And that it couldnt proceed 
with a section 75 claim because Mr S hadnt completed its form.
My provisional decision
I was minded to agree with our investigator that the complaint should be upheld, and 
I explained why. I said:
Firstly, I find there is a fault with the TV Mr S purchased using his credit card. Hes 
provided evidence of the bleed on the screen. Im satisfied this is the same fault 
that he reported within six months of buying the TV and the fault which Mr S says the 
manufacturer agreed existed and couldnt be fixed.
Secondly its clear that he tried on many occasions to obtain a refund or replacement 
from A. He contacted it by email and through its webchat but didnt receive a 
response. He couldnt initially engage in person with the store where he purchased 
the TV because of the national lockdown. More recently, and since referring his 
complaint to us, his local store manager provided him with an £80 gift card  Mr S 
says that was the maximum the store was able to authorise.
Mr S purchased the TV using a credit card. So, once he had exhausted his attempts 
to seek redress from A (and the TVs manufacturer), he raised a payment dispute 
with AESEL.
I wouldnt reasonably expect Mr S to have the expertise to know the terminology 
around a payment dispute, or to understand the different ways of disputing a 
payment. He raised a dispute through AESELs online portal, and I dont think it an 
unreasonable expectation that AESEL should guide him through the process.
Chargeback
Banks can help settle some disputes between customers and retailers by submitting 
a chargeback request for a transaction. Chargeback is a way for customers to 
dispute certain card payments and is run by the card scheme. A chargeback can only 
be done for certain specific reasons and within certain timescales. When Mr S 
contacted AESEL about his claim, the 120-day timescale for making a chargeback 
request had expired.
AESEL didnt attempt a chargeback request because it was outside of the timescales 
set by the card scheme rules. I dont think this was unreasonable  AESEL was 
obliged to comply with the card scheme rules.
Section 75
In considering whether AESEL treated Mr S fairly, I need to have regard to the 
relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of 
practice and (where appropriate) what I consider having been good industry practice 
at the time. In this case, relevant law includes Section 75, amongst others. 
Importantly, Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under 
Section 75. Rather, when I think about what a fair way is to resolve Mr Ss complaint, 
I have to take account of relevant law, but that doesnt mean Im obliged to reach the 
same outcome as, for example, a court might reach if Mr S pursued a claim for 
misrepresentation or breach of contract. This is because, our service is an informal 
alternative to the courts, and it operates under different rules from a court.
The general effect of Section 75 is that if Mr S has a claim for misrepresentation or 
breach of contract against the retailer, he can also bring that claim against AESEL 
provided certain conditions are met.Ive firstly thought about whether AESEL should have done more to progress this for 
Mr S, and I think it should have done. I say this because Mr S didnt need to know the 
best way of him pursuing his claim. He simply needed to tell the bank he disputed a 
payment because the item hed received wasnt of satisfactory quality. As it was too 
late for AESEL to make a chargeback request, I would have expected it to progress a 
section 75 claim. Mr S had provided enough evidence to show there was a fault with 
the TV and that his efforts to resolve the matter with A had been unsuccessful. 
AESEL says Mr S could only have requested a section 75 claim by phone. But its 
not provided evidence to show that this was brought to Mr Ss attention and I find it 
wasnt unreasonable for him to expect AESEL to pursue a section 75 claim with the 
information hed provided.
AESEL says it doesnt proactively offer section 75 claims as it needs to treat all its 
customers, including merchants, fairly and it doesnt want to encourage legal action. 
My role isnt to comment on AESELs procedures, thats a matter for the regulator. 
Instead Ive considered the individual circumstances of this complaint. I find Mr S 
wanted to dispute the payment and he gave AESEL enough information to progress 
a claim on his behalf. If AESEL required Mr S to sign a declaration, it could have 
provided this at the outset of his claim.
Had AESEL progressed a section 75 claim for Mr S in March 2021 when he first 
disputed the payment, I think it would, more likely than not, have been successful. 
I say this because, as already set out above, I find the TV wasnt of satisfactory 
quality and, apart from an £80 voucher, he hadnt received a refund or replacement.
And I set out what I thought AESEL needed to do to put things right. I said:
1. The fault cant be repaired, so Mr S should receive a refund. He paid £299 for 
the TV, plus £3.95 delivery. Hes received an £80 voucher from A and he has 
had use of the TV for three years. I think its fair that he pays for this use, 
albeit it wont have been very enjoyable because of the fault. I think its fair 
that AESEL should refund Mr S £122.95. This will mean Mr S has effectively 
paid £100 to use a TV with a faulty screen, which I think is fair.
2. If Mr Ss account balance has remained above £122.95 since the payment to 
A, the account should be re-worked as if the transaction had not taken place. 
In that way, any resulting interest and charges will also be refunded. If the 
account balance has fallen below £122.95, AESEL should add interest at 8% 
simple a year to the refund from the date of payment to the date of the refund. 
3. Mr S told us he had to pay an electrician £100 to instal the TV. I would ask 
him to provide evidence of this cost in response to this provisional decision 
and, provided enough evidence is received, I intend to order AESEL to 
reimburse him this cost, plus interest at 8% simple a year.
4. Mr S anticipates he will have to pay a similar cost for the TV to be uninstalled 
and I think AESEL should also reimburse him for this cost, on receipt of 
evidence from Mr S.
5. I think this matter could have been resolved much earlier had AESEL 
provided Mr S with better customer service and progressed his claim. I think it 
should pay Mr S £50 for the distress and inconvenience hes been caused.
6. Finally, AESEL should arrange to collect the TV at a convenient time for Mr S.Mr S provided an invoice for the cost of installing the TV. He said he wants to replace the TV 
with a larger one which wouldnt be suitable for wall-mounting. So he wants AESEL to cover 
the costs of removing the socket, trunking, and wall mount, and making good the wall and 
re-painting it.
AESEL said it would accept my provisional decision outcome. But it said that:
It would propose to calculate interest to a date two weeks after Mr S has agreed to the 
decision. This would allow it time to produce and post a cheque to Mr S.
It cant arrange to collect the TV for disposal. But it would cover reasonable disposal 
costs. It suggested this would likely be around £20.
It cant provide a tax deduction certificate, so would pay the interest award before the 
deduction of tax.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision, I said why I thought AESEL should reimburse Mr S for the cost of 
installing the TV and I asked Mr S to provide evidence of what he paid. Mr S has now 
provided a copy of the invoice showing that he paid £191.00, and this is the amount AESEL 
will need to reimburse him.
In my provisional decision, I said I was minded to order AESEL to reimburse Mr S for the 
cost of uninstalling the TV. In response, Mr S said he anticipates the cost to uninstall the TV 
will be similar to the installation cost, plus there will be additional costs in making good the 
wall and repainting it. We asked Mr S for a further explanation, and it would seem he has 
had a change of mind and would like to buy a larger TV which wont be wall mounted. Im 
sorry, but I cant ask AESEL to cover the cost of removing the wall mount and making good 
the wall. My aim is to put Mr S back in the position hed be in if hed been supplied with a TV 
of satisfactory quality. In that case, the wall mount and socket would still have been fitted 
and I cant order AESEL to cover the costs of removing it. The cost AESEL will need to cover 
is limited to any costs involved in taking the old TV down and fitting a new, like for like, TV. 
Its possible that, as the wall mount is already installed, Mr S wont incur any costs for this. 
But, should costs be incurred, he will need to provide evidence to AESEL for it to reimburse 
him.
AESEL says it will calculate the interest award up until two weeks after it receives notice that 
Mr S has accepted this decision. This will allow it time to send a cheque to Mr S. This I find 
this to be a fair and reasonable approach.
AESEL says it cant arrange to collect the TV but has agreed to reimburse Mr S for any 
reasonable costs of disposal which it suggests should be around £20. In the circumstances, 
I agree its fair that AESEL should reimburse Mr S for any disposal costs he incurs. This cost 
shouldnt be limited to the £20 AESEL has suggested. But, if the cost is more than £20, Mr S 
should provide evidence of three quotes to AESEL to evidence that the cost incurred was in 
line with market rates and not unreasonable.
Finally AESEL says it cant provide Mr S with a tax deduction certificate and will pay the 
interest award gross. I cant order AESEL to pay the interest after the deduction of tax, so it 
will be for Mr S to report the gross interest to HMRC.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. American Express Services Europe Limited 
should:
1. Refund Mr S £122.95.
2. If Mr Ss account balance has remained above £122.95 since the payment to A, the 
account should be re-worked as if the transaction had not taken place. In that way, any 
resulting interest and charges will also be refunded. If the account balance has fallen 
below £122.95, AESEL should add interest at 8% simple a year to the refund from the 
date of payment up until two weeks after it receives notice that Mr S has accepted this 
decision. Its told us it will pay this interest gross, before the deduction of income tax.
3. Reimburse Mr S for the cost of installing the TV - £191.00. AESEL should add interest at 
8% simple a year from the date of payment up until two weeks after it receives notice 
that Mr S has accepted this decision. Its told us it will pay this interest gross, before the 
deduction of income tax.
4. Reimburse Mr S for any costs incurred in removing the TV and fitting a replacement TV 
to the existing wall mount, on receipt of evidence from Mr S.
5. Reimburse Mr S for the cost of disposing of the TV, on receipt of evidence from Mr S.
6. Pay Mr S £50 for the distress and inconvenience hes been caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2023.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman