DRN-4109263
The complaint
Mr G complains American International Group UK Limited (AIG) have unfairly declined his 
buildings insurance claim.   
Mr G is being represented by A. But for ease, I will refer only to Mr G below.
All references to AIG also include its appointed agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
AIG declined the claim as it says the cause of the damage, the escape of water, has 
been happening gradually over a period of time  which is excluded under the terms 
and conditions of the policy.
Ive reviewed the images provided by both Mr G and AIG. The photos provided by Mr 
G were taken shortly after the damage was discovered and already shows extensive 
mould growth. While Ive considered Mr Gs comment about the weather conditions 
at the time, Im not persuaded this wouldve resulted in the extent of the growth 
shown in the photos in such a short space of time.
AIG are entitled to rely on the opinions of experts. In this case it has concluded the 
mould is likely to have developed over a period of time. It also noted mineral deposits 
around the water supply inlet, which it says would further support the leak had been 
ongoing for some time.
So having considered everything available, and in the absence of any information 
that contradicts AIGs experts, that the damage has happened gradually, Im not 
persuaded AIG is obviously wrong. And so, I dont think it has acted unfairly in 
applying the exclusion.
So, for these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2023.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman