DRN-4529263
The complaint
Mr H complains that Salary Finance Limited irresponsibly agreed a loan for him.
What happened
Salary Finance agreed a loan of £7,000 for Mr H in August 2022. The total amount owed
was £10,775 to be repaid at £180 a month over 60 months (figures rounded). I understand
that Mr H entered into a debt management plan with all his creditors in early 2023 with help
from a national charity.
Mr H complained to Salary Finance and said the loan was unaffordable for him from the
beginning. He said that Salary Finance should have seen this from his high levels of existing
debt.
Salary Finance said it reviewed Mr Hs credit file when he applied which showed no adverse
information and its assessment found the loan would be affordable for him. It didnt uphold
Mr Hs complaint and he referred it to us.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint but didnt recommend that it be upheld.
They found that Salary Finance had conducted a proportionate check and there wasnt
anything in the information it gathered to suggest that the loan would be unaffordable for
Mr H.
Mr H didnt agree with this recommendation and asked for the complaint to come to an
ombudsman to decide and it came to me. I issued a provisional decision on 12 December 
2023 explaining why I thought Mr Hs complaint should succeed. Mr H accepted my 
provisional decision but Salary Finance didnt and provided further comments for me to 
consider when making my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed everything again including what Salary Finance said in response to my 
provisional decision, I remain of the view that Mr Hs complaint should be upheld. Ill explain 
why again in this final decision and refer to Salary Finances comments where appropriate. 
As before, Ive had regard to the regulators rules and guidance on responsible lending (set 
out in its consumer credit handbook  CONC) which lenders, such as Salary Finance, need 
to abide by. Salary Finance will be aware of these, and our approach to this type of lending 
is set out on our website, so I wont refer to the regulations in detail here but will summarise
them.
Before entering into the credit agreement, Salary Finance needed to check that Mr H could
afford to meet his repayments out of his usual means for the term of the loan, without having
to borrow further and without experiencing financial difficulty or other adverse
consequences. The checks needed to be proportionate to the nature of the credit (the
amount borrowed, for example) and take into consideration Mr Hs circumstances.
Salary Finance needed to bear in mind that certain factors might point towards a more
rigorous assessment and others towards a less rigorous one when deciding what type of
creditworthiness assessment was required. CONC states that such factors include the cost 
of the credit relative to the customers financial circumstances. Where the repayments are 
low the amount of information that would be sufficient to support a reasonable assessment 
might be less than would be required in the case of more expensive credit or where the 
credit might be expected to have a more significant impact on the customers financial 
situation. 
Ultimately, Salary Finance needed to treat Mr H fairly and take full account of his interests 
when making its lending decision.
Mr Hs application form records that he was employed with an income of £19,953 or a total
monthly income of £1,471 net. Salary Finance verified Mr Hs income by contacting his
employer. Mr H gave his housing costs as £200 and Salary Finance estimated his monthly
expenses as £611 based on national statistical datasets.
Mr Hs credit file showed he had £8,858 of outstanding debt which included around £5,300
across six revolving credit accounts, two overdrafts amounting to around £2,600 combined
and a loan with a balance of £930 and monthly repayments of £30. Salary Finance
estimated Mr Hs monthly debt repayments came to £262 and concluded that hed have
around £200 a month spare after meeting the loan repayment of £180.
Salary Finance said in response to my provisional decision that there was no adverse 
information recorded on Mr Hs credit file and he appeared to be managing his existing credit 
without issue. It said that there was no indication from this information that it should carry out 
any enhanced due diligence. I accept that there wasnt any adverse information recorded for 
Mr Hs active debts. (Two accounts had default markers and appear to have been settled 
before this loan was taken out.) However, there were other indications that Mr H might have 
had difficulty meeting his loan repayments and so, as Id said in my provisional decision,  
Salary Finances checks might have been proportionate in some cases but I dont consider 
that they were on this occasion. 
This was because Mr H already had sizeable debts relative to his income and wasnt earning 
enough to take him out of his overdraft each month; this loan wasnt for debt consolidation 
but for further spending, and agreeing this loan for Mr H would potentially increase his debt 
to almost £20,000 and his monthly repayments on debt to almost a third of his income, 
based on Salary Finances estimate. I think Salary Finance should have carried out a more 
rigorous check here to understand what Mr Hs actual expenses were in order to reasonably 
assess whether hed be able to meet his repayments without difficulty for the loan term.
Mr H provided his bank statements from the time and Ive reviewed these. To be clear, Im
not suggesting this is the information that Salary Finance should have gathered but it is the
information I have available and I think its reasonable to rely on these to understand Mr Hs
means. These show that Mr Hs rent was twice what hed said at £400 and he had more debt
that his credit file check had shown, for example he was making monthly payments of over
£150 to a second loan and was also paying over £50 a month interest on his overdrafts.
Salary Finance said in response to this that had Mr H told it his rent was £400 he would still 
have passed its affordability assessment. Salary Finance also said that it had included an 
amount in its estimate of Mr Hs monthly debt repayments which covered the overdraft 
interest and that it didnt see the loan with repayments of £150 in its credit file check because different lenders report to different credit reference agencies. Finally, 
Salary Finance said that Mr H had a good level of disposable income according to the 
information it relied on.  
I doubt Id consider that Salary Finance made a fair lending decision or paid due regard to 
Mr Hs interests if its assessment only considered the amounts he needed to continue 
servicing his debts or left him with nothing spare each month after meeting his loan 
repayment. I appreciate that the credit check Salary Finance conducted didnt reveal the 
extent of Mr Hs debt, but as Ive explained above I dont think its checks went far enough on 
this occasion. 
As Id said in my provisional decision, I think its likely Salary Finance would have learnt that 
the loan was unaffordable for Mr H and that he was reliant on credit to meet his living costs 
had it conducted a proportionate check. Mr H didnt have enough money coming in to make 
inroads into his debts and by the time he entered into a debt management plan in early 2023 
his debts had increased to over £27,000. I think this outcome was foreseeable and Ive 
concluded that Salary Finance was irresponsible to have entered into this agreement with
Mr H and I am upholding his complaint.
Putting things right
Ive concluded that Salary Finance was irresponsible to have agreed this loan for Mr H. As 
Mr H had the use of the money he borrowed I think its fair that he repays this, but he 
shouldnt have to pay any interest, fees or premiums associated with the loan or have
his credit file adversely impacted.
To put things right for Mr H, Im proposing that Salary Finance should:
Cap the amount he needs to repay at the capital amount he borrowed, this being 
£7,000;
Consider all payments hes made as payments towards this capital amount; 
If Mr H has repaid more than the capital he borrowed (which I dont think is 
the case) then Salary Finance should refund these overpayments to him 
along with 8% simple interest per annum*;
If Mr H hasnt yet repaid the capital then Salary Finance should treat him fairly 
and sympathetically which may mean coming to an agreed arrangement plan 
with him or amending a plan already in place;
Remove any adverse information about this loan from Mr Hs credit file, once settled.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Salary Finance to take off tax from this interest. It must 
give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I am upholding Mr Hs complaint about Salary Finance Limited 
and it now needs to take the above steps to put things right for him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2024.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman