DRN-2054935
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy with the way Somerset Bridge Insurance Services Limited, trading as Go 
Skippy (Go Skippy), handled the refund after his car insurance policy was cancelled.
What happened
In July 2019, Mr As car insurance automatically renewed and he was charged a full years 
premium which was just over £580. As he didnt want to be insured by them for another year, 
he contacted Go Skippy and asked them to cancel the policy. They agreed and said hed be 
refunded the full premium. 
Go Skippy said in early August 2019, they received a chargeback notification from Mr As 
bank for the premium amount. They defended it because they said they had already paid the 
refund - it had been paid back to the same account Mr A used to initially buy the policy. 
However they didnt hear back from their bank about their defence submissions. Go Skippy 
said as Mr A had received the refund twice, from them and through the chargeback he 
needed to return to them the chargeback of £580. 
In October 2019, Go Skippy sent Mr A demand letters including a final notice in order to 
chase the debt. He was told if the debt was not paid by 29 October 2019, it would be 
referred to a debt collection agency (DCA) and be recorded on his credit file. 
As soon as the first demand letter was sent to Mr A on 7 October, he contacted them to say 
he didnt receive two refunds. He contacted them on several occasions afterwards as he 
continued to deny he owed this amount of money. Go Skippy asked him to provide evidence 
the chargeback wasnt completed. Although Mr A didnt believe it was his responsibility to do 
so, on 23 October he provided a copy of his bank statement which showed he was only 
refunded once. Go Skippy looked in the matter further. 
Unhappy with how hed been treated, Mr A complained. In their final response letter, Go 
Skippy accepted a chargeback didnt occur and Mr A didnt owe them any money. However, 
they said the situation couldve been resolved earlier, had he provided the evidence they 
requested to show the chargeback wasnt completed.  
Mr A was unhappy with their response, he felt it didnt consider the upset and inconvenience 
this situation caused him. He referred the complaint to our service. The investigator felt Go 
Skippy couldve contacted the bank earlier about the chargeback and resolved the matter 
sooner. They considered the time, effort and impact this situation had on Mr A and asked Go 
Skippy to pay him £200 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
Mr A accepted the view. However, Go Skippy disagreed. In summary they said: 
-They had followed their processes in regards to the chargeback. As Mr A was 
unhappy with this and, in the interest of trying to resolve the situation sooner, they 
asked him to provide evidence.
-The chasing of the debt wouldnt have negatively impacted his credit score
but understood it wouldve caused him stress.
-As Mr A had raised the chargeback, he was responsible for proving he didnt receive 
the refund. They couldnt be held responsible for the confusion and delays caused as 
a result of him doing so.
-It was difficult to investigate the chargeback and whether he had been refunded twice 
as Mr As bank account was closed. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr As complaint. I think the investigator has reached 
a fair outcome and explained matters clearly and thoroughly.
Go Skippy has already confirmed there is no debt owing to them from Mr A so it is not 
necessary for me to provide any further comment about this. In this decision, Ive considered 
the way Go Skippy has handled the situation overall. 
They pursued Mr A for what they believed was a duplicate refund of the premium. I wouldve 
expected them to have reasonably determined the debt was due before doing so but I dont 
believe they did so here.
I say this because Go Skippy hadnt heard back from their bank or Mr As bank following 
their defence to the chargeback so it wasnt clear whether he received a second refund. In 
order to look into things sooner, they asked Mr A to provide evidence. I understand they 
needed to establish the position so I dont think it was unreasonable for them to ask for this. 
However, even after Mr A provided his bank statement which showed only one refund, the 
matter remained unresolved for quite some time as further enquiries were made. 
Go Skippys contact notes said they didnt contact their bank until 7 November to chase 
them up about the chargeback. This call was made a few weeks after they started to send 
demand letters, after Mr A had complained and provided his bank statement. During that 
call, they were told the chargeback hadnt been processed and they hadnt been debited but 
as it remained open, Mr A may decide to pursue it. As this amount of money wasnt debited 
from their account nor credited to Mr A, Go Skippy was never out of pocket. 
I wouldve expected Go Skippy to have spoken to their bank first about the chargeback 
before deciding a debt was owed. Had they done so, its likely the situation wouldve been 
resolved earlier. 
Once they were aware there was no debt outstanding, they didnt make Mr A aware until 27 
November when they sent their final response to his complaint. I dont believe they acted 
quickly enough. 
Mr A said because his bank account had been closed, he didnt readily have access to his 
statements and it took several days to receive them following his request. He also said with 
a young family of two children, he couldnt afford to pay this amount of money. He was also 
concerned the situation would negatively impact his credit file especially as he intended to 
apply for a re-mortgage in due course. Given these circumstances, I understand why Mr A contacted Go Skippy often, it was clear a resolution was important to him and why being told 
he owed this amount of money would cause distress and worry. 
Overall, I believe Go Skippy couldve handled the situation better and made enquiries earlier 
about the chargeback to determine whether Mr A had been refunded twice and owed them 
money. Had they done so, they wouldve known a debt wasnt owed. Equally, as soon as 
they knew this was the case, they couldve let him know sooner. For the reasons explained 
above, I believe this situation has caused trouble and upset to Mr A and this wasnt 
considered sufficiently by Go Skippy when answering the complaint. So I think its 
reasonable for them to pay £200 compensation to him for the trouble and upset caused. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided to uphold Mr As complaint.
To put things right, Somerset Bridge Insurance Service trading as Go Skippy must pay £200 
compensation to Mr A for the trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 September 2020.
 
Simona Charles
Ombudsman