DRN-4236141
The complaint
Miss H complains that a car acquired under a hire purchase agreement with 247 Money 
Group Limited trading as 247 Money wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In April 2022, Miss H acquired a used car from 247 Money under a hire purchase 
agreement. The car was eight years old and had covered approximately 62,500 miles when 
the agreement started. The agreement was for 60 months, and the cash price of the car was 
£6,945.
A month after being supplied with the car Miss H noticed some faults with it, primarily to do 
with the horn. It was only working intermittently. She took the car to a garage to be checked, 
and it was confirmed the horn fitted to the car wasnt the manufacturers and didnt have the 
correct connections fitted as a result. The horn was replaced, but the garage also 
commented that the back of the air filter wasnt attached properly and was being held 
together by black tape. This wasnt repaired at the time. 
Miss H continued to experience some issues with the car, and in early October 2022 she 
replaced the battery. But just a few days later the car broke down. Miss H called a roadside 
assistance company to take a look. Their report said the battery wasnt receiving enough 
power to enable it to start the car. The report also mentioned that the airbox was damaged. 
A further report from the garage that originally replaced the horn stated that the battery had 
been tested and was good, but the car needed a boost pack to help it start. Their report 
mentioned some modification to the positive lead to the battery.
At this point Miss H complained to the dealership that she arranged the supply of the car 
with. They said they couldnt help. They said it seemed as though the faults were caused by 
a faulty repair when the battery was replaced. 
In December 2022 the car broke down again. The roadside assistance company attended 
again and carried out a diagnostic test. The test report identified a number of fault codes, all 
to do with the electrics of the car. A temporary repair was carried out at this time, and Miss H 
was told to arrange a permanent repair. 
Miss H complained to 247 Money. She said the car wasnt of satisfactory quality and hadnt 
been when it was supplied to her in April 2022. 247 Money offered to arrange for an 
independent inspection to take place, which Miss H agreed to. The inspection was done in 
January 2023, and the car had covered 68,147 miles. The inspection report confirmed the 
electrical faults with the car. It also confirmed that the new battery had been fitted correctly 
but had no charge, the airbox had been repaired with tape and the cars Body Control 
Module (BCM) was faulty and needed further investigation. 
247 Money issued a response to Miss Hs complaint at this time. They didnt uphold it as the 
independent report said that it wasnt felt the faults present with the car would have been 
present at the point it was supplied to Miss H.
Miss H brought her complaint to our service. Our investigator upheld it. He felt there was 
enough evidence to suggest the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to 
Miss H. He asked 247 Money to arrange to collect the car and repair it initially, and if repair 
didnt work they should allow Miss H to reject the car and they should cancel the agreement. 
As Miss H hadnt been able to use the car since December 2022 when it broke down for the 
final time, and had continued to make her contractual payments, our investigator said 247 
Money should refund those payments to her, along with 8% simple interest. Finally, he said 
247 Money should reimburse Miss H the costs of previous repairs shed carried out to the 
car, as long as she was able to provide evidence of those costs to 247 Money.
Miss H accepted. But 247 Money didnt. They said the reports provided didnt confirm the 
faults were present when the car was supplied. They felt the failure of the car was because 
of sudden electrical failure, which can occur at any time. 
As 247 Money didnt agree, it was passed to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision on 
23 June 2023. It said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
As the hire purchase agreement entered by Miss H is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 247 Money are also the 
supplier of the goods under this type of agreement and are responsible for a complaint about 
their quality.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) covers agreements like the one Miss H entered. 
Because 247 Money supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement, theres an implied 
term that it is of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. Cars are of satisfactory quality if 
they are of a standard that a reasonable person would find acceptable, taking into account 
factors such as  amongst other things  the age and mileage of the car and the price paid. 
The CRA also says that the quality of goods includes their general state and condition, and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects 
and safety can be aspects of the quality of the goods. 
But on the other hand, satisfactory quality also covers durability. For cars, this means the 
components must last a reasonable amount of time. Of course, durability will depend on 
various factors. In Miss Hs case, the car was used and had covered approximately 62,500 
miles when she acquired it. So, Id have different expectations of it compared to a brand-new 
car. Having said that, the cars condition should have met the standard a reasonable person 
would consider satisfactory, given its age, mileage and price. 
Our investigator has said he feels the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied 
to Miss H. Whilst I understand why, I dont agree in this case. There is no doubt the car has 
faults  all the inspections carried out confirm that to be the case. But Im not persuaded, 
from what Ive seen, that I can conclude the car was faulty when it was supplied to Miss H. 
Ill explain why.
As already referred to above, 247 Money are responsible for the quality of the car at the time 
it is supplied and not all ongoing issues or problems that arise later. The CRA does deal with 
goods (in this case, the car) not conforming to the contract within the first six months of 
supply and this is often referred to as the 6-month burden of proof. The CRA states that 
where goods are found not to have conformed to the contract within the first six months, it is 
presumed the goods did not conform to the contract at the point of supply. Unless the 
supplier can prove otherwise. From the evidence Ive been provided with Im satisfied Miss H had reason to take the car to 
a garage within the first six months. So, Im satisfied that it would be 247 Moneys 
responsibility to provide evidence to show the car did conform to the contract when it was 
supplied. In this case, 247 Money arranged for an independent inspection of the car to take 
place to determine the faults and when they might have occurred. That is what Id expect 
them to do. 
The report confirmed the electrical faults with the car, including the problem with the BCM. 
But, importantly, the assessor also confirmed in the report that, in his opinion, the faults with 
the electrics had developed since purchase and wouldnt have been present or developing 
when the car was supplied to Miss H. I find this to be the most persuasive piece of evidence 
in this case. The reports and invoices supplied by Miss H all confirm some wiring issues with 
the car  Im satisfied that isnt in dispute here. But the only report that confirms if the faults 
were present or not as the time the car was supplied, is the final report provided by the 
independent inspection. I think its reasonable for 247 Money to follow the advice given 
within it and explain to Miss H that the faults arent their responsibility.
I understand Miss Hs concerns with the car, and Im aware she had to have the car looked 
at within a month of supply as the horn was only working intermittently. But that was 
repaired, and Im not persuaded that alone is enough to say the car wasnt of satisfactory 
quality when it was supplied. Miss H used the car for a further five months and covered 
approximately 5,000 miles in it before the electrical faults were diagnosed. And whilst I 
understand why our investigator has said that he feels the wiring issues had been present 
since supply and had just taken some time to affect the performance of the car and cause it 
to break down, I simply havent seen anything to persuade me of that. It follows that, 
because Im not persuaded the faults with the car were present or developing when it was 
supplied to Miss H, Im not planning on asking 247 Money to do anything more here. 
I know this is likely to come as a disappointment to Miss H. She hasnt been able to use the 
car since December 2022 and it will need some repair work completed. But I cant hold 247 
Money responsible for that.
247 Money havent responded to my provisional decision. Miss H has. She is unhappy with 
the outcome and feels really hard done by as she continues to believe the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to her. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I havent been provided with any additional evidence to lead me to change 
my provisional decision. I appreciate Miss Hs strength of feeling here, but she hasnt 
provided anything to persuade me that the faults she now has with the car were present or 
developing at the point it was supplied to her. 
Ive explained in my provisional decision why Im more persuaded by the evidence provided 
by 247 Money in this case. In the absence of anything else, my decision is that 247 Money 
dont need to do anything more here. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 August 2023.
 
Kevin Parmenter
Ombudsman