DRN-2644894
The complaint
Mr Bs complaint about HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) relates to HSBCs failure to merge old 
credit card balances on his credit report, leading to problems for him when he made an 
application for a mortgage some years later.
What happened
In June 2015 Mr Bs credit card was marked as lost and then in June 2018 it was cancelled 
because of a fraudulent activity. That resulted in a new card being sent to him with all the old 
cards information being transferred to his new card. HSBC accept that at that time it failed to 
merge the information for all cards on his credit report with the result that there appeared 
three card balances rather than one.
In 2017 and 2018 Mr B made mortgage applications and found that they were declined. In 
April 2018 Mr Bs mortgage broker told him to check his credit file as the potential lenders 
had said the applications had failed due to his credit score.
Mr B told our investigator that his wife obtained his credit report in November 2017, March 
2018 and November 2018, and the three cards appeared on that report. Mr B then contacted 
HSBC but not until 28 January 2019.
Mr B was however wanting to buy a property at this time and the seller imposed a deadline 
upon Mr B which meant he didnt have enough time to make a standard mortgage 
application. Mr B says this meant he had to take out a bridging loan at much higher overall 
cost and he believes HSBC should bear that.
HSBC acknowledged that they had made an error in reporting there were three card 
balances to his credit file rather than one and offered him £500 in compensation.
Mr B was unhappy with HSBCs final response and so approached this service to see if we 
could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator agreed that although there had been 
poor service, the amount of compensation HSBC offered was enough to put things right. 
Mr B didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My summary of what happened is brief and I know the parties went into a lot more detail. Im 
going to focus however on what I think the key issues are as our rules allow me to do this 
and it reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. So, if theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it, its because Im satisfied that I 
dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the 
right outcome.
Ive taken account of both sides views when considering whether HSBC acted fairly and 
reasonably. Ive looked at the issues raised and considered all the available evidence. 
Where evidence is not complete, I think about what is more likely to have happened in the 
light of the evidence which is available. 
What is clearly evident is that HSBC made an error which it has accepted. The issue then 
turns as to what the impact of that error has been upon Mr B.
My first observation is that although the seller of the property imposed a deadline, Mr B was 
not contractually bound to purchase the property at that time. I say that because if he had 
been under contract there would have been a fixed date for completion and no requirement 
for any deadline. In other words, it is more than likely that Mr B could have chosen to simply 
not buy the property in the face of the financing difficulties he was facing at that time. It is of 
course also likely that that would have been an unattractive proposition for Mr B evidenced 
by the fact that he went to the trouble of obtaining bridging finance, and I can reasonably 
infer from that, that this means he was very keen to secure the property. With that in mind, 
Im not satisfied that if HSBC hadnt made the error it would have affected Mr Bs decision to 
take out the bridging loan if alternative finance hadnt been available at that time.
My second observation is that Mr B was on notice that there was something wrong with his 
credit file since he obtained his credit reports the previous year following the advice of his 
mortgage broker. Unfortunately, Mr B did not take up the issue of the mis-reporting with 
HSBC until 28 January 2019 at which point HSBC corrected his credit file very quickly, doing 
so on 5 February 2019. It follows that had Mr B contacted HSBC earlier, his credit file would 
have been corrected that much sooner and the difficulties he faced in securing finance would 
more than likely than not have been overcome. 
For these reasons I cannot therefore find that HSBCs error is the cause of the losses Mr B 
now claims. 
HSBC has accepted that it didnt get things right and because of that it offered compensation 
of £500, which Mr B hasnt accepted. So, the issue boils down to what the right level of 
compensation might be. 
When this service considers what an appropriate level of compensation might be, we take 
into account a variety of factors, including the trouble, upset, distress and inconvenience that 
may have been caused. We categorise the awards we make into the brackets of modest, 
substantial, severe or extreme, and examples of these can be found on our website. 
What is important to remember is that there is no prescribed figure for compensation. The 
facts of each case are different, and ultimately it is an exercise of judgement, looking at all 
the circumstances of the case in point and coming to a figure which feels fair, when set 
against the effect upon the complainant of any particular service failure.
So, having weighed up all the evidence into the balance, I think the award here should fall 
within the moderate bracket and I do therefore think that £500 is a fair and reasonable.
My final decision
HSBC UK Bank Plc has already made an offer to pay Mr B £500 to settle this complaint, and 
I think that is fair and reasonable. So, my final decision is that it should pay Mr B £500Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2021.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman