DRN-1880153
 
The complaint
Ms B complains that Aviva Insurance Limited has turned down a claim she made on her 
home emergency policy.
What happened
In August 2019, Ms B got in touch with Aviva to let it know about a leak in her home. An 
engineer went out to inspect the property, but he couldnt find the source of the leak. He 
thought the water mightve been getting in through the brickwork, and he suggested that Ms 
B should get in touch with the property freeholder.
In October 2019, following heavy rain, there was another leak at Ms Bs home. She called 
out a third party contractor to get the repairs done. She sent an invoice setting out the costs 
to Aviva so it could reimburse her.
Aviva turned down Ms Bs claim. It looked into the cause of the leak and spoke to Ms Bs 
contractor to get an understanding of the issues. It said the claim was down to issues with a 
rainwater downpipe which is specifically excluded by the policy terms.
Ms B wasnt happy with Avivas decision. She didnt think the policy wording was clear. And 
she said the pipe thatd caused the leak was internal, rather than external. So she asked us 
to look into her complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Ms Bs complaint should be upheld. He accepted that the pipes 
had travelled internally through Ms Bs home, so he understood her frustration. But he noted 
that the contractors report referred to hacking off brickwork which was attached to the 
outside downpipe. And the contractor told Aviva that the leak came from the rainwater 
downpipe. So he thought it was fair to say that the source of the leak was the downpipe. He 
considered the policy terms, and he thought it was clear that rainwater downpipes werent 
covered. So he thought it was fair for Aviva to turn down Ms Bs claim.
Ms B disagreed. In summary, she thought the leak was covered by the policy. She felt the 
exclusion for rainwater downpipes was intended to exclude external pipework, not internal 
pipework. She said the policy was poorly-worded and didnt take into account that some 
rainwater downpipes are inside properties. She believed that the seller and Aviva were 
selling a misleading insurance policy to customers.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done so, I think it was fair for Aviva to turn down Ms Bs claim. Ill explain why.
Both parties agree that Ms Bs contractor carried out repairs to a leaking rainwater 
downpipe. Part of this downpipe ran through the inside of Ms Bs home and was boxed in by 
brickwork etc., which had to be removed and then replaced. Im satisfied, having considered 
the evidence that the leak was caused by issues with the rainwater downpipe.
Insurers set out what they do and dont want to cover in their policy terms. For a claim to be 
paid, it needs to be because of something thats covered by the policy  which we generally 
call an insured event. Avivas policy lists the insured events it covers  which includes 
repairs to a blocked or leaking drainage pipe. A rainwater downpipe carries away rainwater 
from the gutters, so I can understand why Ms B feels this is a drainage pipe.
But I also need to bear in mind the things Aviva has chosen not to cover. The policy says:
What isnt Covered?
h) external guttering, rainwater downpipes and soakaways.
I appreciate Ms B feels this exclusion is unclear and that it suggests it only applies to 
external rainwater downpipes. Ive thought carefully about whats she said and whether the 
policy terms are unclear or misleading.
But I think the exclusion is clearly worded. I think the comma between external guttering and 
rainwater downpipes means they should be read separately and independently of each 
other. I dont think the clause only refers to damage which happens to the external part of a 
rainwater downpipe. I think it excludes any claim which is caused by any part of a rainwater 
downpipe. And I dont think its misleading.
Ms Bs policy does cover leaks from other internal pipework and drainage, such as internal 
plumbing. So I think it does provide her with home emergency cover. And shes benefited 
from that cover previously when Avivas engineer came out to inspect her home in August 
2019. If a leak had been found internally at that point, Aviva wouldve been able to consider 
whether it was covered. It was also open for Ms B to contact Aviva again in October 2019, 
when she noticed a water leak.
In this case though, Im persuaded Ms Bs claim was down to issues with the rainwater 
downpipe. Because I think the exclusion for downpipes is set out clearly, I think its fair for 
Aviva to rely on it to turn down Ms Bs claim. So while I sympathise with her position, her 
claim simply isnt covered by the terms of her policy. 
 
 
 
 
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Ms Bs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2020.
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman