DRN-3248008
The complaint
Mr H has complained that Nationwide Building Society wont refund him for the costs of a 
bike and accessories he purchased in December 2018. He believes the bike wasnt fit for 
purpose and pursued a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.  
What happened
Mr H purchased a manual bike and rucksack by phone in December 2018. These two items 
costs £1,778.10. A few days later he went to the store to pick up the items. He knew the bike 
was an ex-demonstration model. He was told hed need a bracket to fit the rucksack to the 
bike. He placed an order for the bracket. He picked up both the bracket and the rucksack at 
the same time in January 2019.
In fact the bracket didnt fit to the bike and Mr H was unhappy this wasnt as simple as the 
arrangements he had for his electric bike. 
He also had a few issues with his bike with a pin breaking and difficulties with the gears. He 
was also unhappy the click box was exposed. The supplier (who Ill call C) carried out 
repairs but Mr H had lost faith with the bike. He felt he could claim a refund under relevant 
consumer-related legislation.
C wouldnt take back the bike or refund Mr H but agreed to carry out the repair free of 
charge. Mr H complained to Nationwide as hed bought the bike and accessories with his 
Nationwide credit card. Nationwide didnt believe there was enough evidence to show Mr Hs 
bike had been misrepresented or there was a breach of contract.
Mr H brought his complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator felt that C had carried out appropriate repairs to Mr Hs bike and therefore 
remedied any breach of contract. As Mr H had bought an ex-demonstration model she 
believed this was non-refundable under Cs terms and conditions.
Mr H was concerned nobody had properly reviewed his claim that the bike had been 
misrepresented to him. He didnt believe hed ever have bought the bike if hed known he 
couldnt fit the rucksack to it.
After further discussion with C, our investigator accepted the bracket was completely 
unusable as this could only be fitted to an electric bike. Whilst she felt Mr H had been sold a 
useless part she didnt think this amounted to a misrepresentation of the bike. C had 
separately agreed to refund the cost of the bracket and pay Mr H £100 for the 
inconvenience.
Mr H disagreed with this outcome. His complaint was referred to an ombudsman.
I completed a provisional decision on 14 December 2021. Whilst I agreed with Mr H that the 
bracket had been misrepresented, I didnt believe this meant he could get a refund for the 
bike and rucksack.
Mr H disagreed with this outcome. He believed the distance selling regulations meant he 
could get a full refund.
I now have all I need to complete a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as I did in my provisional decision. Ill 
explain why.  
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 allows a customer to submit a claim for breach 
of contract or misrepresentation by a supplier to their credit provider. This applies when 
customers use certain types of credit to buy goods or services. In this case Mr H paid for a 
bike and accessories using his Nationwide credit card.
Its worth clarifying Im not deciding Nationwides liability under section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act. We consider the relevant law and that includes section 75. But we decide cases 
by considering what is fair and reasonable, as statute requires us to do. What Im deciding is 
whether Nationwide did enough in considering Mr Hs complaint. And if they didnt, what else 
should they now do.
If there was a misrepresentation or breach of contract in the supply of the goods that 
resulted in detriment then its fair to ask Nationwide to put things right. 
The key issue that Mr H is complaining about  despite all the emails about the condition of 
the bike  is that the bike was misrepresented to him. If hed known that he couldnt have 
fitted the rucksack to the bike  with and without the bracket also sold to him  then hed 
never have bought the bike itself.
Ive considered this specifically. Most lately in an email to our service on 21 October Mr H 
laid out that hed bought and paid for the bike over the phone. It was only when he went to 
pick up the bike  after the purchase  he was told hed need a bracket to fit the rucksack to 
the bike. This item was purchased. I dont dispute this purchase was unnecessary as this 
bracket could only ever fit onto the bike battery. Mr Hs manual bike didnt have a battery. 
However this misrepresentation happened after Mr H bought the bike. Ive not seen any 
evidence that Mr H was told before the purchase that the rucksack couldnt be fitted to the 
bike. Therefore I dont believe there was any misrepresentation of the bike itself.
Theres no doubt the bracket was misrepresented. I dont think any party disputes this. 
However according to Mr Hs email of 21 October, this item cost £94. There are certain 
provisions that need to be met for a transaction to qualify as a claim under section 75. One 
of these is the cash price of the goods or service must be more than £100 but no more than 
£30,000. I dont believe I can ask Nationwide to do anything further relating to the 
misrepresentation as the item cost under £100.
Ive looked at the issues Mr H subsequently had with the bike. I agree these issues must 
have been extremely irritating. But I can see C took back the bike and carried out the 
repairs. I believe the bike remains at Cs premises and has done so now for more than two 
years.Mr Hs bike was an ex-demonstration model so its not surprising that C regards this as non-
refundable. As they offered a suitable remedy (a repair) to the breach of contract, I dont 
think it would be appropriate to ask Nationwide to do anything further.
Our investigator got an agreement with C which she laid out in her view of 30 September 
2021. Unfortunately our service has no power to oblige C to carry out this redress. As this 
relates to a misrepresentation of an item which cost less than £100, I cant ask Nationwide to 
step in if C doesnt.
However Nationwide may well feel that  because of the lengthy history of this complaint  
theyd be willing to step in and refund Mr H appropriately if C doesnt.
Ive considered Mr Hs view that regardless of the consumer protection provided by 
section 75, he can also claim against Nationwide under distance selling regulations. That 
isnt the case. The bike and rucksack were sold  albeit over the phone  as standalone 
items. I dont believe theres sufficient evidence to show Nationwide should do anything 
further to help Mr H with the problems he had in getting his rucksack to fit to his bike.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given my final decision is not to uphold Mr Hs complaint against 
Nationwide Building Society.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2022.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman