DRN-2008932
The complaint
Ms H says Canada Square Operations Limited mis-sold her a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.
What happened
Ms H bought the policy in 2008 at the same time as taking out an Egg credit card online. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Ms H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Hs case. 
Ive concluded that Ms Hs PPI policy wasnt mis-sold and Ive set out my reasons below.
Ive seen a screen print of the part of the online credit card application process where 
PPI wouldve been offered to Ms H. This shows that she wouldve had to choose 
whether she wanted PPI or not before she could continue with her application. Eggs 
record of the application data shows that Ms H selected the PPI. So I think Egg made 
her aware that the PPI was optional and that she chose to take it.
Ms H says she didnt need the PPI because she was entitled to benefits from her 
employer and had some savings. But Egg didnt recommend the policy to Ms H so it 
didnt have to check if she needed it or whether it was suitable for her. As Ms H chose 
to take the PPI, I think she wanted to protect her repayments against illness and 
unemployment.
Even if Egg had recommended the PPI to Ms H, it doesnt look like it wouldve been  
unsuitable for her based on what shes told me about her circumstances at the time. 
The PPI wouldve paid out in addition to Ms Hs employer benefits and wouldve meant 
she could use her savings to pay for other expenses if she couldnt work. So I think Ms 
H wouldve had some use for the policy.
Its possible the information Egg gave Ms H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But its unlikely Ms H wouldve been affected by any of the main things 
the policy didnt cover. Ms H says she had good employee benefits, but as Ive already 
said, the PPI wouldve paid out in addition to these. The policy was also competitively 
priced and had a reasonable benefit. So I dont think better information wouldve 
stopped her buying it. 
Which means Egg doesnt have to repay all of the cost of the PPI. But Egg has paid back 
some of the cost of the PPI to Ms H because: 
Egg got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) 
- so it should have told Ms H about that. Because Egg didnt tell Ms H, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Egg has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Canada Square Operations Limited does not have to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms H.
But Canada Square Operations Limited does have to pay back to Ms H any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2020.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman