DRN-4458210
The complaint
Miss K and Mr O complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE declined their travel insurance 
claim. My references to Great Lakes include its agents.
What happened
Miss K and Mr O had single trip travel insurance cover for a trip abroad, the insurer was 
Great Lakes. They returned to the UK on 29 September 2022. When they were getting off 
the plane Miss K and Mr O couldnt find Miss Ks bag which they said theyd stowed away 
before landing.
Miss K and Mr O say on the same day, 29 September, she reported the lost bag to the lost 
property provider at the airport and contacted her local police to report the lost bag. 
Miss K says the lost property provider told her the bag hadnt been found so on 3 October 
2022 she and Mr O claimed on the policy. The items in her lost/stolen bag included £400. 
Great Lakes asked for various information from Miss K and Mr O to evidence the claim 
including a property irregularity report (PIR). Miss K provided a letter from the lost property 
provider dated 26 November 2022 which referred to her query about her lost bag on 
22 November 2022. Ill refer to that letter as a PIR.
Great Lakes declined the claim. It said the claim wasnt covered by the policy terms as there 
was no evidence that Miss K and Mr O had reported the loss to the airline immediately or to 
the police with 24 hours of discovering the loss, as required by the policy terms. And 
Great Lakes said the £400 in the lost/stolen bag wasnt covered as the money wasnt on 
Miss Ks person or in hand luggage that she had within her control, as the policy terms 
required.
Miss K and Mr O complained to us. In summary they said:
Although the PIR was dated two months after the bags loss Miss K had reported her 
lost bag to the lost property provider at the airport immediately. Great Lakes hadnt 
tried to contact the provider to see when the loss was reported. It wasnt feasible to 
report the loss and get a PIR within 24 hours of the loss as the policy terms required.
The information they got from the police when they phoned 101, and from the local 
police website, said the police didnt provide a report for such lost property.
Great Lakes hadnt given clear justification for declining the claim and had repeatedly 
asked for the same evidence to show Miss K had owned the items lost.
They want Great Lakes to pay the claim.
Our investigator said Great Lakes had reasonably declined the claim. He recommended it 
pay Miss K and Mr O £75 compensation for their distress and inconvenience due to being 
asked for information which Great Lakes didnt need. 
We received two responses from Great Lakes, one agreeing to pay the £75 compensation 
and one saying the compensation wasnt justified. Miss K and Mr O dont agree that 
Great Lakes reasonably declined the claim and want an ombudmans decision. They added:
The airline told them it only provides a PIR for checked luggage in the hold and any 
items lost within the cabin needs to be reported to the lost property provider that 
shed contacted on the day of the loss.
More information which they said showed their local police didnt provide a written 
report for their type of lost property.
Hand luggage has to be stowed away at the planes take-off and landing and they 
couldnt refuse the crews guidance to put the bag away. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly and 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. 
I think Great Lakes reasonably declined Miss K and Mr Os claim but it must pay £75 
compensation for their distress and inconvenience due to its poor service. Ill explain why.
Great Lakes referred to the following policy terms Ive detailed below to decline the claim.
The policy provides cover for Miss K and Mr Os lost/stolen personal possessions, subject to 
the policy terms, and specifically excludes:
7 Any loss or theft of, or damage to, Your Personal Possessions:
a. that You do not report to the Police within 24 hours of discovery or as soon as 
possible after that and for which You do not get a written Police report; or
b. whilst in the custody of an airline or other carrier unless You report it immediately 
on discovery to the carrier and get a written report. In the case of an airline You will 
need a Property Irregularity Report (PIR).
The policy also provides cover for Miss K and Mr Os lost/stolen personal money, subject to 
the policy terms, and specifically excludes: 
5. Any loss or theft of Your Personal Money that You do not report to the Police 
within 24 hours of discovery or as soon as possible after that and for which You do 
not get a written Police report.
6. Any loss or theft of Your Personal Money that is not:
a. carried on Your person or in Your hand luggage which You have with You and 
within Your control such that You are able to prevent unauthorised interference with it 
at all times.
Additional conditions apply to the personal money section which include:
2. You must notify the Police of any loss or theft within 24 hours of discovery or as 
soon as possible after that and obtained a written report from them and enclose this 
with Your claim form.
So under the policy terms part of the evidence Miss K and Mr O need to provide for their 
claim for lost personal possessions is a written police report or if the loss is while in the 
custody of an airline evidence that they reported the loss to the airline immediately on 
discovery of the loss and get a PIR.As Miss Ks bag was lost/stolen on a plane I dont think the need for a police report is 
relevant, its the evidence that they reported the loss to the airline immediately on discovery 
of the loss and the PIR thats important.
From the information Miss K and Mr O have provided, and my own checks, I think the loss 
property provider Miss K contacted, which provided the PIR, was the correct provider for lost 
hand luggage at the relevant airport. But the issue is that the PIR the provider sent to Miss K 
says it was:
writing with regard to your lost property query received via email on 22 November 
2022. You stated that you travelled on 29 September 2022 to (named airport) and 
that you lost your (details of lost bag and items).
Ive seen the timeline of events Miss K and Mr O provided which says she contacted the lost 
property provider immediately. But the evidence from the PIR is that the provider received 
her lost property query by email on 22 November 2022, which is nearly two months after the 
date the bag and personal possessions were lost. 
On the available evidence I think Great Lakes reasonably declined the claim for lost personal 
possessions as theres no evidence to support that Miss K did report the loss to the lost 
property provider immediately. 
It may be that Miss K and Mr O can get evidence from the provider to show she did first 
contact it on 29 September 2022 and that its usual practice isnt to provide a PIR 
immediately on report of the loss. If so Miss K and Mr O should send the new evidence to 
Great Lakes to reassess the claim. Its for Miss K and Mr O to provide evidence to support 
their claim, rather than for Great Lakes to contact the provider.
Ive seen what Miss K and Mr O say about not being able to get a police report but I think 
Great Lakes reasonably declined the claim for the loss/theft of the £400 in the bag, whether 
or not it was possible for them to get a police report. Thats because the policy excludes the 
loss or theft of personal money thats not on their person, or in their hand luggage which they 
had within their control so that they were able to prevent unauthorised interference. The 
money wasnt on Miss Ks person.
And even if the air crew had told Miss K and Mr O that the bag containing the money must 
be put in the locker I dont think the money was in Miss K and Mr Os control. They didnt see 
the bag being removed by someone else within the confined space of the plane, and if the 
bag had been close enough for them to be able to prevent unauthorised interference I think 
Great Lakes could reasonably consider that Miss K and Mr O would have seen the bag with 
the money being removed by someone else. If the bag had been put in a place where they 
couldnt see who had access to the bag the money wasnt in their control and they werent 
able to prevent unauthorised interference.
Overall Im satisfied that Great Lakes reasonably declined the claim.
I think Great Lakes should pay Miss K and Mr O compensation for the unfair way it handled 
their claim. Miss K and Mr O say they sent the PIR to Great Lakes on 5 December 2022, 
which Great Lakes hasnt disputed. However, through January 2023 it continued to ask 
Miss K and Mr O to provide photos and documents in support of their claim. Miss K and 
Mr O say theyd already sent the information asked for and anyway I think that by then 
Great Lakes already had enough information to reasonably decline the claim so it asked for 
the information unnecessarily. Putting things right
Im satisfed that the £75 compensation our investigator recommended Great Lakes pay to 
acknowledge Miss K and Mr Os distress and inconvenience due to its poor claim handling is 
a reasonable amount.
My final decision
I partly uphold this complaint and require Great Lakes Insurance SE to pay Miss K and Mr O 
£75 compensation for their distress and inconvenience due to its poor claim handling.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K and Mr O 
to accept or reject my decision before 13 December 2023.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman