DRN-3595145
The complaint
Mrs F complains Aviva Insurance Limited has unfairly dealt with a claim made by a third 
party on her motor insurance policy. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties, so Ive included a summary 
here.
Mrs F has a motor insurance policy with Aviva.
A named driver on the policy was reversing in a car park and collided with another 
car, which was also manoeuvring. Mrs F reported the incident to Aviva but didnt 
make a claim on the policy.
Some time later she was contacted by her new insurance company which had seen 
the claim on a No Claims Discount (NCD) document supplied by Aviva but hadnt 
been notified about it by Mrs F.
It became apparent the third party had made a claim following the collision and Aviva 
had paid the claim without letting Mrs F know. She says because she was unaware 
of the claim, she didnt notify her new insurer.
She was unhappy with this and said it caused her embarrassment. She was also 
unhappy with the third party costs Aviva had paid which she considered to have been 
inflated. Aviva offered Mrs F £50 because it didnt let her know about the claim but 
otherwise said it hadnt done anything wrong.
Our Investigator partially upheld the complaint and directed Aviva to pay £100 to 
Mrs F due to it not informing her about the claim and the related embarrassment 
caused.
Aviva accepted this outcome but Mrs F asked an Ombudsman to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From what Ive seen, it doesnt seem Mrs F has disputed liability for the claim. But 
shes unhappy with the amount of the settlement made to the third party. And as 
Aviva didnt let her know about the claim, Mrs F would like it written off and 
removed from her records and for it to provide her with her old NCD again.
Ive considered the terms of the policy as these are what the parties are obliged to 
adhere to. In common with many insurance policies, these allow Aviva full 
discretion in the conduct of any proceedings or the settlement of any claim. Im 
therefore satisfied Aviva is free to decide how it deals with and settles claims. 
Its not for this Service to decide on the exact amount an insurer should pay under a 
third party claim, thats simply outside our remit. But I can still consider whether it 
behaved fairly and reasonably when it exercised the option, taking into account 
appropriate evidence in reaching its decision.
I can see the representative for the third party passed on an estimate for the repairs 
and hire car costs which Aviva considered and concluded werent unreasonable or 
inflated. I know Mrs F disagrees with this but Ive seen no alternative persuasive 
evidence which leads me to conclude Aviva should have challenged these costs as 
being too high. So, Im satisfied its acted fairly and reasonably in settling the claim as 
it has. So it strikes me that even if Aviva had informed her of the claim, for the above 
reasons, this wouldnt have changed the settlement with the third partys insurer.
And because its acted fairly in the way its settled the claim, I wont be asking it to 
make any amendments to the NCD or take any further action on any increased policy 
premium as a result of the claim. Aviva is under an obligation to record details of the 
claim and the amount paid on the appropriate insurance database it follows Im 
satisfied this information should remain on the database. 
While under no specific obligation to advise Mrs F about the claim, I think, in the 
specific circumstances of this case, it would have been helpful to inform her what had 
happened. This may have avoided the embarrassment of being questioned about the 
claim by her new insurer. Ive kept this in mind when deciding on the amount Aviva 
should pay Mrs F.
Putting things right
I acknowledge Mrs F says the impact of Avivas actions would have been more severe if she 
still worked in the insurance industry but I can only make awards for things that have actually 
happened, not what might have under other circumstances.
Ive thought about this carefully and have decided Aviva should pay Mrs F £100 for the 
distress, inconvenience and embarrassment it caused her as it didnt let her know about the 
claim made by the third party or the amount it had paid under that claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Aviva Insurance Limited to pay 
Mrs F £100 for distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2022.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman