DRN-3784959
The complaint
Mr B has complained about the delays he has experienced in trying to arrange for the 
transfer of his ISA account from ITI Capital Limited (ITI) to a new provider after it 
was transferred from a previous firm.
What happened
In July 2020 Mr Bs stocks and shares ISA, which he held with a previous firm that had gone 
into administration, was transferred over to ITI. Mr B didnt want to hold his account with ITI. 
He wanted to transfer his ISA account to a different provider which I shall refer to as 
Company B.
On 31 July 2020 Mr B started his ISA transfer to Company B but the last of his 
shareholdings wasnt received by company B until 5 August 2021 and the cash on account 
wasnt received until March 2021.
Mr B contacted ITI on several occasions but didnt receive a response so complained on 
8 October 2020.
ITI responded to Mr Bs complaint on 14 December 2020. Briefly it said;
It agreed that the timelines within which communications were remitted to Mr B 
were subject to unreasonable delay.
And the delay in the transfer process had been unacceptable.
It said the transfer request was being dealt with, but it was experiencing high 
volume requests.
It offered £125 for the inconvenience and distress Mr B had been caused.
Mr B wasnt happy with the outcome so brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman.
He told us he hadnt been able to trade on his account or access his cash which he relied 
upon as he was retired. He wanted his ISA transfer to be completed and a compensatory 
sum of £600 as the offer made by ITI didnt take this delay into account.
Our investigator who considered the complaint thought it should be upheld. Briefly, she said;
Mr B was caused significant frustration with the transfer and the delays 
and particularly the dividend cash as he relied on this.
ITI hadnt responded to Mr B despite him making contact.
She didnt think the offer made so far by ITI was enough as it didnt consider all 
the delays experienced by Mr B and recommended the total offer be increased 
by £375 to £500.
Mr B accepted the investigators findings. ITI didnt respond.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved, it was passed to me for a decision. I issued my 
provisional decision explaining that I intended upholding the complaint, albeit with some 
alterations to the redress, but I asked both parties to give me anything that they wanted me 
to consider before I issued my final decision. Heres what I said;
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide 
whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After doing so, I provisionally broadly agree with the conclusion reached by the 
investigator. And in its response to the complaint, ITI accepts that it has caused the 
delays. But I dont think the compensation recommended by ITI or the investigator 
is correct. Ill explain why.
I dont know the size of the client base that ITI took over from the previous provider 
that went into administration. But, and as already acknowledged by ITI, I think its 
likely that the new additional accounts and investments will inevitably have had an 
impact on ITIs capacity and ability to deal with new customers and increased 
requests. That being said, its clear Mr B had a difficult time during the transfer 
process.
Mr B said he and his wife were retired and they didnt have a regular income. He 
could not access his private pension at the time because he was below the age of 
55 years. He was reliant on the ISA dividends to fund living expenses. He had to 
find alternative funds to pay for his household bills. He said he hadnt been provided 
with dividend statements and feared he had lost some because of the delay in the 
transfers.
Transfer of shareholdings
Mr B started his transfer for his ISA to Company on 31 July 2020. Company B 
confirmed to him that the transfer was being actioned on 10 August. Mr B 
continued corresponding with ITI about the transfer but on 6 September found that 
it had incorrectly set up a dealing account in his name and transferred some of his 
holdings to that account. The other shareholdings remained in his original 
account.
Mr B logged on to his account with Company B on 23 September and only four 
of his 17 holdings had been transferred. The other holdings were transferred on 
2 December 2020 with the exception of one remaining holding which was 
transferred on 5 August 2021.
Transfer of cash
Company B was told by ITI that Mr Bs that his funds were held in US dollars. Mr B 
told us he agreed to these funds being converted to sterling  despite not previously 
being aware he had any funds in currency  in order to speed up the transfer. But it 
became apparent the funds were held in sterling all along.
ITI then transferred the cash on Mr Bs account of just over £6,500 to another 
account/client on 11 December 2020. Mr B was told by ITI that it was having 
problems retrieving the cash and it wouldnt be paid to him until that money was 
returned. This didnt happen until 18 March 2021.HMRC guidelines for the transfer of a stocks and shares ISA are that it should 
complete within 30 calendar days and clearly that didnt happen here. During this 
time Mr B couldnt trade on his account or access his funds.
ITI made its offer of £125 in response to his complaint which had been raised 
in October 2020. So, I dont think its likely it took into account the delays he 
subsequently experienced in both the transfer of the shares, the cash on 
account and the dividend payments.
The investigators recommendation that the offer should be increased to £500 did 
take these further delays into account with the exception of making an award for the 
fact that Mr B was out of funds from end of July 2020 to March 2021  over eight 
months. And I think it reasonable that it should be recognised that Mr B was out of 
pocket for all of that time.
As a result of the delays caused by ITI, Mr B was unable to use the money as he 
wished during this time, he had to find funds from another source, and I think ITI 
should pay him interest to make up for that. I think its fair that ITI pays simple 
interest at the rate of 8% per year on cash from the date he should have been able 
to transfer the funds to the date they were received by Company B.
ITIs own guidelines are that cash transfer requests should be proceed in two 
working days. Mr B made his request on 31 July 2020 so payment should have 
been made on 3 August 2020. So ITI should pay interest on the cash that should 
have been transferred on 3 August 2020 to the date of receipt by company B on   
18 March 2021. The interest rate that should apply is 8% simple.
And Mr B was also out of pocket for dividends and any other cash received by ITI 
after his initial transfer request. So again, 8% simple interest should be added to 
those sums from two days after they were received by ITI until the dates they were 
paid to Company B.
I went on to outline how ITI should put the matter right.
Mr B accepted my provisional decision. ITI didnt reply.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party to the complaint has given me anything further to consider, I see no 
reason to depart from my provisional decision. So, I confirm those findings and reiterate 
below how ITI Capital Limited should put things right.
Putting things right
Overall, ITI should pay to Mr B;
£500 for all the delays as well as the frustration and inconvenience Mr B was 
caused.
8% simple interest per year, on the amount in cash transferred from ITI 
to Company B between 3 August 2020 and 18 March 2021.8% simple interest per year, on any subsequent cash received, from two days 
after that was received by ITI and until it was transferred to Company B.
If ITI Capital Limited doesnt pay the above sums to Mr B within one month of ITI Capital 
Limited being notified of Mr Bs acceptance of this decision, then ITI Capital Limited should 
pay Mr B simple interest on the outstanding sums at a rate of 8% per year from the date of 
my decision until the date ITI Capital Limited pays Mr B the outstanding sums. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Bs complaint and ITI Capital Limited should put 
things right by doing what I have said above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2022.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman