DRN-3707034
The complaint
Mr G complains TSB Bank plc (TSB) provided an overdraft to him that was unaffordable.
What happened
In August 2014, Mr G applied for an overdraft facility of £1,500 for his current account. TSB 
approved this request. Following this, Mr Gs overdraft limit was increased in May 2016 to 
£2,000 and twice in November 2020 to £2,500 and then £3,000 . 
In January 2022, Mr G complained to TSB. He said when he opened the account in 2016, it 
was a student account and so, it had a limit of £2,000. But he thought TSB had irresponsibly 
approved this limit, as he had a gambling problem at the time which was evident from his 
bank statements. He said he had been overdrawn for a number of years which put him into 
financial difficulty. To put things right, he said he wanted TSB to remove his overdraft and he 
wanted a refund of all the interest and fees he had paid since being approved for the 
overdraft in 2016.
In March 2022, TSB looked into Mr Gs complaint and said it disagreed that it had been 
irresponsible in lending to Mr G. It said:
Mr G would have only paid overdraft overlimit fees between August 2014 and  
August 2019. This is because prior to August 2019, Mr Gs overdraft was on student 
and then graduate terms. 
it could see gambling transactions on Mr Gs account statements, but he didnt tell it 
about his gambling problem until March 2021. It said at the time, it offered support to 
Mr G on a number of occasions and refunded or waived interest in seven out of 12 
months in 2021. It also said it discussed a refinancing loan with Mr G in       
December 2021, but Mr G decided against completing this despite TSB chasing him.
it agreed to refund the charges debited from Mr Gs account for January to        
March 2022. These amounted to around £115. It also agreed to waive pending 
charges for April 2022 which amounted to around £70. 
Unhappy with this, Mr G referred his complaint to our service. He reiterated his complaint 
and said he previously had a gambling problem and TSB contributed to this by increasing his 
overdraft from £2,000 to £3,000 without asking any questions. He said his TSB bank 
statements at the time demonstrated the extent of his gambling and so, TSB had 
irresponsibly lent to him.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Gs complaint and thought TSB had acted 
irresponsibly by increasing Mr Gs overdraft limit to £2,000 in November 2020. She said she 
thought if TSB had carried out a proportionate check at the time, it would have likely shown 
that Mr G was having problems managing his money, specifically that he was gambling 
significant sums and he was in a cycle of borrowing from payday lenders. She said TSB 
should rework Mr Gs account to remove all of the interest and charges added to his account 
above the £2,000 overdraft limit from 11 November 2020.
TSB agreed. Mr G responded and queried whether our adjudicator thought it appropriate 
that TSB increased his overdraft limit to £2,000 in 2016 given he had problems managing his 
money at the time. Our adjudicator reviewed Mr Gs comments and said she didnt think     
Mr G had been gambling excessively in 2016, but thought this should have been apparent to 
TSB when Mr Gs overdraft limit was increased in 2020. Mr G responded saying he agreed.
Following this, Mr G contacted our service to say he disagreed. He said he should be 
refunded all interest and fees TSB had applied since November 2020, rather than only the 
interest and fees charged above the £2,000 overdraft limit. 
Since then, Mr G has said that TSB hasnt done what he expected it to do as a result of 
accepting the adjudicators assessment . He said he was expecting it to reduce his overdraft 
limit and then make a payment over the refund separately to him. He said as a result of this, 
a Direct Debit payment hadnt been paid and this would affect his credit file. He said he 
wanted part of his salary, which had been absorbed by the reduction in the credit limit, to be 
repaid by TSB. He said TSB didnt tell him it would be reducing his overdraft limit.
Our adjudicator explained that TSB had processed the refund correctly and it hadnt acted 
incorrectly when it reduced his overdraft limit to £2,000, as she didnt think it was fair it 
increased it above £2,000 in November 2020.
TSB also confirmed the refund Mr G was due to receive as a result of the adjudicators 
recommendations was around £120. But as a gesture of goodwill, it refunded all the interest 
Mr G had paid since November 2020, which totalled around £550. It said a payment Mr G 
made the same day of £450 took him over the £2,000 limit and Mr G had refused a 
temporary limit of £450. It also provided a letter it sent to Mr G explaining his overdraft limit 
would be reduced and said it reiterated this in a call to him.
Our adjudicator thought that TSB had done more than it was told to in her assessment and 
so, didnt think TSB had acted unfairly.
Mr G said he wasnt aware that his account overdraft limit would be reduced from £2,000 to 
£3,000. He said the £450 payment was pending before TSB removed the overdraft limit. He 
said he had been left without any funds and he hadnt refused a temporary limit. Following 
this, TSB confirmed it had agreed a temporary overdraft with Mr G and he had agreed to 
carrying out an income and expenditure.
Our investigator said if Mr G was unhappy with the removal of the overdraft, then Mr G 
would need to raise a new complaint about this. She also highlighted that when Mr G had 
referred his complaint, he said he wanted TSB to remove his overdraft to put things right. 
Mr G said this service should review all the issues that had occurred since he referred his 
complaint to this service.
As Mr G remains in disagreement, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
 including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. Ive considered 
this approach while deciding Mr Gs complaint.
In this case, both parties agree that TSB shouldnt have increased Mr Gs overdraft limit in 
November 2020. However, the outstanding dispute concerns TSBs actions in putting things 
right.
Our adjudicator recommended that TSB should refund Mr Gs account with all interest and 
charges applied to any amounts over the £2,000 overdraft limit. TSB agreed to this. 
However, Mr G said he thought our adjudicator meant it would refund all interest and 
charges applied to his account since November 2020. Im satisfied our investigator correctly recommended that TSB should only refund the extra 
interest and charges paid by Mr G, as a result of his overdraft limit being increased in 
November 2020. So, the expectation was that TSB would refund any extra interest it 
charged Mr G as a result of being more than £2,000 overdrawn. This is because all parties 
agree that Mr Gs overdraft limit shouldnt have been increased above the existing £2,000 
limit in November 2020. So, it would be unfair for TSB to charge any interest and charges on 
any amount over £2,000. 
However, TSB has confirmed that it went further than directed and that it actually refunded 
all the charges and interest applied to Mr Gs account from November 2020. The refund 
recommended by our adjudicator totalled around £120. However, the refund paid by TSB 
was around £550. This is more than was recommended by the adjudicator. So, Im satisfied 
TSB has acted more than fairly when refunding the overdraft charges and fees to Mr Gs 
account and I dont think its acted unfairly. 
I now turn to the account overdraft limit being reduced. In May 2022, TSB wrote to Mr G and 
let him know it would be paying a refund of around £120 in June 2022 to reflect the refund of 
overdraft fees and charges. It also told him in this letter, it would be decreasing his planned 
overdraft limit. It said the refund would not repay his current outstanding balance and so, it 
would be in contact with him to discuss what repayment options would be available to him. 
The letter didnt say what Mr Gs new overdraft limit was. But in early June 2022, TSB spoke 
to Mr G and was told his account overdraft limit would decrease to £2,000. So Im satisfied 
that TSB told Mr G that the overdraft limit would be reduced in late June 2020.
Overdrafts are also repayable on demand. So TSB was entitled to reduce the arranged 
overdraft when it did. There was no dispute at that point that TSB shouldnt have agreed an 
overdraft limit of over £2,000 and all parties accept that an overdraft of more than this was 
and remains unaffordable for Mr G. In addition, in Mr Gs complaint to TSB and also in his 
complaint referral to this service, he said he wanted TSB to remove his overdraft as a fair 
way to put things right. So, given all parties agreed that Mr Gs overdraft shouldnt be 
increased above £2,000 and as Mr G had asked for his overdraft to be removed, I dont think 
TSB acted unfairly when it reduced the overdraft limit to £2,000. I think it acted with 
forbearance and due consideration given Mr Gs current financial circumstances at the time.
Having said this, I think it would have been reasonable for TSB to have ensured that by 
reducing the overdraft limit, it wouldnt leave Mr G over his arranged overdraft limit.
Ive looked at Mr Gs statement for June 2022. Having done so, I can see that on                
29 June 2022, TSB made refunds totalling around £550 to Mr Gs account. This left his 
account in its overdraft by around £1,550. TSB also reduced Mr Gs overdraft limit to £2,000. 
So at this point, when it made the adjustment, Mr G account wasnt over its arranged 
overdraft limit. However, the following day two Direct Debit payments that were due out of 
the account were unable to be paid. These appear to be for a car Mr G was leasing. 
Following this, Mr G made a discretionary card payment of £450 and transferred some funds 
to another account he held. Mr G says this discretionary payment was pending prior to the 
removal of the overdraft.  
Having thought about this carefully, Im satisfied that in reducing Mr Gs account overdraft, 
TSB didnt leave Mr G over his arranged overdraft limit. This is because it had provided Mr G 
with sufficient notice it would be reducing his overdraft limit and when it reduced the limit,   
Mr Gs account wasnt over its arranged overdraft. 
Notwithstanding this, I can see that TSB offered Mr G a temporary overdraft limit of £450 two 
days after the overdraft limit was reduced. This was in place by 5 July 2022. I  appreciate 
that Mr G likely suffered some distress and inconvenience between the six days in which 
TSB reduced the overdraft and a temporary overdraft was agreed. However, Mr G had been 
made aware that his overdraft limit was due to be reduced and so, I think it would have been 
reasonable for Mr G to contact TSB prior to the overdraft limit reduction to discuss his options going forward. Nonetheless, even though TSB was entitled to reduce the overdraft 
and provided Mr G with notice of this, it still took steps to address the impact of the reduction 
once Mr G got in touch.  
In these circumstances, Im satisfied that TSB has acted fairly and reasonably and it follows 
that I dont think TSB need to do anything further to put things right. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Im satisfied that what TSB Bank Plc has already done to put things 
right for Mr G is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of his case. So, Im not requiring 
it to do anything further.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2023.
 
Sonia Ahmed
Ombudsman