DRN-1436382
 
The complaint
Miss M is unhappy that Home Retail Group Card Services Limited (HRG) recorded a late 
payment on her credit file. 
What happened
Miss M received a statement for her account with HRG on 3 May 2019, telling her that her 
next payment was due on 1 June. She says she logged onto her account sometime late May 
and made a payment. On 10 June she received a text message saying no payment had 
been made, so she made a payment the same day. Because of this, HRG applied a late 
payment fee to Miss Ms account.
Miss M is unhappy that HRG have charged her a late payment fee and marked her credit file 
with a late payment. She says she made the payment on time, and she believes there was 
an issue with HRGs systems which meant this payment wasnt credited. She also thinks 
HRG shouldve sent her text messages to tell her that her payment didnt go through and 
that her payment was still outstanding.
To put things right shed like HRG to remove the marker from her credit file and refund the 
late payment fee.
Our investigator found HRG had acted reasonably. She said shed seen no evidence that 
Miss M tried to make a payment in May 2019, and there was no evidence of any issues with 
HRGs system at the time Miss M says she tried to make a payment. Because of this, she 
didnt think HRG should refund the late payment fee.
The investigator also said that, because Miss M made a payment in the month it was due 
(June 2019), HRG havent recorded a late payment on her credit file.
Miss M didnt agree with the investigator. Shes asked that an ombudsman review her 
complaint and make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have reached the same 
overall conclusions as the investigator, and for broadly the same reasons.
The basic facts of this case arent disputed. HRG didnt receive a payment from Miss M 
before the 1 June 2019 due date, and they applied a late payment fee in line with their terms 
and conditions. In the circumstances I cant say theyve acted unreasonably by applying this 
late payment fee.
HRG say their systems only show the last time a customer logged in. This means that, 
because Miss M logged in to make the payment in June 2019, HRG cant see whether she did or didnt log in to make a payment in late May. HRG also say they only keep copies of 
text messages they send to customers for 30 days.
I appreciate the frustration Miss M must be feeling about this situation. And I dont doubt 
that, to the best of her knowledge, she tried to pay HRG in late May 2019, as shes said she 
does every month. But I havent seen anything to show me that she made a payment in May 
2019, and that this payment was rejected by HRGs systems. HRG say they have no records 
of any system issues during the time period Miss M says she made the payment. Miss M 
has provided proof of the payments she did make, but I havent seen anything from her bank 
that shows me a payment was attempted and then rejected.
Because of this, it wouldnt be reasonable for me to ask HRG to refund the late payment fee 
on the basis that Miss M was unable to make a payment.
I cant see what text messages HRG sent Miss M in May 2019, because HRG no longer 
have these. But Miss M has supplied a text message she received on 29 July 2019. This 
says you have a payment due on your card ending [number] on 01 Aug 2019. If youve 
already paid, please ignore this message. Its my understanding that this is the sort of 
message HRG would send their customers on a monthly basis.
If Miss M had received this, or a similar, message at the end of May 2019 (and I dont know 
whether she did or didnt) I dont think it wouldve made any difference to the situation. 
Because it asks for the message to be ignored if a payment had been made, and because 
Miss M believed shed made a payment, she wouldve ignored the message as instructed. 
So it wouldnt have prompted her to make a payment, and the late payment fee wouldnt 
have been avoided. 
Because of this, it wouldnt be reasonable for me to ask HRG to refund the late payment fee 
on the basis that they didnt send Miss M a payment reminder text.
Ive also seen the information HRG have reported to the credit reference agencies. This is 
from November 2019 and shows the last 6 years payment history for Miss Ms account. 
HRG havent reported any missed payments for Miss M in this 6-year period. So I cant see 
that Miss Ms credit rating has been affected by the missed payment.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Miss Ms complaint about Home Retail 
Group Card Services Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 February 2020.
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman