DRN-2374309
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that AXA Insurance UK Plc settled their claim against their 
travel insurance policy on a proportionate basis. Reference to AXA includes 
reference to its agents.  
What happened
I dont doubt this was a very worrying time for Mr and Mrs B. The details of this complaint 
are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again here. As the facts are not in 
dispute, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Misrepresentation) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable 
care not to make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract 
(a policy). The standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer. If a consumer fails 
to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the misrepresentation is - what 
CIDRA describes as -  a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be a qualifying 
misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed 
to take reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA 
depends on whether the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or 
careless.
Mr Bs claim arose on 8  September 2019. So, its the annual policy in force              
14 September 2018 to 13 September 2019 thats relevant here. AXA thinks that       
Mr and Mrs B failed to take reasonable care on renewal in 2018 when they didnt 
disclose that Mr B had high cholesterol, a total knee replacement and a urology 
condition. 
Ive looked at the questions AXA asked Mr and Mrs B on renewal in 2018. When Mr 
and Mrs B renewed the policy, they were asked the following:
Medical Conditions
You must comply with the following conditions to have the full protection of your 
policy.
You must tell us of all your pre-existing medical conditions. If you fail to declare any 
pre-existing medical conditions we may refuse to deal with or reduce the amount of 
any relevant claims, even if a claim is not related to an undisclosed pre-existing 
medical condition.
Medical Details
Have you or anyone in your party been prescribed medication, received treatment or 
had a consultation with a doctor or hospital specialist for any medical condition in the 
past 2 years?
Have you or anyone in your party ever been diagnosed with or treated for any of the 
following:
any heart or respiratory condition?
any circulatory condition (problems with blood flow, including strokes, high 
blood pressure and cholesterol?
any liver condition?
any cancerous condition?
I think that the questions AXA asked Mr and Mrs B were clear and I dont think that it 
needed to do any more than it did in asking those questions. 
At the 2018 renewal, Mr B declared malignant melanoma. Mr B didnt declare high 
cholesterol, a total knee replacement and a urology condition. I dont think that        
Mr and Mrs B took reasonable care in answering the medical questions put to them 
on renewal in 2018. 
I note that Mr and Mrs B say that they declared Mr Bs high cholesterol when they 
took out an annual policy in 2017. Ive seen that they also disclosed Mr Bs knee 
replacement then. Mrs B says that she thought that, on renewal, they only had to 
declare any new medical conditions since the previous policy was taken out. Thats 
not the case, as its not what AXA asked. In addition, each annual policy is a new 
contract. Its not appropriate to expect AXA to know whether medical conditions      
Mr and Mrs B had previously disclosed were still relevant. It was for Mr and Mrs B to 
answer the questions accurately and I dont think they did that here.   
Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs B made a qualifying misrepresentation. AXA has shown 
that if it had known the true position, it would have charged them a higher premium  
an additional £34.39, so £157.86 instead of £123.47. So, Mr and Mrs B paid 78% of 
the premium AXA would have charged them if it had known the true position. AXA 
settled Mr and Mrs Bs claim on a proportionate basis and paid 80% of the claim. I 
think thats a fair and reasonable outcome in this case. 
Mr and Mrs B say that they minimised their claim in several ways but Im afraid that 
doesnt alter the outcome here. In all the circumstances, I think that AXA acted fairly 
and reasonably in settling Mr and Mrs Bs claim on a proportionate basis. 
For these reasons, I dont uphold Mr  and Mrs Bs complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 March 2021.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman