DRN-3463474
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G are unhappy with what AXA PPP Healthcare Limited did when they tried to 
claim on their policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs G took out private medical insurance through Saga in May 2020. It was a group 
scheme underwritten by AXA. The policy was taken out on a moratorium basis which means 
in the first two years of the policy there is no cover for the treatment of any medical condition 
that existed in the three years before the policy started. 
Once the policy has been in place for two years, Mr and Mrs G could claim for treatment of 
pre-existing conditions, if theyd had a trouble-free period of two consecutive years for the 
condition after joining.
In November 2020 Mrs G made a claim on her policy for treatment to her hip which was 
declined by AXA. They said this was because Mrs G had symptoms and was taking 
medication for the pain before the policy was taken out. And as this claim was within the two-
year trouble-free period set out in the policy. So, it wasnt covered. 
Mrs G said she hadnt had medical intervention since 2016 and the occasional use of pain 
relief medication wasnt indicative of her receiving treatment. She was also unhappy that a 
medical questionnaire supplied to AXA had been added to the file, but no action was taken. 
Mrs G arranged for private treatment for her hip and AXA refused to cover the cost. She has 
since had to have a hip replacement. 
Mr and Mrs G referred the matter to this service. Our investigator looked at what had 
happened and said he didnt think AXA had acted unfairly. Mr and Mrs G didnt agree and 
asked for an ombudsman decision. In summary they said: 
In the four years prior to the policy inception Mrs Gs condition was in a controlled 
state
Referred us to the terms for chronic conditions and explained why they felt this 
applied to Mrs Gs condition 
They took out the insurance with Saga so they should be part of this complaint. 
So now the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For clarity, Mr and Mrs Gs complaint is about a claim not being covered so I want to be clear 
that the correct respondent is AXA as the underwriter. This is because they are responsible 
for the decision to decline Mrs Gs claim. So, Im deciding if AXA applied their terms and 
conditions fairly. 
Mr and Mrs G have said AXA are an agent of Saga when declining the claim, but that isnt 
the case. It appears Saga may have been handling this claim on behalf of AXA and Mr and 
Mrs G dealt with them, so I can understand why they would want them joined to this 
complaint. However, PERG 5.7.7 sets out an exclusion for those who manage claims on 
behalf of an insurer, so we dont have jurisdiction to consider Sagas role in this way this 
claim was handled.  I can confirm Saga had no involvement in AXAs decision not to cover 
the claim. 
Saga also sold this policy and provided Mr and Mrs G with documentation about the cover 
provided. Although Ive taken the documents issued by Saga into account, any complaint 
about the way this policy was sold would be dealt with as a separate complaint as our 
investigator has already explained. 
The relevant regulators rules say an insurer must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they shouldnt turn down claims unreasonably. 
Mrs G has explained her condition was in a controlled state in the four years before the 
policy was taken out. I dont disagree with this; however, Im persuaded the evidence shows 
Mrs G had periodically been taking pain killers for her arthritis over the years since her last 
medical intervention in 2016. During the claims call in November 2020, Mrs G confirmed 
herself that shes had symptoms in her left hip over the past five years and had been taking 
medication to deal with the pain.
I appreciate Mrs G thinks the interpretation of medication is too wide, but I dont think it was 
unreasonable for AXA to say taking pain killers constitutes receiving medication. Or that the 
pain in her hip constitutes a symptom of her condition. So, on that basis, Im satisfied AXA 
fairly treated Mrs Gs condition as pre-existing under the terms of the policy.
Mr and Mrs G have referred us to wording about chronic conditions contained in the policy 
leaflet they received from Saga. I think it was reasonable for them to rely on all the policy 
documentation they were provided with  including this leaflet. And I agree with Mr and Mrs 
G that the documentation says AXA will cover the treatment of acute exacerbations or 
complications (flare-ups) necessary to bring a chronic condition back to its controlled state or 
lead to a full recovery. I can understand why Mr and Mrs G this term applies to the 
circumstances of their claim, however, as this is a moratorium policy AXA can only apply this 
term once Mrs G has held the policy for two years. After that point, she could try to claim for 
treatment on her hip, as long as shed had a trouble-free period of two consecutive years for 
the condition. 
As this claim was made within the first two years of a moratorium policy I dont think AXA 
were unfair to say the claim isnt covered. 
I note the leaflet Mr and Mrs G have referred to also sets this out. It explains its unlikely AXA 
will be able to cover pre-existing chronic conditions, as these generally require regular or 
periodic treatment, medication or medical advice. But once the policy has been in place for 
two years, a potential claim can be made, as long as there has been a trouble-free period of 
two consecutive years for the condition after joining.
Ive also reviewed the example about hip replacement surgery that Mr and Mrs G have 
highlighted. But Im satisfied this is in relation to a flair up that occurs after the first two years 
of the policy being in place. AXA have accepted they made a mistake with Mrs Gs medical form, and I can see they 
apologised. The error hasnt materially affected the decline of the claim, so I dont think AXA 
needs to do anything further here. 
Having reviewed everything, I cant see any reasonable grounds upon which I could fairly 
ask AXA to accept Mrs Gs cain for hip treatment within the first two years of her moratorium 
policy. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 January 2023.
 
Georgina Gill
Ombudsman