DRN-3658196
The complaint
Mr D complains about the advice given by True Potential Wealth Management LLP (True 
Potential) to transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) scheme with British Steel 
(BSPS) to a personal pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this 
has caused a financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ds employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from the company. 
The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved 
benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a 
new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could 
transfer their benefits to a private pension arrangement.
In October 2017 Mr Ds employer sent out Time to Choose information asking members of 
the DB scheme what they wanted to do with their preserved benefits  either remain in the 
BSPS which would then move to the PPF, join the BSPS2 or transfer their BSPS benefits 
elsewhere. The deadline to make their choice was 11 December 2017 (and was later 
extended to 22 December 2017.)
Mr D was concerned about what this meant for the security of his DB scheme, so he sought 
advice. Mr D met with his existing financial adviser, from another business, around 
November 2017 and they completed a fact-find to gather information about his 
circumstances and objectives. They also carried out an assessment of Mr Ds attitude to risk, 
which they deemed to be balanced. Mr Ds adviser then passed this information to True 
Potential because they held the necessary regulatory permissions to advise on DB pension 
transfers. Mr D did not meet with True Potentials adviser.
On 17 November 2017 True Potential advised Mr D to transfer his BSPS benefits into a 
personal pension arrangement and invest the proceeds in a balanced portfolio, which True 
Potential deemed matched Mr Ds attitude to risk. In summary the suitability report said the 
key reasons for this recommendation were to provide Mr D with sufficient and varying levels 
of income at different stages of retirement and to provide sufficient death benefits for his 
family. And this was recommended in the context of Mr D wanting to take control of his 
pension given his concerns about the scheme and the restrictions or penalties for retiring 
early.
Mr D accepted the advice and around £382,000 was subsequently transferred to Mr Ds new 
personal pension.
In 2021 Mr D complained to True Potential about the suitability of the transfer advice. Mr D 
said hed been prompted to complain following receipt of a letter from the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA).
True Potential didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint. In summary it said it considered the options 
open to Mr D for his BSPS pension benefits, and in its view neither the option to remain nor 
to transfer to the new BSPS2 were suitable given his objectives at the time. It said the 
recommendation to transfer out of the scheme was suitable because it met Mr Ds need for 
flexibility (he didnt need a fixed long-term income from this pension), it allowed Mr Ds family 
to benefit from his full fund upon his death and it brought his pension under his control away 
from his employer, which was a key factor in Mr Ds decision to seek advice. It said the 
critical yield, or growth rate required to match Mr Ds DB scheme benefits was reasonably 
achievable given his attitude to risk and the recommended investment strategy. But it said it 
wasnt right to base the suitability of the transfer solely on the critical yield figure. It added 
that if Mr D was to replicate the benefits of his DB scheme through flexible drawdown, his 
pension fund would last beyond his life expectancy. Overall it said the recommendation 
placed Mr D in the position where he could meet his retirement goals.
Dissatisfied with its response, Mr D asked this service to consider his complaint. And an 
investigator upheld the complaint as they thought the advice was unsuitable for Mr D. In 
summary they said they thought it was clear Mr D would be worse off by transferring out. 
They didnt think Mr D needed to transfer out to enable him to retire early because he had 
other means he couldve used to supplement his income including his savings and his 
current workplace pension  notwithstanding that they didnt think Mr D had firm plans or 
wouldve known his retirement income need at this time. And they didnt think he shouldve 
been advised to do so just to obtain higher death benefits. They added that while Mr D had 
concerns about the future of the DB scheme, they considered it was True Potentials role to 
allay those fears by highlighting the value of the pension even with the proposed reduction in 
benefits. In conclusion the investigator said it should compensate Mr D for the losses he 
incurred by transferring his DB pension and that compensation should be based
on Mr D having opted to join the BSPS2.
True Potential disagreed. In doing so, it provided a substantive response, which I have read 
in full. But in summary it said that it was concerned about the way the complaint had been 
considered because it wasnt clear proper regard had been given for the relevant rules at the 
time or the context in which the advice was given. It added that it remained satisfied the 
transfer was suitable  but it was only required to take reasonable steps to ensure that it 
was, which it did. It disagreed with the investigator that Mr Ds DB pension was the most 
significant part of his guaranteed pension  his state pension was and his private provision 
only needed to bridge the gap until this become payable. It also disagreed that Mr D couldnt 
have estimated his expenditure requirements when he wanted to retire in 15 years time.
True Potential said the investigator placed significant reliance on the critical yields, which 
while it accepts is material, it believes it is of limited relevance because Mr D didnt want to 
purchase an annuity. It believes that Mr D wouldve proceeded with the transfer regardless 
of the advice it provided given his objectives, his non-reliance on his DB scheme income and 
his motivation to break all ties with his employer. It said Mr D made a fully informed decision 
to proceed with the transfer at the time and is now having second thoughts about his 
decision in the hope of getting redress  but says this isnt a basis for a valid complaint.
True Potential also asked for an oral hearing. It believed Mr D needed to be questioned 
further on his objectives and feelings towards the DB scheme at the time. It believes the 
investigators findings are in stark contrast to the evidence from the time and an oral hearing 
will ensure the complaint is fairly determined.
The investigator didnt change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to me to make a
final decision and to decide whether to hold an oral hearing.
I turned down True Potentials request for an oral hearing because I was satisfied I could 
make a decision on this case fairly without hearing oral evidence. So, Im now providing my 
final decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). 
And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my conclusions 
on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to have happened 
based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of True Potentials actions 
here.
PRIN 6 : A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator. My reasons are set out 
below.
I can see that True Potential has said there are inconsistencies with how this service and the 
regulator consider the suitability of DB transfer advice cases and it points to the fact that 
FCA file reviews have shown no concerns with the advice it provided. It also says no 
consideration has been given for the material rules at the time in considering this case.
As Ive set out clearly above, Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators 
rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the time in deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. And it is only this complaint that Im considering here  so it 
isnt appropriate for me to consider the suitability, or otherwise, of the advice True Potential 
provided in other cases.
I can also see True Potential has referred on several occasions to its requirement to take 
reasonable steps to ensure the advice it gave was suitable for Mr D  it didnt have to 
guarantee or prove that it would ultimately be suitable. And I agree that under COBS, True 
Potential was required to take reasonable steps to ensure that its personal recommendation 
to Mr D was suitable for him (COBS 9.2.1). But additional regulations apply to advising on 
transferring out of DB schemes. These additional regulations say that the starting 
assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, True Potential should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Ds best interests (COBS 19.1.6). And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not 
satisfied it was in his best interests. Ill explain why.
Financial viability
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers,
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
Mr D was 43 at the time of the advice and the advice paperwork said his intention was to 
retire at 58. The critical yield required to match Mr Ds benefits at age 58 if he opted into the 
BSPS2 was 6.39% if he took a full pension and 5.3% if he took a tax-free cash lump sum 
and a reduced pension. The critical yield to match the benefits available through the PPF at 
age 58 was quoted as 4.7% per year if Mr D took a full pension and 4.43% per year if he 
took a cash lump sum and a reduced pension.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017, and 
was 4.2% per year for 14 years to retirement. Ive kept in mind that the regulator's projection 
rates had also remained unchanged since 2014: the regulator's upper projection rate at the 
time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%. 
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr D 
balanced attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. In my view there would be little 
point in Mr D giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB scheme only to 
achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. But here, assuming Mr D 
opted into the BSPS2 and took his full pension at 58, the critical yield was 6.39%. And this 
was significantly higher than the regulators middle projection rate and over 2% higher than 
the discount rate. If Mr D chose to take his cash lump sum and a reduced pension at 58, the 
critical yield was still higher than both the middle projection and discount rates.
I think it was clear Mr D was likely to receive benefits of a lower overall value than those 
provided by the BSPS2 if he transferred to a personal pension, as a result of investing in line 
with that attitude to risk. In my view, to have come close to achieving the level of growth 
required, it would have required Mr D to take a higher level of investment risk than I think he 
indicated he was prepared to take. And even then I think its more likely than not Mr D would 
be worse off financially at retirement if he transferred out. I also think its notable that True 
Potential didnt offer an opinion on Mr Ds ability to achieve the critical yields relevant to the 
BSPS2 at age 58. Yet it said the critical yields at age 65 were achievable. Given its advice 
was predicated on Mr D retiring at age 58, I dont think that was fair to Mr D as he wasnt put 
in an informed position.
The respective critical yields required to match the benefits provided through the PPF were 
4.7% and 4.43% - both of which were higher than the discount rate. And although they were 
lower than the middle projection rate, I think the opportunity to improve on the benefits 
provided by the PPF was limited if Mr D transferred out of the BSPS.
I can see that True Potential has said there was no regulatory rule or guidance requirement 
to refer to the discount rate. And I accept businesses didnt have to refer to it. But while I 
havent based my findings solely on this, I think it is a reasonable additional consideration when seeking to determine what level of growth was reasonably achievable at the time of 
the advice. Under COBS 19.1.2 the regulator required businesses to compare the benefits 
likely to be paid under a DB scheme with those payable under a personal pension by using 
reasonable assumptions. So, businesses, like True Potential were free to use the discount 
rate as this was considered a reasonable assumption of the likely returns. And in any event, 
Ive considered this in tandem with the regulators published projection rates, which 
providers were required to refer to. And it is this combination, along with Mr Ds attitude to 
risk, which leads me to be believe hed likely be worse off in retirement if he transferred out 
of the DB scheme.
I can also see that True Potential says that the critical yield is of limited relevance here 
because it assumes Mr D would purchase an annuity on the same basis as the benefits 
provided by the DB scheme  but he wasnt likely to do that. 
But I dont think the importance of the critical yield figure should be downplayed here. I still 
consider it gives a good indication of the value of benefits Mr D was considering giving up. 
Its also the case that the regulator required True Potential to provide it and so deems it a 
necessary and important part of the decision-making process. So True Potential needed to 
provide an analysis based on the critical yield and I think it is a relevant consideration here. I 
say this particularly given Mr Ds circumstances and the fact that I dont think Mr D could 
realistically say with any certainty whether he would want to take a fixed regular income at 
retirement or not. He wasnt expecting to retire for at least another 15 years  so its entirely 
possible that Mr D would want at least some guaranteed income in retirement, which he 
could achieve by taking benefits from the DB scheme.
Overall, even if the BSPS had moved to the PPF and Mr Ds benefits were reduced, he
was unlikely to be able to improve on those benefits by transferring to a personal pension. 
By transferring his pension it was highly likely Mr D would be financially worse off in 
retirement, particularly given the benefits available to him through the BSPS2 at age 58. So 
based on this alone, I dont think a transfer was in Mr Ds best interests.
But I accept that financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice, as 
True Potential has argued in this case. There might be other considerations, which mean a 
transfer is suitable, despite providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered below whether 
such other reasons applied here.
Flexibility and income needs 
It seems the main reason that True Potential recommended the transfer was for the flexibility 
and control it offered Mr D. The suitability report referred to the transfer providing Mr D with 
sufficient and varying levels of income at different stages of his retirement.
But having considered the evidence, I dont think Mr D needed to transfer his DB scheme to 
a personal pension in order to have flexibility in retirement.
Firstly Ive not seen anything to persuade me that Mr D needed access to his tax-free cash 
and defer taking his income, or that there was a need for variable income at different stages 
of his retirement. It strikes me that these were simply features or consequences of moving 
his pension to a personal arrangement rather than genuine objectives.
Mr D didnt, for example have a mortgage or other debts to repay by needing access to a 
lump sum while he was still working. And the only specific reference to Mr D wanting to 
generate a lump sum was to help his daughter out with a sum of £25,000 towards a house purchase when she reached 25. But this was in 15 years time and around the same time as 
Mr D said he wanted to retire. 
So Mr D had the option of taking his tax-free cash lump sum from his DB scheme to achieve 
this  the advice paperwork said Mr D could access around £85,000 as a lump sum. And 
thats only if Mr D couldnt generate the money from elsewhere, which I think is unlikely. This 
is because at this point, I think Mr D wouldve accumulated significant savings  it was 
recorded that he already had £13,000 and was adding to this at a rate of between £400 to 
£500 a month. So given the number of years he had in front of him to save, and even 
allowing for spending on other things, I think Mr D couldve funded helping his daughter out 
from his savings. 
Furthermore Mr D was contributing to his current workplace Defined Contribution (DC) 
pension scheme  a combined employee and employer contribution of 16% of his salary. So 
over the course of 15 years to Mr Ds intended retirement age, even without taking 
investment growth into account, this had the potential to produce a pension fund of not much 
less than £100,000. So Mr Ds workplace pension wouldve provided him with the option, or 
flexibility, of accessing a lump sum to help out his daughter.
I can see that in response to the investigators assessment True, Potential said it was 
surprised at their point that Mr D couldve relied on his DC pension, which suggests it 
shouldve relied on Mr Ds continued employment when he couldve lost his job and no 
longer had any pension contributions from his employer. So it seems to suggest that it thinks 
its unfair to assume Mr D would remain employed and continue contributing to a pension. 
But I disagree  I dont think its unreasonable to assume that Mr D wouldve continued 
working and so continued to accumulate funds in his DC scheme. Mr D was in good health 
and Ive not seen anything to show that Mr Ds job was under specific threat.
Turning to Mr Ds income need  the advice paperwork records that Mr D needed to 
generate £15,000 a year towards his share of the £2,000 net a month household income he 
said he needed in retirement. If Mr D opted into the BSPS2, at age 58 he could take a 
pension of around £17,700 a year. After accounting for inflation, it seems that Mr Ds income 
need couldve likely been met by opting into the BSPS2, taking a full pension at age 58 and 
topping up his income either through his savings or DC scheme. This wouldve meant that 
Mr Ds other provisions, including his state pension due later on, couldve simply 
supplemented his income to improve his standard of living in retirement.
If Mr Ds income need increased the closer he got to retirement, or if he did need to access 
his tax-free cash from his DB scheme  albeit Ive said he had other means at his disposal to 
meet any lump sum needs  Mr D was still entitled to a reduced pension of just under 
£13,000. So I still think Mr D couldve met his income needs through BSPS2  certainly until 
his state pension was payable at 68. I think any shortfall couldve been met through savings. 
Its also clear that Mr Ds wife had various other pensions because she was equally 
contributing to their overall retirement income  so its possible his wifes pensions couldve 
also made up any shortfall. But crucially here, Mr D would have likely had a significant 
pension to draw on flexibly through his DC scheme, as and when he needed, to top up his 
income or take additional lump sums. So, I dont think Mr D would have had to sacrifice 
flexibility in retirement by opting into the BSPS2.
I accept at the time of the advice, the BSPS2 hadnt been established. Although I think the 
communications sent out by the scheme trustees were very optimistic that the scheme 
operating conditions would be met, it wasnt certain. And if Mr D had opted into the BSPS2 
and it hadnt gone ahead, he wouldve moved with the scheme to the PPF.At age 58 Mr D wouldve been entitled to a pension of around £14,600 a year. This was 
lower than the pension hed be entitled to under the BSPS2, but I dont think it was 
substantially lower such that it shouldve made a difference to the recommendation. As Ive 
said above, Mr D wouldve had his DC scheme to draw on until his state pension became 
payable, as well as savings and his wifes pension to supplement their household income. 
So, I still think Mr D couldve met his needs in retirement even if the BSPS2 hadnt gone 
ahead and he had to move with it to the PPF.
Overall, Im satisfied Mr D could have met his income needs in retirement through the 
BSPS2 or the PPF at age 58. So, I dont think it was in Mr Ds best interests for him to 
transfer his pension just to have flexibility that he didnt need. 
Control and death benefits
The suitability report said the reason for the recommendation was to provide sufficient death 
benefits for his family.
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr D. But whilst I appreciate 
death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr D might have thought it was a good idea 
to transfer his BSPS benefits to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to 
advise Mr D about what was best for his retirement provisions. 
A pension is primarily designed to provide income in retirement not as a legacy provision 
tool. So I dont think the potential for greater or different death benefits should have been 
prioritised over this and Mr Ds security in retirement. And I say potential, because the sum 
left on Mr Ds death was dependent on investment returns  so if he lived a long life, and/or 
investment performance was lower than expected, there may not have been a large sum to 
pass on anyway.
I also think the existing death benefits within the DB scheme were underplayed. Mr D was 
married so the spouses pension provided by the BSPS2 scheme wouldve been useful to 
his wife if Mr D predeceased her. I dont think True Potential made the value of these 
benefits clear enough to Mr D. They were guaranteed and escalated  under the BSPS2 the 
spouses pension would also be calculated as if no tax-free cash had been taken. Its also 
the case that it was not dependent on investment performance, whereas the sum remaining 
on death in a personal pension was.
Also, I think True Potential ought reasonably to have known that Mr D had generous 
death-in-service cover through his employer if he died before retirement. So he already had 
lump sum death benefits available, which he could nominate his wife to receive if he hadnt 
already done so. And it also knew that Mr D was paying into the current DC scheme and he 
wouldve been able to nominate his wife as beneficiary of this plan too  again if he hadnt 
already done so. 
Furthermore, if Mr D genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his spouse and/or child over and 
above that which was already available, and which didnt depend on investment returns or 
how much of his pension fund remained on his death, I think True Potential shouldve 
instead explored additional life insurance. And in my view the starting point ought to have 
been to ask Mr D how much he would ideally like to leave to his spouse, after taking into 
account the above existing means. And this couldve been explored on a whole of life or 
term assurance basis, which was likely to be affordable to provide given Mr Ds age, his 
recorded good health and the level of his disposable income. Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr D. And I dont think True 
Potential did enough to explore or highlight the alternatives available to Mr D to meet this 
objective.
Concerns about financial stability of BSPS
While not a key reason for recommending Mr D transfer his pension benefits, the advice 
paperwork makes reference to Mr Ds concerns about his pension scheme and specifically 
about it moving to the PPF. It said Mr D wanted to control his own retirement. And I have no 
doubt that Mr D was concerned about his pension at this time  there was lots of negative 
sentiment about the PPF. I think this is likely the reason Mr D sought advice in the first place 
and its possible that Mr D was considering transferring because of these concerns about his 
employer and what might happen.
It was True Potentials duty to give Mr D an objective picture and recommend what was in 
his best interests. At the time of the advice the available information from the scheme 
trustees indicated that, while not guaranteed, the new BSPS2 scheme would likely go 
ahead. I can see the suitability letter made reference to the trustees confidence in the 
scheme when it set out the advantages and disadvantages of each of Mr Ds options  so 
this shouldve helped alleviate Mr Ds concerns here.
Regarding Mr Ds concerns about his employer specifically and its attachment to the pension 
scheme, its clear that he still worked for the same employer. And he hadnt indicated he 
intended to find alternative employment. He was also a member of the new DC pension 
scheme via his employer. So, Mr D wasnt going to achieve a separation from his employer 
by transferring, as he would remain tied to the employer in other respects. I think True 
Potential also shouldve mentioned that his employer and the BSPS2 trustees were not 
entirely one and the same. And the scheme trustees had a duty to act in the best interests of 
its members.
In terms of Mr Ds specific concerns about the scheme moving to the PPF, despite the 10% 
reduction in starting benefits and the fact the increases in payment in the PPF were lower, 
importantly the income was still guaranteed. And the income available to Mr D through the 
PPF wouldve still provided a significant portion of his share of the overall household income 
he thought he needed at retirement, and he was unlikely to be able to exceed this by 
transferring out. So while I accept the suitability report referred to the advantages of 
remaining in the scheme and reference was made to the pension being guaranteed, I think 
True Potential ought to have specifically reassured Mr D that, even if there was a chance the 
BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead, moving to the PPF was not as concerning as he thought or was 
led to believe.
Summary
I accept that Mr D was likely motivated to transfer out of the BSPS and that his concerns 
about his employer were real. And I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for 
higher or different death benefits on offer through a personal pension would have sounded 
like attractive features to Mr D. But True Potential wasnt there to just transact what Mr D 
might have thought he wanted. The advisers role was to really understand what Mr D 
needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr D was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income, whether through the BSPS2 or the PPF. By transferring to a personal arrangement Mr D was likely to receive lower overall retirement 
benefits at his intended retirement age of 58. And I dont think there were any other 
particular or compelling reasons which would justify the transfer and outweigh this. So, I 
dont think it was in Mr Ds best interests for him to transfer his DB scheme to a personal 
pension at this time when he had the opportunity of opting into the BSPS2.
So, I think True Potential shouldve advised Mr D to opt into BSPS2. I appreciate that the 
BSPS2 wasnt guaranteed to go ahead when the advice was given. But I think it was clear to 
all parties that it was likely to be going ahead. And while Mr D intended to retire at 58, Im 
mindful that was over 15 years away and Mr Ds plans couldve changed. So, I don't think 
that it would've been in his interest to accept the reduction in benefits he would've faced by 
the scheme entering the PPF, as it wouldn't be offset by the more favourable reduction for 
very early retirement. 
And by opting into the BSPS2, Mr D wouldve retained the ability to transfer out of the 
scheme nearer to his retirement age - if he needed to. Also, Mr D was married and his wifes 
pension would be set at 50% of his pension at the date of death, and this would be 
calculated as if no lump sum was taken at retirement (if Mr D chose to do so). The annual 
indexation of his pension when in payment was also more advantageous under the BSPS2.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr D would've gone ahead anyway, against True 
Potentials advice.
Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr D wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the BSPS against True Potentials advice. I say this because, while 
Mr D was motivated to transfer when he approached True Potential, on balance, I still think 
Mr D wouldve listened to and followed True Potentials advice if things had happened as 
they should have and it recommended he stay in the scheme. Mr D had little investment 
experience  he certainly couldnt reasonably be described as an experienced investor or 
someone who possessed the necessary knowledge, skill or confidence to go against the 
advice they were given. Furthermore Mr Ds pension accounted for the majority of his 
retirement provision at the time. So, if True Potential had provided him with clear advice 
against transferring out of the BSPS, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I think he 
wouldve accepted that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr Ds concerns about his employer were so great that he wouldve 
insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose expertise he had sought 
out and was paying for, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his best interests. If True 
Potential had explained to Mr D that he could meet all of his objectives without risking his 
guaranteed pension, I think that wouldve carried significant weight. So, I dont think Mr D 
wouldve insisted on transferring out of his scheme.
In light of the above, I think True Potential should compensate Mr D for the unsuitable 
advice, using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. And as 
per the above, it is the benefits available to him through the BSPS2 that should be used for 
comparison purposes.
I can see the investigator also recommended an award of £300 for the distress and
inconvenience the matter has caused Mr D. 
So Ive also thought about whether its fair to award compensation for distress and 
inconvenience - this isnt intended to fine or punish True Potential  which is the job of the 
regulator. But I think its fair to recognise the emotional and practical impact this had on Mr 
D. Taking everything into account, including that I consider Mr Ds retirement provision is of great importance to him given its significance in his overall retirement income provision, I 
think the unsuitable advice has caused him distress. So I think an award of £300 is fair in all 
the circumstances.
Putting things right
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and has set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for 
non-compliant pension transfer advice. The consultation closed on 27 September 2022 with 
any changes expected to be implemented in early 2023.
In this consultation, the FCA has said that it considers that the current redress methodology 
in Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes 
are not necessary. 
However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could improve or 
clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress. 
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 whilst the consultation takes place. 
But until changes take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their 
compensation to be calculated in line with any new rules and guidance that may come into 
force after the consultation has concluded.
Weve previously asked Mr D whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for any new guidance /rules to be published. 
Mr D didnt make a choice, so as set out previously Ive assumed in this case that he doesnt 
want to wait for any new guidance. 
I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr D. 
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr D, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for True Potentials unsuitable advice. I consider Mr D 
would have most likely transferred his benefits into BSPS2 if suitable advice had been given. 
So True Potential should use the benefits offered by BSPS2 for comparison purposes.
True Potential must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators 
pension review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised 
Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension 
transfers.
For clarity, Mr D has no plans for his retirement. So in the circumstances and as per the 
usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance, compensation should be based on a normal 
retirement age of 65 in this case. 
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ds acceptance of the decision.True Potential may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain 
Mr Ds contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). 
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ds SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ds pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr D as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his/her/their likely 
income tax rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% 
overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr D within 90 days of the date True Potential receives 
notification of his acceptance of my final decision. 
Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year 
simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 
90 days, that it takes True Potential to pay Mr D.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90-day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90-day period in which interest wont apply.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect True Potential to carry out a calculation in line with the 
updated rules and/or guidance in any event.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require True Potential Wealth 
Management LLP to pay Mr D the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to 
a maximum of £160,000.
True Potential Wealth Management LLP should also pay Mr D £300 for the distress and 
inconvenience the unsuitable advice has caused.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
True Potential Wealth Management LLP to pay Mr D any interest on that amount in full, as 
set out above.Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require True 
Potential Wealth Management LLP to pay Mr D any interest as set out above on the sum of 
£160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
True Potential Wealth Management LLP pays Mr D the balance. I would additionally 
recommend any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr D.
If Mr D accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding True Potential Wealth 
Management LLP.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr D can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr D may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2022. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman