DRN-3449276
The complaint
Mr K complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited trading as Littlewoods (Shop 
Direct) irresponsibly gave him two running account credit facilities that he couldnt afford. 
Mr K is also disappointed that his credit record has been adversely affected by this.
What happened
In May 2016, Mr K applied for a credit account with Shop Direct. He was given an initial 
credit limit of £600. There were no credit limit increases on the account. By January 2017 
the credit limit was reduced to £175. After sustained arrears Mr K was issued a default 
notice on 28 August 2017. The account was passed to a third party debt collection 
agency in September 2017. Eventually the balance was written off by that third party. 
In June 2019 Mr K applied for another credit account with Shop Direct. He was 
given an initial credit limit of £500. There were no credit limit increases on the 
account. By August 2019 the credit limit was reduced to £150. By September 
2019 the account had entered a period of arrears.  
In 2021, Mr K complained to Shop Direct to say that the accounts shouldnt have been 
opened for him because they werent affordable.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Mr K didnt agree. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Shop Direct will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Our adjudicators assessment provided a detailed account of all the increases and 
suspensions of credit, and they are summarised above. Neither party has called the 
specifics into question, so, I dont intend to cover them off here. 
Mr Ks complaint is that Shop Direct made credit available that was unaffordable. Shop 
Direct has explained that it carried out a credit check using a credit reference agency to 
determine the amount of credit it was able to offer. Its possible that Shop Direct failed to 
make adequate checks before providing Mr K with credit. But even if thats true, I dont think 
better enquiries would have caused Shop Direct to think the initial credit limit was 
unaffordable. 
I say this because the initial credit limits were reasonably modest, the maximum monthly 
payments for that credit would have been relatively modest. Ive seen insufficient evidence 
to think that there had been lots of adverse information on Mr Ks credit file immediately 
before each lending decision was made. So, having considered all the submissions made 
in this case, I have seen insufficient evidence to think that a more thorough affordability 
check would have led Shop Direct to think that the very modest credit limits it provided Mr 
K were unreasonable. 
And I think that Shop Direct showed forebearance in its dealings with Mr K when Mr Ks 
management of his accounts was less than either party would have wished them to be. In 
making my decision, Ive considered what Shop Direct has done in relation to the 
outstanding balances it was owed. 
My role here is limited to determining whether what Shop Direct did for Mr K was fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of this case. And in deciding this matter, Ive thought 
that Shop Direct attempted to work with Mr K until that proved fruitless. Shop Direct reduced 
the credit limits and then suspended the account for any new credit. Eventually Shop Direct 
passed the debt on to a third party. That third party eventually decided it shouldnt pursue 
Mr K for the funds owing because he couldnt afford to repay them and that was unlikely to 
change in the future. The approach of Shop Direct does not appear to me to be 
unreasonable in these things. 
When thinking about how these events should be marked on Mr Ks credit file, I think it 
would be unreasonable for me to reach this finding in relation to the balances owed, but to 
depart from it in terms of Mr Ks credit file going forward. I think that reaching such a finding 
would be counterproductive and arguably not in Mr Ks best interests, or those of any 
potential lender. 
So, having carefully thought about everything, including everything Mr K has submitted to 
us, Im not going to ask Shop Direct to amend Mr Ks credit file to remove any adverse 
information. This means that Shop Direct can and should record the adverse credit 
information that followed from actions that I find to be not unreasonable; namely, the noting 
of arrears, of defaults and the passing on of debt to a third party. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2022.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman