DRN-2059211
 
The complaint
Mr B complains that Lloyds Bank PLC failed for several weeks to change his address in its 
records.
What happened
In November 2019 Mr B moved house. He went to a branch of Lloyds and provided his new 
details. Because he was moving into a newly-built property, those details had to be input 
manually, but Mr B was satisfied that the necessary changes had been made; he checked 
the details on his mobile banking app, and it appeared they had been.
Mr B also banks with Halifax, which is part of the Lloyds Banking Group. Businesses within 
the group share information, and so Mr B received a letter from Halifax, correctly addressed, 
acknowledging the change. However, when Mr B checked his Halifax app, he noticed that 
the postcode and district were wrong - although the house number and street name were 
correct.
Mr B also had a complaint about payment protection insurance with Lloyds at the same time. 
He received letters sent to his old address in connection with that issue. He says he only 
received these because he'd arranged for post to be redirected. 
Mr B complained to Lloyds, which offered to pay him £30 in recognition of the inconvenience 
to which he'd been put. Mr B was happy with that outcome until he received confirmation of 
the settlement - which was sent to the address with the incorrect postcode. He continued to 
receive letters about payment protection which were redirected from his old address.
Mr B referred his complaint back to Lloyds, which increased its offer to £100 and paid that 
sum into his account. Shortly after that, however, Mr B received through online banking a 
letter about overdraft charges - which again included his old address.
Since then, it appears that Mr B's address has been correctly changed on all Lloyds' 
platforms, but he remains unhappy that the changes weren't made properly in the first place. 
When he referred the matter to this service, one of our investigators considered it but took 
the view that the compensation that Lloyds had paid was fair in all the circumstances. He 
didn't recommend that the bank pay any more. Mr B asked that an ombudsman review the 
case. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, however, I agree with 
the investigator that Lloyds has done enough to resolve Mr B's complaint.  
I can understand why Mr B was frustrated when it appeared that the bank had three different 
addresses for him. It appears that one letter of his postcode was incorrectly copied within the 
banking group's systems and that some parts of the system took longer to update than others. It will have been particularly annoying for him to have received a confirmation that 
the complaint had been resolved which was itself incorrectly addressed. 
Against that, I note that letters that were incorrectly addressed appear to have been safely 
delivered, either because the Royal Mail followed the house number and street address 
rather than the postcode or because Mr B had set up a mail redirection service. The mailing 
about overdraft charges was, the bank says, prepared some weeks in advance and so 
included Mr B's previous address. I accept that explanation and note that, because it was 
delivered online, there was no risk that a hard copy would be sent to the wrong address.
It's right that Mr B should be compensated for the inconvenience he's been put to and for the 
worry that information about his finances could have been delivered to someone else. 
Overall, though, I think Lloyds has done enough to resolve his complaint and I don't propose 
to ask it to do any more.      
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't require Lloyds Bank PLC to do anything further to resolve Mr 
B's complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr 
B to accept or reject my decision before 21 September 2020.
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman