DRN-2578508
The complaint
Mr B complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua lent irresponsibly when it approved his 
credit card then later increased the credit limit. 
What happened
In December 2014 Mr B applied for a credit card with Aqua. Mr Bs application said he was a 
tenant, employed earning £24,000 and had unsecured debts of around £300. As part of the 
application process, Aqua completed a credit check and didnt find any adverse information 
reported. Aqua approved a credit card with a £300 credit limit. In April 2015 Aqua says it 
reviewed Mr Bs credit card and information from the credit reference agencies and took the 
decision to increase the credit limit to £600. In January 2016, the credit limit was increased 
to £1,200. 
In May 2016 Mr B repaid the outstanding balance and the credit card was reported as closed 
on his credit file the following month. 
In July 2020 Mr B complained that Aqua had lent irresponsibly. Mr B explained that he had 
used the full credit limit on the account and asked for payment arrangements to clear the 
outstanding balance. Mr B told Aqua he had arrears on other commitments and was reliant 
on pay day lending at the time. Mr B also said he had used his card for gambling which 
should have caused Aqua to consider whether it was affordable to increase his credit limit. 
Aqua responded to Mr Bs complaint on 20 July 2020 but didnt agree an error had been 
made. Aqua said it had considered a range of factors before deciding to approve his credit 
card and increase the credit limit. 
Mr B referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They thought 
Aqua had dealt with Mr Bs complaint fairly, so didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr B asked 
to appeal, so his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before a business decides whether to lend, we would expect it to complete proportionate 
checks to ensure that the borrowing is sustainable for its customer. There isnt a specific list 
of checks a business has to complete, but Aqua has told us it asked Mr B information about 
his personal and financial circumstances when he applied and looked at his credit file. Aqua 
has also explained that after Mr Bs credit card was approved, it went on to consider how he 
had handled the account before deciding whether to increase the credit limit. Ive considered 
whether the checks Aqua completed were proportionate and if its decisions to approve the 
credit card and later increase the credit limit were reasonable, based on what it knew about 
Mr B. 
Mr Bs credit card application said he was a tenant and had been employed for around 11 
years. Mr B gave details of his income. Aqua also completed a credit check and didnt find 
any evidence of defaults or other adverse information. Aqua has sent us details of the 
information it found and it shows none of the accounts reported on his credit file were in 
arrears and that, at the time of the application, he owed around £300 to other unsecured 
lenders. 
Aqua says it took the decision to approve Mr Bs credit card with a reasonably low credit limit 
of £300. Mr B has sent us a copy of his credit file that covers the period in question. I didnt 
find any adverse information, which is in line with the information Aqua says it found. Mr B 
also said he was borrowing from pay day lenders around this time, but I didnt see entries on 
his credit file to reflect that. 
Some commitments arent reported to all credit reference agencies. Its possible that some 
commitments werent picked up by Aqua or included in Mr Bs application. But I think Aqua 
acted reasonably by considering Mr Bs credit file, along with the information he provided in 
his application, when deciding whether to proceed. Having considered the information 
available to Aqua when Mr B applied, Im satisfied it did complete proportionate checks and 
that its decision to proceed was reasonable. 
Aqua increased Mr Bs credit limit to £600 in April 2015 and £1,200 in January 2016. On 
each occasion, Aqua says it used the information Mr B had provided in his original 
application as well as what it knew about him from the way his account had been handled. 
Aqua says it also checked Mr Bs credit file. Aqua has provided information to show Mr Bs 
payments were made on time and that there was no adverse credit information recorded 
about him with the credit reference agencies. I think Aquas checks were proportionate as it 
used the information he provided as well as details about how his other credit had been 
handled to consider whether to increase his credit limit. Aqua also considered how Mr B had 
handled his account before it decided to increase his credit limit.
Mr B has said that he used his credit card for gambling and I can see some transactions for 
that purpose. But the majority of the transactions I saw were for unrelated spending. Im not 
persuaded that Aquas decision to approve Mr Bs credit card or increase his credit limit was 
unreasonable based on the information available in this case. 
Mr B has told us that he had to enter a payment arrangement with Aqua, but thats not 
something I found evidence of in his statements or its records. When consumers tell a 
business theyre in financial difficulties and need help, I would expect them to be treated 
positively and sympathetically. Ive looked at what happened in this case. From the 
information available, it appears that Aqua increased the credit limit to £1,200 in January 
2016 and Mr B repaid the credit card in May 2016. The account was closed a short time 
later. There is no record of any payment arrangements or Aqua being told Mr B was having 
trouble making his payments. Im sorry to disappoint Mr B but I havent found that Aqua 
treated him unfairly and the information doesnt show it was aware he was experiencing 
financial difficulties. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr B but based on all the available information, I think Aqua did 
complete proportionate checks before it approved his credit card and later increased the 
credit limit. And, based on the information available to Aqua and what it knew about Mr Bs 
circumstances, I think its decision to lend was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. As I 
havent found Aqua treated Mr B unfairly and Im satisfied it dealt with Mr Bs credit card 
fairly, Im not telling it to take any further action. 
My final decisionMy decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman