The complaint
Mr H is unhappy Gladstone Brookes (GB) failed to update him about his payment protection 
insurance (PPI) claims.
What happened
In December 2017 Mr H signed several forms of authority (FoA) instructing GB to pursue 
PPI claims on his behalf. 
Mr H said GB didnt update him on the status of his claims. And hadn't done enough to find 
out whether he had PPI or not. He said he'd asked GB to only contact him by email which 
they'd failed to do, and that they hadn't responded to his complaint in a timely way.
GB said it had pursued PPI claims on Mr H's behalf for several of his lenders. And for each 
and every lender they'd been told Mr H didn't have any PPI policies. GB said they had 
provided updates to Mr H through their client portal and had sent text messages to 
him. They had also requested he sent to them any documents he had supporting his claim 
that he had PPI. As no further information was received from Mr H, GB had closed his 
claims.
Mr H said he had changed his address and never received any update letters from GB, 
despite having a post redirect set up. And he had specifically asked for any correspondence 
to be made by email. He referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator said GB had provided updates by way of its portal and phone 
messaging. And he didn't find any specific request made to GB by Mr H for email only 
contact. Or that Mr H had updated GB about his new address details. So he didn't think GB 
had done anything wrong.
Mr H didn't agree and has asked for an ombudsman to decide.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done, so I'm not upholding Mr H's complaint. I'll explain why.
This service is impartial between, and is independent from, consumers and businesses. It 
isnt our role to punish a business. In considering Mr Hs complaint Ive looked to see 
DRN-1222529whether GB has been fair and reasonable in what it has done. And in doing, so I've 
considered the applicable rules and regulations that apply.
On 29 November 2017, Mr H used GB's website to create a case for them to check whether 
he had any PPI. GB signposted Mr H to register for their client portal, so he could check this 
information and for the provision of future updates. A welcome letter was also sent by GB, 
dated 30 November 2017, thanking Mr H for choosing GB and outlining what would happen 
next. Along with the letter GB sent several FoA's for each of Mr H's lenders which he signed 
and dated 2 December 2017. GB has shown they received the signed FoA's on 7 December 
2017. After which they contacted Mr H's lenders to see if he had any PPI with them.
By 19 December 2017, GB had been told by some of Mr H's lenders that they didn't have 
any PPI cover for Mr H. GB sent a text message to Mr H and referred him to the client portal 
to view his closure letter, part of which said:
Therefore, unless you are able to provide documentary evidence that you did hold a policy 
with (lender's name added) within the next 14 days we must close your file of papers for this 
case."
One of Mr H's other lenders confirmed he'd already conducted his own investigation and that 
he'd received a final response from this lender. And GB again updated its client portal with 
details of the closure letter.
Having seen GB's records, all of Mr H's claims with them were closed by 12 February 2018 
and GB sent text messages to Mr H and updates were made by them to their client portal. 
Mr H has said he never got the text messages, and he didn't use the client portal, so he 
never received any of the information about his PPI claims. I can understand Mr H's 
frustration as I can see on 7 August 2018 he emailed GB for an update about his claims. I 
can also see that GB replied by email saying none of his lenders had found any PPI and that 
all of his claims with GB had been closed.
This must have been a disappointment for Mr H, and he did challenge GB about what they 
had done to prove the accuracy of the lenders responses. GB explained, for them to dispute 
this with Mr H's lenders he would need to provide proof he'd had PPI. And said without any 
proof of PPI they couldn't do anything more for him. GB also said he could make a request 
to his lenders for any information they held. So, I'm satisfied that Mr H at this point was 
updated about his claims and that he knew his claims had been closed.
I know Mr H has said he wasn't kept updated by his preferred method of communication, as 
he said he'd specifically asked GB to correspond with him only by email. But I can't see any 
evidence of this. And after the welcome letter and FoA's were sent to him through the post I 
can't see Mr H  questioned this with GB. Our investigator also asked Mr H 
whether he'd asked for a specific method of communication,  and Mr H replied  "No ".
I haven't seen any evidence that shows Mr H asked GB to only contact him by email, or that 
he wouldn't be using their client portal or that his business phone didn't accept text 
messages. So, I can't hold GB responsible for Mr H not accessing or being able to access 
the updates they provided at the time.
After Mr H complained to GB about the lack of updates, as part of their final response GB 
sent copies, on 20 June 2019, of his PPI claim closure letters to him. But these were sent to 
the address they held on record.  Mr H had changed his address in November 2018 and 
said he had a six month redirect for his post, but the letters were sent outside of this period, 
so he never received them. GB's terms of engagement say:"Tell us if you move house or change contact details"
I can't see any evidence that Mr H told GB he'd changed his address, so again I can't hold 
them responsible for him not getting the letters or response to his complaint. 
In looking at this complaint I've considered what would have been Mr H's situation if he'd 
received the updates by emails.  And for Mr H I don't think there's been a detrimental 
impact as he hasn't suffered a financial loss or any loss of opportunity. 
So I'm not going to ask GB to do anything further. I understand Mr H will be disappointed but 
I hope my findings have explained why and how I've reached my decision.
 My final decision
I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 February 2020.
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman