DRN-3644614
The complaint
Mr B complains that he had to make a further payment to his loan from Sainsburys Bank Plc 
(Sainsburys).
What happened
Mr B borrowed £22,945 on a loan from Sainsburys. Monthly repayments were £429.83. His 
income was affected by the pandemic and he asked for a payment holiday under the FCAs 
pandemic support scheme. This was agreed. (it was called Emergency Payment Freeze by 
Sainsburys). But there were some delays in putting it in place. The payment holiday (PH) 
was effective from August 2020 to October 2020. Mr B complained about how Sainsburys 
had handled his PH request, and they apologised and paid compensation of £250. But - 
thats not the subject of this complaint.
As part of Mr Bs PH, Sainsburys made a manual payment of £429.83 to Mr Bs loan 
account. This was to ensure his loan wasnt marked as being in arrears. 
Mr B then decided to pay off the loan early and in October 2020, asked Sainsburys for a 
redemption figure. They told him that was £2,578.98 and Mr B paid that amount off. In 
February 2021, March 2021, and August 2021, Sainsburys wrote to Mr B to ask him for 
payment of £429.83.
Mr B complained. He said Sainsburys had told him the amount to pay off the loan when he 
called them. And that was a commitment from Sainsburys. He said they should honour that. 
So - he says he shouldnt have to pay the money. He says that to do so would cause him 
financial difficulty.
In May 2021, Sainsburys said that they made the payment of £429.83 to Mr Bs loan 
account to stop it from showing there were missed payments, and so that this wasnt 
reported to the credit reference agencies (CRAs). This was a temporary measure to help Mr 
B. But  they said the payment is still due under the loan contract and must be paid.
Mr B didnt agree and brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said that what happened 
was due to Sainsburys having to quickly adapt their systems to handle the PH processes 
which were introduced by the FCA during the pandemic. As part of that, they made a manual 
payment of £429.83 so that Mr Bs loan didnt fall into arrears and wasnt reported to the 
CRAs. But  Mr B owed the money under the loan contract. And Sainsburys had advised 
him that it had to be repaid in their letter dated 20 July 2020. So  the sum should be paid by 
Mr B.
He said Sainsburys couldve  advised Mr B more quickly after he contacted them, and they 
gave Mr B the wrong figure to repay his loan when he called them. For that, he said 
Sainsburys should pay compensation of £100.
Mr B didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman look at his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I accept Mr Bs strength of feeling about what happened  as he had already gone through a 
number of problems with his request for a payment holiday, and then when he called 
Sainsburys for a redemption figure, he was told that the amount was £2,578.98. So, he paid 
that amount, and closed the loan. He assumed everything was finished  but was then 
asked to pay £429.83 several months later.
The problems that Mr B had in setting up the payment holiday (PH) arent part of this 
complaint. But as part of putting the PH in place, Sainsburys made a manual payment to his 
loan  they told us (and Mr B) that this was needed to ensure his loan didnt fall into arrears 
or be reported to the CRAs. So  I can see that they did this to help Mr B. And it was done 
as part of the operational processes that Sainsburys had to put in place to offer the PH 
scheme to customers. 
Sainsburys dont deny that they advised Mr B on the phone that the redemption figure for 
his loan was £2,578.93  and that this was an error, as it didnt include the amount of 
£429.83. What I must decide is whether it is fair and reasonable to ask Mr B to pay that back 
after the loan was closed off. 
I consider that the key issue here is the loan contract signed by Mr B  this made for 60 
payments of £429.83. Ive seen the contract. So  thats a contractual commitment that Mr B 
agreed to. And in not paying one instalment, I think its fair to say that Mr B hasnt fulfilled the 
contract.
I also looked at the letter that Sainsburys sent to Mr B on 20 July 2020. This was 
Sainsburys final response to Mr Bs complaint about the delay in the setting up of the PH (as 
Ive said, this is not the complaint we are considering here). But as part of putting that right, 
the letter explained that a payment of £429.83 was being made to Mr Bs loan to prevent the 
arrears and notification to the CRAs. The letter said we have adjusted your loan account 
by crediting it with the sum of £429.83 to bring your account up to date..this is however a 
payment that is still due under the contract, so you will need to pay this amount to us before 
your contract ends.as soon as you are ableplease arrange to make payment of 
£429.83. And so  Mr B was told that the money had to be paid at the time .
I accept that Mr B was told the wrong amount when he called Sainsburys  and that was an 
error. But I dont consider that outweighs the contract he had with Sainsburys, and also, he 
was told that it needed to be paid at the time the PH was set up  In July 2020.
Sainsburys made an error when they misadvised Mr B of the settlement amount when he 
called. This must have been frustrating to Mr B. So - I agree that payment of compensation 
of £100 is appropriate for this error.
I know this will be a disappointment to Mr B, but Im not going to ask Sainsburys to waive 
the payment of £429.83 and this remains due to be paid by Mr B.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Sainsburys Bank Plc must:
Pay compensation of £100 for distress and inconvenience.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman