DRN-4201192
The complaint
Mr H complains about Evolution Insurance Company Limited (EIC) who declined his claim, 
under his home emergency policy. 
What happened
Mr H held a home emergency policy with EIC. His boiler broke down and he made a claim. 
EIC sent an engineer who assessed that the fault was with the fan (that required 
replacement) and an automatic air vent. But, as Mr Hs boiler was around 20 years of age at 
the time, EIC deemed that the boiler was beyond economical repair (BER). EIC explained to 
Mr H that the cost of the repair was deemed to be more than 80% of the boiler 
manufacturers current value. 
EIC gave Mr H further options that included, the boiler manufacturer carrying out a fixed 
price repair at a cost of £310. And if the boiler manufacturer found that the boiler was BER, 
then Mr H would receive a refund of £210, as £100 would be the call out fee and Mr H would 
need a new boiler. 
The other option it offered was for its engineer to carry out the repair at a cost of £272.74 
just for the labour and new fan. Both these options would be chargeable to Mr H, but he 
refused them.  
Mr H complained to EIC as he felt that it hadnt explained to him prior to the purchase of the 
policy, its calculations for determining BER. And that the calculations would be on the basis 
of a percentage depreciation each year. Mr H also said that as EIC had told him his boiler 
was repairable, it was unfair for it to determine that the boiler was BER. 
In its final response, EIC maintained its position. It outlined in full how it calculated BER. It 
confirmed that Mr Hs policy would be cancelled due to the BER determination, and a pro-
rata refund of £10.89 would be given to Mr H. 
Mr H was given his referral rights, so he referred a complaint to our service. He felt that he 
had been mis-sold the policy as EIC hadnt explained to him how it had calculated the BER 
prior to him purchasing the policy. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. She 
said that EIC hadnt acted unreasonably when it cancelled his policy, nor when it determined 
that his boiler was BER. She also said that it wasnt unreasonable for EIC not to outline how 
it determined BER at the point of purchase. And as the sale of the policy was a non-advised 
sale, on a price comparison website, EIC wouldnt have been able to advise Mr H if the 
policy was suitable for his needs. 
EIC accepted the view, Mr H did not. Mr H said that EIC had failed to outline its BER 
calculations in any of the policy documents and so it was unfair for it to rely on those 
calculations, without it first having communicated the details to its customers. And he also 
said it was unfair for him to be charged the excess fee, when nothing was done to his boiler. 
So, he asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint, for much the same reasons as our 
investigator. I understand that this might be a disappointment to Mr H, but I hope my findings 
go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. 
I have considered all the evidence that both parties have provided me with. I have also 
looked at the policy terms and conditions, as well as what happened at the point of sale.  
And whether it was fair for EIC to charge Mr H an excess. 
I understand that Mr H has contacted his bank to apply for a chargeback, as he feels that he 
was unfairly charged an excess. So, Ive had a look into this.
Mr H has confirmed that he received documents from EIC when he purchased the policy. 
Having reviewed the terms and conditions, it is clear, that when a claim is made an excess 
becomes payable. EIC confirmed that Mr H chose to pay a lower premium, when he was 
buying the policy, and this lower premium, meant that an excess of £95 became payable 
when a claim was made. 
There is no dispute that a claim was made and according to the policy terms and conditions, 
an excess payment becomes payable. Mr H said that the engineer who attended did 
nothing, and he ought not to have to pay the excess at all. 
EIC provided the engineers report, which I have read. It is clear that the engineer had to 
inspect the boiler, in order to conclude that the fan and the automatic vent were at fault. So, 
Im not persuaded that the engineer did nothing. Consequently, as a claim was made and 
the engineer attended and carried out an examination of the boiler, I think the excess was 
correctly charged. And I dont agree that EIC were unreasonable to charge this payment. 
I have next considered the issue of whether Mr H was mis-sold the policy as he said EIC did 
not mention its BER calculations, prior to his purchase of the policy. So, Ive had a look at 
whether EIC recommended the policy to Mr H to buy. 
From the evidence, it appears that Mr H purchased the policy online via a price comparison 
website. EIC said that Mr H after he had selected the policy on the price comparison 
website, he was transferred to its website were the policy terms and conditions were made 
available for him to review. 
Mr H said that he had bought the policy on a price comparison website. But he then provided 
me with information that I think indicated that he had made initial enquires via a price 
comparison website, before purchasing the policy. Further, EIC said that Mr H had 
purchased several policies within a short period of time, so should have been aware of the 
product that he was buying.
Ive had a look at what Mr H was provided with and I dont agree that EIC recommended that 
Mr H purchase the policy, so this was a non-advised sale. Also, I can see that Mr H ticked 
that he had read and understood the terms and conditions before the sale was completed. One of the terms in the policy that deals with BER states: Beyond economic repair Boilers 
have a working life of, usually, 7 to 20 years. Their value reduces over time, if after an 
engineer visit and assessment, repair costs are estimated to be more than the current value 
of the boiler we will not be able to carry out a repair but will try to assist you with other 
options. I think the term is clear that EIC considered that boilers have a working life of up to 
20 years and that their value decreases over time. As Mr Hs boiler was nearly 20 years old 
at the time it came on cover, I dont think EIC did anything incorrect by accepting to cover his 
boiler. 
Further, the terms mentions that there will be a decrease in the value of the boiler over time. 
So, as this wasnt an advised sale and If Mr H didnt fully understand the term, he couldve 
contacted EIC for further clarification of it. But he did not do so. Moreover, he had indicated 
that he understood the terms of the policy. So, I dont think Mr H has provided enough 
evidence that he was mis-sold the policy. 
Mr H said that EIC ought to have outlined how it calculated BER, at the point of sale. But I 
dont agree, as it had indicated in the policy that boilers do depreciate. And it wouldnt be 
something that we would expect an insurer to provide at the point of sale. So, Im not 
persuaded that the policy was mis-sold to Mr H. 
Consequently, I find that EIC fairly declined to repair the boiler after having deemed it BER. 
Im not satisfied that the policy was mis-sold to Mr H. Although I acknowledge Mr Hs 
strength of feeling about this complaint and the reason why he referred it to our service. But, 
in the overall circumstances of this complaint, I havent seen enough evidence to show that 
EIC acted unfairly. Im therefore not going to tell it to do anything further here. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 September 2023.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman