DRN-4234977
The complaint
Miss W has complained about the service provided by AXA Insurance UK Plc under a 
property insurance policy following a water leak.
For the avoidance of doubt, the term AXA includes its agents, representatives and 
contractors in this decision letter.
What happened
A water leak occurred at Miss Ws flat. Miss W reported the matter to AXA as the relevant 
insurer in November 2022, and it sent engineers to investigate and stop the leak. Miss W 
was unhappy about the delays in progressing the claim and lack of communication. She also 
said that AXAs agents had created holes in the ceiling, causing water to leak and causing 
damage. She further complained about the behaviour of AXAs loss adjuster. AXA accepted 
that there had been service failures in handling the claim, and it offered Miss W £475 in 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Miss W was unhappy about the outcome of her complaint and referred the matter to this 
service. The relevant investigator upheld Miss Ws complaint and considered there had been 
six weeks of unnecessary delays, plus additional delays in March 2023. He also considered 
that there had been a lack of communication by AXA. Although AXA had upheld the 
complaint, the investigator didnt think it had sufficiently considered the impact of the delays 
upon Miss W.  He also considered that AXA should have been more proactive in dealing 
with the claim, particularly by January 2023, when it was made aware that the property was 
damp, and Miss W had a young child. He therefore recommended that AXA pay £300 in 
compensation for further distress and inconvenience. In addition, he said that AXA should 
consider provision of alternative accommodation as appropriate.
Both parties were unhappy with the outcome of the complaint. Miss W thought that the 
compensation award was too low, whilst AXA thought it was too high. In the circumstances, 
the matter has been referred to me to make a final decision in my role as Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key issue for me to consider is whether AXA acted in a fair and reasonable manner in 
handling this claim from November 2022 to April 2023, and also in relation to the 
compensation it offered. I dont consider that its acted fairly and reasonably in all respects 
and Ill explain why. In reaching this final decision, Ive also considered the parties 
submissions as summarised below.
I firstly turn to Miss Ws submissions. She said that after reporting the leak in her kitchen, 
she was put up in a hotel for a week, but was shortly placed back in the damp, mouldy flat 
with a young baby. She said that AXA had sent out a leak specialist, and they came back 
four times. However, she said they didnt fix the leak and flooded the flat. Miss W said that 
her new kitchen and flooring were ruined.
Miss W also said that the communication by AXA had been terrible. Shed had to run her 
heating and humidifiers to dry the rooms out and was offered £50 towards her energy bills, 
£250 for parking and food for the hotel, and compensation for lack of communication and 
delays. Miss W wanted AXA to repair the leak, replace the kitchen and flooring and to re-
plaster walls and pay additional compensation, as shed had to take time off work to be at 
home for contractors, and the issue was still no closer to being fixed.
In conclusion, Miss W said shed experienced distress and inconvenience due to the lack of 
care AXA provided. She was disappointed by the additional amount of £300 compensation 
awarded by the investigator. She said that the issues still hadnt been sorted out and shed 
been waiting over six months for her repairs to be completed and thought This is not on!
I now turn to what AXA has said about Miss Ws complaint about delay in claims progression 
and lack of communication between November 2022 and April 2023. AXA accepted that its 
appointed specialists didnt attend the property for many weeks and then had to attend 
multiple times. It said that leak detection then had to stop for asbestos testing to take place. 
It said that Miss W was initially moved into alternative accommodation during asbestos 
testing, and that once it was established the property was safe, she moved back into her flat. 
It accepted that there had then been further delays due to the agent not taking on 
instructions for leak detection to resume. As a result, Miss W had to chase AXA on multiple 
occasions for updates. As to missed days from work, it said that it was unfortunately within 
its policy terms and conditions that customers should make themselves available for visits to 
ensure that the claim was progressed. It also acknowledged that holes were placed in the 
ceiling by its contractors and confirmed that this will be part of the rectification work when 
the leak is found, and the damage can be resolved. As to the loss adjusters behaviour, AXA 
said that feedback had been provided to those involved. 
In March 2023, AXA assured Miss W that it would keep Miss W updated about progress, to 
ensure the claim progressed in a smooth manner and it awarded £400 compensation. In 
April 2023, AXA accepted that there had been further sporadic delays caused by its agent. 
It therefore awarded a further £75 for the further distress and inconvenience caused. It 
sincerely apologised for the issues Miss W had faced. It said that AXA had high standards, 
and that it had failed to meet them on this occasion. 
AXA also provided its case notes relating the matter and these confirmed that asbestos 
checks had been carried out and unfortunately, this meant that the contractor had stopped 
leak detection work. The notes also confirmed that at the beginning of 2023, water was still 
leaking into the property when the water was turned back on. Reference was made to water 
pouring through the ceiling. It was also clear at this point that AXA was aware that Miss W 
had a young child in the flat, that they couldnt live in those conditions and so needed 
alternative accommodation. The notes also refer to damage to laminate flooring and a delay 
in reimbursing energy costs.  
Having considered all of the evidence and submissions, the reasons for my final decision are 
as follows. Im satisfied that Miss W suffered considerable distress and inconvenience for the 
duration of the complaint period, which was from November 2022 to April 2023. 
Its inevitable unfortunately that an escape of water event like this, and the attendant claims 
procedure cause considerable distress and disruption. Concerns as to the presence of 
asbestos in a property can also significantly extend the process of leak detection and this is not necessarily something for which we can hold the insurer responsible. Its noted that the 
asbestos test was negative.
In this case however, AXA has acknowledged that there were delays over and above the 
delays caused by asbestos testing. Its acknowledged that its contractor failed to investigate 
the issue for several weeks, that it didnt promptly resume leak detection following asbestos 
testing and that there was also a delay in providing a contribution to energy costs. It also 
acknowledged poor communication with Miss W, and I have no reason to disbelieve Miss W 
about the conduct of AXAs representative on one occasion, for which AXA has apologised. 
This service may award compensation in cases where additional distress and inconvenience 
is caused by an insurers service failures or where there have been avoidable delays in 
processing claims. I have a great deal of sympathy for the ordeal which Miss W has been 
through over the period covered by the complaint, and which appears to be continuing. I can 
therefore understand why she would be looking for significant compensation. However, £775 
compensation in total is consistent with the level of compensation this service would expect 
an insurer to pay for distress and inconvenience caused by service failures, where there is 
the presence of a vulnerable person or child as in this case and where the distress and 
inconvenience continues for a period of months.
Im satisfied that £775 compensation in total is a fair amount in response to Miss Ws 
complaint. This comprises a £300 award on top of the £475 compensation already offered or 
paid by AXA. This in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused by its handling of 
Miss Ws claim between November 2022 and April 2023.
I note that AXA has committed to ensuring that the flat is habitable for Miss W and her child. 
Its therefore expected that this check is carried out as a matter of urgency and that the leak 
will have been fixed. Its also expected that any remedial works to Miss Ws flat, if caused by 
the leak and covered by the policy, or if caused by AXAs contractors, will have been carried 
out. As Miss Ws complaint related to the period November 2022 to April 2023 only, any 
further delays or lack of communication following the date of AXAs final response letters 
would, unfortunately, need to be raised in a new complaint by Miss W. This provides the 
insurer with a right to first respond and address any further concerns as appropriate and 
before any complaint is referred to this service.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Miss Ws complaint and I require AXA Insurance UK 
Plc to do the following in response to the complaint:
- To pay an additional £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused. This is in 
addition to the sum of £475 already offered or paid by AXA
- To diligently and urgently settle Miss Ws claim, and to ascertain whether her flat is 
habitable and take action as appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 September 2023.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman