DRN-2384399
The complaint
Ms D complains about incorrect information given by Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited 
about a bond she held with them.
What happened
In July 2018 Ms Ds Independent Financial Advisor (IFA), who were acting on her behalf, 
asked Aviva for details about previous withdrawals from a bond. In two telephone calls Aviva 
gave wrong information about those withdrawals. Using this information Ms Ds IFA arranged 
her financial affairs and asked Aviva to surrender the bond. Because of the wrong 
information Ms Ds IFA says she incurred a tax liability of over £13,000.
Ms D and her IFA complained to Aviva who acknowledged the errors made in the telephone 
calls. But they didnt think those errors caused the tax liability as they had sent an email and 
a letter to Ms Ds IFA with the correct information after the calls, as had been requested. 
Aviva sent Ms D a cheque for £200 to apologise for any inconvenience caused. 
Remaining unhappy Ms D and her IFA brought the complaint to this service where one of 
our investigators looked into what happened. They agreed Aviva had given wrong 
information over the telephone but thought the £200 was fair considering the correct 
information had been provided by both email and letter. Ms D and her IFA disagreed saying 
that it was unreasonable for Aviva to rely on the letter to distance themselves from the wrong 
information given over the telephone. So the complaint has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms D and her IFA have provided a lot of information about the complaint and why they think 
Aviva is responsible for the tax liability. I want to assure them Ive read and considered 
everything that has been provided even if I dont mention it in detail. Ive summarised what 
happened which reflects the informal nature of our service. 
Everyone agrees that Aviva gave wrong information in two telephone calls with Ms Ds IFA 
who were acting on her behalf. But I also must take into account that Aviva provided the 
correct information soon after the telephone calls by email and letter. This follow up letter 
had been requested by Ms Ds IFA during those calls. 
Ms Ds IFA say they didnt review the letter in detail when it was received. They say it was 
wholly reasonable of them to rely on the information from the telephone calls when 
organising Ms Ds financial affairs. This complaint isnt about the conduct of Ms Ds IFA so 
its not my place to say what they should or shouldnt have done. What I need to consider is 
whether the payment of £200 from Aviva is a fair and reasonable resolution of the complaint. 
And looking at what happened I think it is. I must also keep in mind that its only any 
inconvenience and upset to Ms D that I can consider, and not any upset to third parties such 
as Ms Ds IFA.
When speaking to Aviva Ms Ds IFA asked that the information they requested be followed 
up in writing. This was done and that letter confirmed the correct information about the bond. 
I note that the letter was provided to Ms Ds IFA in a timely manner and a few weeks before 
the surrender request was made. By doing this I think Aviva fulfilled their obligations to 
provide the correct information. 
There has been some discussion around the content of the letter and why it didnt make 
reference to the incorrect information given in the telephone calls; but I wouldnt have 
expected that to happen. The letter is a standard format giving all of the relevant information 
about the bond. It provides information about HMRC rules and says that to confirm whether 
there will be any tax charges the policyholder should speak to an accountant or a tax 
adviser.
During the course of our investigation into this complaint Ms D received a tax refund in 
respect of the liability she incurred in the tax year following the surrender of her bond. So 
that means there hasnt been a financial loss. Ms Ds IFA has however provided information 
claiming for accountants fees of over £1,300 which they say have been incurred because of 
the incorrect information; but Ive not seen any evidence that this is the case. However since 
Im persuaded that Aviva fulfilled their obligations by sending the correct information, these 
fees arent something I would consider asking them to pay.
Having carefully considered everything that happened Im satisfied the £200 Aviva have paid 
Ms D is a fair and reasonable way of resolving this complaint. There was some 
inconvenience to Ms D, and also an amount of worry and concern about the large tax 
liability, which has thankfully now been sorted out, but I think the £200 represents a fair 
payment for what happened.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2022. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman