DRN-3324796
The complaint
Mr D is represented by his lawyer. He seeks compensation for financial loss that he says 
resulted directly from Gain Capital UK Limited (Gain)  
Erroneously under-calculating and applying the margin required for US S&P 500 
Options trades he opened between 3 March 2020 and 20 April 2020, all expiring on 
16 May 2020 (the Options).
Failing to identify and notify him of this error until 21 April 2020, when margin for the 
Options was recalculated and increased, then failing to give him reasons until 23 
April 2020.
Failing to give him at least 24 hours notice prior to the margin being increased.
Freezing his account immediately on 21 April and preventing him from mitigating his 
position through hedging. 
Gain accepts responsibility for the erroneous margin calculation/application that affected the 
Options. One of our investigators upheld the complaint. She awarded Mr D compensation for 
financial loss (which Gain calculated to be £30,342) and she considered Gains offer of 
£2,000 for the trouble and upset caused to him more than she would award for that purpose. 
Gain initially contested the financial loss compensation award, then it agreed to pay it. The 
matter remains in dispute because Mr H says the award does not cover all his financial loss.
What happened
Mr Ds lawyer recently made submissions which helpfully summarise the background to the 
issues in dispute, and the issues themselves. In the main, the submissions said:
Clause 10.4 of the terms agreed for his Gain account says Gain may change the 
margin requirement for trades, but clause 10.9 says in such circumstances Gain will 
provide at least 24 hours notice of any increase in the margin requirement.
Gain, as a regulated firm providing the trading/trading platform service in the account, 
was also under the regulatory obligations to act honestly, fairly and professionally in 
his best interests; and to ensure communications with him were clear, fair and not 
misleading. [the regulatory obligations]
On opening the Options he had no knowledge, or cause to know, that the margin for 
them had been wrongly under-calculated.
On 21 April Gain informed him that the margin had been revised and increased, and 
that he had insufficient margin in the account (the margin breach). No prior notice of 
the increase was given to him. Furthermore, his account was immediately frozen 
because of the margin breach  he could not open new trades  and the options he 
was given were to either fund the account to restore margin in it or to reduce his 
open trading positions for the same purpose. Around £27,000 was required to fund 
the account and restore margin, he did not have such capital available and had to 
fund the account in instalments over time. He eventually completed the requisite 
funding of the account on 11 May 2020, the account was then unfrozen and he could 
resume trading.
Despite its actions on 21 April, it was not until 23 April 2020 that Gain clarified to him 
that margin had been wrongly under-calculated for the Options at the outset, hence 
the revision and increase of margin. In between these dates, he was given limited 
and misleading information about the reason for the increase.
Mr Ds position is that Gains miscalculation of margin for the Options, its failure to give him 
at least 24 hours notice of the margin increase, the misinformation (about the reasons for the 
increase) it gave him between 21 and 23 April and its action in freezing his account 
immediately (preventing him from making mitigating hedge trades) all combine to establish 
serious breaches of the contractual and regulatory obligations it owed him. His lawyer says 
starting from 21 April and by the time he regained access to trading (on 11 May) the account 
had incurred a total loss of around £111,000 (including around a third of the money he had 
used to fund the account up to 11 May). This is the compensation amount Mr D is claiming, 
and is the reason why he considers the compensation awarded by the investigator 
significantly insufficient.
In terms of compensation, the investigator mainly said:
Gain is responsible for the margin calculation error that affected the Options. For 
redress, an immediate consideration is what would have happened but for that error. 
Mr D has confirmed that the Options in the particular product had been opened 
following long-term planning and an informed trading strategy, so he would have 
traded the Options at the time in any case. He has also said that he would not have 
opened some of the Options if he knew of the real level of margin at the time. On this 
basis, it would not be fair to suggest voiding of the Options as a form of redress.
Even though Mr D would have traded the Options in any case, available evidence is 
that he would not have opened as many positions as he did but for the margin 
calculation/application error. 
Gain should calculate the surplus positions that Mr D would not have been able to 
open if margin had been correctly calculated/applied for the Options and it should 
pay him the total loss he incurred on those positions. With regards to his claim for 
trouble and upset  for the misinformation and overall service deficiency from Gain 
that he is unhappy about  Gains £2,000 offer is more than she would award Mr D, 
so she would not support an increase beyond that offer.
Gain calculated redress based on the investigators approach; based on its identification of 
the specific trades (identified between the dates of 9 and 14 April 2020) that Mr D would not 
have been able to open if margin was correctly calculated/applied; and based, initially, on 
the end date of 22 April 2020 (when it says Mr D was definitely aware of the margin 
correction) but extended (on, it says, goodwill) to the date on which the Options expired. Its 
calculation has been shared with this service and it concludes with the total noted earlier in 
this decision. 
The main difference between the parties is essentially that Mr D says he should be 
compensated for all the financial loss he incurred in all the Options from 21 April onwards, 
not just for the loss arising from the surplus positions that the investigator referred to and that Gain identified. The investigator disagreed. She said he was obliged to mitigate his 
losses in the Options at the time he was told about the margin revision and had the 
opportunity to do so; that he ought reasonably to have done that by reducing his open 
positions in order to restore margin in the account and to regain access to trading in the 
account; but, instead, he refused to close any position, he kept them open throughout and 
they incurred further losses.
Mr Ds lawyer says the investigators approach was/is flawed; that the 24 hours notice he 
should have been, but was not, given is an important element she overlooked; that, with 
such notice prior to freezing his account, he would have placed hedging trades to address 
the margin breach and those trades would not necessarily have consumed more margin; 
that his loss resulted from being deprived the opportunity to mitigate by placing such trades; 
that it is unreasonable to expect him to have closed positions in the Options given the lack of 
clarity on how that was to be done, given the running losses within them and given that 
relevant legal authorities say he was not required to sacrifice his open positions in aid of 
mitigation; and that it would be unfair to penalise him for taking until 11 May to complete 
funding of the account, as that was dictated by his financial circumstances at the time.
The matter was referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ds position on whether (or not) he would have traded the Options if margin was correctly 
calculated (and applied) is clear. As the investigator said, he has confirmed to us the 
background, planning and strategy behind the trades, and that they would have been placed 
at the time(s) they were placed in any case. However, as a preliminary observation during 
my review of the casefile, I did not consider that such clarity existed on whether (or not) he 
would have traded the Options with the same overall trade size if margin was correctly 
calculated and applied. 
The investigator found that Mr D would not have traded the same overall size, because of 
evidence that he would not have had enough funds to do so. She found that he would have 
traded a lower overall size, hence her approach towards redress. My reading of the 
submissions in the case suggested to me that Mr Ds earlier evidence appeared to support 
this finding, but he then appeared to say otherwise. The investigator shared my query about 
this with him and sought clarification, which he helpfully provided by confirming that, like the 
investigator found, he would not have had the funds to open the same overall size in the 
Options if margin had been correctly calculated and applied.
Certainty on the above two elements is important to determining this complaint. The first  
that Mr D would have traded the Options irrespective of the margin calculation/application 
error  supports the investigators finding that redress cannot reasonably be served by 
voiding or unwinding the Options. That type of redress would conflict with his position that 
the Options would have been traded in any case. The second element  that, had margin 
been correctly calculated and applied, his trading in the Options would have had a lower 
overall size  means that whilst the Options would have been traded even if the margin 
calculation error did not occur, the overall trade size would have been lower. 
Thus far, the natural conclusion (from the above) is the redress proposed by the investigator, 
which I endorse and incorporate into this decision. Mr D is entitled to compensation for 
financial loss incurred from the surplus positions in the Options that he would not have 
traded  and would not have been able to trade  but for the margin calculation error. Gain was initially reluctant to calculate this up to the date the Options expired. It considered 
that 22 April should be the calculation end point because it is by this date, at the latest, that 
the duty to mitigate passed to Mr D  but, as I said above, it extended its calculation to the 
Options expiry date as a gesture of goodwill. 
I understand this argument, and in another case (with supporting facts) it could be 
successful. In Mr Ds case, and as I address further below, I agree that a duty to mitigate 
passed to him upon the notice he received on 21 April, and I accept that he held that 
responsibility in an overall sense from then onwards. However, the matter of the surplus 
positions is a precise one. Gain had to analyse and identify, with hindsight and full 
information, the specific trades that would and could not have been placed if the margin 
calculation error did not happen. If Gain had to do this in order to identify them, it stands to 
reason that Mr D would not have been able to identify them on 21 or 22 April  given that he 
was without such hindsight and without complete information. In this context, it would be 
unfair to say he had a duty to mitigate by closing  on 21 or 22 April or even thereafter  the 
specific trades (opened between 9 and 14 April) that Gain has now identified as the surplus 
positions.
It follows from the above that Gain has done the right thing by calculating redress for the 
surplus positions up to the date the Options expired. It is my finding that this is the correct 
basis on which to calculate compensation to Mr D for them. The next issue to address is the 
compensation he claims for the total financial loss he incurred in the Options between 21 
April and 11 May. This claim includes the surplus positions, but as I have addressed those 
positions separately (above) I treat the claim as featuring only the overall trade size that     
Mr D would have placed but for the margin calculation error (that is, minus the surplus 
positions).
The key dispute in this claim is about mitigation. It is not disputed that Mr D had the duty to 
mitigate but there is disagreement about when this duty was triggered  given his argument 
that he remained without a proper explanation between 21 and 23 April  and about what 
this duty meant in real terms. 
On balance, I find that Mr D had the duty to mitigate upon his receipt of the 21 April 
notification about the margin breach and about his options. The options he was given  to 
fund the account or reduce his open positions  related to lifting the account suspension, but 
they also lent themselves to his duty to mitigate. 
His assertion about remaining uninformed, until 23 April, about the reason(s) for the margin 
breach is arguably irrelevant. On 21 April he was made aware of the margin breach, of his 
account being suspended (in terms of new trades, but not affecting the closure of existing 
open trades) and of the need to restore the level of margin required in the account (by either 
funding it or reducing the open positions within it) in order to lift the suspension. I do not 
suggest he was not entitled to also know the reasons behind the margin breach and I am 
mindful that he might have considered the entire affair to be a mistake that would be 
rectified. However, he was faced with the circumstances as they were on this date. He was 
responsible for addressing the margin breach, the account suspension and the open 
positions in the account. The fact that he queried the breach (and the reasons behind it) did 
not mean he could not have also addressed these responsibilities at the same time  and, in 
terms of mitigation, he ought reasonably to have done so.
In broad terms, mitigation is action that reduces the severity or seriousness of an event or 
occurrence. It is action, within reason, that is expected from and taken by the party facing 
the impact of the event or occurrence and it is arguably distinct from action challenging the 
relevant event, or occurrence, itself. It is for this reason that mitigation is generally viewed as applicable even if a matter is to be subsequently disputed or is already under dispute. On 
balance, between 21 and 23 April Mr D should have coupled any enquires he pursued about 
the margin breach with effort to mitigate the impact of the account/trading suspension (and 
the open positions within the account).
Overall and on balance, I do not accept Mr Ds lawyers submissions on what mitigation 
meant  or was supposed to mean  for him; including the argument that the missing 24 
hours notice and his inability to hedge diluted and/or altered his duty to mitigate. I repeat that 
Mr D was faced with the circumstances as they were on 21 April, and thereafter. He was not 
given the 24 hours notice that his lawyer has referred. I am satisfied that this is one of the 
elements behind Gains offer to him of £2,000 for trouble and upset, and I address this 
further below. As far as mitigation is concerned, it remains a fact that the missing 24 hours 
notice and Mr Ds inability to open hedging trades did not exhaust all mitigation options 
available to him at the time. 
I am persuaded to conclude from Mr Ds statements to this service that his priority at the 
time was not necessarily to mitigate. Instead, his priority appears to have been to continue 
the speculation for profit within his open positions. His statements to us repeated his 
reluctance to close the open positions at the time, including his assertion that decreasing the 
positions  would have meant unnecessarily and unfairly sacrificing about one third of all 
[his] account positions that [he] had worked hard to manage and enter at the best time and 
price. 
Mitigation required him to reduce the severity of the impact caused by the margin breach 
and/or account suspension. That could have been done by funding the account, but it is 
settled that he could not fund the account sufficiently in one step to restore margin and lift 
the suspension. He could only afford to fund the account in instalments over time. As such, 
there appears to be a loss of merit in his and his lawyers arguments (or at least 
suggestions) that the inability to place hedging trades meant he was prevented from 
mitigating and that Gain unfairly sought to impose on him an invalid requirement to close 
positions. The reality of the situation was that funding the account and/or closing positions 
remained meaningful options available to him at the time, but the closure of positions 
became the only viable option because he could not afford to fund the account as required.
The point about placing hedging trades is inherently limited. No notice was given and the 
account was suspended in terms of new trades, so no hedging could take place. Was Gain 
wrong to deprive Mr D of notice? I consider that it was, and I accept that had such notice 
been applied before the account was suspended, he might indeed have pursued the hedging 
that he has referred to. Did that materially alter his duty to mitigate? I do not consider that it 
did. He could not hedge but he could have reduced the severity of the losses that began to 
accumulate by either closing positions to stem those losses or closing enough positions to 
restore margin in the account, lift the account suspension and then place any hedging trades 
(or any trades) he deemed necessary  and unlike the matter of closing the surplus 
positions, no specific identification was required in this respect, he could have closed any 
open positions. 
By his account, closure of around a third of his open positions could (or would) have 
sufficed. The balance of available evidence suggests that he chose not to close those 
positions because he was hopeful that movement of the market would change in his favour 
and that all the positions would remain intact by the time he completed funding of the 
account and regained access to trading. This was speculation, not mitigation. It was aimed 
at keeping the positions open to pursue the prospect of profit and it was something he 
consciously did. A part of his lawyers submissions to this service supports this finding and 
appears to affirm that his priority was indeed to speculate, not mitigate. His lawyer said the 
investigator was wrong to say he should have closed positions and that  had he done so he would have crystallised losses when there was a possibility that the market would move 
in his favour [my emphasis]. 
In such circumstances, I do not consider that Mr D has a basis to say he discharged his duty 
to mitigate or a basis to claim compensation for loss incurred during a period in which he 
could have mitigated (and avoided or reduced the loss he has referred to), chose not to and 
chose instead to speculate. Gain cannot reasonably be responsible for the risk of loss from 
21 April onwards that he wilfully undertook in order to speculate for profit.
For the sake of clarity, I do not criticise Mr Ds overall pursuit of and speculation for profit in 
the Options. That was the obvious objective of his trading and he was entitled to seek that. I 
also do not say  and do not need to say  that speculation cannot ever coexist with 
mitigation. The point is that in Mr Ds case the former featured whilst the latter appears to 
have been non-existent. The matter I am addressing is whether (or not) he discharged his 
duty to mitigate, so it would not be fair to find that there was mitigation on his part where little 
to none appears to have happened. It is noteworthy that, as his lawyer stated, the account 
held around £97,000 in value on 21 April which dropped to around £7,600 on 11 May (after 
his additional funding of over £20,000 into the account during this period), so the implication 
is that this amount  or an amount around this level  could potentially have been saved had 
Mr D mitigated and closed positions on 21 April. Perhaps even more could have been saved 
given that most or all the additional funding he made during the period would probably have 
been unnecessary  in terms of lifting the suspension  if positions were closed on 21 April. 
The account suspension, in isolation, was not a wrongdoing. The idea of preventing Mr D 
from opening new trades when a margin breach already exists  and is yet to be repaired  
stood to assist him in mitigation. That is, it stood to avoid the risk of new trades creating new 
losses and new pressure on margin. 
I do not accept the suggestion that the notion of closing positions required additional clarity. 
Mr Ds lawyer says the notice on 21 April did not specify how this was to be done. The notice 
referred to the option of reducing open positions and, on balance, I consider that this was 
self-explanatory in terms of meaning the closure of open positions.
I have considered the legal authorities, on mitigation, his lawyer referred to. The thrust of the 
argument is that Mr D was not required to close his positions and that, in the circumstances 
of his case, it was not unreasonable for him not to have done so. Overall and on balance, I 
do not consider that the legal authorities that have been cited defeat the analysis I have set 
out above or justify Mr D allowing substantial total losses  up to the level of £111,000 that 
he claims  to accumulate in open positions over the course of around three weeks when he 
could have avoided all, most or a significant part of such losses (for his own benefit) had he 
closed positions at the outset. 
This was not a matter of the closure of positions being unjustly imposed upon him, it was a 
matter of such closures being in his best interest to avoid the accumulation of losses he 
could not hedge or trade against whilst the account was suspended. If he argues that he 
would not have been in the position he found himself if Gains initial margin calculation error 
had not happened and that he was entitled to pursue the profit he had planned for by trading 
the Options, nothing prevented him from mitigating his losses as a priority (again, for his own 
benefit) and then considering, perhaps with advice, a pursuit for lost opportunity to make 
profit. He did not do this, instead he appears to have taken the opportunity to make profit at 
the expense of mitigation but unfortunately for him that opportunity did not yield profit. Had it 
yielded profit he would not have met the total loss that he met when he regained full control 
of the account on 11 May, and he would have had no such loss to complain about. None of 
these seek to criticise Mr D. He was entitled to make his own decisions in the matter, but the 
decisions he made and steps he took mean that Gain cannot fairly be held responsible for the loss that he claims.
Putting things right
To compensate Mr D fairly, Gain must pay him the total loss he incurred in the surplus 
positions from when they were opened to when the Options expired  as I addressed above. 
Gain has identified the specific surplus positions and it has calculated this compensation. It 
appears that the calculation has been shared with Mr D, if this is not the case I order Gain to 
share the calculation with Mr D without delay. I order Gain to pay Mr D the total 
compensation amount in this respect plus interest on the compensation amount at the rate of 
8% simple per year from when the total loss was crystalised  when the Options expired  to 
the date of settlement. This is to compensate Mr D for being deprived of the compensation 
amount during this period.
Gain was wrong in its failure to give Mr D the 24 hours notice he was entitled to. It also 
appears that it was not completely clear with him about the reason(s) behind the margin 
breach on 21 April when margin for his account was revised and when new trading in his 
account was suspended. I also note his displeasure about the misleading information he 
refers to before he says the situation became clear on 23 April. For all these matters, the 
implication of poor service within them and the service level impact they caused to Mr D, I 
agree that he should be compensated for the trouble and upset he faced. Gain has offered 
him £2,000 and, like the investigator, this amount is more than I would order in the 
circumstances of his case. As such, I do not order Gain to pay him any more than this for 
trouble and upset, but I conclude his claim for trouble and upset compensation on the 
understanding that it is a claim settled by the £2,000 Gain has offered and will be paying 
him.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Ds complaint and I order Gain Capital UK Limited 
to resolve compensation to him as I have set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2022.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman