DRN-2189391
The complaint
Mr B complained that Concept Car Credit Limited, (Concept) mis-sold him a single-
premium payment protection insurance, (PPI) policy when he was buying a car. 
He told us he wasnt made aware he was being sold such a policy at the time, and hes also 
asked to look at the type of cover the PPI provided. He thinks because he was self- 
employed, claiming against the policy might have been quite difficult for him.
What happened
Id like to apologise to the parties for the time its taken for the complaint to reach this stage. 
Nevertheless, one of our adjudicators did look at it a while ago and recommended that it 
shouldnt be upheld. 
Mr B didnt agree with this and asked for an ombudsmans final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. Having done this, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Mr B took out the PPI in 2005 during a meeting when he bought a car on a four-year hire 
purchase agreement. At the same time, he also took out a single premium PPI policy. 
This particular type of PPI policy means the full cost of the cover is charged up front in one 
single payment, so the cost was added to the total amount Mr B borrowed for his new car. 
The PPI, which cost a little over £1,700, (excluding the interest payable on it), was designed 
to cover Mr Bs monthly repayments if he ever needed to make a claim. 
Mr B told us he didnt know he had such a policy added on to his loan and didnt understand 
the process. Its certainly possible that he may not have fully understood, but this sale was 
also a long time ago and I think its more likely he did know at the time that he was buying 
insurance. I accept he may not remember this now.
This is because I can see from the point of sale paperwork that PPI was discussed. What 
Ive seen includes a form, with a series of questions relating to Mr Bs circumstances on it, all 
relevant to whether he was eligible for this type of cover. He was also asked some questions 
about whether he had any alternative ways of making his monthly loan payments if he lost 
his income. 
Mr B signed the relevant forms to say PPI was something he wanted to have.
I also note that on Mr Bs credit agreement, again which he signed, the PPI was described 
as Optional Payment Protection Plan. So, on the whole, I think theres solid evidence to 
say the optional nature of the PPI was pointed out and that Mr B accepted the 
recommendation to have it added to his car loan.
Next, I looked at whether the PPI was suitable for him. 
I see the recommended cover contained the accident / sickness elements of cover  but not 
the unemployment element. I note how this issue was a concern for Mr B when he 
eventually made his complaint to us, because as a self-employed person, claiming could 
well have been difficult, if he had lost his job. However, as I say, no such unemployment 
cover was recommended or sold to him and so the accident / sickness policy fitted his 
circumstances, in my view. I also think that having his loan repayments covered in the event 
of him being unable to work for a while would have been of use to him.
I therefore think the policy was suitable for Mr Bs situation.
Concept had a duty to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading. I cant say 
Mr B would have been told everything he should have been. But I note the costs of both the 
loan and PPI part of the loan were shown on the agreement and he was given a summary of 
what the PPI did and didnt cover.
I know Mr B will be disappointed. But Im afraid the evidence Ive seen does indicate that the 
PPI was discussed, probably in some detail. The paperwork that followed could have been 
set out in a better way, but it still seems to me to set out the costs clearly enough for him to 
make an informed decision. Even if things had been clearer, I can see no reason why Mr B 
would have changed what he eventually did; I think the evidence is strong that he wanted 
this type of cover and thats why he bought it. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint. And I dont direct Concept 
Car Credit Limited to do anything to put matters right.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2020.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman