DRN-2410883
The complaint
 Mr S complains about how Fairmead Insurance Limited (T/A Legal and General) dealt with 
and settled a claim he made under his household insurance policy for storm damage.
What happened
 Mr S held a household buildings insurance policy with Legal and General, hereafter referred 
to as L&G. This policy doesnt include cover for accidental damage and it was incepted by 
Mr S on 1 October 2019  although hed held insurance previously with L&G. 
In February 2020, Mr S said there a number of storms within the locality of his property, 
which is situated in an exposed position at the top of a hill. Following the February storms, 
he experienced water ingress within his property  his property sustained interior water 
damage to the attic floor and the ceiling and chimney breast wall in the living room. Mr S 
thought this had been caused by high winds pushing rainwater up the roof and lifting the 
flashing around the chimney. 
Mr S said he was unsure of the date the water ingress had happened as his property was 
unoccupied. But he said he contacted L&G to claim on his policy on 28 February 2020, 
which was the day after he became aware of the damage. 
L&G appointed a surveyor, (B), to attend Mr S property in order to assess and determine 
whether the damage hed reported was storm related. But B wasnt able to attend Mr S 
property quickly due to the coronavirus pandemic. So, L&G authorised Mr S to undertake 
temporary repairs to his roof himself, pending Bs visit, provided he retained receipts. 
B attended Mr S property on 10 March 2020. But they werent able to gain access to the 
property because Mr S didnt have his key with him at that time. So, their site visit was 
rearranged to 24 March 2020. This was cancelled due to lockdown restrictions and the site 
visit went ahead on 31 March 2020.
By the time B visited Mr S property, hed already instructed a roofer to attend his property. 
They applied sealant to the tiles to prevent them from lifting in strong winds. And Mr S had 
already repaired the roof himself  he said he was able to do this by folding the chimney 
flashing that had lifted back over. 
B inspected Mr S property from ground level only. But it couldnt attribute the damage Mr S 
had reported to a one-off insured storm event. It said there was no evidence of storm 
damage to the roof. And it thought the water ingress had occurred over a period of time due 
to age related wear and tear. So, L&G repudiated Mr S claim. 
Mr S was unhappy with how L&G had assessed his claim. He disputed the ingress had been 
caused by wear and tear as hed repointed the external walls and chimney of his property in 
October 2018. He also felt there were delays in L&G repudiating his claim. So, he 
complained.
When L&G responded to Mr S complaint it didnt uphold it. It said Mr S hadnt taken any 
photographs of the condition of the roof prior to the repairs that were undertaken, which 
made it difficult to see the appearance of the roof before it had been repaired. It also 
believed Bs opinion that the damage sustained had been caused by age related wear and 
tear, which was excluded under his policy. So, it maintained its repudiation decision. 
Being dissatisfied with L&Gs response to his complaint, Mr S referred it to our service for an 
independent review. Our investigator looked into what happened and recommended 
upholding Mr S complaint as they didnt think L&G had fairly assessed this claim.
To resolve this complaint our investigator thought L&G should pay Mr S the costs hed 
incurred in repairing his roof himself subject to the provision of receipts. They also told L&G 
it should pay 8% simple interest on that sum and £150 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience hed experienced as a result of his claim being declined. L&G rejected our 
investigators view of this complaint and asked for it to be referred to an ombudsman.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S and L&G have sent our investigator some detailed submissions about this complaint. I want 
to assure them Ive read and considered everything that both theyve said when reaching my 
decision. I havent referred to all the points Mr S and L&G have raised as Ive focused on what I 
feel are the key issues of the case. I hope Mr S and L&G wont take that as a discourtesy. My 
approach reflects the informal nature of our service.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here, I 
must base my decision on the balance of probabilities. 
My role is to assess whether I think L&G made a mistake, or treated Mr S unfairly, in how it 
decided to repudiate his claim. 
Mr S would like L&G to cover the costs he incurred in repairing his roof because he believes 
the damage his property sustained was caused by adverse weather during February 2020. 
His policy with L&G provides cover for damage caused by a range of perils that might 
happen. These are specific one-off events and include storm, for example. But, for a claim to 
be successful, Mr S would have to show that the damage hes claiming for was caused by 
one of the perils listed in his policy.
There are three conditions that need to be met before this service would say a claim for 
storm damage should succeed. Those are:  
1. Is there evidence that there was a storm around the date of the damage?
2. Is the damage consistent with what we would normally consider storm damage?
3. Was the storm the main cause of the damage?
I have re-assessed Mr S complaint and all the evidence with these three questions in mind. 
The answer to all three questions needs to be yes for this service to be able to recommend 
that a storm complaint is upheld.
In weighing up the first question, I can see that Mr S policy defines the word storm to be a 
period of violent weather which may incorporate: wind speeds of at least 48 knots (55mph), 
torrential rain, falling at a rate of at least 25mm an hour, snow to a depth of at least one foot (30 centimetres) in a 24 hour period or hail of such intensity that it causes damage to 
hardened surfaces or breaks glass.
Ive considered weather reports that show the weather in Mr S locality from 30 January to 27 
February 2020 inclusive. Wind speeds of 60 mph were recorded on 9 February 2020. 
Thereafter the windspeeds hover below the speed needed to meet L&Gs storm definition.
Our service generally doesnt require wind to reach speeds of 55mph for there to be a storm. 
Weve accepted there were storms where lower wind speeds have been recorded  such as 
those shown in the weather reports Ive seen here. So, I dont think its fair to require winds 
to reach 55 mph in order to qualify as a storm. And Im satisfied, overall, that based on the 
weather records Ive seen I can answer question one affirmatively.
Turning to question two, Ive thought about whether the damage claimed is consistent with 
damage a storm typically causes. As Ive already mentioned, water ingress occurred due to 
rainwater entering Mr S property as a result of the chimney flashing being lifted. Our service 
accepts that wind can lift flashing. And we have experience of assessing property damage 
thats been caused when storms have lifted the flashing. Im therefore satisfied that I can 
answer question two affirmatively.
I now need to consider whether the storm was the main cause of the damage in this 
instance. Bs opinion is that a one-off weather incident wasnt the main cause of the damage. 
Instead it thought the damage Mr S reported was due to age related wear and tear. 
Mr S disputes Bs opinion and has raised concerns about how it inspected his property. He 
said B inspected his roof from ground level only and didnt enter his property to assess the 
interior damage it had sustained. I find Mr S comments here credible and consistent. And I 
think his concerns regarding the adequacy of Bs inspection are valid. Ill explain why. 
As B didnt enter Mr S property, it was only able to observe the interior damage from 
photographs it had seen. Mr S provided these photographs to B. And neither B nor L&G 
have provided compelling evidence that shows the roof was in a poor condition or why the 
water ingress and internal damage occurred due to age related wear and tear. 
Mr S has presented evidence that demonstrates hes maintained his property over the years. 
He repointed his property exterior and chimney in October 2018. Im therefore persuaded his 
roof was in good condition at around the time of the February 2020 storms. I also think that, 
if the chimney flashing had required replacement in 2018, Mr S would have done it while 
repointing his chimney. It would have been reasonable for him to have taken that action at 
the time had it been needed. And, as he didnt, Im not persuaded the flashing was defective. 
Mr S has told our investigator that he hadnt experienced water ingress prior to February 
2020. And he said, after his chimney flashing was folded back, following the February storms 
he didnt experience any further ingress. This satisfies me that the action he took resolved 
what was causing water to enter his property. And, as he didnt replace the chimney flashing, 
I think this supports an argument that it wasnt defective.
Based on the available evidence, I dont think L&Gs argument that Mr S property sustained 
damage as a result of age related wear and tear is compelling. Instead, the evidence 
persuades me that the damage most likely occurred as a result of storm related weather. It 
follows that I dont think L&G acted fairly in repudiating this claim.
Ill turn now to Mr S concerns that he experienced avoidable delay in finding out about the 
outcome of his claim. I can see L&G appointed B the day Mr S reported his claim. As I set out in the background to 
this complaint, the first appointment B could offer Mr S was on 10 March 2020. This was 11 
days after he initially contacted L&G. But this meeting couldnt go ahead due to difficulties in 
B accessing Mr S property, which were caused by him forgetting his keys. Thereafter, it 
reattended his property on 31 March 2020. I accept that this may have been later than Mr S 
wanted. But this delay was caused by coronavirus lockdown restrictions, which were beyond 
L&G and Bs control. 
Following Bs visit, I can see Mr S was notified that his claim had been repudiated on 31 
March 2020. As this was the date of Bs site visit I think Mr S was promptly made aware of 
the status of his claim after an inspection had taken place. I therefore havent found any 
evidence that Mr S experienced avoidable delays in how his claim was progressed. And Im 
satisfied he was notified of the outcome of his claim in a timely manner. So, Im not 
upholding this part of Mr S complaint.
 
Putting things right
 In order to resolve Mr S complaint that L&G acted unfairly in repudiating his storm damage 
claim, Im going to direct it to reimburse the costs he incurred in purchasing materials to 
repair his property provided hes able to evidence his expenses. Like our investigator, I think 
it would also be fair for L&G to pay 8% simple interest on this sum from the date Mr S 
incurred those costs to the date of settlement.
I can see our investigator recommended that L&G pay Mr S £150 compensation to reflect 
the trouble and upset hed have been caused as a result of his claim being repudiated. Im 
persuaded that compensation figure is a fair amount thats proportionate to the 
inconvenience and worry that Mr S would have been caused here. Its in line with our 
approach in similar scenarios and its what I would have told L&G to pay. I havent seen 
enough to persuade me that a higher award is warranted. So, I wont be asking L&G to 
increase the compensation our investigator recommended it pay to resolve this complaint.
This now brings to an end what we, in trying to resolve Mr S dispute with L&G informally, 
can do for him. Im sorry we cant help either Mr S or L&G any further with this complaint.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In order to resolve matter, I require 
Fairmead Insurance Limited (T/A Legal and General) to: 
Reimburse Mr S for the costs he incurred in purchasing materials to repair his 
property and pay 8% interest on this sum from the date he incurred those costs to the 
date of settlement;
Pay £150 compensation to recognise the delays Mr S experienced while his claim 
was not met. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2021.
 
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman