DRN-2484375
The complaint
Mr S complains that he got poor service from Santander UK Plc trading as Santander 
(Santander)
What happened
In May 2020, Mr S visited a branch of Santander. His partner had travelled to the Philippines 
earlier in the year and as a result of Covid-19 travel restrictions, she couldnt fly back home 
to the UK. He wanted to send her money. On 1 June 2020 he asked Santander to send 
£5000 to her local bank account in the Philippines. The payment was made on 3 June 2020. 
Also, there were some problems with his partners UK account with Santander which he 
wanted to resolve. This led to a disagreement with the staff. Santander wrote to him on 9 
June 2020 giving him notice to close his accounts. Mr S discovered that he hadnt been 
getting all of his mail from Santander, who told him that the address on some of his accounts 
was wrong.
Mr S complained. He said that the rate on the currency payment to the Philippines was 
worse than he couldve obtained elsewhere. He calculated he was £250 worse off. He said 
that the staff at the branch were rude to him. He felt that there had been a data breach as a 
result of some of his post going to the wrong address.
Santander replied in June 2020. They said that exchange rates fluctuated all the time. Mr S 
was advised of the rate when he made the payment. As a gesture of goodwill, they refunded 
the payment fee of £25. They wrote to him in June 2020 following his visits to the branch and 
gave him 60 days notice to close his accounts. This was because they said he had been 
rude to the staff. They apologised for having the wrong address for some of his accounts. 
This had been the case since 2015. This was put right, and they paid compensation of £70. 
Mr S brought his complaint to this service in June 2020. Our investigator replied in 
December 2020. On the currency payment, she said that the exchange rate was fixed on 1 
June 2020 when the payment instruction was given by Mr S. Santander was free to set its 
own exchange rates. This was set out in their terms and conditions. On the account closure, 
Santander had said that Mr S used inappropriate language and behaviour in the branch. 
They had therefore issued Mr S with a letter giving him 60 days notice to close his accounts. 
Mr S denied this was the case. He admitted he was frustrated and raised his voice but didnt 
use bad language. She couldnt make a judgement on the claims of both parties. But 
Santanders terms and conditions allowed them to close Mr S accounts. On the matter of 
the wrong address, she found that two digits of the postcode had been swapped and it had 
been wrong since November 2015. Santander had put this right and admitted its error and 
paid compensation of £70. They had put it right in May 2020. There wasnt any evidence of 
what mail had gone astray and therefore the impact wasnt clear. On balance, she said that 
Santander had acted reasonably and didnt recommend they did anymore.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First of all, the background to Mr Ss complaint is that his partner had travelled to the 
Philippines but couldnt get back to the UK because of the Covid 19 travel restrictions. This 
must have been an incredibly stressful and worrying time for both her and Mr S. 
There had been some problems which stopped Mr Ss partner being able to use her UK 
bank account and so he sent £5000 to her account in the Philippines. I can see that he made 
that request on 1 June 2020. The rate was struck on that day. The actual payment was 
made on 3 June 2020 at that rate. Santander sent him confirmation of the payment and rate 
on that day. Mr S says he couldve got a better rate with a competitor and the difference 
amounted to £250. He wants that refunding to him by Santander. 
Santander say that they can set their rates and that the actual rate will be advised to 
customers when the payment is made - and this is in their terms and conditions  these say 
Our exchange rates for foreign currency payments are based on our Santander reference 
exchange rates for the relevant currency. We have different reference rates depending on 
the size of the transaction and whether you are buying (if you are sending a payment) or 
selling currency (if you are receiving a payment into your account).The exchange rate to 
be used will be determined by our current exchange rate on the day we process the payment 
out of or into your account. We will provide you with the information about the exchange rate 
and the amount of the foreign currency for that payment after your account has been debited 
or credited with the amount of the transaction. If this information is not set out on your 
statement, or in your transaction history in Online Banking, we will provide this information to 
you by post and, in the future, in the same way as you receive statements for your account, 
either as an e-Document in Online banking or by post
Foreign exchange is a competitive market, and it is fair to say that there are several other 
high street and online choices. Some may give a better rate than others. But Mr S chose to 
use Santander. He confirmed the transaction with his chip & pin debt card. So, he authorised 
the transaction. Santander did refund the payment fee of £25 as a goodwill gesture and this 
seems reasonable to me.
Turning to the incident in the branch when Mr S says that the staff were rude to him. I can 
appreciate that Mr S must have felt very stressed and frustrated by the situation he was in. 
There are two sides to the story  Mr S says the staff and manger were rude to him, they say 
he was abusive to them and used bad language. I cannot say in all honesty who was in the 
right and wrong here. But was is clear is that the situation seemed to spiral and neither side 
could defuse it. Whatever the rights and wrongs of what happened - Santander do have the 
right to close accounts their terms and conditions say You or we may close your account 
at any time by giving the other notice without giving any reason. We may also close or 
suspend your current account if it has been inactive for sometime. If we decide to do this 
well give you at least two months notice  Santander gave Mr S notice to close his 
accounts. They also took the decision to not respond to his letter to his relationship manager 
as by then, they had decided that they wanted to end their relationship with Mr S.
Mr S discovered that some of his post had been sent to the wrong address for five years. 
This was a result of Santanders error which they admitted. They apologised and put this 
right. Mr S hasnt detailed the extent of any loss here. Santander have paid compensation of 
£70 and this is the right amount that this service would tend to see in these circumstances.
I do have every sympathy with the situation that Mr S was in. I hope that things have got 
better for him and his partner. But I think that Santander acted reasonably here, and I wont 
be asking them to do anymore.My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman