DRN-1247132
 
Complaint
Mrs B complains that she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
Although the policy was sold by another business the complaint was set up initially against 
Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL) as they were the underwriters of the policy and 
had accepted responsibility for these sorts of sales. So, the adjudicator sent out his view with 
the complaint set up against FICL. However, FICL has now transferred its insurance 
business to AXA France IARD (AXA). Therefore, the complaint has now been set up against 
AXA.
So, Ive only referred to AXA during this decision.
Background
Mrs B was sold the PPI in connection with a store card in September 2003.
The PPI wouldve cost Mrs B no more than £1.50 per £100 of the monthly outstanding 
balance. And as I understand it, wouldve covered 15% of the monthly outstanding balance if 
Mrs B was off work sick or lost her job until the outstanding balance had been cleared. 
Our adjudicator didnt think Mrs Bs complaint should be upheld.
Mrs B didnt agree with our adjudicator and so the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Bs case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Bs complaint. I will go on to explain why.
First of all I've considered whether Mrs B was eligible for the PPI. And Im satisfied Mrs B 
was eligible for the PPI based on her age and employment at the time of the sale. 
AXA had to make it clear to Mrs B that the PPI was optional and needed Mrs Bs consent 
before it could be applied to the account. 
AXA dont have a call recording or transcript of the sale. So I cant know for sure what 
happened during the sale. However, this is understandable given the length of time since the 
sale. Equally understandably Mrs B hasnt provided us with a detailed account of what took 
place during the sale. So Ive thought about what AXA and Mrs B have told us and used my understanding of what the sales process was like at the time of the sale to help me decide 
what is more likely to have happened during the sale.
My understanding of the sales process at this time is that PPI would have been presented as 
optional and would only have been applied to the account if it had been selected. Of course 
its possible that this didnt happen when the representative sold Mrs B PPI, but I dont have 
sufficient evidence to conclude that on this particular occasion it's more likely AXA deviated 
from their sales process and presented the PPI as compulsory. 
So, while I appreciate what Mrs B has told us, I cant say that its more likely that PPI wasnt 
presented as optional or that Mrs B didnt choose to take it. 
From what I know of their sales practice at the time, I dont think AXA advised Mrs B to take 
the policy out. This means they didnt have to take steps to ensure the policy was suitable for 
Mrs B. So, for example, they didnt have to ask about or consider Mrs Bs existing repayment 
provisions or assess if the PPI was affordable for Mrs B.
But AXA did have to give Mrs B clear information so that she could make a proper choice 
about whether to take the policy out. I cant say that AXA gave Mrs B all the information as 
they shouldve about the costs/benefits of the policy or the main exclusions and restrictions 
in the policy. However, this in itself doesnt mean that PPI was mis-sold as I have to go on 
and consider whether better information wouldve put Mrs B off taking the policy out. And I 
dont think it wouldve. I say this because:
 
The PPI would have paid out in addition to Mrs Bs sick pay and potentially for a 
much longer period of time. And it wouldve provided the same cover if Mrs B lost her 
job. 
 
Mrs B didnt appear to have been affected by the more restrictive terms in the policy 
such as those relating to pre-existing medical conditions and unusual working 
arrangements. So, it seems like Mrs B could have made a successful claim under the 
policy if the need arose.
 
I havent seen any evidence which would suggest that the PPI was unaffordable for 
Mrs B.
 
Mrs B couldve cancelled the policy at any time without losing out financially if she no 
longer wanted it.
 
So, based on what Ive seen, I dont think Mrs B was mis-sold this PPI policy. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint against AXA France IARD.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 March 2020.
Navneet SherOmbudsman