DRN-2002244
The complaint
Miss H has complained about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA). She isnt happy 
that it didnt renew her breakdown insurance policy which left her unable to claim when her 
car broke down.  
What happened
Miss H had a problem with her power steering and looked to make a claim under her motor 
breakdown policy in January 2020. Unfortunately for Miss H, RSA had made a commercial 
decision to not provide the cover Miss H wanted at renewal in September 2019. It wrote out 
to Miss H at her last known address on three separate occasions to ensure Miss H was fully 
aware that her policy wouldnt be renewed. But RSA had an incorrect address for Miss H, so 
she didnt receive the letters.
Miss H said she did update RSA with her present address and said it shouldve gained 
confirmation that its letters had been received before cancelling the policy. But RSA said it 
didnt have any record of her address being updated and felt it did all it could to let Miss H 
know that the policy wasnt being renewed. As Miss H remained unhappy she complained to 
this service.
Our investigator looked into things for her but didnt uphold her complaint. He explained that 
RSA was entitled to make its commercial decision to withdraw its policy and felt that it had 
tried to communicate this to Miss H on three separate occasions. And as there wasnt any 
evidence that Miss H had updated RSA about the change of address he didnt think it had 
done anything wrong.
But Miss H didnt agree. She maintained that she had updated her address and RSA 
shouldve done more to tell her the policy wasnt being renewed. So the matter has been 
passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont think that the complaint should be upheld. I know this will come as a 
disappointment to Miss H, but Ill explain why.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat the detail again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision and focus on Miss Hs key 
concerns.  
RSA made a commercial decision to withdraw Miss Hs policy and it is entitled to do that. All 
I would expect RSA to do is for it to clearly communicate this to Miss H. And I believe it did.
I know Miss H feels she updated RSA about her change of address but there isnt any 
evidence of this. And she shouldve realised that RSA didnt have the correct address when 
she didnt receive any policy documentation or letters about the policy from it. She had other 
policies in relation to different products with RSA and I wouldve expected her to notice that 
she wasnt getting any information about these from RSA. Furthermore, her premium for the 
policies hadnt been taken for a number of months and perhaps Miss H shouldve noticed 
this as well.  
Nevertheless, it mustve been stressful for Miss H to realise that she wasnt covered and to 
have to have made alternative arrangements to recover her car. And I agree that it is 
fortunate that the breakdown didnt leave her in a more vulnerable position. 
But I have to be fair to both sides. And while I agree that RSA couldve tried other means of 
contacting her about its intention not to renew the policy it wasnt obliged to. But its letters 
were clear and the first was sent a few months before the policy was due to renew to the risk 
address it held on file. So I cant say it has acted unreasonably and it has acted in line with 
the policy terms and conditions. 
I dont doubt what Miss H has told us. But without any evidence to show that she told RSA 
she had changed address, which she was obliged to do, I cant say RSA has done anything 
wrong. It is a pity that Miss H didnt notice her direct debit had stopped. I say this as this 
wouldve led her to look into things herself and she wouldve realised that her policy had 
cancelled.  
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 November 2020.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman