DRN-3777533
The complaint
Mr I invested £90,000 in two fixed monthly income bonds with Basset & Gold Plc (B&G 
Plc). He says he was given false reassurances about how secure the investments were and 
misled that he could get his money back if the investments failed. 
What happened
The B&G Plc Bond
In July 2017, Mr I invested £20,000 in a 3 Year Fixed Monthly Income IFISA Bond. The 
following month, in August 2017, he invested a further £70,000 in a 5 Year Fixed Monthly 
Income Bond. Sales of the bonds were dealt with by Basset Gold Limited (BG Ltd), a 
separate business from B&G Plc, the issuer of the bond. BG Ltd arranged applications for 
investments in the bonds, through a website it operated. And it was responsible for 
advertising/marketing the bonds. Potential investors were also able to call BG Ltd, to discuss 
the bonds. 
B&G Plc and BG Ltd were both appointed representatives of Gallium Fund Solutions Limited 
(Gallium). B&G Plc and BG Ltd were appointed representatives of Gallium from 17 
February 2017 to 28 February 2018.
Mr Is investment in the bonds
Mr I first became aware of B&G Plc whilst searching online for investment 
opportunities.
Mr I applied online via the BG Ltd website and recalls being guided over the phone 
through the process by a B&G Plc representative.
Of his prior investment experience, Mr I had invested in other bonds. All other 
previous investments were from either ISAs or savings held in deposit accounts with 
banks earning interest.
On 8 January 2019, B&G Finance Limited (which by that point had taken on the role of BG 
Ltd), sent an email to all investors then holding B&G Plc bonds. This referred to the fact that 
nearly all the money invested in B&G Plc bonds had been lent to one short term and pay day 
lender. Following action by the FCA, the payday lender went into administration in March 
2020 - and B&G Plc went into administration shortly afterwards. As a result, Mr I has not had 
his invested capital returned to him.
The application process
Mr I applied online when taking out the bonds. I have seen screen prints of each stage of the 
online application process. These show the application journey that Mr I underwent. This 
consisted of two stages, designed to meet the rules restricting who the bonds could be 
promoted to and on how to test whether the investments were appropriate for the potential 
investor. The first was certification, where Mr I was categorised as a high net worth investor. 
The second was the appropriateness test.
We asked for copies of any call recordings BG Ltd held. We were provided with copies 
of call recordings from soon before and after the investment in the bond was made, but 
we havent been provided any calls in relation to when Mr I actually made the 
application to invest in the bonds subject to this complaint. As such, Ive not relied on 
the calls when reaching my findings.
Galliums response to Mr Is complaint
Gallium did not uphold Mr Is complaint. It said Mr I had been given sufficient information and 
risk warnings about the investment. It then made further submissions, once Mr Is complaint 
was referred to us. I have considered the submissions in full. I have also considered what 
Gallium described as its position statement, which sets out general information on the 
background to complaints about B&G Plc bonds.
Our investigators view
One of our investigators considered Mr Is complaint and concluded it should be upheld. 
They said, in summary:
Whilst they could not see that BG Ltd took any steps to ascertain that Mr I met the income 
and net assets criteria set out in COBS 4.12.6R, he met the requirements of a high net worth 
investor. 
The application process  both in terms of the certification of Mr I as a high net worth 
investor and the assessment of the appropriateness of the bonds for him was inconsistent 
with the FCAs rules or guidance, and didnt gather sufficient information to comply with the 
FCAs rules.
Overall, BG Ltd, on Galliums behalf, didnt comply with its regulatory obligations. Had it 
done so, Mr I wouldnt have decided to invest or BG Ltd should have concluded that it 
shouldnt allow Mr I to invest. For these reasons, both cumulatively and individually, it was 
fair to uphold the complaint and for Gallium to compensate Mr I for the loss he has suffered.
Gallium's response to the view
Gallium did not accept the investigator's view. It said, in summary:
Mr I met the criteria to be classes as a high net worth investor and he confirmed that 
he those requirements, so it was reasonable for it to rely on the declaration.
The appropriateness test answers, and these confirmations were sufficient for 
Gallium to satisfy itself that prospective investors had sufficient knowledge and 
experience of the bonds to understand the risks those bonds involved, as per the 
relevant rules.
It was reasonable for Gallium to rely on the outcome of this test.
Mr I had previous investments in bonds. This shows he had relevant experience of 
similar products to the B&G Plc bonds.
Mr I made the investments on the understanding they had risk associated with them, 
and did not choose to surrender them when receiving the email in 2019 which 
warned of the concentration risk. So he would have proceeded with the investments 
regardless.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am satisfied it is appropriate for me to consider all of the acts carried out by BG Ltd, on
behalf of Gallium, in relation to the sale of the bonds.
In considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, I have
taken into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the relevant time.
The Principles for Businesses, which are set out in the FCA's Handbook "are a general
statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system" (PRIN
1.1.2G). I think Principles 6 (Customers' interests) and 7 (Communications with clients) are
relevant here.
Principle 7 overlaps with COBS 4.2.1 R (1) (A firm must ensure that a communication or a
financial promotion is fair, clear and not misleading), which I also consider to be relevant
here.
As mentioned, the bonds were non-readily realisable and therefore there were rules 
restricting who they could be promoted to and how to test whether the investment was 
appropriate for the potential investor. These rules were set out in COBS 4. 7 and COBS 
10.1, 10.2 and 10.3. I have considered the relevant rules in full.
I note Gallium has referred to the FCA's policy statement PS14/4, and to question and
answer sessions with the FCA's Head of Investment Policy and UKCFA. I have considered
these too.
Having considered all the available evidence and arguments I have reached the same 
overall conclusion as the investigator. 
The wording used by BG Ltd for the high net worth investor category mirrors the wording
set out at 4.12.6R and therefore rightly asks about individual circumstances. But the rules 
required assessment of Mr Is position, which BG Ltd should have understood to mean that 
reasonable checks had to be made to ensure Mr I met the definition of high net worth 
investor.
That said, and as the investigator has explained, even if Gallium had correctly explained the 
position  and ensured Mr and I understood it  its likely Mr I would have met the high net 
worth investor definition as the total of his qualifying assets exceeded the value of £285,000 
and had been held for all of the previous financial year. In those circumstances I think it 
more than likely Mr I would have given the statement and declaration as he would have 
realised, he could meet the high net worth investor definition.
However, the issue I find is BG Ltd was also required to take reasonable steps to satisfy 
itself that Mr I had the requisite experience, knowledge or expertise to understand the risks 
of the bond in line with COBS 4.12.11. 
The appropriateness test carried out by BG Ltd, on behalf of Gallium, did not meet the 
requirements of the rules. Had the process been consistent with what the rules required  
had Mr I been asked for appropriate information about his knowledge and experience  the 
only reasonable conclusion BG Ltd could have reached, having assessed this, was that he did not have the necessary experience and knowledge to understand the risks involved with 
the bond.
Mr I had limited investment experience, and whilst he had previously invested in bonds, I 
have seen no evidence to show he had anything other than a basic knowledge of 
investments. Though Gallium may argue Mr Is investments had given him some experience, 
I have not seen that this was something considered at the time. In any event, as I said 
above, having had limited investment experiences prior to investing in the bond subject to 
the complaint cannot reasonably be considered meaningful experience, insofar as it would 
enable Mr I to understand the risks involved. So, it would not be sufficient to conclude this 
bond was appropriate for him on that basis. 
In the circumstances Mr I would either not have proceeded or, acting fairly and reasonably, 
BG Ltd should have concluded it should not promote the bonds to Mr I. So, it follows that I 
havent found that BG Ltd met its obligations here.
For these reasons  individually and cumulatively  my provisional conclusion is that Mr Is 
complaint should be upheld. I am also satisfied Mr I would either not have proceeded to 
make the investments or would not have been able to proceed, had Gallium acted fairly and 
reasonably to meet its regulatory obligations. I am therefore, satisfied it is fair to ask Gallium 
to compensate Mr I for his loss.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr I
as close to the position he would probably now be in if he had not made the investments.
I take the view that Mr I would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely
what he would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair
and reasonable given Mr I's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must Gallium do?
To compensate Mr I fairly, Gallium must:
Compare the performance of Mr Is investments with that of the benchmark shown
below.
Gallium should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
Pay to Mr I £500 for the distress caused by the loss of his investments. It is clear the 
loss came as a shock to Mr I, and has caused him upset.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Investment 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
3 Year Fixed 
Monthly 
Income 
IFISA BondStill exists 
but illiquidFor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors Date of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled Income Total 
Return 
Index; for the 
other half: 
average rate 
from fixed 
rate bondswithin 28 days 
of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
5 Year Fixed 
Monthly 
Income BondStill exists 
but illiquidFor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return 
Index; for the 
other half: 
average rate 
from fixed 
rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days 
of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
For each investment:
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid or payable from the investment at the end date.
If at the end date the investment is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open 
market), it may be difficult to work out what the actual value is. In such a case the actual 
value should be assumed to be zero. This is provided Mr I agrees to Gallium taking 
ownership of the investment, if it wishes to. If it is not possible for Gallium to take ownership, 
then it may request an undertaking from Mr I that he repays to Gallium any amount he may 
receive from the investment in future.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Gallium should 
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of 
England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Those 
rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Any withdrawal, income or other distributions paid out of the investments should be 
deducted from the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to 
accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If there are a large number of regular 
payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if Gallium totals all those payments and 
deducts that figure at the end to determine the fair value instead of deducting periodically. If 
any distributions or income were automatically paid out into a portfolio and left uninvested, 
they must be deducted at the end to determine the fair value, and not periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:Mr I wanted income with some growth with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices 
representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a 
higher return.
I consider that Mr I's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared to 
take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Mr I into that position. It does not mean that Mr I 
would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind of 
index tracker fund. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that broadly 
reflects the sort of return Mr I could have obtained from investments suited to his 
objective and risk attitude
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Gallium Fund Solutions Ltd to pay the amount calculated 
as set out above.
Gallium Fund Solutions Ltd should provide details of its calculation to Mr I in a clear, simple
format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2023.
 
Farzana Miah
Ombudsman