The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that St Andrews Insurance Plc has turned down a claim they made 
on their home insurance policy.
What happened
In May 2019, Mr G got in touch with St Andrews to make a claim on his home insurance 
policy. Hed noticed water dripping through the lounge ceiling, so hed called out a plumber 
to investigate. He told St Andrews the plumber thought a leak was coming from his shower 
tray and had been dripping through the floorboards. Itd caused a crack in the ceiling.  Mr 
and Mrs G were told to get some quotes for the cost of repairing their ceiling and a cause of 
the damage report from the plumber.
Mr and Mrs G sent in some photos of the shower and of the ceiling. They also provided a 
plumbers report, which said the water leak was down to a crack in the shower tray.
St Andrews reviewed the information Mr and Mrs G provided. But it couldnt see a crack in 
the shower tray. So about a month after the claim had been made; it appointed a personal 
claims consultant to go out and investigate the cause of damage. Mr and Mrs Gs ceiling had 
collapsed by this time, and theyd also had the majority of the repair work done.
The claims consultant investigated the shower tray and the remaining debris. He didnt think 
the damage was down to a crack in the shower tray. He couldnt see any signs of damage to 
it. And he noticed that the plaster board debris from the shower enclosure was still wet, while 
some tiles were also loose. So the claims consultant didnt think the leak couldve been 
coming from the shower tray. He thought the water leak was down to the failure of the 
sealant around the shower.
Based on the claims consultants opinion, St Andrews turned down the claim. It said the 
policy didnt cover claims caused by the failure of sealant or grouting.
Mr and Mrs G werent happy with St Andrews decision. They said theyd been told to get the 
repair works done when theyd made the claim. They felt a personal claims consultant 
shouldve been appointed at the outset, rather than waiting a few weeks, as most things had 
been fixed. They didnt think the claims consultant had properly assessed their claim and 
hadnt discussed it fully with the plumber, whod also been there during his visit. 
St Andrews asked the claims consultants manager to look at Mr and Mrs Gs claim. He also 
didnt think the damage was down to something the policy covered. So St Andrews 
maintained its decision, although it did offer Mr and Mrs G £100 compensation for the 
service theyd received. Mr and Mrs G remained unhappy and asked us to look into their 
complaint.
DRN-1603006Our investigator didnt think Mr and Mrs Gs complaint should be upheld. Shed listened to 
the calls between Mr G and St Andrews and didnt think hed been told to get the works 
done. She also thought that, as St Andrews couldnt see a crack, in the photos Mr and Mrs 
G had sent in, itd been reasonable for it to appoint a claims consultant to look into the cause 
of the damage. She felt itd been reasonable for St Andrews to rely on the opinion of the 
claims consultant and their manager. So she didnt think the claim was covered by the 
policy. But she did think St Andrews couldve stressed to Mr G the urgency of sending the 
photos of the damage and the plumbers report at the outset. So she felt the compensation 
itd offered was fair.
Mr and Mrs G disagreed. They said theyd been given the go-ahead to get the repair works 
done. They asked for their complaint to be reviewed. So the complaints been passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I think it was fair for St 
Andrews to turn down Mr and Mrs Gs claim. Ill explain why.
Its clear Mr and Mrs Gs home suffered damage due to water leaking from their shower. I 
understand how worrying this mustve been for them and why they wanted to get things fixed 
as quickly as possible.
But insurers set out what they do and dont want to cover in their policy terms. For a claim to 
be paid, it needs to be because of something thats covered by the policy  which we 
generally call an insured event. In this case, Mr and Mrs G have claimed for damage 
caused by water escaping from their shower. So for the claim to be paid, St Andrews needs 
to be satisfied that the water damage Mr and Mrs G claimed for was caused by something 
the policy covered.
Its generally for a policyholder to show a claim has been caused by an insured event. 
Sometimes, an insurer will investigate a claim on a policyholders behalf. So Ive thought 
about whether St Andrews acted reasonably when Mr and Mrs G first called up to make a 
claim and what information it gave them.
Ive listened carefully to the call Mr G made to make the claim. He suggested that hed seen 
water dripping into the lounge and there was a crack in the ceiling. He told the call handler 
his plumber thought the water was coming from the shower tray, but they wouldnt know 
what was causing the damage until theyd got under the shower tray. The call handler told 
Mr G the costs of the plumber getting to the leak and fixing it wouldnt be covered. But he 
told Mr G to get a cause of damage report, quotes for getting the repairs done and to send 
these in with photos for St Andrews to look at.
Based on what Mr G told the call handler, I dont think it was unreasonable for them to 
suggest Mr and Mrs G send in photos and to get a plumbers report. The notes suggest the 
call handler followed the claims process. He didnt tell Mr G the claim would be covered, and 
he made it clear upfront what costs St Andrews wouldnt be liable for. The call handler also 
didnt tell Mr and Mrs G to go ahead and get the repairs done.
Ive listened to three further calls between Mr G and St Andrews and Ive looked closely at 
its claims notes. During the calls I listened to, I didnt hear any of the call handlers tell Mr G 
to go ahead and get the repairs done before itd made a decision on his claim. 
But I should make it clear that even if it had, I dont think this wouldve made a difference to my decision. Thats because I still dont think the claim wouldve been covered. I say this 
because St Andrews was able to look at the shower tray and debris and was able to 
investigate the likely cause of damage based on that evidence. So Ive gone on to think 
about whether it was fair for St Andrews to turn down the claim.
Mr and Mrs G sent in some photos and a report from the plumber. The plumbers report 
found the damage was down to a crack in the shower tray, which had caused a significant 
water leak to the walls, ceiling and floor. This had caused the floor to collapse. St Andrews 
looked at the photos and the report, but couldnt see a crack in the shower tray. So it let Mr 
and Mrs G know itd need to send out a claims consultant to investigate the cause of the 
damage. 
I appreciate this was a few weeks after Mr and Mrs G had first made their claim. Given their 
ceiling had collapsed: I can understand why Mr and Mrs G had already got much of the 
damage repaired. But happily, theyd kept hold of the shower tray and debris following the 
completion of the repairs. So this was still available for St Andrews to look at.
I think St Andrews was entitled to be satisfied the damage was down to something the 
policy covered. Given the crack wasnt visible in the photos and Mr G told the call handlers it 
couldnt be seen with the naked eye, I think it was reasonable for it to require further 
investigation before it agreed to deal with the claim.
The claims consultants notes suggest that he inspected the top and underside of the shower 
tray. He couldnt see any evidence of cracks. He also investigated the debris from the tiled 
plasterboard and could see evidence of water leaking behind the boards. He didnt think 
there was evidence of accidental damage to the shower tray and felt the damage was down 
to the failure of grout and sealant. This is specifically excluded by the policy terms.
I accept Mr and Mrs G feel the claims consultant shouldve asked more questions of the 
plumber during his visit. I also accept that they disagree with his findings and werent happy 
with how he handled their claim. So St Andrews agreed to refer their claim to the 
consultants manager. I think this was a very reasonable response from St Andrews.
The consultants manager reviewed the evidence. He agreed with the claims consultants 
findings. He also felt that if a shower tray had been leaking, the plasterboard and tiles 
wouldnt have been wet. And he felt that the fact the floorboards were rotten under the 
shower tray meant that the leak had been ongoing for a long time.
Im satisfied that St Andrews investigated the cause of the damage in detail. While I accept 
Mr and Mrs G have provided a plumbers report, given the lack of evidence of a visible crack 
in the shower tray, I think arranging an inspection was reasonable. Its clear from the notes 
that St Andrews considered Mr and Mrs Gs claim closely before reaching its decision. 
Ive also looked carefully at the photos and Im unable to see evidence of a crack in the 
shower tray. I also find the fact the tiles were wet persuasive evidence that it was fair for St 
Andrews to conclude the water wasnt leaking from the shower tray. Thats because the tiles 
wouldve been to the side of and above the shower tray, not underneath it. So its difficult to 
understand how theyd have got wet.
Based on all Ive seen, I think it was fair for St Andrews to rely on the claims consultant and 
his managers expert opinion that the water leak was most likely down to the failure of 
grouting and sealant. I appreciate Mr and Mrs G say their plumber carried out a test on the 
sealant and no leak was found. But they havent provided any evidence from their plumber to 
show me this was the case. Overall, I dont think theres enough evidence, on balance, to say the water was most likely leaking from a crack in the shower tray. 
The policy excludes escape of water claims which happen because of the lack or failure of 
sealant and grouting. So the claim isnt covered by this section of the policy. 
Ive also considered whether Mr and Mrs Gs claim should be covered under the accidental 
damage section of the policy. Accidental damage is defined as an accident which causes 
physical damage, which is caused suddenly by an outside force and is not expected or 
deliberate.
I accept the water damage was unexpected and it wasnt deliberate. But I dont think theres 
enough evidence to show me there was a crack in the shower tray. It seems more likely that 
water had been leaking over a period of time due to the failure of the grouting. So I dont 
think I can fairly conclude it was caused suddenly, by an outside force.
While I sympathise with Mr and Mrs Gs position, I simply dont think theres enough 
evidence to show their claim is covered by their policy. So I think it was fair for St Andrews 
to turn it down.
St Andrews offered Mr and Mrs G £100 compensation for their distress and inconvenience. 
As I think St Andrews has acted fairly in turning down their claim and that it didnt give them 
misinformation about the process, I think this is a fair award. So Im not telling it to pay 
anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Gs 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 July 2020.
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman