DRN-3656438
The complaint
Mrs L is unhappy with how Rock Insurance Services Limited (Rock) has handled her travel
insurance complaint.
Mrs L is being represented by her son, Mr L, on this complaint.
What happened
Mrs L initially made a complaint to Rock requesting a refund of the premium paid on 
her travel insurance policy in early 2021.
She received a final response from Rock offering a 50% refund and Mrs L accepted 
this in May 2021.
Between May 2021 to August 2021, Mrs L and Mr L sent several emails chasing 
payment of the 50% premium refund that had been offered in May 2021.
Following our involvement, Rock offered £150 compensation for the delays and lack 
of communication on the complaint. The issue with regards to the premium refund 
was referred to the underwriter of the policy and I understand this has now been 
resolved. Our investigator thought this was fair and reasonable.
Mrs L accepted the £150 compensation, and this was communicated to Rock on 17 
May 2022 to process the settlement.
Mr L contacted our investigator on 17 June 2022 to confirm that neither he nor Mrs L 
had received communication from Rock to settle the complaint. He also said the 
email address used by Rock was an incorrect one and not the one hed requested to 
be used.
Rock said it contacted Mr L on 23 June 2022 to request bank account details of 
where the payment should be made, and it apologised for the delays in settling the 
complaint. In recognition of the delays, Rock offered a further £1.25 as 8% simple 
interest on the £150 compensation it offered.
Mr L was unhappy and asked for us to look into this further issue. The complaint was 
referred to an ombudsman, so its now been passed to me.
I issued a provisional decision on 1 August 2022. I said the following:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my intention is to uphold the complaint for the same reasons as our 
investigator, but I intend to further increase the compensation amount. My reasons for doing
so are as follows:
The issues regarding the complaint up until the £150 compensation was offered by 
Rock were resolved.
I can see however there have been further issues since May 2022. While Rock 
offered £150 compensation, these further issues again relate to the same issues as 
before. That is, delays in settling the complaint and a lack of communication.
I acknowledge that Rock has apologised on 23 June 2022 for the delays and the lack 
of communication and offered £1.25 as a further amount of compensation at 8% 
simple interest. However, Im not persuaded this is sufficient bearing in mind that 
these are same issues experienced by Mrs L since early 2021.
I intend to award a further £50 for the additional delays and lack of communication. 
This is because Rock has made the same errors as previously and had it not been 
for Mr L chasing the settlement, its unlikely that Rock would have picked up on the 
delay in settling the complaint. I think this is unacceptable bearing in mind its not the 
first time this has happened on this same complaint. Rock has missed a further 
opportunity to correct and put right the issues on this complaint.
Given what Ive said above, I recommend that Rock award a further £50 
compensation (in total £200) for the delays and lack of communication but also for 
the repetition of the failure to settle the complaint. Mrs L and Mr L have spent a great 
deal of time chasing and having to deal with a relatively simple issue to settle the 
complaint. This occurred again in May 2022 and I dont think this is acceptable 
overall.
I also acknowledge that Rock sent an email to a different email address to the one Mr 
L had communicated to Rock. But Ive also taken into account there were two email 
addresses being used and that there was a separate complaint that Mr L himself had 
ongoing with Rock. I would have expected Rock to look at the email addresses and 
which one was more appropriate to use but overall, Ive put this to human error and 
while its not acceptable, my recommendation of £50 further compensation includes 
the recognition of the impact caused in using the incorrect email address.
Overall, my intention is to award a further £50 compensation on this complaint, 
making this a total of £200 to settle this complaint. I think this is fair and reasonable.
In response to my provisional decision, Rock has responded and accepted my provisional 
recommendations. 
Mr L has responded on behalf of Mrs L. He said, in the provisional decision, it comes across 
as if the issue on incorrect email addresses hasnt been considered as part of the 
recommendation of the additional £50 compensation.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to depart from what Ive said in my provisional decision. 
In response to Mr Ls comments, I confirm that Ive considered everything as well as the 
issue with regards to the incorrect email addresses. Ive already explained this in my 
provisional decision but for completeness, Ill explain again. 
I accept there was an issue with the incorrect email addresses. While using a different email 
address wasnt acceptable, there was also some confusion between two email addresses 
and another separate complaint that was ongoing at the same time. I dont think any further 
compensation was warranted in this case and I put this error to human error. So, in other 
words, Ive taken into account the issue, but my recommendation still remains at a further 
£50 compensation in addition to the £150 already offered by Rock. I think this is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
Putting things right
I require Rock to pay Mrs L £200 compensation in total for the trouble and upset caused in 
handling the claim and the service provided. My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mrs Ls complaint against Rock Insurance Services 
Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2022.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman