DRN-3976869
The complaint
Mr B complained that John Lewis Financial Services Limited didnt refund him when he 
disputed a transaction.
What happened
On 10 November 2021, Mr B complained to John Lewis about three debits on his November 
statement. He said he didnt recognise a debit on 6 October for £80.39 to a merchant 
abroad, and he also disputed a £12 late payment fee and £2.02 interest charges.
John Lewis wrote back on 18 November. It said that Mr Bs October statement had shown 
that that months payment had been due on 28 October, but it hadnt received Mr Bs 
payment until 31 October. As Mr B had said hed told his bank to send the payment before 
that, John Lewis recommended that Mr B should speak to his bank about it. John Lewiss 
letter said that considering Mr Bs history, and as a goodwill gesture, it had refunded both the 
late fee and interest.
The letter went on to say that in regard to the disputed transaction, Mr B would need to 
complete and return a dispute form for the relevant team to investigate. The letter attached 
the form, with instructions about how to return it.
Mr B completed and returned the disputed transaction form on 19 November.
On 23 November, John Lewis wrote to Mr B, asking him to contact its fraud team. Mr B didnt 
receive this letter.
On 8 December, Mr B wrote to John Lewis. He thanked it for refunding the late change and 
interest. He went on to say he wasnt impressed that John Lewis hadnt yet refunded him 
with the £80.39 disputed transaction. His December statement also showed a £35.47 
interest charge. Mr B was also unhappy about the lack of detail provided on his statement 
about a number of other transactions with an online merchant.
John Lewis rang Mr B on 17 December. The adviser gave Mr B some more information. This 
included saying that the information on his statement about transactions to the online seller 
was exactly what the merchant had sent to John Lewis. So hed need to contact the 
merchant about what it sent to John Lewis.  The adviser told Mr B that hed refund him for 
the interest charges on the disputed transaction, and said hed put Mr B through to the fraud 
team. But Mr B said would John Lewis please send everything in writing as he did not want 
to talk on the phone any more. The adviser said that Mr B would need to speak to the 
security team. The call recording ended abruptly at that point.
John Lewis followed up the call with a letter the same day. It said that because of fraud 
prevention, a temporary hold had been put on his account until Mr B spoke to the security 
team. The letter also said that as Mr B said he hadnt received the 23 November letter, it had 
credited his account with £20, and also refunded the £35.47 interest which had resulted from 
Mr B not having paid the full amount the previous month. 
There was further correspondence between Mr B and John Lewis about the way the online 
merchant transactions were displayed on his statement, and about an older  chargeback. 
These arent relevant to the disputed £80.39 transaction on 6 October, so I havent referred 
to that in detail here.
On 28 February 2022, John Lewis sent its final response letter to Mr B. The parts of that 
letter which relate to the £80.39 transaction on 6 October said that it had told Mr B, by the 23 
November letter which he didnt receive, and on the 17 December call, that Mr B needed to 
speak to the fraud team. John Lewis provided the contact number and opening hours again.
John Lewis also apologised that because of a technical issue, the interest charges which 
had been waived for Mr B hadnt appeared as credits on his account. The £20 goodwill credit 
was already on the account. It gave Mr B a further £30 because of lack or response to one of 
Mr Bs letters, and waived a total of £62.06 interest charges. But John Lewis said it wouldnt 
be waiving any more charges  and theyd been correctly applied because Mr B hadnt paid 
the balance on his account. 
Mr B wasnt satisfied and contacted this service, both about the disputed transaction and 
also about the older chargeback. We notified Mr B that wed deal with these separately, 
because John Lewis had issued two separate final response letters.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint, which is about Mr Bs disputed transaction. She 
said shed listened to the call on 17 November, where it was clear that Mr B had become 
increasingly frustrated, and the call had ended abruptly. She said that she was satisfied that 
by that stage Mr B knew he needed to speak about the disputed transaction, and could have 
phoned another time. 
Mr B didnt agree. He said a previous disputed transaction had been dealt with in days, 
without numerous calls and forms. He said the investigator had been one-sided when shed 
said Mr B was getting frustrated on the 17 December phone call, because it was two months 
later, and hed wasted time filling in a form, and was then told he needed to speak to the 
fraud team which should have phoned him. He said the investigator had said hed hung up, 
when it could have been John Lewis which had done so. He also thought it was 
unreasonable that John Lewis hadnt refunded the promised refunds for weeks and months, 
and then hadnt added interest.
Mr B added that it was suspicious that John Lewis hadnt contacted him since the 17 
November phone call. He said it wasnt a fair outcome, and there had been no mention of 
the form hed filled in on 19 November. So hed been out of pocket since then. He said that 
what he wanted was information about what was known about the disputed transaction, and 
why John Lewis hadnt followed it up with him since the 17 November phone call. Mr B 
asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Ill clarify what this final decision does and doesnt cover. When Mr B complained to 
this service, his letter to this service complained about the disputed £80.39 transaction, and 
about an older chargeback. In contacting this service, Mr B didnt raise the issue about how 
an online merchants transactions appeared on his John Lewis statement. John Lewis had 
dealt with that by saying that what went on the statement was what the online merchant 
provided. The complaint about the older chargeback was dealt with separately. This final 
decision is only about the disputed £80.39 transaction and associated interest and charges.As well as reviewing all the documents, I have listened to the call recording on 17 November 
2021 between Mr B and John Lewis.
I recognise that Mr B is unhappy that John Lewis needed him to contact its fraud team about 
the disputed £80.39 transaction. 
Ive first looked at whether John Lewis made it clear hed have to speak to the fraud team. I 
appreciate that Mr B didnt receive John Lewiss 23 November letter asking him to contact 
the fraud team. But the call recording on 17 December shows that Mr B was clearly told hed 
need to speak to the fraud team, and that was repeated in a letter the same day. Who hung 
up on whom on the 17 December call doesnt make any difference to the outcome. Mr B 
said, in his response to the investigator, that he was frustrated as it had taken two months, 
hed wasted time filling in a form, and was then told he had to be transferred to the fraud 
team. So Mr B did know that there wouldnt be any further progress on his complaint until 
hed done that. 
I recognise that Mr B was unhappy that hed had to fill up a form, which he did on 19 
November. Ive seen the completed form. It was a simple form which only required the 
amount, merchant and date, and a tick box, where Mr B had confirmed that neither he nor 
any additional cardholder recognised the transaction and had made every effort to identify 
the transaction with the merchant. So I think its reasonable that John Lewiss fraud team 
needed more information and a discussion with Mr B, before it could investigate in full, which 
it would have to do before it could provide a refund.
Mr B says hed been refunded before for a disputed transaction with John Lewis, more 
quickly and without requiring a form. He says that John Lewiss investigation method is just a 
delaying tactic. But what matters here is whether or not John Lewis acted reasonably when it 
needed Mr B to speak to its fraud team  not what had happened before. And I find that it 
was reasonable for John Lewis to require Mr B to speak to its fraud team, in order to 
investigate.
Mr B has also said that John Lewiss fraud team should have phoned him, and hadnt made 
any contact after the 17 December call. But on that 17 December call, the last words 
recorded by Mr B say would John Lewis please send everything in writing as he did not want 
to talk on the phone any more. With that clear instruction from Mr B, I cant see that John 
Lewiss fraud team should have phoned Mr B. It did write, both on 17 December and 
subsequently, setting out the need for Mr B to ring the fraud team. 
Ive also seen that the final response letter on 28 February reiterated that Mr B needed to 
speak to the fraud team about the disputed transaction. So I consider that John Lewis set 
out the position clearly in relation to the only way forward if Mr B wanted John Lewis to 
investigate the disputed transaction. I dont consider John Lewis needed to refund Mr B 
when he didnt contact the fraud team as John Lewis had requested on a number of 
occasions.
Ive also looked at what John Lewis did about the interest on the disputed transaction. The 
terms and conditions of the card are that interest is chargeable on amounts outstanding. Mr 
B didnt pay for the £80.39 transaction, so interest was due. But despite that, John Lewis 
gave Mr B a refund of the £62.06 interest. So there was no financial loss here, and I cant 
see that Mr B was out of pocket as he says, apart from the disputed transaction itself. John 
Lewis also paid him £20 for the November letter which Mr B said hadnt arrived, and a 
further £30. This came to a total of £112.06. These payments were made as a gesture of 
goodwill. I find that this was very fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this 
complaint.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint about the £80.39 disputed 
transaction on 6 October 2021. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2023.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman