DRN-4000131
The complaint
Mr H complains that Embark Services Limited (Embark) provided a poor service for his Self-
Invested Personal Pension (SIPP). He also considers that hes been charged fees for 
services he hasnt received. 
What happened
Mr H has had a SIPP with Embark since 2009. He said he hasnt lived or worked in the UK 
since 2013. He said that several years ago, he withdrew the entire available balance in the 
SIPP he held with Embark. But left a distressed asset within it. 
When the distressed asset received some value following a liquidation process, Mr H began 
to take a regular monthly income from his SIPP. He planned to withdraw the remaining funds 
from his SIPP in a tax-efficient way over several years. And then to close his SIPP.
Mr H said that his remaining SIPP funds were held as cash in a non-interest paying bank 
account provided by Embark. And that automated direct debit payments were made into 
another of his bank accounts. He said Embark provided no investment service provided at 
all. But that it still charged him £795 each year. 
Mr H said he asked Embark to detail the service it was providing to him and explain why it 
was still charging him £795 each year. He said Embark didnt explain why the fees had 
remained at £795 each year, but did agree to reduce its fee to £250 annually. 
Mr H said that he asked Embark to increase his monthly payment. And that it had asked him 
to complete the same seven-page document hed already had to complete. He said this 
contained all the same information. Mr H did this. And started to receive payment for the 
higher amount. 
Embark emailed Mr H on 15 July 2022 to tell him he didnt have enough cash left in his SIPP 
to pay his regular monthly income of £1,041.66. It asked him to send it the relevant 
instructions to take a lower amount of income, if needed. It said that any one-off payments 
would incur a £50 plus VAT fee.
Mr H replied to Embark the same day. He asked it to pay the remaining balance and close 
the account. But Embark said it couldnt action the request unless Mr H completed an 
Income Request form for the remaining balance of £817.50.
Mr H said he wouldnt complete another form for what he felt was no reason. He said the 
only change to his existing payment instruction was to reduce the last payment to the 
available balance. 
On 20 July 2022, Embark told Mr H that his request was technically a new request. And that 
he would need to complete a new form due to it having regulatory requirements within it that 
he needed to be aware of.
Mr H felt that there were no regulatory requirements within the form specific to his request. 
And asked Embark to state the specific regulatory requirement that applied to his situation if 
it disagreed. Embark said that Mr Hs new request was a Full Fund Withdrawal request, 
which was different to the regular income that had been paid out for months. And that was 
why it needed a new form. It also said it needed signed agreements to close his SIPP.
Mr H still didnt agree that he should be required to complete a new form. He raised a 
complaint about what he felt were Embarks invalid business practices/procedures. He also 
provided the requested completed form to Embark. 
Mr H added to his complaint on 21 July 2022. He made the following points:
Embark had overcharged him for several years for services it hadnt provided. Hed 
been paying £795 each year for the last 4 years for what was effectively a cash 
account. And Embark had only reduced those fees when Mr H had pointed out how 
high they were. 
Hed been required to complete the same instruction form every time a minor change 
had been requested, despite most of the form being irrelevant to his request or his 
situation.
Embark had still not given him any evidence of the regulatory requirements that 
needed to be met through the completion of multiple and identical forms.
He felt that Embarks service was built around the collection of fees, rather than the 
well-being of its customers.
Mr H emailed Embark on 28 July 2022 to tell it that the final payment hadnt been made as 
expected on 25 July 2022, despite him having completed and returned the required form 
more than seven days earlier. 
Embark replied the same day. It said it had actioned the Full Fund Withdrawal on the 25 July 
2022. But as a fee had automatically debited the same day, the payment was stopped. It 
said it had raised a credit note for the fee to be refunded, and that it was waiting for that to 
go through before it could resume the process for the Full Fund Withdrawal. It also said that 
the payment would take five working days to reach Mr H. And that it had never said that the 
Full Fund Withdrawal would be with him on or before the 25 July 2022. 
Mr H asked Embark further questions on 29 July 2022. He wanted to know why, as his 
monthly payments had been made on the 25th of each month for the last 3 years, the last 
one was any different. He also wanted to know which fee had been automatically debited, 
and what it was for. 
Embark replied the same day. It said that the Full Fund Withdrawal request was different 
from the previous regular monthly payments. And said that the fee that had been taken was 
the Annual Drawdown Fee of £252, which was charged annually, but which would be 
credited back to Mr Hs account.
Embark confirmed on 3 August 2022 that itd processed the Full Fund Withdrawal, and that 
£607.50 would be paid into Mr Hs bank account on 10 August 2022. Mr H had been 
expecting a payment of £817.50 so he asked why the final payment had been reduced. 
Embark replied on 4 August 2022. It said itd charged an Ad Hoc Income payment of £50 
plus VAT, as itd said it would in its email of 15 July 2022. It also said itd charged £125 plus 
VAT fee  which it said was outlined in its fee schedule - to close the scheme down, due to 
the additional work involved. Embark issued its final response to the complaint on 17 August 2022. It said it didnt uphold 
it, for the reasons itd previously outlined in its email exchange with Mr H. Embark 
acknowledged that it couldve acted sooner in charging a single SIPP fee. But said that itd 
refunded the annual administration fees and the difference between the former scheme fees 
and the new single SIPP fees for the current scheme year, as a gesture of goodwill.
Mr H was unhappy with this response. So he brought his complaint to this service. He raised 
the following points:
Was it reasonable to pay either £795 or £250 each year plus VAT for the 
management of a cash bank account? 
Was it reasonable to ask a customer to complete the same form three times? And to 
state that the reason for the request was a UK tax requirement, when it wasnt? 
Was it reasonable for Embark to have charged an Ad hoc fee for the final payment, 
when it couldve been planned to avoid this? 
Was it reasonable to generate an extra work fee of £125 plus VAT, and then refuse 
to detail this work when asked? It wasnt clear whether this work had actually been 
completed or not, as Embark had said that Mr Hs account would remain dormant 
with no fees applied. 
Mr H also said that Embark had promised in writing to make the final payment from 
his SIPP within five working days. But he said it hadnt. 
Mr H also told this service that hed recently received a letter about new fees from Embark, 
despite no longer having an account with it. 
Our investigator asked Embark for further information. He said hed not been able to tally the 
charges applied with information on the Embark website. So he asked Embark to provide the 
following:
The fee schedule applicable to the SIPP held.
The last five years of annual SIPP statements showing the charges applied and 
holdings.
An explanation of the £795 annual charge and how it was applied.
The amount and date of the final withdrawal.
Our investigator also noted that Embark had said that the SIPP wasnt converted to a Single 
SIPP fee until Mr H gave instructions to do so, and that would normally constitute as 
financial advice. He asked Embark to confirm which section of the terms and conditions itd 
provided confirmed that instructions could only be provided by a financial advisor. And to 
confirm if a financial advisor was currently attached to the plan. If not, he asked it to state 
when the financial adviser was removed. He also asked Embark to confirm the refund 
amount.
Embark provided most of the requested information, but it didnt provide the requested fee 
schedule. And the table of the fees it had charged Mr H had been cut off so that the fee 
column wasnt fully visible. 
Embark said that Mr Hs fee tariff was set to its annual management fee (traditional investments), for a single SIPP. It said that due to Mr Hs holdings, the fees ordinarily 
applicable to his SIPP were the annual management fee, the annual drawdown fee, and the 
bank disbursement. It said that the SIPP was essentially dormant, but that it needed to 
remain open until such time that the assets could formally be removed. 
Embark said that it couldnt evidence that a £795 annual charge had been applicable to Mr 
Hs SIPP. It also confirmed that the final gross income payment of £607.50 had been 
processed on 10 August 2022. 
Embark said that section 7.2 of its terms and conditions confirmed that instructions relating 
to the SIPP must be given in writing and signed by the client or, if it agrees, their Financial 
Adviser. But said that although the terms and conditions indicated that instructions should 
come through a financial adviser if one is appointed, it would, and did, accept instructions 
from a client directly.
Embark also said that it didnt automatically adjust its fee tariffs dependent on the assets 
held with a SIPP as it wasnt aware of a clients investment direction within the SIPP. It felt if 
it did, it could constitute financial advice, which it wasnt authorised to provide. So it only 
processed such amendments following such an instruction or request. Embark also said that 
there was currently no financial adviser attached to Mr Hs SIPP. And that his previous 
adviser had been removed from the SIPP on 24 July 2017 at their request. 
Our investigator repeated his request to Embark for the missing and unclear information to 
be provided. But Embark didnt respond further. 
Based on the information available to him, our investigator felt that the complaint should be 
upheld. He felt that Embark may have incorrectly charged Mr H the £50 ad hoc fee. To put 
things right, he felt Embark should refund this along with interest at 8%, calculated from 
when the final payment was made on 10 August 2022. He also felt it should send Mr H £50 
compensation for its error.
Mr H still felt that hed been charged the £125 fee for "winding up" his account, despite the 
fact that it hadnt actually been closed. He said this was evidenced by the fact that he was 
still getting fee letters. He still didnt know what work Embark had done for the fee.
Our investigator told Mr H that Embark had confirmed that he was still getting fee letters as 
he still held a SIPP. So Embark was still required to issue the adjustment to their fee 
schedules notification. But itd confirmed that itd taken the decision to suspend the 
application of fees to Mr Hs arrangement. He also confirmed that he felt the £125 fee had 
been correctly charged. 
Mr H accepted our investigators findings. Embark didnt respond to our investigators view.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im going to uphold it. I agree with our investigator, based on the 
information weve been provided with, that Embark appear to have charged Mr H an ad hoc 
fee of £50 plus VAT which isnt included in its fee schedule. Ill explain the reasons for my 
decision.I first considered Embarks Withdrawal form requirements. 
Withdrawal form requirements
Mr H has asked this service to consider whether it was reasonable to ask him to complete 
the same form three times. And to give an incorrect reason for requiring the form again.
Embark said that unless a form is completed to establish regular income on a regular basis, 
it needs a completed Income Instruction Form each time a customer requests income to be 
taken from his SIPP. It said it cant act off previously completed instructions where 
circumstances mayve changed. And in this instance, it had to treat the request as a Full 
Fund Withdrawal, not a regular income payment. It said this required it to undertake 
additional steps to ensure that the scheme could be closed after the final payment had been 
made. 
Embark also said that its role as scheme administrator is to ensure that the scheme runs in 
line with the HMRC Pension Scheme Tax Manual and to comply with the regulatory and 
legislative obligations owed to it. So, to ensure it complies with those obligations, it requires 
a written instruction to withdraw the funds and close a scheme.
I can understand why Mr H felt that it was unnecessary for him to complete further forms for 
what he felt was basically the same request. But, from what Ive seen, Embark was acting 
correctly under UK financial regulation rules and regulation, specifically the FCA Conduct of 
Business Sourcebook (COBS) 19.7  Retirement Risk Warnings.
As our investigator noted, when a consumer requests funds from their pension, these rules 
require pension administrators and providers to provide certain pension guidance, or 
encourage the consumer to take pension guidance and provide appropriate risk warnings 
when drawing down funds.
As Mr Hs final income payment was different from his previous monthly payments, he had to 
complete a further withdrawal form. So I cant fairly say Embark did anything wrong here.
I next considered Mr Hs point about his final payment not being made when it was 
promised.
Was the final payment late?
Mr H also said that Embark had promised in writing to make the final payment from his SIPP 
within five working days. But he said it hadnt.  He also said hed expected it, in line with his 
usual monthly payments, on 25 July 2022.
I understand that the final payment was paid on 10 August 2022. But Mr H felt that his 
monthly payments were usually received on the 25th of each month. He also noted that 
Embark had told him, in its 28 July 2022 email, that it would take five working days for the 
payment to reach him. This wouldve meant that the payment shouldve been made by 4 
August 2022. 
Embark said that the annual fee was automatically deducted from Mr H's SIPP. It said it 
identified that the fee was no longer applicable and immediately processed the internal 
documentation to credit the fee back to the scheme to correct the position. And that this 
transaction had taken a few working days. 
From what Ive seen, the final payment was made a few days late. But this was because the 
processing of that payment had to be paused because an automated management fee was incorrectly taken from the existing SIPP balance. This meant that the fee needed to be 
reversed before the final payment could be made. 
From what Ive seen, Embark didnt explain what had happened until Mr H had chased it for 
the final payment. Despite this, Im satisfied that in refunding the incorrectly charged fee as 
quickly as possible, Embark took reasonable steps to put Mr H back to the position he 
shouldve been in. Therefore I dont require Embark to take any further action for this part of 
the complaint. 
I next considered the charges levied on Mr H. 
Charges
Embark said that Mr H agreed to the payment of fees when he signed his original application 
form in September 2009. It also said it had written to him to provide notice each time it 
changed its Fee Schedule. And that it was entitled to charge fees for the administration of Mr 
Hs SIPP in line with the published fee schedule as detailed in its terms and conditions. 
Embark said that it didnt automatically adjust its fee tariffs based on the assets in a SIPP. 
This was because it cant know what a clients investment direction within the SIPP would 
be. It also said that it couldnt convert Mr Hs scheme to a single SIPP fee until hed asked it 
too. This was because it felt this change of scheme fees would ordinarily constitute as 
financial advice, which it wasnt regulated to provide. But said that itd refunded the annual 
administration fees and the difference between the former scheme fees and the new single 
SIPP fees for the current scheme year, as a gesture of goodwill.
Mr H didnt think it was reasonable that hed paid £795 each year plus VAT, before then 
paying £250 each year plus VAT, for what was essentially the management of a cash bank 
account.
As noted above, despite our requests, Embark hasnt provided the fee schedule or an 
unabridged version of the fees it charged Mr H. As its not clear which type of SIPP Mr H 
held, and which terms and fee schedule applied, Ive had to base my decision on the 
information I do have. 
From what Ive seen, theres no evidence that Mr H was charged an annual fee of £795. 
And, based on the information Ive seen, it appears that Mr H was charged the correct 
annual fee throughout.
I acknowledge that Mr H considers that his annual charge was too high before Embark 
reduced it to £250 each year. But I dont agree that this charge was unfair. I say this 
because I consider that Embarks position  that it cant know a clients investment direction 
within the SIPP  is a reasonable one.
I next considered Mr Hs other complaints about the fees he was charged  the £50 plus 
VAT ad hoc fee and the £125 plus VAT scheme closure fee.  
Embark said that following completion of the Full Fund Withdrawal request by Mr H, the 
scheme wind-up fee was triggered, and ad-hoc pension income instruction processing fees 
were raised, as it wasnt a standard income payment. It said the charges, for £125 and £50 
respectively, plus VAT, debited the SIPP on 28 July 2022 and 4 August 2022. And that the 
charges had been applied as they would for any other client taking a Full Fund Withdrawal 
being processed outside of the monthly payroll run.
Our investigator noted that although weve not been provided with the specific fee schedule applicable to Mr Hs SIPP, he was able to find Embark fee schedules online. These appear 
to show that the £125 scheme wind-up fee has been charged correctly. 
However, the same fee schedules dont appear to reference a £50 ad hoc fee. While I 
acknowledge that Embark did state, in its 15 July 2022 email, that: any one-off payments 
would incur a £50 plus VAT fee. Ive not seen any evidence that this charge is supported in 
the fee schedules. 
So, while I agree with Embark that it was entitled to charge fees for the administration of Mr 
Hs SIPP in line with the published fee schedule, I cant fairly say that the £50 ad hoc fee 
was included in the fee schedule, so I dont think Embark has acted fairly in charging this 
fee. And I uphold this complaint. 
I agree with our investigator that Embark should refund the £50 fee and apply 8% interest 
from when the final payment was made on 10 August 2022 to the date of settlement. This is 
to compensate Mr H for the time hes been deprived of this money. I also consider that as 
Embark made a mistake, it should pay compensation of £50 for the administrative error it 
made. I say this because the error has caused Mr H frustration and inconvenience. 
Putting things right
Embark Services Limited must refund the £50 fee and apply 8% interest from when the final 
payment was made on 10 August 2022 to the date of settlement. It must also pay Mr H £50 
compensation for the impact of its error.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Embark Services Limited deducts income 
tax from any interest it should tell Mr H how much has been taken off. Embark Services 
Limited should give Mr H a tax deduction certificate in respect of interest if he asks for one, 
so he can reclaim the tax on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I uphold this complaint. Embark Services Limited must 
take the actions detailed in the Putting things right section above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2023.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman