DRN-3361294
The complaint
Mr D complains about the suitability of the advice he received from Portal Financial Services 
LLP (Portal) to transfer the deferred benefits from his Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS) 
into a self invested personal pension (SIPP) in 2016. He wants to be to put back into the 
position hed now be in without the advice. 
What happened
Mr D held benefits in a county council superannuation scheme from two separate periods of 
service. I understand he had been liaising with a third party about his pension options who 
then referred Mr D to Portal. In 2014 Portal completed a Transfer Value Analysis Report 
(TVAS) for Mr Ds two periods of service within the OPS, which I understand was the 
beginning of their client-adviser relationship. 
In 2016 Mr D met with Portal to discuss whether it might be in his interests to transfer the 
OPS benefits into a personal style pension and repay some of his outstanding debts and 
liabilities. Ive set out the following timeline to show how the process of transferring the 
pension unfolded:
A fact find was completed on 22 April 2016 setting our Mr Ds objectives. 
Portal issued a first suitability report on 29 April 2016. Mr Ds objectives were 
described as to release tax free cash to reduce debts.. Portal recommended a 
transfer of the OPS benefits to a SIPP. A recommendation was made for investment 
into a portfolio to reflect Mr Ds moderately adventurous attitude to risk (ATR). 
On 30 April 2016 Mr D contacted Portal to confirm his need for an additional £25,000 
(taxable) lump sum.  
An options form requesting the release of the cash lump sum, but also the 
additional taxable sum of £25,000, was signed by Mr D on 5 May 2016  which 
included a warning of a potential £5,000 income tax bill. 
Following a subsequent conversation with Portals paraplanner, Mr D asked for the 
entire SIPP fund to be paid to him (a combination of taxable and tax free payments) 
after the transfer completed.
On 15 July 2016 a second suitability report was issued in which Portal said it would 
treat Mr D as an insistent client and simply provide him with the necessary 
information to transfer his OPS to a SIPP and draw tax free cash of £29,295 and a 
taxable lump sum of £82,028. The transfer authority and ad-hoc request forms were 
all signed and completed that day and an insistent client declaration, signed by 
Mr D, was added to the paperwork. 
In August 2016 the transfer completed with Mr D receiving the tax free and taxable sums 
from his fund as requested. 
But in February 2020 Mr D, using a representative, complained about the advice hed been 
given. He said that he shouldnt have been advised to transfer the OPS benefits as hed lost 
out on guaranteed benefits, about which if hed been made aware meant he wouldnt have 
agreed to transfer. He said he wasnt made aware of the term insistent client and didnt 
think hed been treated as such. He also said the suitability reports he received were 
confusing and misleading and didnt include the relevant risk warnings for such transfers. 
Portal didnt uphold the complaint. It made the following points:
It had treated Mr D as an insistent client and had been clear in its advice not to 
proceed with the transfer.
It had first recommended that Mr D release his tax free lump sum to repay his debts, 
but Mr D had asked for a further £25,000 taxable lump sum to pay off his mortgage 
arrears  which Portal said would be against its advice. Mr D returned a signed 
disclaimer as an insistent client to go ahead with the transfer. Portal said Mr D was 
concerned at the length of time the process was taking and it even advised him to 
send the documentation it had provided to his mortgage provider as proof of intent.
Mr D said he needed to clear arrears on my mortgage and thus save my house.
When the transfer was being processed Mr D first requested a further £25,000 lump 
sum and then asked to withdraw the entire pension fund to repay his liabilities.
Prior to its advice Portal had issued Mr D with a pre-report options letter explaining 
the insistent client process and the benefits he would be giving up. 
Regardless of the loss of benefits from transferring his scheme pension, Portal 
thought he would have proceeded with the transfer regardless because of the 
pressure of his mounting debts and real possibility of losing his home. 
 
But Mr D wasnt happy with the response and his representative brought his complaint to us 
making the following points:
Portal said it had treated Mr D as an insistent client, but it hadnt followed the correct 
process and had set out that it was making a recommendation for him to transfer in 
its suitability report. Mr D had been a client of Portals since 2014 and had received 
three suitability reports from it, so this wouldnt suggest that he was an insistent 
client.
Portal only received its initial adviser fee when the transfer was completed which was 
a potential conflict of interest and indicated it was in Portals interest for the transfer 
to go ahead. 
Portal didnt explain the potential benefits Mr D would lose by leaving the OPS or the 
risks involved in giving up a guaranteed, index linked superannuation scheme.
The SIPP fees werent fully disclosed, and the death benefits payable could lead to 
Mrs D being disadvantaged if the SIPPs potential investment performance wasnt 
achieved.
One of our investigators looked into the matter and said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. 
She made the following points in support of her assessment:
It was clear that Mr D was unlikely to be better off as a result of the transfer and that 
he had given up guaranteed benefits from the OPS. 
But she didnt think Mr D had any other alternatives to raise the funds required to 
keep his home.
She thought Mr D was made aware of the implications of the transfer and of 
withdrawing his entire pension fund  especially the income tax he was likely to pay.
She wasnt aware that the initial fee was too high, but in any case, she thought 
Mr D had been made aware that hed be charged a 5% initial fee and proceeded with 
the transfer on that understanding.  
Mr D didnt agree. His representative made the following points in response:It didnt think wed fully explored the matter of Mr D being treated as an insistent 
client. It thought that Portal hadnt followed the correct steps to be able to classify 
Mr D as insistent nor that Mr D understood the term or accepted being treated as 
such. It said the declaration Mr D signed was a pre-typed form instead of being 
written by Mr D himself, using his own words.
There was no mention of Mr D being an insistent client in the first suitability report. 
The regulatory guidelines say a consumer can only be classed as insistent if they 
have received advice prior to the classification. And the insistent client declaration 
was sent to Mr D before the final suitability report which suggested that Mr D couldnt 
have gone against Portals recommendation which hadnt been finalised at that time. 
At the time of the transaction Mr D was suffering from depression and was vulnerable 
so he wasnt in any position to make such significant decisions. However, Portals 
suitability report said Mr D was in good health which would suggest that it hadnt fully 
considered all the factors involved here.
Mr D doesnt believe the implications and risks of transferring were explained to him 
in enough detail. He said he wouldnt have transferred if he had been made fully 
aware.
Although the investigator said she didnt think Mr D had any alternatives to encashing 
his pension fund, the possibility of remortgaging wasnt explored or even considered. 
It said Mr D would have explored that option if hed been made aware of it rather than 
transferring his pension.
The information provided to Mr D prior to the transfer was contradictory and 
confusing. The covering letter for the suitability report seemed to suggest that Portal 
had recommended the transfer and made no mention of Mr D being treated as 
insistent. Other documentation also gave Mr D the impression that Portal were 
recommending the transfer and wouldnt have deterred him from transferring. 
The paperwork for the transfer was all signed on the same day giving the impression 
that Mr D didnt have sufficient time to make an informed decision about the 
transaction.  Mr D should have been given more time to reflect and consider the 
recommendation  especially considering his mental health at the time. 
The critical yield required by the SIPP to match the OPS benefits was extremely high 
and evidence itself that the transfer wasnt in Mr Ds best interests.
Although the prospect of releasing cash to help with his financial problems would 
have appealed to Mr D it didnt make that course of action suitable advice.  
The investigator didnt think Mr D had any other option but to transfer in order to retain his 
property and reduce his outgoings. She also didnt think that it would have been possible for 
Mr D to have remortgaged in his situation. 
She believed that Portal had recorded some aspects of Mr Ds medical history within its fact 
find so thought it had discussed the subject of health with him. She thought it was for Mr D to 
have disclosed his depression at that time along with the other conditions he did confirm. 
But Mr D wanted his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman, so it was passed to me to 
review. 
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision I said that Mr Ds complaint shouldnt be upheld. I said that, while 
there were undoubted failings in the advisory process here, Mr Ds financial situation meant 
he had little alternative but to transfer his scheme benefits and pay off his mortgage arrears 
and other debts. I made the following points in support of my findings:I didnt think Portal made it clear within its suitability report that Mr D shouldnt 
transfer if he wanted to potentially receive more income, but that there were other 
mitigating reasons to transfer.
It didnt categorise Mr D as an insistent client at this point  which I thought it should 
have done.  
When Mr D subsequently requested further income to be paid to him following the 
transfer Portal did treat him as insistent.
I thought Portal had followed the regulators stance in categorising a client as 
insistent in Mr Ds case. 
But I thought there were good reasons for believing that Mr D would have transferred 
the benefits himself  or sought another adviser willing to carry out the transfer, 
regardless of Portals advice.
That was because his financial situation at the time was difficult, with significant 
mortgage arrears and other debts and liabilities which meant he was just getting by. 
In particular he was concerned about losing his property. 
I didnt think Mr D had any other viable alternative but to raise funds by transferring 
and raising funds from his pension plan. 
Although Portal should have been clearer in making Mr D aware of the option to 
remortgage, I didnt think that was a realistic option for him in his situation. 
Mr D has said that he was depressed and vulnerable at the time of the advice and 
shouldnt have been asked to make such important decisions. But I hadnt seen 
anything to suggest that Mr Ds decision making was impaired, based on the 
communication he had with Portal.
It was unlikely the transfer was in Mr Ds best interests based on a like for like 
income comparison. And I wasnt persuaded Portal had treated Mr D as an insistent 
client all throughout the process. But I thought the main driver for the transfer was 
Mr Ds financial position  which meant I thought he would have gone through with 
the transfer regardless.
Responses to my provisional decision
Portal said it had nothing to add but Mr D didnt agree with my provisional decision. He made 
the following points in reply:
He didnt understand the impact of transferring his OPS benefits and didnt 
understand the term insistent client. Hed been left with nothing and if he 
understood the guaranteed benefits of the OPS then he wouldnt have transferred 
and would have found another way of raising the funds he needed.
He did make Portal aware of his depression  which hed suffered from for many 
years. Portal should have taken extra care when providing this advice with that in 
mind.
No alternatives were discussed with him to raise capital. He thinks his credit rating at 
the time wasnt poor and he might have been able to arrange a remortgage. He also 
thinks he could have borrowed money from his family instead. 
His retirement has been impacted by Portals advice and, without its advice, he would 
not have gone ahead with the transfer. 
Mr Ds representative also made the following points:
It didnt believe the fact that Mr D had been treated as insistent had been 
considered within the provisional decision. Its view was that Portal hadnt followed 
the insistent client process.
In support of this view it said that the insistent client declaration Mr D signed on 6 June 2016 was pre typed and not written by Mr D using his own words. And the 
declaration was sent to Mr D before Portals advice was set out in a suitability report 
of 15 July 2016. It thought this was a clear breach of the regulators guidelines.
Mr D signed all the paperwork on the same day that the transfer took place. This 
would indicate that Mr D wasnt given enough time to make a fully informed decision. 
This was especially the case considering Mr Ds vulnerable state of mind at the time. 
Portal should have ensured Mr D thought carefully before making a decision.
When Mr D asked for further funds to be released, he wasnt asked to confirm in his 
own words that he was happy to be treated as insistent. If Mr D had been aware of 
the implications of being treated that way he would not have proceeded with the 
transfer.
The provisional decision suggested that Mr Ds financial situation was the main driver 
of the transfer. But it thought that, if the correct insistent client process had been 
followed, then Mr D might have made a different decision. If Mr D had been aware of 
the alternative options and of the guarantees he would be giving up, then it believed 
he would have found another way to get the funds he needed.
It doesnt follow that because the option of drawing cash from his pension was 
attractive to Mr D that the advice to do so was suitable.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings. I understand 
Mr D will be disappointed by this outcome, and I have some sympathy for the position he 
now finds himself in, but I think Mr D had little alternative but to go ahead with the transfer 
and drawdown of his funds, so Im not going to uphold the complaint against Portal. But I will 
explain my reasons to try to give Mr D some closure on this matter.
The insistent client question  
Both Mr D and his representative have questioned whether Portal did follow the insistent 
client process, as set out by the regulator, when it gave its advice. They have suggested that 
the insistent client declaration was signed before the final suitability report was issued  
which would suggest Portals advice was already set without giving Mr D the chance to 
think about matters. It was also suggested that the declaration didnt use Mr Ds own words 
as the regulators guidance said it should.  
The representative concluded that Mr D was unaware of the implications of being termed as 
an insistent client and wouldnt have gone ahead with the transfer if hed know of the 
implications.
I thinks its worth noting that I did address the issue of Mr D being treated as an insistent 
client in my provisional decision. With regards to the initial transfer advice I concluded that 
at this point in the process Mr D wasnt categorised as an insistent customer. And as such, I
think Portal failed in this regard.
Following Mr Ds subsequent request to withdraw £25,000 from the transferred fund, Portal 
then stated that it would treat Mr D as insistent. That meant Mr D needed to:
Have received a personal recommendation from Portal.
Want to enter into a transaction that was different from that recommended by Portal.
Want Portal to facilitate that transaction. I think Portal had given Mr D a recommendation to transfer but he wanted to enter into a 
different transaction by withdrawing £25,000 of the transferred fund  which later changed to 
requesting all of the fund. He asked Portal to facilitate the withdrawal. So I think Portal was 
entitled to treat Mr D as insistent. Portal was then required to communicate with Mr D in the 
following way:
In terms that were clear and not misleading.
To ensure he was able to understand the process.
To demonstrate it hadnt recommended the transaction and that it wasnt in
agreement with the recommendation.
The reasons why it disagreed with the recommendation.
The risks of Mr Ds proposed actions.
The reasons why it didnt recommend the transaction.
And I think that Portal broadly followed these guidelines when Mr D requested the 
withdrawal. Its report explained that it hadnt recommended the withdrawal and the risks 
involved in doing so  such as the tax that might be payable. The insistent client 
declaration further supported the view that Mr D ought to have realised he was acting 
against Portals advice and the post sale options letter confirmed Mr Ds actions were 
against our recommendation but that it could facilitate the cash release if he would 
complete and return the insistent client form confirming you are aware of the benefits you 
would be giving up. 
And in relation to Mr D using his own words to confirm the situation I note the declaration 
had a free text box in which Mr D wrote I need to clear mortgage arrears and other debts.
So, while I dont think Portal treated Mr D as an insistent client when it first recommended 
the transfer, Im satisfied that it did follow the process when the withdrawal request was 
made. I know Mr D and his representative believe that Portal didnt follow the process and 
that he wasnt made aware of its implications. Theyve said that he wouldnt have gone 
ahead if he was aware. 
But Ive also gone on to consider what I think would have happened in this case if Mr D had 
been fully aware of what being an insistent client entailed and if he understood its 
implications. 
Would Mr D have acted differently if hed fully understood the implications of being an 
insistent client
At the time of the advice Portals information gathering document noted that Mr D had 
mortgage arrears of £20,000 and other debts and liabilities of £60,000. These liabilities cost 
around £3,600 per month to repay and meant Mr D and his wife had no disposable income 
at all. He described their situation as just getting by. And Mr D has explained how the 
outstanding mortgage of £183,000 on his property gave him less than £40,000 of equity and 
the real possibility of losing his home. 
In my view Mr Ds financial situation was quite perilous and his request to withdraw the 
whole of his pension fund was understandable given the circumstances as it gave him the 
opportunity to lessen his financial burden and potentially the chance to retain his home. 
Its difficult to see what alternative Mr D had in the circumstances. I know he and his 
representative have said that Portal didnt explore the option of remortgaging. Mr D said his 
credit score at the time was reasonable and he could have tried to borrow the funds from a 
lender. But I dont think that would have been possible. Mr D already had a mortgage for 83% of the value of his home. There was little scope for him to remortgage and borrow 
additional funds, especially as his wife had just lost her job and Mr Ds annual self-employed 
earnings were recorded as being around £18,000. In addition, I find it difficult to accept that a 
mortgage lender would provide additional borrowing to a homeowner with existing arrears.
I think its possible Portal should have been clearer in explaining why remortgaging was 
unlikely to be a viable alternative for Mr D, but I dont think it was realistic option for him in 
any case. 
Mr D has since said that he could have raised the money from his family if hed know the 
risks attached to encashing his entire pension. But I havent seen any evidence to suggest 
Mr D raised this as an option when he was in communication with Portal. And given that it 
would have required at least £20,000 to pay off the mortgage arrears and up to £60,000 to 
meet the other liabilities, I think its likely that Mr D would have needed to give his family a 
reasonable period of notice to see if it was possible to raise that level of capital. I think he 
ought to have known if it were possible when he was discussing the matter with Portal  so I 
would have expected him to make Portal aware that it was an option at that time. 
But even if I am wrong in my assumptions about the alternatives, I have taken into account 
Mr Ds actions during the transfer, which I believe underlined the gravity of the situation. In 
an email dated 1 August 2016 Mr D asked Portal whether, the full amount of tax free and 
taxable funds be paid at the same time? I will have difficulty if the entire payment is not paid 
by Thursday. 
And when he discovered that the funds hadnt been transferred he said, I have a formal 
demand from my mortgage company which gives me until Friday of this week to pay the full 
outstanding amount; without the taxable and tax free amounts paid to me by then they will 
enforce the order and will not stop it even if I have the funds to pay the arrears. 
So I think it was clear that Mr Ds urgency was well founded and there was the real risk that 
he would lose his home at this point. I not persuaded he had any other alternatives which 
would have avoided this situation. 
Mr D has referred to his vulnerability at the time and says that Portal ought to have 
understood his mental health and given him more time to reflect on the decision. His 
representative pointed to the fact that the transfer paperwork all seemed to be signed on the 
same day. I havent seen any evidence to suggest that Mr D made Portal aware of such 
issues or that his judgement was impaired during the process. 
But I have seen evidence that Portal recorded details of a medical condition Mr D had at the 
time, so I think its likely that Mr Ds health and medical history was discussed. I would have 
expected Mr D to have made Portal aware of any other health issues at the time  
particularly if he thought they might be relevant to his ability to make important financial 
decision. 
Summary 
Portals own suitability report demonstrated that, on a like for like income basis, it was 
unlikely the transfer would be in Mr Ds interest and that he would most probably end up 
worse off. But it noted that there were other reasons why a transfer might be appropriate for 
Mr D considering his financial circumstances.Im not persuaded that Portal treated Mr D correctly as an insistent client when it made its 
first recommendation  although I think it did correctly treat him as an insistent client when 
he subsequently wanted to withdraw funds from the plan  against Portals advice.
But the main reason that Mr D needed to transfer his OPS benefits and then to withdraw the 
entire funds was to repay both his mortgage arrears and other outstanding liabilities. Despite 
Mr Ds suggestions otherwise I dont think he had any other viable alternatives to raise the 
money required other than to withdraw it from his pension. 
Mr Ds representative is right to say that any advice to transfer here was probably unsuitable 
 when considering whether Mr D would be better off financially. But there were other factors 
involved, despite some failings in the advisory process, which meant that Mr D would have 
transferred the OPS benefits regardless. I think these factors meant that it was in Mr Ds 
best interests to transfer.  
My final decision
For the reasons that Ive given I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2022.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman