DRN-2029963
The complaint
Mr S has complained Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, wont accept he didnt apply 
for the Halifax credit card he was sent in 2017. He also didnt make the transaction on 
21 July 2017 for just over £1,400.
What happened
In 2017 Mr S went into his Halifax branch and complained hed received a credit card hed 
not applied for. Halifax wrote to Mr S to confirm their evidence showed he had applied for 
this card. As English isnt Mr Ss first language, its likely he wasnt clear this was what 
Halifax was confirming.
Halifax sold on the debt for this credit card. In 2019 Mr S found he was being asked to repay 
this debt and complained to Halifax. Halifax told him again they believed hed taken out the 
card and was liable for the debt.
Mr S brought his complaint to the ombudsman service. He said hed never applied for the 
credit card nor could he identify anybody who knew his debit card or online banking details. 
A payment had been made using his debit card to the same company as the one made 
using his credit card. Mr S told us about the difficulties hed had with the security of his 
computer.  
After investigation and a review of the evidence, our investigator felt it was most likely that 
Mr S had applied for the credit card and made the payment himself.  
Mr S disagreed vehemently with this outcome. Hes asked an ombudsman to consider his 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as our investigator and for roughly similar 
reasons. Ill explain why.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The Payment Services Regulations are the relevant law here. These primarily require banks 
to refund customers if they didnt make or authorise payments themselves. Certain other 
circumstances do apply but nothing thats had an impact on the decision Im making here. 
So when we look at whether a bank has acted fairly in rejecting someones fraud complaint, 
one of the things we consider is whether the customer made the transactions themselves or 
allowed them to be made. If they did, then we generally wouldnt ask the bank to refund 
them.
So to help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the disputed 
transaction, as well as what Halifax and Mr S have told us. I can see the timeline of events 
and each partys testimony were covered in our investigators views of 28 April, 27 May and 
3 July 2020. I dont intend to repeat everything that was said there. I will, of course, refer to 
those aspects which form the basis of my decision.
The issues Ive considered include:
An application for a credit card with Halifax was made online on 4 July 2017. Just 
after this an application for a personal loan for £2,000 was also made; and rejected 
by Halifax. Applications to extend the overdraft on Mr Ss current account for £5,000, 
£1,500 and then £1,000 were also made and rejected around this time.  
These applications were all made in Mr Ss name using his own email address and 
mobile phone number (the same details Mr S still uses).
A transaction of £501.67 was made from Mr Ss Halifax current account to a 
company involved in binary options trading on 5 July 2017. This was done using 
Mr Ss debit card details. Theres no record of this card being compromised.
Mr S complained to Halifax at the time about this transaction and asked all 
transactions to the company (who Ill call T) to be blocked. Its unclear whether Mr S 
understood Halifax was essentially confirming at the time they believed he made this 
transaction.
T made a credit to Mr Ss current account of £99.99 on 14 July 2017.  
On 21 July Mr Ss new credit card was activated and a payment of £1,402.10 was 
then made to T.
On 26 July Mr S transferred £400 into his current account from another account to 
avoid his account being overdrawn. Mr S has told us he felt pressured to do this by 
Halifax. This doesnt ring true as this isnt really the kind of thing we see banks 
suggest.
Theres no evidence that Mr Ss personal online banking details were compromised. Theres 
no doubt these were used to make all the applications for additional loans or overdraft 
facilities. Ive considered Mr Ss conviction that his computer was hacked or the camera 
used to get hold of his details. I dont think this is likely. 
Whoever had made the application would also need to be able to access Mr Ss new credit 
card. That would show his new credit card number, expiry date and three-digit security code 
which were all used to complete the payment. Somebody would also have needed to be 
aware of his credit limit as the investment with T took this to the hilt. Since these details were 
mailed directly to him, I cant see how this would have happened. Hacking a computer is 
most often an anonymous fraud so I cant see a fraudster risking trying to get hold of Mr Ss 
post as well. Whilst its absolutely possible for personal mail to be compromised, Mr Ss story 
of compromise would mean a lot of disparate and coincidental events needed to occur.
On the other hand, the most likely scenario seems to me to be that Mr S was looking for 
trading options. He may have found T online. This would have been around the same time 
as the Financial Conduct Authority was issuing warnings about Ts conduct and that they 
were engaged in unregulated financial business. He made a transaction in early July. I 
expect he was told hed soon see gains from this trading. And indeed he got a payment for 
practically £100 from T. This credit alone may have encouraged Mr S to use his new credit card for another transaction of £1,400. From what we know of companies like T, they 
pressure their customers  like Mr S  to make more transactions quickly and invest even 
more money. I think this is what happened here.
By the time Mr S realised his investment wasnt going to result in further financial gain, it was 
too late. Im sorry that Mr S was encouraged to spend money that in all likelihood he didnt 
have.
Ive looked at the fact Mr S told Halifax to block payments to T. But at the time he was talking 
about his current account and not the credit card hed newly taken out. If thered been 
additional transactions to T on the credit card, I may have been concerned that Halifax didnt 
pick up this unusual payment behaviour. I dont think it would be fair to say that based on 
one payment alone.
Having considered the evidence I think its most likely Mr S took out the credit card and 
made the payment to T himself. It wouldnt be fair to ask Halifax to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Ss complaint against Bank 
of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2021.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman