DRN-2572878
The complaint
Mr P has complained he was given unsuitable advice by Britannic Assurance (now
Phoenix Life Limited) to transfer out of his Armed Forces pension into a personal pension.
What happened
Mr P says that he met with a Britannic adviser who was a door to door agent in 1994. 
The documents from the time record that he was 31, had an income of £10,000, two
dependants, and no significant savings. 
There is an illustration dated 28 March 1994 which suggested that Mr P was entitled to a 
pension of £2,753 at age 60. Britannic calculated this pension to be worth £11,716 at his 
retirement with increases over the years.
The total value of the benefit transferred from the Armed Forces scheme was just over 
£20,000. Britannic calculated that this sum would need to achieve a return of 9.4 per cent 
per year until retirement to produce the same benefits that Mr P was giving up.
The transfer went ahead. Britannic says that in 1999 it wrote to Mr P as part of an 
industrywide pension review into transfers from occupational schemes. It says that Mr P 
didnt reply. 
Mr P transferred his pension away from Britannic in 2002 to a new provider.
Mr P made this complaint in 2020. Phoenix rejected the complaint, saying that it was under 
no obligation to review the transfer advice as it had tried to contact Mr P in 1999. The 
complaint was referred to this service, and Phoenix gave its consent for this service to 
consider the merits of the complaint.
An investigator considered the complaint and decided that it shouldnt be upheld. He wasnt 
satisfied that the advice was unsuitable when assessed by the standards at the time of the 
advice and the expectation of investment returns in 1994.
Phoenix accepted the decision, but Mr P didnt. Mr P said, via his representatives, that he 
wished to make further comments, but none have been received.
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigator and with his reasoning. I dont uphold this complaint.
I appreciate that Mr P may be worse off as a result of the pension transfer, but that doesnt 
mean that the advice he was given was necessarily unsuitable or that this complaint should 
be upheld. I must assess the advice with reference to the relevant industry standards at the 
time. The advice was given in 1994, so over 25 years ago. Investment conditions and 
expectations of future growth were very different then to what they are now.
Its clear from the documentation available that Britannic calculated the amount Mr Ps 
pension needed to grow in order to achieve the same income as the Armed Forces
pension he was giving up. The illustration said this was 9.4 per cent per year. As the 
investigator says, this seems to be a very ambitious expectation of future growth when 
compared with expectations today. But in 1994 economic and investment conditions were 
very different. The Bank of England base rate was above 6 per cent in 1994 and it had been 
much higher just a few years earlier, in the late 1980s. This compares with a base rate 
today of only 0.25 per cent.
Investment returns were also higher back then and this was expected to continue. The 
records of expected stock market returns called discount rates were kept for the purpose of 
the pension review. The discount rate in 1994 for a 31-year-old like Mr P, with 29 years to 
retirement was 11 per cent. Therefore, by reference to the prevailing investment conditions 
at the time, and the expectations for the future, it can be seen why the return of 9.4 per cent 
that was needed to match the benefits Mr P was giving up would have been considered to 
be reasonably achievable. There would have been a realistic basis to advise that he was 
likely to be better off with a transfer.
Whilst its true that the anticipated investment returns may not have been achieved, I cant 
use hindsight when making my decision. I must assess the advice with reference to the 
standards at the time.
Phoenix has said that Mr P was invited to have the advice reviewed in 1999 but he didnt 
respond. However, its not objected to this service considering the merits of the complaint 
and so that aspect is not relevant to this outcome. The 1994 advice has been assessed. And 
having made that assessment, I agree with the investigator and Im not satisfied that it was 
unsuitable. I dont think that Britannic did anything wrong in recommending the transfer 
based on what they knew and the expectations for future. I think there was a reasonable 
basis to consider that Mr P would probably be better off by transferring.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2021.
 
Keith Taylor
Ombudsman