DRN-4304808
The complaint
Mrs G complains National Savings and Investments (NS&I) didnt pay her interest.
What happened
Mrs Gs daughter, Miss G, helps Mrs G with her banking and is representing this complaint. 
For ease, Ill refer to Mrs G through the decision, even if some of the things I talk about were 
done by Miss G.
Mrs G was checking her banking and saw NS&I hadnt paid her interest for a couple of 
months. Mrs G spoke to NS&I and raised a complaint.
NS&I responded to say it didnt know why the interest hadnt been paid, but had gone out to 
another department to find out. NS&I paid £75 to Mrs G to compensate her for the 
inconvenience.
Mrs G complained again, as she hadnt agreed to the £75 compensation, but had been paid 
it, and she was unhappy NS&I couldnt read out its first response over the phone or send it 
by email.
NS&I apologised for not reading out the first response and said emails arent secure. NS&I 
said its process was to pay any offered compensation to the account details it held.
Unhappy with this response, Mrs G brought her complaint to this service. An investigator 
looked into things and thought Mrs Gs complaint should be upheld.
NS&I explained Mrs G had asked to withdraw money and the receiving account couldnt be 
verified. NS&I blocked payments out of Mrs Gs accounts. Mrs G had rung in the same day, 
verified the account and made the payments.
NS&I admitted it hadnt removed the block properly, and this stopped the interest being paid. 
NS&I increased its offer to £100 in total.
The investigator thought NS&I should pay £200 in total. The investigator explained the 
missing interest payments had caused some loss of trust between Mrs G and Miss G.
NS&I agreed with the investigators outcome. Mrs G didnt, as NS&I had made the same 
error on a second account. When Mrs G tried to complain, she was directed back to this 
service, so Mrs G asked for an ombudsman to decide things.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I contacted NS&I and it had taken Mrs Gs second complaint forward, and sent a final 
response. Because this is a separate complaint, I wont be commenting on it here.
And theres little dispute with what went wrong here. I think NS&I took a reasonable decision 
to block Mrs Gs account when it couldnt verify an account money was to be paid to. This 
seems a sensible decision to take, to protect Mrs G from fraud.
But once Mrs G had called in and authorised the withdrawal, NS&I should have removed all 
the blocks. NS&Is admitted it didnt remove all the blocks and this caused the missed 
interest payments.
Mrs Gs explained she needs the interest payments to live on, so not having the payments 
caused her some worry about her financial position.
Not removing the blocks also had an effect on Mrs Gs relationship with her daughter. 
Miss G helps out with her mothers banking, and when the interest payments effectively went 
missing, it caused some distrust between them.
And NS&Is first response was, I think, poor. It didnt explain why the interest payments were 
missed but paid compensation for this, even though the problem wasnt resolved. I think 
NS&I should have looked to resolve the issue first, then respond to the complaint.
I cant compensate Miss G for any of the distress or inconvenience caused to her, shes not 
got a relationship with NS&I relevant to this complaint. But I do think Mrs G was caused a 
fair amount of distress and inconvenience, because of NS&Is error and because of its 
response to her complaint.
I cant punish NS&I for its errors, but I can compensate Mrs G for the specific effect NS&Is 
handling of her interest payments had on her. Overall, I think a total payment of £200, to 
compensate Mrs G, is a fair amount to pay.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint and NS&I should pay Mrs G a further £125 to 
compensate her for the distress and inconvenience shes been caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 
Chris Russ
Ombudsman