DRN-3018784
The complaint
Mr B complains that Santander unfairly defaulted his credit card account resulting in a 
negative impact on his credit file.   
What happened
Mr B travelled out of the UK in March 2020 to care for a family member. He was later unable 
to return to the UK due to the Covid-19 pandemic travel restrictions that came into force in 
late March 2020. Hes also told us that he was suffering from ill-health at the time and found 
it difficult to deal with his financial affairs. 
As he was away from home, Mr B says he didnt receive correspondence sent by Santander 
to his home address informing him of its decision to default his credit card account. Mr B 
says he only became aware of the situation when he called Santander in July 2020 to make 
an arrangement to pay. So, he complained to Santander as he didnt think hed been treated 
fairly. 
Santander says that it considered all the information provided by Mr B when it investigated 
his complaint. But it didnt think it had done anything wrong when it defaulted his account. 
So, it didnt uphold the complaint. Unhappy with Santanders response, Mr B referred his 
complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked into things. He empathised with Mr Bs personal and 
financial situation and acknowledged the difficult situation Mr B had been in. But he thought 
the actions taken by Santander were fair, and so he didnt uphold the complaint. He noted 
that: 
Mr B was aware of the status of the account before he travelled out of the UK;
a repayment plan had been agreed in January 2020, but payments werent made 
each month; and 
Santander had not been made aware that Mr B was out of the UK and had 
communicated to correct address held on file. 
Mr B disagreed with the investigators view and asked for details of the legislation or codes of 
practice hed relied on to reach his outcome. The investigator provided this information to   
Mr B in detail. But Mr B still disagreed with the investigator and asked for an ombudsman to 
reconsider the matter. So, the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im aware Ive set out the background to this complaint in less detail than the parties 
have, and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point 
made by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed 
on what I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service 
as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because 
Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument 
to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Having considered all of the information provided, I agree with the overall outcome reached 
by our investigator for much the same reasons. I know Mr B will be disappointed, so I will 
explain why.
Ive reviewed Mr Bs credit card account statements. And like the investigator, Ive found that 
Mr Bs account had exceeded the agreed credit limit during 2019 and I can see Santander 
issued Mr B with a Notice of Default Sums in December 2019. So, I think Santander had 
some concerns about Mr Bs account by the end of 2019. 
In this respect Santander has provided its records to show the contact between Mr B and it 
around this time. And, I can see thats Santanders Financial Support team was in contact 
with Mr B during the latter part of 2019. The notes indicate that Mr B told Santander that 
while he was experiencing some financial and medical problems, he had secured a new job 
and that he would be able to clear the arrears on his account from a property sale. The notes 
also indicate that Mr B told Santander he would be able to meet his next monthly payment. 
In light of this, Ive thought about whether Santander needed to do anything to help Mr B at 
this time. But as Mr B told Santander he could meet his next payment to bring the account 
into order, I dont think further support was needed at this time. But I can some charges were 
refunded  which I think was fair given Mr Bs situation. Overall, at this point, I think Mr B 
was aware of the status of the account and that Santander was expecting payments to be 
made. 
However, it seems Mr B was unable to make the payment he said he would as Ive seen the 
Financial Support team was in contact with Mr B again. The regulations which lenders need 
to consider when a consumer is in financial difficulty are set out in the Consumer Credit 
Sourcebook (CONC). This sets out a variety of measures that a lender can apply in order to 
treat a consumer positively and sympathetically. Ultimately, in Mr Bs case, Santander 
agreed to a reduced payment arrangement and for charges and interest to be suspended. I 
think these remedies are consistent with the regulations. So, overall, I think Santander had 
treated Mr B fairly at this point. It had shown forbearance for Mr Bs circumstances and 
agreed reduced payments and suspended interest and charges.
I also note that the contact notes indicate Mr B was told of the consequences of him not 
maintaining to the payment arrangement put in place. But having reviewed Mr Bs account 
statements, I can see that while a couple of payments were made, some payments were 
missed. And Santander has shown that it sent a further Notice of Default Sums in                            
February and May 2020. Im satisfied that these letters also set out the consequences if 
payments werent made. After further missed payments a Default Notice was issued in July 
2020.
As the investigator has explained, the Information Commissionaires Office (ICO) guidance 
says that  when revised terms of an arrangement are not maintained, a lender can default 
the account when an account is between three and six months in arrears as this suggests 
the relationship between the consumer and the lender has broken down. As Mr B had 
missed three payment by July 2020, I dont think Santander did anything wrong when it decided to default Mr Bs account. It had written to Mr B on several occasions and had not 
received a response and Mr B wasnt making the agreed payments. So, I think Santander 
was entitled to think its relationship with Mr B had broken down.   
I acknowledge that Mr B may not have been in receipt of his monthly statements and some 
of the other correspondence sent by Santander while he was out of the UK. But some of the 
above action and correspondence happened before the Covid-19 pandemic and Mr Bs 
travel out of the UK. So, I think Mr B should have been reasonably aware of the status of his 
account and that he was required to make the agreed repayments under the arrangement 
agreed in January 2020 to avoid any further action being taken.
I do appreciate that Mr B has told us that when it didnt receive a response to its 
correspondence, Santander didnt attempt to contact him via other means. But while 
Santander is required to issue correspondence including a Default Notice to confirm the 
action being taken, it decided to send this in writing through the post. And I havent seen 
anything to suggest that Mr B had notified Santander that he was away from home. So, 
Santander wouldnt have been aware its correspondence wouldnt reach Mr B. Overall, I 
dont think it did anything wrong when it wrote to him at the address it held on file. 
As this all happened during the Covid-19 pandemic, Ive thought about whether Santander 
should have provided Mr B with a payment deferral  the Covid-relief that the regulator                
(the Financial Conduct Authority - FAC) bought in as a result of the pandemic. But here, I 
agree with the comments made by our investigator. The guidance to lenders introduced by 
the FCA only applied where a consumers circumstances were directly impacted as a result 
of pandemic. As mentioned above, Mr Bs financial situation pre-dated the pandemic, so I 
dont think Santander did anything wrong when it didnt offer Mr B any additional relief as a 
result of the pandemic.
Lenders are required to report accurate information reflecting the conduct of a credit 
accounts to the credit reference agencies (CRAs). As I think Santander applied a default 
correctly in this case  for the reasons given above, it follows that I dont think Santander did 
anything wrong when it recorded a default on Mr Bs credit file. I appreciate Mr Bs concerns 
that the default with have an impact on him obtaining a mortgage. But even if a default had 
not been registered on his credit file, its not in dispute that Mr Bs account was often over its 
credit limit and payments had been missed. So, Santander would have always been required 
to report this information to the CRAs. And I think its most likely that this payment history 
would have had a negative impact on any future mortgage application Mr B made.
Overall, for the reasons given above. I think the action taken by Santander was appropriate 
in the circumstances and in line with the regulations covering credit accounts and financial 
difficulties. So, I wont be asking Santander to remove the default from Mr Bs credit file.
I understand that Santander has passed Mr Bs debt to a third-party debt recovery firm  
which it is entitled to do in the circumstances. If Mr B is able to repay his debt either in 
instalments or in full, I would urge him to contact the debt recovery firm if he hasnt already 
done so. If Mr B is experiencing financial difficulties, I would urge him to contact a debt 
advice service, details of which have been previously provided by our investigator.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.        
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 9 November 2021.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman