DRN-2957376
The complaint
Miss A complains Acromas Insurance Company Limited have unfairly turned down a claim 
she made on the parts and garage cover of her roadside assistance policy. Shes also 
unhappy with the service shes been given.
Other companies were involved in this complaint, but as Acromas are responsible for it, Ive 
just referred to them in this decision.
What happened
On 21 February 2021 Miss A wanted to report a clutch judder on her car. She used 
Acromass app to do so but says the option for the clutch wasnt there. She had issues with 
one of her headlights as well  so chose that option. Acromas attended to her car and 
provided a report which does mention the clutch issue, as well as the light. Later on, Miss A 
took her car to a garage for repairs. Miss A claimed under the parts and garage element of 
her policy  which pays out for repairs up to £500 subject to the policy terms.
On 24 February 2021 Miss As claim was turned down by Acromas, as shed clicked lights 
on the app rather than the clutch and they only cover the main issue selected when reporting 
a breakdown. Miss A raised a complaint at this time  and says she was told by many 
advisers it was ridiculous her claim had been turned down. Miss A says after her complaint 
got allocated to a case handler, she asked to speak to her and her manager on multiple 
occasions, but never received call backs. The case handler sent a response on Miss As 
complaint to her father on 26 February 2021, as he was the policyholder. Miss A was also 
unhappy with this, because she was the one who complained and is named on the policy. 
Miss A eventually received the response herself on 26 March 2021. Miss A said she couldnt 
afford to get the repairs done herself, meaning she couldnt work as she didnt have access 
to a car. But, eventually, she managed to borrow some money and got the repairs done.
Acromas said they noted Miss A was unable to find clutch on the app. But if the specific fault 
isnt specified then its her responsibility to ring them and give the exact fault. They said this 
is set out on page 12 of her policy booklet  and theyll only assess the reason for the callout 
and wont look at secondary faults.
Unhappy with this, Miss A asked us to look into things.
Acromas provided their information to us. Included in this was an explanation from them that 
Miss A had reported a number of faults before and knew to use the other option on their 
app if the clutch option wasnt there. They reiterated the terms confirm any faults identified 
by their patrol, which didnt cause the breakdown, wont be covered. Acromas added their 
patrol did find a clutch judder, but this didnt cause Miss As car to breakdown. The policy 
defines a breakdown as a sudden and unexpected event as a result of a mechanical or 
electrical failure, that prevented the car from continuing its journey. And, as Miss A was able 
to drive to the garage, she was able to continue her journey, so it wouldnt be covered 
anyway.
Our investigator considered everything, but overall felt Acromas had acted fairly in turning 
down Miss As claim.
Miss A didnt agree, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding Miss As complaint which I know will be disappointing 
for her. Ill explain why.
The starting point for this complaint is looking at the reason Acromas turned down Miss As 
claim  their initial reason for doing this was because shed chosen lights as an issue, 
rather than clutch.
The policy terms in Miss As case say, under General Exclusions of what the policy wont 
cover:
Any faults identified by, or reported to, the (Acromas) mobile mechanic, (Acromas) appointed 
garage agent, or Your repairing garage, which did not cause the initial Breakdown
Im not sure its fair or reasonable for Acromas to rely on this exclusion in Miss As case. I 
say that because shes been clear and consistent in saying the option to select clutch 
wasnt there at the time  but Ive seen nothing to suggest Acromas have looked into this. 
So, without an investigation into this issue, it seems at least possible to me Miss A is telling 
the truth, she couldnt have selected clutch as the reason for her breakdown, so its not her 
fault the wrong information was input.
In addition, I think itd probably be fairer if the app also gave the warning thats mentioned in 
the policy terms given the very strict approach Acromas have taken to this issue. The 
screenshots Ive been provided dont show this.
But I dont think I need to consider this point in detail. I say that because going back to the 
policy terms above, the definition of Breakdown is relevant. The most relevant part of the 
definition says:
Breakdown: A Sudden or unexpected event involving the Nominated Vehicle:
a) As a result of Mechanical or Electrical Failure; and
b) Which has been attended by (Acromas) under your (Acromas) membership; and
c) That has prevented the Nominated Vehicle from starting or continuing its journey 
safely
And the key element of these terms in Miss As case is whether the issue stopped Miss As 
car from continuing her journey. The information recorded by Acromass patrol says 
Member taking to garage  and Miss A has said herself she wasnt offered a tow to the 
garage. So, I can only conclude that Miss As car wasnt prevented from continuing its 
journey safely  otherwise she wouldnt have been advised to do so. So, I think that means 
Miss As claim shouldnt be met for these reasons. 
I do think Acromas havent handled things well in this case at all. They gave a prompt reply 
which I know Miss A wanted  but that reply wasnt sent to her when it should have been. 
Ive also concluded that the reason given for the outcome probably wasnt fair in all the 
circumstances available then, or now. And I can also see there were quite a few occasions where Miss A asked to speak to people at Acromas and no call backs were made. All of this 
isnt good enough.
But, Acromas did take the right action with the claim by turning it down  albeit for the wrong 
reasons. So, although I think their actions have had an impact on Miss A, I think even if 
theyd turned it down for the right reasons Miss A would have still had some difficulties.
Taking everything into account, I wont be requiring Acromas to pay out under the policy 
terms as Miss A has asked  or pay her any compensation for their failings.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 September 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman