DRN-4493710
The complaint
Mrs V complains she was charged fees for a Safe Deposit Box provided by Metro Bank PLC 
(Metro).
What happened
Mrs V is represented by her son, but I will refer to Mrs V as the complainant here. Mrs V had 
a safe deposit box facility (SDB) with Metro. In July 2019, she visited the branch to access 
the safe deposit box. There were two keys to access the box, one held by Metro and two 
copies of Mrs Vs key  held by her. Two keys must be used to open the box  Metros and 
one of Mrs Vs. The monthly cost of the rental was £18.75 plus VAT  total £22.50.
When she accessed the SDB, she advised Metro shed lost one of her keys. Metro advised 
her the cost of replacement was £200  which she couldnt pay.
Metro continued to charge Mrs V £22.50 each month from when she visited the branch until 
March 2022, when the charge stopped  as the SDB was then cancelled.
Mrs V complained. She said she visited the branch with her son and removed the SDB in 
July 2019 and advised Metro she wanted to cancel the service. But - Metro continued to 
charge the fee for another 32 months. She was then, and still is, vulnerable, and suffers from 
dementia. She said Metro should refund the fees and pay interest at the savings rate on the 
amount refunded.
Metro said Mrs V had been misinformed about the cost of a replacement key  it was £30, 
not £200. Looking at her main complaint point, Metro said Mrs V did visit the branch on 27 
June 2019, but there wasnt any evidence to show she asked to close the SDB service. 
Metro werent to know the box was empty. Metro offered to refund the £30 charge for the lost 
key and offered a goodwill payment of £45  which Mrs V declined.
Mrs V brought her complaint to us. Our investigator didnt uphold it. She said the terms and 
conditions say the key replacement is £30  and Metro had apologised for that and offered 
compensation. She couldnt see any evidence that Mrs V asked to close the safe deposit 
service in June 2019. The fees were set out in the terms and conditions and Metro provided 
regular advice of the fees being debited. The advices were emailed to Mrs Vs son. She 
noted that Metro were advised about Mrs Vs health conditions in March 2022, so couldnt be 
expected to provide additional support for her before that time.
Mrs V didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman look at her complaint. So, it has come to 
me to do that.
I made a provisional decision which said:
There are two aspects to Mrs Vs complaint:
- The issue of the cost of a replacement key.
- The fees paid by Mrs V since June 2019 to February 2022 (the main complaint).
Cost of replacement key:
Here, Metro admit they shouldve told Mrs V the replacement cost was £30  rather than the 
£200 they told her. So thats not in dispute and for that, Metro have offered to refund the £30 
and offered to pay compensation of £45, both of which Mrs V has declined to accept. 
Monthly fees paid between July 2019 and February 2022 - £720:
This is the crux of Mrs Vs complaint. And here, there is a lack of clear evidence. What this 
means is that where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory (as some 
of it is here) I must base my decision on the balance of probabilities. That is  whats more 
likely than not to have happened in all of the circumstances here, based on the available 
evidence. So, in that context, Ive thought carefully about what likely happened here.
Metro dont have any record of Mrs V asking that the SDB service be cancelled in June 
2019. But  they do have a record to confirm she visited the branch on 27 June 2019, and 
that she visited the SDB facility during that visit.
Metros records then show there were no visits to the SDB between June 2019 and March 
2022.
And  when Metro looked into what happened, their internal investigation showed the SDB 
was empty in March 2022  when it was cancelled. 
So  it can safely be assumed that the box was empty between June 2019 and March 2022.
So  putting these things together, I think its more likely than not that Mrs V withdrew the 
SDB in June 2019, and then advised Metro she didnt want to continue with the service.
This is further supported by her version of events about the replacement key  where she 
was told the cost of replacement was £200. Even through Metro made an error regarding the 
level of the fee, it does show there was a conversation about the SDB at the time. And  she 
said the conversation with the same member of staff then continued for her to ask the SDB 
to be cancelled. I think its reasonable to expect Metros member of staff to ask Mrs V if she 
wanted to continue with the SDB service given that she removed the box at the visit, so I can 
see how this ended with Mrs V saying she wanted to stop the SDB service.
So, for me, that makes sense in reaching a provisional decision here.
Mrs V has argued consistently in her complaint about what happened  that she removed 
the SDB and asked for it to be cancelled.
Against this, I can see that Mrs Vs account was debited with £22.50 each month, and an 
email was sent to her son each month to advise of the charge  so there is an argument that 
she was aware of the charge and couldve raised the matter earlier. And the terms and 
conditions do set out what the charges are.
But  I must make a provisional decision based on the balance of evidence here, what I think 
likely happened and in the circumstances of this complaint. Therefore, in this case, I think it 
is reasonable to ask Metro to refund the monthly fees paid between July 2019 and February 
2022 - £720. Our service can add 8% per annum simple to this sum  but given that the 
monthly charge was notified to Mrs Vs son (and she could therefore have questioned it earlier), I dont think its fair to add that; nor to add interest at a savings rate for the same 
reason.
And in fairness to Metro, I dont think its reasonable to ask them to also pay the offered £75 
in addition to this, particularly as £30 of that was to refund the £30 for the key replacement  
and I cant see that was charged. So  I set the payment of £75 aside, and Metro dont have 
to pay that.
Responses to the provisional decision:
Metro didnt respond, and Mrs V accepted the provisional findings.
I now need to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mrs V accepted the provisional decision, and Metro didnt respond, my final decision is 
the same as the provisional decision. And so Metro must do what the provisional decision 
said.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Metro Bank PLC must:
- Refund the monthly payments totalling £720.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs V to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 January 2024.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman