DRN-2324346
The complaint
Mr M complains via a Claims Management Company (CMC) that Sun Life Assurance 
Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited trading as Sun Life Financial of Canada (Sun Life) 
provided him with advice that was unsuitable. They say that a shorter-term product would 
have been more suitable.
What happened
Y In October 1993, Mr M invested into a unit-linked savings plan via a monthly payment of 
£40. The policy was designed to run until Mr Ms 65th birthday and is still in place.
The CMC complained to Sun Life in January 2020 that the advice provided to Mr M in 1993 
was unsuitable and that there was no evidence of other savings options being discussed 
with Mr M. They said that the policy recommended was too long and that a shorter 10-year 
policy was more appropriate to Mr Ms needs. The CMC requested a refund of charges to 
reflect those of a ten-year contract with an extension option to Mr M.
Sun Life investigated the complaint and found that the policy that was recommended might 
not have been the most appropriate for Mr Ms circumstances at the time of the sale. Sun 
Life upheld this part of the complaint and offered Mr M compensation based on the 
premiums already paid and interest on this. The compensation offered totalled £39,232.13 
against the current cash value of the policy which was £48,626.48. As the cash value of the 
policy was higher than the compensation offered, Sun Life said that Mr M had not suffered 
any financial loss.
Unhappy with Sun Lifes response, the CMC referred the complaint to the service and one of 
our investigators reviewed the complaint. The investigator thought that Sun Life had acted 
fairly in calculating the offer of compensation and did not uphold the complaint.
Unhappy with the investigators view, the CMC have asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
All parties involved agree with the circumstances of the complaint and that the initial advice 
was unsuitable so its not my intention to go over this in detail. I will instead look at the offer 
of compensation made by Sun Life. Having done so, I agree with the outcome reached by 
the investigator for much the same reasons and will not be upholding the complaint.
When offering advice, the business needs to understand the personal and financial 
circumstances of the consumer. A fact find exercise was carried out by Sun Life in 1993 and 
the following details are noted:
Mr M was 27 when he took out the policy and was single 
He earned £1,150 net per month and had expenditure of £894.62. This left him with a 
new disposable income of £255.38.
Mr M owned his home and had a mortgage of £58,900 outstanding
It appears from the fact find that Mr M also had personal health insurance, a whole of 
life policy and a savings policy.
The CMC say that Mr M would have been better suited to have a shorter-term plan in place 
as this would have produced a better return of any length of time. Sun Life did not agree and 
said the shorter policy included life cover which was not required. 
Sun Life said in their final response to Mr M that the initial fact find indicated that he did not 
have any emergency deposit-based savings and that this should have been a priority before 
purchasing a longer inflexible savings product such as the one that was recommended.
The investigator agreed with this point and I do think that it is a key element when providing 
advice. When a consumers personal and financial circumstances are reviewed, an adviser 
will consider several issues such as affordability and capacity for loss. In many cases, an 
adviser will ask what savings are held in the case of emergency. It is generally recognised 
that having savings in place for unforeseen circumstances is the first thing that is 
recommended before other financial products are considered.
The investigator has said that in his opinion Mr M wasnt able to invest anything as he didnt 
have a cash reserve or emergency fund and this should have been a priority. I agree with 
the investigator and feel that this was a priority for Mr M before he bought any further 
savings plan.
When a business has done something wrong they will attempt to put the consumer back into 
the position they should have been in had the error not occurred. Sun Life have said that it 
wasnt possible to say what Mr M would have done if he had been advised correctly.
Sun Life offered to refund Mr M the premiums already paid and pay interest on this amount. I 
think that this offer of compensation is fair and reasonable in the circumstances and in line 
with what the service would recommend.
As I have previously said, the value of the policy exceeds the amount of compensation 
offered so Mr M has not been financially disadvantaged as he continues to hold the policy. 
I think that Sun Life have acted fairly in trying to correct the recommendation made in 1993 
and I wont be asking them to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2021.
 
Brian Gray
Ombudsman