The complaint  
Mr and Mrs R are directors of a limited company, which Ill refer to as R. Mr and Mrs R  
complain that Barclays Bank UK Plc should have made more effort to notify R about an  
interest rate change for international transactions.  
What happened  
R holds a merchant acquiring services account with Barclays. In May 2019, it queried some  
interest charges on the account with Barclays. Barclays said the charges were for an  
increased interest rate for international transacti ons. Barclays said it had written to R to let it  
know of the changes to the terms and conditions. R said it hadnt received any letters  
regarding the interest change.  
R complained to Barclays. It wanted the interest charges reduced to the previous level f or 
the period it wasnt aware of the change. Barclays rejected the complaint and said it sent a  
letter to the recorded address, and gave at least 60 days notice to R in line with the terms  
and conditions.  
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She found Barclays had done  
enough to make R aware of the interest rate changes, in line with the terms and conditions  
of the account. And she didnt think Barclays needed to do more to communicate this to R.  
Mr and Mrs R, on behalf of  R, disagreed. They said Barclays should have sent the letter by  
recorded delivery given the nature of the changes. Mr and Mrs R asked for an ombudsman  
to review the complaint, so its been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why  
Ive conside red all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and  
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and  
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I wont be upholding this  
complaint. Ill explain why below.  
Ive checked the terms and conditions of Rs account with Barclays. In regards to changes of  
these terms, it states, we may change the terms and conditions of this agreementwe will 
normally give you at least 30 days notice of any changes. Barclays has told our service that  
the updated terms now state they need to give at least 60 days notice of any changes. So  
thats what I will consider to see if Barclays has acted fairly.  
Ive seen a copy of the letter Barclays sent to R in January 2019. The changes were due to  
affect the account in April 2019. So Im satisfied this is over 60 days in line with the updated  
DRN-1027432terms and conditions. The address on the letter is the same as the a ddress which Barclays 
sent Rs monthly account statements. Barclays has also confirmed it didnt receive any  
returned post from R. So taking everything into account, Im satisfied Barclays sent a letter  
notifying R about the changes to its terms and condit ions. And Im also satisfied Barclays  
gave R sufficient notice of its intentions. I dont think its Barclays fault if R didnt receive this.  
Ive considered Mr and Mrs Rs point about Barclays sending this letter by recorded delivery.  
But having looked at everything on file I cant see that Barclays has acted incorrectly here. In  
my opinion, its actions were reasonable and based on what it knew about R at the time. Im  
satisfied Barclays sent a letter to the recorded address giving plenty of notic e of the change  
in fees. I therefore dont think its done anything wrong.  
So while I appreciate Barclays decision to increase its interest charges for international  
transactions have caused Mr and Mrs R some upset, I dont think it needed to do anything  
more as it followed its process in line with the terms and conditions of the account.  
My final decision  
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or  
reject my decision before 3 October 2019.  
Dan Prevett  
Ombudsman  