DRN-2367021
The complaint
Miss M is complaining Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited has held her at fault for an 
accident she says she wasnt involved in.
What happened
In October 2018 Markerstudy was notified that Miss M had been involved in an incident with 
a third party riding a motorcycle. The third party claimed Miss M pulled out into their path  
causing them to have to take evading action and ultimately lose control. They hold Miss M 
responsible for the damage to their bike. Markerstudy discussed this with Miss M who 
disputed being involved in the accident as she said there was no contact.
Miss M later complained to Markerstudy because she learnt it had settled the third partys 
claim. Markerstudy explained it had paid the total loss value of the third partys motorcycle 
on a without prejudice basis because the third party was incurring expensive hire charges, 
so it was looking to minimise the loss. But it said it hadnt admitted liability.
In February 2019 Miss M complained again that her renewal premium had increased by 
around £2,000 because of the incident. She also said shed researched this matter and 
highlighted sections of the Highway Code which she said held the third party at fault.
Markerstudy acknowledged it hadnt kept her updated throughout the claim journey and 
offered her £150 in compensation for this. But it said it was defending the third partys claim. 
So it didnt uphold her complaint about the way it was handling the claim. It said it had to 
treat the claim as an open fault claim until such time as the third party withdraws the claim or 
its resolved in Miss Ms favour. But it explained she could be entitled to a premium refund if 
liability for the accident is resolved in her favour.
Miss M later complained again about the way the claim was being handled. She said she 
wasnt able to insure her car because of how much the insurance premium was. And she 
maintained she wasnt at fault for the accident. 
Markerstudy said it was continuing to defend the claim. But it acknowledged it hadnt kept 
her updated again. So it offered her a further £100 in compensation.
I issued a provisional decision saying that I thought Markerstudy had offered fair 
compensation. And I said the following:
Miss M is complaining a claim a third party made on her insurance policy is impacting her 
insurance premiums. I should first explain that it isnt this services role to say whos at fault 
for causing an accident, as that is the responsibility of the courts. Our role is to look at 
whether Markerstudy has carried out a fair investigation, reviewed all the evidence it has and 
come to a reasonable decision.
I appreciate Miss M is unhappy her renewal premium significantly increased as Markerstudy 
had recorded an open claim on her record. But a third party had made a claim on her record. 
Until such time as the claim is settled, it will remain open. Ultimately, the third party has 
continually held Miss M liable for the incident. I can see Markerstudy has defended the claim 
throughout holding the third party at fault. Its set out why it doesnt think Miss M is at fault  
including referring to the sections of the Highway Code Miss M has referred to. But the third 
party hasnt agreed with this and has instigated legal proceedings. 
I acknowledged Miss M is unhappy the claim had a significant impact on her renewal 
premium. But this is because the third party made a claim and not because of anything 
Markerstudy has done wrong. Ultimately, until such time as the third party concedes liability 
and withdraws the claim or the court holds the third party fully at fault for the accident, 
Markerstudy is right to record the claim on Miss Ms record. So I cant say its treated her 
unfairly in this respect.
I note Miss M is unhappy Markerstudy paid the third partys claim. But it did so on a without 
prejudice basis to prevent the third party incurring excessive hire charges. Settling on a 
without prejudice basis means Markerstudy hasnt accepted liability and it doesnt impact 
any future court proceedings. Its common practice for insurers to look to minimise their 
potential exposure to high hire charges, by quickly paying a total loss settlement or to have 
the vehicle repaired. And its not unreasonable it does so. So I cant say Markerstudy has 
acted unfairly in this respect. Its also not impacted Miss Ms position either because the 
claim would still be on her record regardless of whether Markerstudy paid it or not for the 
reasons I set out above.
That said, I can see Markerstudy has failed to keep Miss M updated throughout the claim 
journey. I would expect it to keep her updated with what was happening  particularly in 
respect to any communication with the third party. There was also some delays in sending 
her a claim form and arranging for an engineer to inspect her car. But Markerstudy has 
offered Miss M £250 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience this has caused 
her. This is in line with what I would have awarded. So I dont think it needs to pay anything 
further.
Miss M responded to say she didnt accept my provisional decision, but she didnt add 
anything further apart from to say she wasnt aware of the additional £100 in compensation 
Id said Markerstudy had offered. 
Markerstudy didnt respond to my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has given me anything substantively new to consider I see no reason to 
reach a different conclusion to the one I reached in my provisional decision. So I still think 
Markerstudys compensation offer of £250 is fair in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note Miss M says she wasnt aware of Markerstudys additional compensation offer. But 
this was set out in the letter it sent Miss M on 16 December 2019. So Im satisfied it did 
explain this to her. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I think Markerstudy Insurance 
Company Limiteds compensation offer of £250 is fair in the circumstances of this complaint. 
It should pay this to her directly if it hasnt already done so. I dont intend to award anything 
further.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 December 2020. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman