DRN-4264160
The complaint
Mr V complains that Creation Financial Services Limited unfairly closed his credit card 
account, which meant he missed out of the rewards associated with the account.
What happened
Mr V had a credit card with Creation, that conferred various awards such as reward points 
and a voucher for a free nights hotel stay. In late 2021 Creation took the decision to close 
Mr Vs account, and withdraw the rewards offered. Mr V complained, but Creation didnt 
think theyd done anything wrong.
Unhappy with this Mr V referred the complaint to our service. Creation then made an offer to 
credit his reward account with the points accrued, offer a pro rata refund of the account fee 
and give him his free hotel voucher. Mr V initially declined this, but Creation credited the 
points and voucher to his reward account anyway.
Mr V did not find this out until one of our investigators looked into what happened two 
months later. He said the voucher was only valid for 12 months, so he had a shorter 
opportunity to make use of it. Our investigator agreed, but Creation confirmed the voucher 
couldnt be extended. Our investigator recommended Creation pay Mr V £50 in recognition 
of the inconvenience this would cause, along with their initial offer.
This was accepted by Mr V, but Creation didnt agree. As no agreement could be reached 
the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im aware Mr V has accepted the investigators opinion so the right to close his 
account doesnt appear to be in dispute. But for claritys sake, Im satisfied that Creation 
gave Mr V the correct notice before closing his account as per the terms. I dont see that 
Creation have been unreasonable in the decision to close his account.
But its right that Creation honour the reward points accrued  and Im glad to see that 
theyve now done so. And as Mr V only had a partial years use of the account its right that 
he receive a pro rata refund of the account fee. Mr V has accepted this.
The free night voucher has already been credited to Mr Vs reward account, although Ive not 
seen anything to show Mr V was made aware of this at the time. The voucher is time-limited, 
and Creation have confirmed that Mr Vs voucher cant be extended, nor can he be issued a 
new one.  I broadly agree with his point that hes potentially lost out on around two months 
he could have made use of it. But Ive also taken into account that he does have some 
considerable time to make use of the free night.
Overall, Im satisfied that its right Creation pay Mr V some compensation to reflect the 
frustration and inconvenience not telling him would have caused. The impact is not 
significant, but it could have been avoided if Creation had communicated with him. On that 
basis I see £50 as a suitable award.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint, and in addition to the points and voucher 
already awarded Creation Financial Services must:
Provide a pro rata refund of the account fee of £62.65
Pay Mr V £50 compensation for the lack of communication about the voucher
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2023.
 
Thom Bennett
Ombudsman