DRN-3215289
Complaint
Mrs H and Mr H have complained about the overdraft charges HSBC UK Bank Plc (trading 
as First Direct) applied to their current account. They say they werent notified of the 
charges before they were applied.
Background
Mrs H and Mr Hs complaint was looked at by one of our adjudicators. He didnt think that 
First Direct had done anything wrong as First Direct had notified Mrs H and Mr H of the 
upcoming changes to their overdraft and it didnt have reason to suspect they may have 
been in financial difficulty. So he didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Mrs H and Mr H 
disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im not upholding Mrs H and Mr Hs
complaint. Ill explain why Ive done so in a little more detail.
Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that while Mrs H and Mr H consider the 
amount they were charged was excessive, I havent considered whether the amounts First 
Direct charged were fair and reasonable, or proportionate in comparison to the costs of the 
service provided. Ultimately how much a bank charges for services is a commercial decision. 
And it isnt something for me to get involved with.
I know Mrs H and Mr H says that they werent notified that the pricing structure changes 
which were due to come in force in March 2020, but were suspended as a result of the 
pandemic, were going to be reintroduced in August 2020. But Ive been provided with 
evidence that Mrs H and Mr H were sent an email in early July 2020 notifying them about 
this. 
I appreciate that Mrs H and Mr H may not recall this email and that they might not have read 
it given what theyve said what was going on at the time. But given First Direct wont have 
known this, its difficult for me to say that First Direct should have taken additional steps 
here, that it didnt do enough to bring the changes to Mrs H and Mr Hs attention or that it 
acted unfairly in relation to this matter. 
That said, even though First Direct notified Mrs H and Mr H of these changes in advance of 
them happening, it still wont have acted fairly and reasonably towards Mrs H and Mr H if it 
applied these interest, fees and charges to Mrs H and Mr Hs account in circumstances 
where it was aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been aware Mrs H and Mr H 
was experiencing financial difficulty. So Ive considered whether First Direct ought to have 
suspected Mrs H and Mr H was in financial difficulty. 
Ive looked through Mrs H and Mr Hs statements in the lead up to the change and I cant 
see that First Direct ought to have been aware that Mrs H and Mr H might have been 
struggling. As this is the case and bearing in mind what Ive already said earlier, I dont think 
that First Direct has treated Mrs H and Mr H unfairly. So it doesnt need to refund any 
interest, fees and charges and Im not upholding Mrs H and Mr Hs complaint. 
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Mrs H and Mr H. But I hope theyll 
understand the reasons for my decision and that theyll at least feel their concerns have 
been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mrs H and Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 January 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman