DRN-4469410
The complaint
Mr A complains that Automobile Association Insurance Services Limited (AA) cancelled his 
motor insurance policy.
What happened
As the circumstances of this complaint arent in dispute, Ill summarise my findings.
Mr A took out a motor insurance policy through AA in November 2022. It was 
underwritten by a different company. He paid for the policy monthly, via a credit 
agreement provided by AA.
Later in November, AA wrote to Mr A. It said his bank had let it know hed cancelled 
his direct debit and he should get in touch with AA straightaway. In December, AA 
wrote to him again and said it hadnt been able to collect the monthly payment due, 
so Mr A was in default. It again asked him to contact it straightaway and said it would 
cancel the insurance policy in early January if it was unable to take a payment. It sent 
him a final letter in January to confirm the policy had been cancelled.
After this, Mr A was stopped by the Police for driving without insurance. He 
complained to AA. He said he hadnt been made aware the policy had been 
cancelled and the cancellation wasnt in line with the policy. He also said he hadnt 
missed a payment, as the policy was cancelled before the first one was due. As a 
result of the cancellation, he said he had to go to Court to defend his position, which 
had caused him distress, and he was fined £350. He also had to buy temporary 
insurance at a cost of £40.60.
AA said the policy was cancelled correctly and the correct process had been followed 
in order to do that. It said the root cause of the problem was Mr A cancelling the 
direct debit.
Our investigator didnt think AA had acted fairly. She said the letters had been 
properly addressed to Mr A but, given the serious implications of him not having 
insurance in place, she thought it would have been in line with good industry practice 
to have used a second method of communication  especially given widespread 
postal strikes at the time, and Mr As preferred method of contact being email. To put 
things right, she suggested AA provide Mr A with a letter of explanation for him to 
share with the relevant authorities, remove any cancellation markers, pay £750 for 
the distress and inconvenience Mr A suffered and £390.60 for his financial losses.
AA didnt think this was fair. It said it had acted in line with its policy  and the 
problem had been caused by Mr A cancelling the direct debit himself. And it thought 
it unlikely, even with the postal strikes, that Mr A hadnt received the letters in time.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key point of this dispute is that AA cancelled the policy  and Mr A doesnt think 
this was fair.
This dispute arose because Mr A cancelled his direct debit. He says that at the time, 
a problem caused him to have two AA direct debits setup for the same policy. So he 
cancelled one to avoid duplicating payments. That sounds reasonable to me.
The policy says AA has the right to cancel the policy by sending at least seven days 
notice to the last known address if a default notice is sent.
Where there isnt a default, the policy says AA may cancel it if there are grounds to 
do so. It goes on to provide a list of examples where that might apply. Relevant here 
is non-payment. Again, at least seven days notice will be sent to the last known 
address.
AA accepts that at the time it cancelled the policy, there was no default. And Mr A 
hadnt missed a payment because no payment was due by that point. So the policy 
terms didnt give AA the right to cancel the policy.
AA says that because the direct debit had been cancelled, it was right for it to alert 
Mr A about that. And when he didnt reinstate the direct debit, that showed he didnt 
wish to pay for the policy, so a default would have been inevitable.
I agree that it was, in principle, right for AA to let Mr A know his direct debit wasnt in 
place and that would have an impact on his policy unless he did something about it. 
But I dont agree that Mr As lack of response to AA triggered any of the reasons set 
out in the policy that would give AA the right to cancel the policy.
And, like our investigator, Im not satisfied the way AA communicated with Mr A was 
effective in the circumstances.
AA told our investigator Mr As preferred method of contact was email. But this only 
applied to standard policy documents. For any other correspondence, AA chooses 
the method of contact and this is set out in the policy document.
I agree with AA that the policy refers to it providing written notice to Mr A. The letters 
are correctly addressed and I have no reason to doubt they were sent, so I dont 
think its AAs responsibility if the letters didnt reach Mr A. However, I bear in mind 
that the consequence of cancelling a policy, particularly a motor policy which is a 
legal requirement, can be significant for a consumer. So I would usually expect to 
see a consumers communication preferences taken into account. And I think its 
generally good industry practice to use two means of communication.
In this case, that would mean sending Mr A emails, as well as the letters. Had it done 
so, I think its likely Mr A would have received them and would have taken prompt 
action to reinstate his direct debit and continue with the policy. The only reason he 
didnt do this was because he said he didnt receive the letters.
Overall, this means I dont think AA followed the policy terms when it cancelled the 
policy. And, whilst it followed the policy terms by writing to Mr A, I dont think that 
treated him fairly and reasonably in the circumstances. As a result, Im not satisfied 
AA should take steps to put things right.I understand Mr A has taken out a new motor policy, so theres no need for AA to 
reinstate the cancelled policy. But it should ensure any cancellation markers are 
removed from any internal or external databases. AA should also provide a letter of 
explanation for Mr A, which he can share with any relevant authorities and/or other 
insurance companies as he wishes.
Following this decision, and with any cancellation markers removed, Mr A can let his 
new insurer know. And if the premium has taken the cancellation into account, the 
insurer can adjust the premium accordingly.
Because Mr A was stopped by the Police and found to be driving without insurance, 
he incurred a £350 Court fine and had to buy a temporary policy for £40.60. Im 
satisfied both these costs are financial losses which flowed directly from the policy 
being unfairly cancelled  so I think AA should pay Mr A these costs.
Mr A has described how distressing he found being stopped by the Police and the 
thought of having to defend his position in Court. I can appreciate that it must have 
been a particularly shocking and concerning experience. And its been a frustrating, 
prolonged experience trying to put that right with AA. In these circumstances, Im 
satisfied £750 compensation is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Automobile Association Insurance Services Limited to:
Provide Mr A with a letter of explanation.
Remove any cancellation markers from any internal or external databases.
Pay £750 compensation.
Pay £390.60 for financial losses.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2024.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman