DRN-2322306
The complaint
Mr O and Ms C complain that Bank of Scotland plc was unfair to start possession 
proceedings after the term of their interest only mortgage expired. They ask for 
compensation for the costs of refinancing and a refund of their legal costs.
What happened
Mr O and Ms C took out an interest only mortgage with Halifax in 2004. The term expired in 
December 2017 with an unpaid balance. Mr O and Ms C intended to sell a second property 
to raise funds to repay the mortgage but the sale fell through. In late 2018 Halifax said it 
could give Mr O and Ms C 12 months to sell the second property if they provided evidence 
about this and reduced the outstanding balance.
Mr O and Ms C say Halifax was unfair to then start possession action. Mr O and Ms C repaid 
their mortgage using equity release and ask that Halifax compensates them for the related 
costs.
Our investigator said Halifax hadnt been fair. She said Halifax should have reviewed the 
account and contacted Mr O and Ms C before starting legal action. The investigator said 
Halifax should refund the legal costs and pay compensation of £200. 
The investigator said it wasnt fair to require Halifax to pay costs related to Mr O and Ms Cs 
equity release mortgage. They hadnt sold their second property and so needed to find a 
way to repay the mortgage.
Halifax agreed. Mr O and Ms C didnt agree. Mr O said because Halifax started legal action 
they had to take out equity release to repay the mortgage. Mr O says they sold their second 
property in August 2019. But by this time they were committed to equity release financing.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr O and Ms Cs mortgage expired in December 2017. From mid-2018 they were in contact 
with Halifax about repayment, which they intended to fund from the sale of a second 
property and savings. Their sale fell through. In late 2018 they discussed a 12-months hold 
on recovery action to allow time to sell the property. They provided the evidence Halifax 
asked for. And they made several lump sum repayments in late January and early February 
to reduce their outstanding balance.
Mr O should then have called Halifax to confirm the 12-months hold. He didnt do this and no 
formal agreement was put in place. Halifax instructed solicitors to start possession action. I 
dont think this was fair.
Lenders should take possession as a last resort, when all other reasonable attempts to 
resolve the problem have failed. That wasnt the case here. Mr O and Ms C had a strategy  
to sell their second property. They were taking steps to do this, and provided evidence to 
Halifax. 
Halifax hadnt agreed to an automatic 12 months extension if Mr O provided the information 
and repayments it asked for. It only agreed to consider this. But, having received the 
information and lump sum repayments, I think it would have been fair for Halifax to contact 
Mr O and Ms C before starting, or continuing, recovery action. Had it done so, its likely 
possession proceedings could have been avoided.
Halifax agreed in mid-May to hold proceedings for six months. Mr O and Ms C repaid the 
mortgage in September 2019.
I think its right that Halifax refunds costs related to the possession proceedings, as its 
agreed to do, and pays compensation for the upset caused by the proceedings.
Mr O says £200 compensation isnt enough for the distress caused and their costs in re-
financing using equity release. Mr O told us they took out equity release as they couldnt risk 
the sale of the holiday house falling through again. He says they sold the second property in 
August 2019 but had by this point committed to equity release.
Halifax gave Mr O and Ms C six months from May 2019 to sell their second property to repay 
the mortgage. I think this was fair, especially as the mortgage term had expired in December 
2017. Mr O said sales of their second property had fallen through several times, so I can 
understand they were concerned this might happen again. I think it was reasonable for Mr O 
and Ms C to look into other options for repaying their mortgage. But I dont think Halifax is 
responsible for their decision to repay the mortgage using equity release, or to have 
committed to this by August 2019. 
It follows that I dont think its reasonable to require Halifax to compensate Mr O and Ms C 
for their costs in taking out equity release.
Putting things right
Mr O and Ms C were in a difficult position and I appreciate this was a stressful time. But this 
wasnt solely due to errors by Halifax. They needed to repay their mortgage balance and 
were worried the sale of their second property would fall through again. 
Nonetheless, it must have been upsetting for Mr O and Ms C to receive notices and the date 
of a court hearing, and this additional upset could have been avoided if Halifax had 
contacted them before starting possession proceedings. Ive also taken into account that 
Halifax put proceedings on hold for six months when Mr O contacted it.
I think its fair and reasonable for Halifax to refund costs related to the possession 
proceedings (£724.60) and pay £200 compensation for the upset caused. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Bank of Scotland plc to refund costs 
related to possession proceedings in 2019 and pay £200 to Mr O and Ms C.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C and Mr O to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 January 2021.
 
Ruth StevensonOmbudsman