DRN-3914554
The complaint
Mr S complains about advice he received from Holborn Assets Ltd (HAL) in relation to the 
transfer of benefits from a defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme. HAL 
recommended that Mr S shouldnt transfer his pension, but Mr S is unhappy that the 
recommendation contained errors.
What happened
Mr S held benefits in a DB scheme from a period of past employment.  
Mr S was first introduced to HAL in April 2021 by his financial adviser at the time, which Ill 
call Firm A. I understand this was because Firm A didnt have the relevant permissions to 
advise on the potential transfer of DB scheme benefits  which it said Mr S was interested in. 
Initial emails about the services Mr S could expect to receive from HAL were shared at the 
time. But in June 2021, Mr S indicated hed decided he didnt want to proceed with advice at 
that time.
Mr S got back in touch with HAL in December 2021, to pursue advice. I understand by that 
time hed changed financial advisers to a business which Ill call Firm I. But Firm I also 
doesnt seem to have had the relevant authorisation to advise on the potential transfer.
Mr S agreed to HALs client agreement on 6 January 2022, including that HAL would charge 
a fee for £3,875 for advice about the transfer of his DB scheme benefits. The fee was 
payable in advance and non-refundable, even in the event HAL did not recommend that 
Mr S transfer his benefits.
HAL completed a fact find with Mr S to gather information about his circumstances and 
objectives. It also carried out an assessment of his attitude to risk, gathered information 
about his existing pension scheme from the DB scheme trustees and carried out analysis of 
the benefits he was due to receive under the DB scheme and how these compared with 
what he might be able to obtain elsewhere.
On 9 February 2022, HAL issued its written recommendation to Mr S. It said its 
recommendation was that he remain with the DB pension scheme as it felt Mr S didnt need 
to transfer and could achieve his goals by remaining a member of the existing scheme.
On 10 February 2022, Mr S emailed HAL to discuss the advice further as he didnt agree 
that a transfer was not in his interests. He also said there were errors in the report about the 
amount of tax-free cash he was still able to draw from his pension arrangements and that the 
DB scheme would continue to escalate while in payment  because in his circumstances, 
based on when the benefits were accrued, it wouldnt. He added that this may all be moot as 
his calculations and thoughts were still to transfer.
There were separate emails on 16 and 17 February 2022 discussing that, while Mr S was 
unhappy with the contents of the recommendation, he wanted to proceed with a transfer. 
HAL explained hed need to sign a declaration that was attached to the recommendation and 
return this, after which it would issue the relevant confirmation that it had provided the 
required advice. After receiving the relevant declaration, HAL issued a letter to the 
administrators of the DB scheme on 21 February 2022, confirming it had provided advice to 
Mr S in respect of a pension transfer and that it had the necessary permissions to do so. It 
also completed the sections of the relevant forms required of it by the trustees.
In the meantime, Mr S sent a further email to HAL on 18 February 2022. The email started 
by saying the Mr S was now more certain that transferring his pension was the right 
decision. The email set out further errors he felt were made within the recommendation. This 
included the rate at which hed be taxed, including on the new pension, as this was to be 
held outside of the UK so would be taxed differently, the information noted about his income 
and the mention of a spouses pension the DB scheme would provide, as Mr S said his 
partner did not qualify for this. Mr S went on to again explain why he thought that the transfer 
was suitable in his circumstances, and he said he felt HALs analysis and conclusions may 
have been affected by the errors he listed. He concluded by saying he had paid for advice 
that was flawed, so he requested either a 50% refund or that the errors be corrected, and the 
advice reviewed again.
HAL replied on 20 February 2022 saying it had noted the comments and updated its 
calculations. But it said that these hadnt had a material effect on the advice, so it wasnt 
going to change its recommendation. It noted though that the advice was only its 
recommendation and Mr S could still transfer if he chose. And all hed need to do so was the 
notice it had sent to him confirming it had provided advice.
Mr S replied to this on 21 February 2022. He said he acknowledged that it was only a 
recommendation but he still believed it was flawed. He said though he didnt intend to labour 
the point. The email said rather than ask for a clearer report for my future reference Mr S 
requested that HAL consider a fee reduction.
HAL replied on 11 March 2022 saying it had considered Mr S request but didnt feel there 
were grounds for a reduction in the advice fee. It said that advice was provided and the 
outcome of that was correct because although if it did contain some flaws, which had been 
acknowledged and corrected, these didnt affect the recommendation. It also noted that the 
suitability report had referenced the DB scheme not increasing while in payment and that 
this had been considered. And it included amended cash flow modelling.
Mr S responded on the same day saying that HAL had acknowledged errors but had not 
provided a corrected report and he felt a number of his comments had been ignored. He also 
said that, while the suitability report had referred to the pension not increasing in payment, 
there were risk warnings which didnt reflect this. And he didnt think the service hed been 
provided, and paid for, was of a sufficient standard.
HAL didnt uphold Mr S complaint. It acknowledged that the suitability report contained 
standard text that shouldve been removed, and it apologised for the confusion this had 
caused. It also acknowledged that some of the assumptions used in its cash flow modelling 
initially had been incorrect. But it still didnt consider that a transfer was in Mr S best 
interests so felt the overall recommendation was correct, despite these errors. And as advice 
had been provided as agreed, it didnt think a refund was due.
Mr S referred his complaint to our service. One of our Investigators considered the 
complaint, but he didnt think HAL needed to take any further action. He said HAL had 
provided advice, as it had agreed to and was entitled to receive the agreed fee for this. 
Although Mr S had been unhappy with the recommendation, HAL had also provided the 
documents to allow him to complete the transfer. And while the letter summarising the 
advice had contained errors, this hadnt impacted the recommendation.Mr S said that while he had disagreed with the advice his complaint was not nor ever had 
anything to do with the decision HAL had reached not to recommend a transfer. Rather his 
complaint was that the recommendation contained inaccuracies that were not corrected and 
so the service hed been provided was not of sufficient quality and this had impacted his 
options for proceeding with the transfer.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S has said that the subject of his complaint is that the recommendation he received 
included errors and inaccuracies. He is unhappy therefore with the service provided, as this 
recommendation was the core aspect of the advice HAL was contracted to provide, and that 
HAL has not corrected these mistakes. In response to our Investigators opinion, he was 
clear though that his complaint isnt about the decision HAL reached to not recommend a 
transfer. 
Ive taken on board what Mr S has said. But his initial objection to HAL included that he 
believed transferring was in his interest. And when considering this complaint, Ive had to 
think about whether the advice appears reasonable, in order to decide whether I think HAL 
has provided the service it was expected to or if the information in the written summary, 
which Mr S says is wrong, makes a difference to what otherwise wouldve happened.
Mr S agreed to HALs terms of business in January 2022. These confirmed that the fee for it 
providing advice about a potential transfer of his DB scheme benefits and whether HAL 
would recommend this, was £3,875. Ive seen information indicating this fee was paid 
upfront. And the agreement indicated it was not refundable.
The recommendation made as part of this advice process is an important part of the service 
HAL was providing. And the written summary of that recommendation would therefore also 
be important. But there were other requirements of HAL when providing advice  which were 
part of the service Mr S paid for. In order to make a recommendation HAL had to gather and 
analyse a significant amount of information from multiple sources and apply its professional 
judgement, taking into account the guidance given by the regulator. This also was an 
important part of the services being provided. Ive seen evidence that HAL did undertake a 
significant amount of work prior to making a recommendation. And, in my view, this was in 
line with the requirements of it when giving advice on a DB transfer.
HAL then concluded that it wouldnt recommend a transfer. Again, Mr S has said he isnt 
complaining about that decision. But based on what he is complaining about and that he 
thinks the service provided by HAL was not as it shouldve been, I have thought about the 
recommendation made.
The FCA states in COBS 19.1.6 that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB 
scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, HAL should have only considered a transfer if it could 
clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr S best interests. I think its important to 
stress as well though that HALs role here wasnt simply to transact what Mr S wanted it to 
do. Its role was to advise Mr S, and in doing so it had to look beyond what Mr S wanted and 
determine what it believed was in his best interests.
HAL said in the suitability report that Mr S wanted to transfer as he wanted to access a lump sum from the pension to purchase another property (he and his wife were noted as already 
owning three). It also said he wanted to ensure his wife and children benefitted from the 
pension in the event of their death, as they wouldnt through the DB scheme. And he wanted 
to protect against inflation through investment, as the DB scheme didnt offer increases while 
in payment.
HAL said that it didnt recommend a transfer because Mr S motivations were preferences 
rather than needs. And he didnt need to transfer at that time to achieve these. 
It noted that, while Mr S and his wife would be due some guaranteed retirement income in 
the form of their state pensions, this was less than their anticipated income needs in 
retirement. So, HAL felt the guaranteed pension the DB scheme would provide was 
valuable, as itd ensure their needs were met when combined with their other provisions.
HAL recorded that Mr S was hoping to raise around £210,000. But it recorded that he and 
his wife had savings of approximately £185,000. And it thought these, and the tax-free cash 
Mr S could still draw from other pensions he held, meant he didnt need to make an 
irreversible decision about transferring his DB scheme benefits just to access a lump sum. 
And while I note Mr S preference was to retain a significant amount of savings, I think HALs 
conclusion that this meant a transfer wasnt in Mr S best interests was reasonable.
HAL said that purchasing life insurance was an available alternative to ensure Mr S wife and 
children would be provided for in the event of his death. And this didnt require giving up his 
guaranteed pension. And bearing in mind a pensions primary purpose is to provide an 
income in retirement for the holder, rather than to benefit their estate, I think HALs 
conclusion that this was a reasonable alternative, was fair.
HAL also noted that Mr S retirement plans were unconfirmed at that time, which it felt further 
supported that transferring at that point  which again was irreversible  was not in his best 
interests. 
Lastly HAL was required, by the regulator as part of the advice process, to analyse the value 
of Mr S DB scheme benefits by looking at how much it would cost and how much his fund 
would potentially have to grow by each year to provide equivalent benefits. Ive seen a copy 
of the report HAL ran conducting this analysis. And the assumptions used in that report  
particularly that the pension would not escalate while in payment and there wouldnt be a 
spouses benefit due  appear correct. HAL calculated that to replicate the benefits the DB 
scheme would provide at the normal scheme retirement age of 65, the pension would have 
to grow by 8.3% per year if Mr S were taking tax free cash and a reduced pension or 11.09% 
if taking a full pension. HAL concluded that achieving those returns was unlikely. And if they 
were not achieved Mr S was always likely to receive benefits of a lower overall value in 
retirement.
While I know Mr S does not agree that those returns were unlikely, I think HALs conclusion 
was reasonable. Past performance isnt a guarantee of future growth. And based on the 
other information available to HAL, including the regulators standard projection rates, I think 
it was fair of it to conclude that, even with Mr S recorded adventurous attitude to risk, 
achieving those levels of growth was, on balance, unlikely. 
I appreciate that Mr S and HAL mightve had differing views of what was in his best interests. 
But again, it wasnt HALs role to simply transact what Mr S wanted. It had to decide what it 
thought was in his best interests  based on the requirements of it set by the regulator. And I 
dont think it was unreasonable of HAL to reach the view that a transfer was not in his best 
interests. So, going back to the service agreed between HAL and Mr S, it was asked to provide 
regulated advice on a potential transfer of DB scheme benefits. HAL undertook the 
investigation and analysis that was expected of it. And it gave a recommendation, which I 
dont think was unreasonable. 
Mr S has said his main concern is that there were mistakes in the written recommendation 
and analysis HAL ran. In particular Mr S has mentioned references to the DB scheme 
pension escalating while in payment, to spouses benefits being available under the DB 
scheme, the level of tax-free cash still available to him and to information in some of HALs 
analysis about the tax rate hed incur and potential income hed receive from other sources.
The cash-flow analysis HAL initially ran does appear to be on the basis of Mr S incurring tax 
in the UK. But this was incorrect. I can see though that HAL re-ran the analysis correcting 
some of these discrepancies and provided copies to Mr S. HAL also explained to Mr S that it 
had reconsidered its advice, once the inaccuracies were highlighted. And it still didnt 
recommend a transfer. So, the errors hadnt made a difference to the overall 
recommendation.
Turning to the written recommendation, the second page of the report includes a section 
called Defined Benefit Transfer Risk Warning. This is a general summary of risks. It does 
say that by transferring You will be giving up a safeguarded escalating income for life. And 
it talks about a similar death benefit for dependents being given up. Under a section about 
Mr S existing benefits, the report does mention that the scheme will also be required to 
escalate the pension in payment in line with minimum legislative requirements. And I can 
see that later in the suitability report, another section of Risk Warnings mentions an 
escalating income being given up.
The scheme information Ive seen indicates that, in Mr S specific circumstances, the income 
the DB scheme would provide, while it was in payment, wouldnt escalate. And I can see that 
HAL had also been made aware that Mr S wife wouldnt qualify, under the DB scheme rules, 
for a spouses pension. 
There is also a mention of the amount of tax-free cash that would be available to Mr S 
following a transfer. But the figure noted didnt take account of Mr S having already 
withdrawn some tax-free cash from the pension to which he hoped to transfer his DB 
scheme benefits. And this appears to have been outlined to HAL as part of the fact find. 
Meaning the total figure quoted was incorrect.
With that in mind, Im satisfied that some of the things said in the report were inaccurate. 
And HAL has acknowledged as much and apologised for this. But it has again said that 
these inaccuracies didnt change its overall recommendation not to transfer.
It would, of course, have been better if these mistakes hadnt happened. And I dont doubt 
Mr S was frustrated by them. Im conscious though that the suitability report references in a 
section about Mr S objectives that the DB scheme doesnt offer increases once the pension 
was in payment. With the same observation made in the Recommendation section of the 
report. Likewise in the section discussing the DB scheme it states that a spouses pension 
isnt automatically included by the scheme. And again, when outlining the potential 
disadvantages of its recommendation HAL talked about Mr S not being able to leave the 
pension to his wife or children by remaining in the scheme. So, while there was incorrect 
information in the report, largely in sections about general risk, correct information was also 
included. 
Mr S says he has paid for a service and is unhappy that the recommendation letter was 
incorrect and has not been updated. But while I agree he has paid for advice he was always required to take advice in order for a transfer to take place. So would always have incurred a 
fee for advice. The advice service HAL provided is bigger than just the written 
recommendation. And HAL has confirmed that the issues with the written report dont 
change its advice. I also note that, in his email of 21 February 2022, he said he wasnt 
asking for a clearer report for future reference. Rather he wanted a refund of some of the 
cost of the advice.  
Ive thought about whether the errors mean that Mr S should receive a refund from HAL. But 
I dont think this would be fair in the circumstances. Again, I understand that Mr S is 
frustrated that these things were included in the report. But HAL has provided the service 
that it agreed to Mr S. It carried out the appropriate analysis and gave him advice, in line with 
the regulators requirements. It has confirmed that advice isnt impacted by the incorrect 
information, and I see no reason to doubt that. It also provided Mr S with the relevant 
declaration confirming he had received regulated advice, allowing him to proceed with the 
transfer if he still wanted to do so. It did this promptly, while addressing his concerns. So 
didnt delay this. And I understand that the transfer has been carried out. 
Mr S says the inaccuracies affected his options and prevented him from persuading another 
adviser to treat him as an insistent client. But it isnt clear why he would need to do so having 
received the relevant declaration from HAL. 
So overall, I cant see that the mistakes that were made prevented Mr S from going ahead 
with the transfer or put him in a position that he otherwise wouldnt have been in. So, in the 
circumstances, I dont intend to require HAL to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2023.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman