DRN-3574519
Complaint
Mr S is unhappy that The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op) closed his current account 
without explaining why.
Background
In November 2018, Co-op wrote to Mr S and told him that it was no longer prepared to offer 
him an account and provided him with 60 days notice of closure. After having difficulty 
opening accounts elsewhere, Mr S complained. Co-op didnt uphold Mr S complaint. As            
Mr S remained dissatisfied, he referred the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr S concerns. He didnt think that Co-op had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr S unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr S disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I dont think that Co-op acted unfairly towards Mr S 
and so Im not upholding his complaint. Ill explain why in a little more detail.
As our adjudicator explained to Mr S, a bank is under no obligation to continue offering an 
account to a consumer if it doesnt wish to do so. I know that Mr S is unhappy that Co-op 
didnt disclose the exact reason for closing his account. However, closing a customers 
account is a commercial decision that a bank is entitled to take. And typically, as long as it 
provides reasonable notice it has no obligation to share its reasons for that decision.
In this case Mr S was provided with reasonable notice. Nonetheless, its clear to see that       
Mr S now knows why his Co-op account was closed. And while I understand that Mr S has 
found it difficult to open an account elsewhere, Im satisfied that this isnt because of 
anything that Co-op has done. I understand that Mr S knows that this is the case now too. 
I realise that Co-ops decision will have been very disappointing to Mr S and I can appreciate 
why the closure of his account will have caused him inconvenience. I also suspect that 
theres an element of disappointment that hes no longer able to have an account with Co-op 
when he was previously able to. But despite all of this, Im simply not in a position to be able 
to tell Co-op that it has to offer Mr S an account in circumstances where it has legitimately 
decided it doesnt wish to do so. 
So overall and having considered everything, I dont think that Co-op acted unfairly towards 
Mr S and Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate this will be very disappointing for     
Mr S. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that hell appreciate why I 
think Co-op hasnt acted unfairly or unreasonably towards him.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr S complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman