DRN-4415120
The complaint
Mr C complains, on behalf of himself and the estate of Mrs C, that Inter Partner Assistance 
SA (IPA) didnt handle their repatriation, and claim, as it should have done.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C were covered by a travel insurance policy through a bank account, provided 
by IPA. Theyd booked a trip abroad leaving the UK on 8 October 2022 and the return flight 
leaving their destination on 5 November 2022.
Mrs C had previously had cancer which she had recovered from, and shed declared this to 
IPA. But shortly before the holiday, Mrs C had experienced some back pain, and her doctor 
had wanted to carry out an MRI due to the previous cancer. This happened on 5 October 
2022, and Mr C says they received the results on 7 October 2022  the day before they were 
due to travel. He says the results didnt show any concerns about cancer.
So, Mr and Mrs C went on the holiday. Unfortunately, Mrs C started feeling unwell shortly 
afterwards. They got in touch with IPA on 24 October 2022 to let it know that Mrs C had 
been diagnosed with a tumour. Mrs C had an operation whilst abroad, and the majority of the 
costs were covered by a reciprocal health agreement between the UK and the country in 
question.
Mr and Mrs C discussed repatriation with IPA on 1 November 2022, and they asked if they 
could fly back home in business class. They booked their return flights for 24 November 
2022 but could only afford economy class, so they wanted to know if IPA could upgrade the 
tickets. 
IPA emailed Mrs C on the same day asking for details of her GP so that it could get 
information about her previous medical history. IPA sent Mrs C a copy of the form she 
needed to fill out and sign the next day. Mr C says this was sent to IPA on 4 November 2022 
and re-sent on 9 November 2022 when IPA said it hadnt received it.
Following this, IPA requested Mrs Cs GP information about her previous medical history on 
9 November 2022, so it could consider the claim. This was received shortly afterwards on 
the same day. IPAs notes show that there was a medical recommendation for a business 
class upgrade, and that Mrs C had a fit to fly note.
Mrs C chased IPA for an update on the claim on 15, 18 and 19 November 2022. IPA had 
carried out a retrospective screening on Mrs Cs medical declaration on 18 November 2022 
based on ongoing investigations into her cancer. And it explained to Mrs C on the next day 
that had this been declared, she would have had to pay a higher premium. So, IPA said it 
would need to refer the claim to the underwriter. Mr C explained that theyd received the 
results for those investigations before the trip, showing no link to the previous cancer.
While waiting for the underwriters decision, Mr and Mrs C flew back home to the UK on 
27 November 2022. They couldnt fly on 24 November 2022 as intended, as the airline didnt 
accept Mrs Cs fit to fly certificate. So, Mr and Mrs C had to arrange for a further appointment 
and certificate for her. Mr C says IPA should have helped them with this and save them from 
the distress and inconvenience of having to sort it out themselves.
The underwriter agreed to cover the claim on 26 December 2022. But by this point, Mrs C 
had sadly already passed away.
IPA settled the claim for the expenses Mr and Mrs C had incurred  including medical 
receipts and new flights home  on 20 February 2023. Mr C isnt happy that it still took IPA 
almost two months to settle the claim, and that it asked for information hed already sent.
IPA responded to Mr Cs complaint by explaining that it needed to ask for medical records 
from Mrs Cs GP and refer the claim decision to the underwriters. But it agreed that there 
had been delays in assessing the claim, as well as failings in its service. Overall, IPA offered 
Mr C £400 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Mr C says IPAs offer is derisory and offensive. Mr C says Mrs C spent her last days worried 
that Mr C would be left to sort this claim out on his own and she worried that he would be left 
with a huge debt. Mr C says its unforgiveable that Mrs C had that hanging over her. Mr C 
also says he spent months chasing IPA and waiting for responses when he should have 
been grieving.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. And having done so, she agreed 
that IPA hadnt handled everything as it should have done. But overall, she thought the 
compensation IPA had offered was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr C didnt agree with our investigators findings. As no agreement was reached, the 
complaint was been passed to me to decide. I issued my provisional decision in 
October 2023 and said the following:
Firstly, Id like to offer Mr C my condolences on the passing of Mrs C. It must have been an 
incredibly difficult and stressful time for them both. Ive looked to see if IPA did anything 
wrong which would have unfairly added to their worry, or unnecessarily inconvenienced 
them  beyond what Mr and Mrs C were already going through.
Having looked through everything, I think its clear that IPA didnt handle things as it should 
have done. Firstly, its not completely clear why it wasnt until 9 November 2022 that IPA got 
in touch with Mrs Cs GP to ask for her previous medical history. The claim had already 
started on 24 October 2022 and IPA was aware of the severity of Mrs Cs diagnosis. Mr C 
also says that Mrs C sent her consent for IPA to request her previous medical history on 
4 November 2022, but she was asked to re-send this on 9 November 2022.
IPA received the previous medical history from Mrs Cs GP on 9 November 2022, but it didnt 
carry out a retrospective screening until 18 November 2022. It then decided the next day the 
claim would need to be referred to an underwriter. IPA knew Mr and Mrs C were due to fly 
home on 24 November 2022 but needed a business class upgrade based on a medical 
recommendation. IPA also knew the severity of Mrs Cs situation, and how important it was 
for her to get home as soon as possible. Despite this, the underwriter didnt confirm cover 
until 26 December 2022. I dont think this delay was reasonable in the circumstances.Considering the severity of Mrs Cs condition, I think IPA should have arranged for the 
underwriter to reach decision on the claim before Mr and Mrs C were due to fly home on 
24 November 2022. This would have meant that Mr and Mrs C wouldnt have needed to pay 
for the business class upgrade from their own pocket, and IPA could have helped to 
minimise the distress and inconvenience in having to sort out a new fit to fly certificate for 
Mrs C when the airline didnt accept the one she already had. It may be that Mr and Mrs C 
would have still only been able to fly home on 27 November 2022, but they wouldnt have 
had to sort everything out by themselves during an already stressful time.
Im also mindful of how Mr C has described Mrs Cs last days, and the worry she had about 
the claim and the debt Mr C would be left with if IPA didnt pay the claim. This isnt 
something she would have needed to worry about, had IPA arranged the business class 
upgrade for them, as it should have done.
Ive then looked at IPAs actions after it agreed to cover the claim on 26 December 2022. I 
can see that throughout IPAs notes it says that it was still waiting for a medical report. But 
its note on 20 January 2023 says that this was sent already at the start of the claim. IPAs 
notes also show that when Mr C called on 13 February 2023 following its request for further 
information, IPA saw that Mr C had already sent this information on 7 January 2023. So, I 
think IPA caused Mr C further unnecessary distress and inconvenience in how it handled the 
claim after it was accepted.
Overall, Im currently minded to say that IPA caused Mr and Mrs C substantial distress and 
inconvenience that could have been avoided if it had done everything it should have. I dont 
think its offer of £400 goes far enough to compensate for the impact in the circumstances of 
this complaint. Having considered everything, Im minded to direct IPA to pay Mr C and the 
estate of Mrs C a total of £1,250 for the distress and inconvenience caused  this includes 
anything already paid/offered.
In response, Mr C said there were a couple of minor details that werent quite correct, but he 
was satisfied that my provisional decision represented the situation and his complaint. And 
whilst he didnt think the compensation was punitive enough, he had wanted someone to 
acknowledge what theyd been through and for IPA to realise it as well and improve their 
processes. He said that with this in mind, he was happy to accept my provisional decision.
IPA responded to say it accepted my provisional decision. As both parties have now 
responded to my provisional decision, I will issue my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It may be helpful if I explained that the compensation we can award is not punitive  it is not 
within my power to make such an award. Rather, the compensation we can award is for the 
impact caused to consumers where a business has done something wrong. It is also not 
within our remit to tell a business to change their processes. We can only direct a business 
to put things right for the consumer in the circumstances of their complaint.
Overall, as both parties have accepted my provisional decision and they havent given me 
any new information to consider about the merits of the complaint, I see no reason to depart 
from the findings I provisionally reached. So, Ive reached the same decision, and for the 
same reasons.Having considered everything, I think IPA caused Mr and Mrs C substantial distress and 
inconvenience that could have been avoided if it had done everything it should have. I dont 
think its offer of £400 goes far enough to compensate for the impact in the circumstances of 
this complaint. I think IPA should pay Mr C and the estate of Mrs C a total of £1,250 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused  this includes anything already paid/offered.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr C and the estate of Mrs Cs complaint, and direct Inter 
Partner Assistance SA to pay a total of £1,250 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and the 
estate of Mrs C to accept or reject my decision before 27 November 2023.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman