DRN-4009095
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax didnt treat them fairly when 
they experienced financial difficulties. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here. 
Instead, I will focus on the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have provided a great deal of information, especially Mr and Mrs B. I have 
considered it all. However, our rules allow me to focus on what I consider the key issues, 
and to address those issues in the manner I consider appropriate. Mr and Mrs B will likely be 
disappointed with this final decision as Im not going to go into the level of detail they have. 
Nor am I going to respond to each point theyve raised. This isnt meant as discourtesy. It 
simply reflects the informal nature of our service.
Mr and Mrs B had an overdraft with Halifax. In 2020 their income was impacted by the 
pandemic, and some serious health concerns. Over the next two years Halifax supported 
them through various plans. These plans meant Mr and Mrs B were charged no interest on 
their overdrawn balance, and they were under no material pressure to start repaying what 
they owed. I find Halifax acted fairly as Mr and Mrs B needed support, and they got it. 
In 2022 Halifax reviewed matters. Its at this point it recognised Mr and Mrs B needed 
long-term support and decided to default the account and backdate the default to 
August 2021. I find this was fair and reasonable for the following reasons:
- Mr and Mrs B had an agreement with Halifax  it would provide an overdraft, and 
they would pay interest on the part of it they utilised. By not doing this, they had 
defaulted on their agreement with Halifax;
- Waiving interest is a short-term measure for short-term financial difficulties  such as 
a temporary break in employment. By the time Halifax decided to default the account 
Mr and Mrs Bs difficulties had persisted for about two-years, an income and 
expenditure exercise in April 2022 showed a significant deficit, and there was nothing 
compelling to suggest their circumstances would soon change;
- Defaulting an account is a long-term support measure. While it will impact a 
borrowers credit file, the sooner the default is applied the sooner it will come off. So 
if a default is inevitable  as seems likely to have been the case here  the sooner it 
is applied the better. A default also permanently suspends interest, and generally 
allows for repayment of the debt over a longer term, at a lower rate.
- Halifax could have defaulted the account sooner. It didnt as it was supporting Mr and 
Mrs B in the way they wanted. In hindsight, this wasnt in their best interests, so when 
Halifax did eventually decide to default the account, it agreed to backdate the default 
date. I find this was a positive action as it meant Mr and Mrs B werent disadvantaged 
by the default being applied later than it could have been.
Mr and Mrs B have concerns with some of the information Halifax gave them, and the 
customer service they received in general. In May 2022 Halifax recognised it gave some 
incorrect information and paid £60 compensation. Having reviewed Mr and Mrs Bs contact 
with Halifax holistically, I find it did what it reasonably could to assist them. I dont find the 
information it provided incorrect in a way which materially changed their position. And 
overall, I find Halifaxs customer service was satisfactory. It follows Im not going to require 
Halifax to pay Mr and Mrs B further compensation. 
Im aware Mr and Mrs B have had a very difficult couple of years, especially given Mr Bs 
serious ill health. I have a great deal of sympathy for what theyve been through. However, I 
must approach this matter objectively. And having done so, while I understand how strongly 
Mr and Mrs B feel about whats happened, I dont consider Halifax has done anything 
significantly wrong.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 April 2023.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman