DRN-3036213
The complaint
Mr B complains that he was given incorrect information by Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as
Barclaycard when he asked about protection for items he wished to purchase.  
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. In my provisional decision I explained why I intended to uphold this complaint. I 
said: 
In December 2020 Mr B says he contacted Barclaycard and asked about the protection 
offered by its credit card for purchases. Mr B has told us he was advised Barclaycard 
provides protection for purchases made with its credit card it the item was lost, stolen or 
damaged.
Mr B purchased a coffee machine in January 2021 for around £4,250 but it was later stolen 
from his vehicle. Mr B contacted Barclaycard and asked to make a claim for his coffee 
machine but was told it wasnt covered. Mr B complained and Barclaycard offered him £50 to 
apologise for providing misleading information but didnt agree to cover his loss.
Mr B referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. Mr B 
provided evidence to show he has another credit card he couldve used to make his 
purchase that also included insurance against theft up to £2,500. Our investigator upheld Mr 
Bs complaint and said that, because of the information hed been given, he hadnt used a 
credit card that offered protection when purchasing the coffee machine. The investigator 
recommended Barclaycard pay Mr B £2,500, the maximum the other credit cards 
associated insurance wouldve paid out.
Both Mr B and Barclaycard disagreed. Mr B said he thought the whole price he paid should 
be refunded. And Barclaycard asked for a copy of the Police report along with associated 
information. Mr B provided the crime number but said Barclaycard should contact the Police 
directly for a copy of the report. As neither party accepted the investigators view, Ive been 
passed this complaint to issue a decision on.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst I agree the information Ive seen so far shows Mr B had another credit card he 
couldve used to make the purchase that wouldve offered some protection, Ive taken the 
step of issuing a provisional decision. I think Barclaycards request or a copy of the Police 
report is reasonable. As an impartial party, I think its fair for Mr B to provide a Police report 
that verifies what hes told us. And I note the original investigator didnt include the £50 
excess Mr B wouldve paid if hed made a claim using the other credit cards insurance 
policy.
Barclaycard upheld Mr Bs complaint that he was given incorrect information about the 
protection offered by its credit card. Im proceeding on that basis and have considered 
whether Mr B has lost out as a result of the incorrect information provided.
Mr B has sent us a copy of his other credit card and the associated terms that show it does 
offer protection up to £2,500 if an item the card has been used to purchase is stolen within 
90 days. It does appear Mr B had an alternative credit card available to make his purchase. I 
can appreciate that being told Barclaycard offered a better level of protection meant Mr B 
decided to use that, instead of the other credit card.
I note Barclaycard has asked for a copy of the Police report and I think thats a reasonable 
request. Mr B says he threw it away and Barclaycard can contact the Police directly for it. 
But I think its highly unlikely the Police would give Barclaycard a copy of the relevant report 
without Mr Bs involvement. Given the sums involved, I think the request for a copy of the 
Police report is reasonable. So in response to this provisional decision Im going to ask Mr B 
to obtain and forward a copy of the relevant Police report. If we arent able to view a copy of 
the Police report, its unlikely Ill award the settlement noted below.
Ive looked at the other credit cards associated term that set out the protection offered. I can 
see that the first £50 of any claim isnt covered. So the most the other credit card provider 
wouldve paid out was £2,450. As thats the maximum settlement Mr B was able to receive 
from the other credit card provider any award will need to be in line with that figure. Im going 
to provisionally say that, subject to the above information being provided, Barclaycard should 
pay Mr B £2,450.
Based on the information Ive seen so far, I agree Mr Bs complaint should be upheld. But, 
as Ive said above, that position is reliant on Mr B providing the a copy of the relevant Police 
report covering the theft of the coffee machine.
I note Barclaycard offered Mr B £50 for the trouble and upset caused, Im satisfied thats fair 
in the circumstances of this case.
I asked both parties to respond with any additional information they wanted me to consider 
before I made my final decision. Mr B responded and provided a copy of an email the Police 
sent him. It said that the Police wouldnt provide a copy of the relevant report directly to him 
but would provide a copy to a business in connection with a claim. So Mr B hasnt been able 
to provide a full copy of the Police report. 
Barclaycard responded and said that, on resolution of the case, it intended to begin an 
insurance claim as Mr Bs credit card provider would have. The case handler said further 
evidence may be required in support of a claim but didnt provide further details. The case 
handler also said the Police report was required to ensure the claim would be payable in line 
with other policies Barclaycard offers.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank both parties for their responses. As our investigator has confirmed, Im 
satisfied Mr B has provided as much information as possible in relation to the theft from his 
vehicle. The investigator has forwarded the Polices correspondence with Mr B to 
Barclaycard that shows it wont provide a copy of the report to him directly. Im satisfied Mr B 
has provided everything he can. Barclaycard responded to say that, in resolution of this complaint, it intended to process an 
insurance claim in line with other policies it offers. I asked our investigator to respond and 
explain that how Barclaycard settled was largely an internal matter. I also said I didnt think it 
was fair to leave Mr Bs case unresolved and subject to an unsettled claim. At no point has 
Barclaycard told Mr B or this service the basis on which it intended to review a claim or what 
policy criteria would be used. Our investigator forwarded Barclaycard a copy of the credit 
card providers terms that set out how it wouldve treated Mr Bs claims. And Ive not seen 
anything that indicates Mr Bs claim was unlikely to have been unsuccessful based on the 
terms weve seen. 
Our investigator asked Barclaycard to respond with any additional points or information by 7 
September 2021 but no further response was received.
As neither party has provided new information that changes my view of how this complaint 
should be fairly resolved, Im going to proceed in line with the settlement I gave in my 
provisional decision. I still think Mr Bs complaint should be upheld, for the same reasons. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as 
Barclaycard to pay Mr B £2,450 plus £50 for the trouble and upset caused, less any 
compensation already paid. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman