DRN-3831445
The complaint
Ms A is unhappy that QIC Europe Ltd declined a claim she made for lost jewellery under her 
home insurance policy.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint arent in dispute, so Ill summarise the main points:
Ms A got in touch with QIC in September 2022 after she lost a pair of earrings.
QIC declined the claim because Ms A hadnt had them valued within the previous 
three years.
Ms A last had them valued in March 2018, at £3,500. She didnt think it was fair for 
QIC to require her to get regular valuations, noting it can be costly to do so and it can 
mean being without the earrings for many weeks at a time. She estimated the value 
at the time of the loss was likely to be around £4,000 and accepted that the policy 
would cover a maximum of £3,500 only. She pointed out that the policy term QIC 
relied on said it may decline or reduce the claim and questioned why QIC hadnt 
offered something towards her loss.
During our investigation, QIC told us that it usually chooses to offer a reduced claim 
settlement where the value of the item was close to the threshold for specifying items 
or where the valuation was only slightly more than three years old.
Our investigator didnt think QIC had acted fairly. She noted Ms A hadnt complied 
with the policy term but she didnt think QIC had shown it would be reasonable to 
decline the claim in full as a result. Instead, she thought it would be fair to settle the 
claim at 86% of the value, which is the proportion Ms A insured the earrings for 
compared to the estimated value of them at the time of the loss. In part this was 
because Ms A had paid a premium for specifying the earrings.
Ms A agreed with this. QIC didnt agree and said, in summary:
oThe policy term allowed it to decline the claim if the valuation was outside the 
three year period. Thats the case here, so it acted fairly.
oWhilst Ms A had paid a premium to cover the earrings specifically, the policy 
nonetheless entitled QIC to decline the claim in these circumstances.
oQIC saw no reason to offer a reduced claim settlement.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms A has a home insurance policy with QIC that provides cover for, amongst other things, 
loss of any items of jewellery worth up to £2,000. Ms A chose to add cover for these earrings 
at a specified value of £3,500.
At the renewal in March 2022, the policy schedule contained a policy term which said that for 
any items of jewellery worth over £2,000, a valuation from within the last three years would 
be required. It said:
We will not pay your claim, or the amount of the claim may be reduced, if you do not 
provide the proof we ask for.
Im satisfied the term is clear. I dont think its an inherently unfair or unreasonable term. 
Requiring regular valuations for higher risk items means theyre more likely to be insured for 
an accurate amount. That helps insurers to manage the risk by setting premiums and policy 
terms accordingly. It can also benefit policyholders. In the event of a claim, theres likely to 
be strong evidence of ownership and the value of the items.
Theres no dispute that Ms A didnt comply with the term. Her valuation was around four 
years old at the time of the renewal and several months older at the time of the claim. The 
term doesnt make clear at what point the three year timescale is measured to, but it was 
exceeded whether it was the renewal or the claim.
The policy term gives QIC the right to decline the claim outright in these circumstances. 
However, the term also notes it may reduce the claim settlement  but it doesnt set out in 
what situations it will reduce the settlement, or by how much. Whilst QIC seems to have 
internal guidance for how it might approach such a situation, this doesnt appear in the 
policy, so it doesnt make up the contract of insurance. And even if the term simply said it 
would decline all claims where valuations were older than three years, I would still consider 
whether it would be fair to do so in the circumstances of a particular claim. So although Ill 
take into account the situations in which QIC says it would typically offer a reduce 
settlement, Ill bear in mind the policy doesnt limit a reduction to these situations.
So the question for me is whether it was fair and reasonable for QIC to decline the claim 
outright in this particular case. Having thought about all the points made by both parties, Im 
not satisfied it was. Ill explain why.
I think its relevant to consider what impact Ms A breaching the term has had on QIC. Has it 
made a material difference to the claim outcome or to the premium or other policy terms 
applied at the renewal? For example, if the valuation was very old  or perhaps there was no 
valuation at all  QIC may argue that it was unable to manage the risk with any accuracy and 
it may be fair for it decline the claim outright. But thats not the case here. The valuation 
wasnt, in my view, significantly outside the timeframe. And QIC hasnt suggested the value 
changed significantly either.
Ms A has estimated the value increased to around £4,000. I think its likely that if shed 
insured her earrings for this much at the renewal, QIC would have increased her premium. 
Im satisfied this is material to QIC  it means its likely to have lost out on some of the 
premium it should have received. Because of this, Im not satisfied it would be fair for Ms A 
to receive the full £3,500.
However, on the other hand, Ms A has paid to specifically insure the item. Im not satisfied it 
would be fair for her to lose out entirely in this situation. And QIC hasnt pointed out any 
other ways in which it may have been negatively impacted that are more significant than the 
premium. For example, it hasnt said that it wouldnt have insured the earrings at all had it 
known their value was greater than £3,500.Overall, this is a case where it doesnt feel fair for the claim to be paid in full  or for it to be 
fully declined. Instead, Im persuaded the fair outcome is to pay a proportion of the claim.
Our investigator suggested QIC pay 86% of the specified value based on Ms As estimate 
that the earrings were worth just over £4,000 at the time of the claim. Ms A accepted that. 
Whilst QIC disagreed with the principle, it hasnt challenged Ms As estimate.
In the particular circumstances of this case, Im satisfied 86% is a fair and reasonable 
settlement. It takes into account that Ms A didnt comply with the policy term  and this likely 
had a financial impact on QIC. It also takes into account that the impact is limited to an 
additional premium  and Ms A has specifically insured her earrings.
That means QIC should pay 86% of the specified value, less the excess, and can apply any 
other relevant policy terms.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require QIC Europe Ltd to settle the claim for 86% subject to the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2023.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman