DRN-4460280
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that National Westminster Bank Plc instructed a basic valuation 
report instead of the Homebuyer report theyd requested. As a result, a number of defects 
with the property werent identified before Mr and Mrs W bought their home.
What happened
In 2016, Mr and Mrs W bought their home with a mortgage from NatWest. They paid for a 
level 2 Homebuyer report. But NatWest incorrectly instructed a less detailed, level 1 
valuation report. The valuation report did not identify any significant defects. It said the 
property had three bedrooms and two living rooms. It highlighted that the property had been 
extended and altered in the past and said that Mr and Mrs W should check that the 
alterations were approved by the local authority. The report also said the garage roof might 
contain asbestos.
In 2022, NatWest told Mr and Mrs W that the wrong type of valuation report had been carried 
out in 2016. It agreed to pay Mr and Mrs W for remedial work theyd already carried out on 
their home. It also arranged for a Homebuyer report and other professional reports to be 
carried out, which identified a number of defects that required work to put right. NatWest 
offered to pay for the cost of the repairs and £6,000 for the distress and inconvenience this 
matter has caused to Mr and Mrs W.
I issued a provisional decision inviting both sides to make any further submissions if they 
wished. I found that NatWests offer of £108,163.20 to meet the cost of any repairs and a 
further £6,000 for any distress and inconvenience Mr and Mrs W suffered was fair and 
reasonable.
NatWest said it had nothing further to add. Mr and Mrs W did not accept what I said. They 
made a number of points, including:
I was wrong to assume they would have bought the house. If theyd received the correct 
Homebuyer report they would not have bought this house.
They had any issues identified in the 2016 valuation repaired.
They are the victims of NatWests error. I should reconsider on the basis that a) they 
would not have bought the house b) they have been in the hands of us and NatWest 
since this happened. All they want now is all the repairs in the survey  but what they 
actually wanted is for NatWest to meet the cost of them moving out and fix all of the 
issues. 
If they had negotiated a discount, they would have a smaller mortgage and would have 
saved money in interest. 
This was the biggest purchase theyll ever make. They are not risk takers and paid for 
the Homebuyer report to avoid any risk. NatWest is a large company that has a track 
record of taking risks and then avoiding paying for its errors. It systemically tries to avoid 
taking responsibility for its errors. It is unfair that it gets to decide what the compensation 
should be.
The surveys were carried out in 2020. The defects are still there. We they sell the 
property they will be left to pay for the errors. That is not fair as NatWest created these 
errors. 
The main fact they wish to contest is the issue with the damp proof course and flooring in 
the extension. This is a major issue and NatWest has consistently ignored it. It is a 
structural problem, not a cosmetic one. Part of the quote involves new flooring, but the 
repairs are unable to be carried out without this. They would accept a further £15,000 to 
put this right. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First of all, Im sorry if Mr and Mrs W felt that I was criticising them in anyway or saying it was 
their fault any of this happened. That is not the case at all. I accept that NatWest has not 
treated them fairly. NatWest made a very serious mistake that has had a huge impact on 
them. 
Mr and Mrs W asked NatWest if it was prepared to pay a further £15,000 to them to settle 
the complaint. I put that to NatWest, but it is not prepared to agree to that. 
Once I issue my final decision, that is the end of the matter as far as we are concerned. 
NatWest may have previously offered to reconsider any future increases in costs. But as Mr 
and Mrs W have pointed out, that is a far from satisfactory solution for them  especially 
when NatWest cant commit to any firm timescales for any reconsideration of costs.
It is also unclear what if any recourse would be available to Mr and Mrs W if they are 
unhappy with any revised offer from NatWest after a decision from us. We may not be able 
to consider those matters at all. Even if we could, it is likely that because of the rules that are 
in place, we might not be able to address all of the relevant issues.
I am also conscious that this matter has already been going on for over a year and that this 
is a case where time is of the essence. There is an inevitable lag between any assessment 
of costs, getting everything in place to carry out the necessary work and the work actually 
being carried out and the payments being made. And that is against a background where 
inflation has likely caused the relevant costs to increase  and they may increase further.
Ultimately, there is no right answer to this. NatWests position is that it wants to make sure 
that Mr and Mrs W are not out of pocket but also that the offer does not unjustly compensate 
them. Mr and Mrs Ws position is that NatWest is being difficult, not acting in good faith and 
is unfairly trying to minimise the amount it pays to put things right.
Looking at things impartially and bearing in mind the need to bring some finality to things, I 
consider what I am proposing is a fair resolution considering our statutory role to resolve 
disputes quickly and with the minimum formality. If Mr and Mrs W reject my decision then 
they can take legal action if they wish  although I can understand that could be a daunting 
thing for them to do bearing in mind the imbalance in resources between them and NatWest.
I consider that a lump sum payment in full and final settlement of this complaint is likely to be 
the only way to reach a fair and reasonable outcome in the individual circumstances of this 
complaint. Making lump sum awards to settle claims like this is not unusual and is an 
established and fair approach to settling insurance claims. And in view of the limitations here 
and the need for closure, I think it is the right thing to do in the circumstances of this case.
I am independent and impartial. I dont represent Mr and Mrs W or NatWest. It is for me to 
decide what I consider to be fair and reasonable in the individual circumstances of the 
complaint. I am sorry that Mr and Mrs W felt that NatWest gets to decide what compensation 
is paid. That is not the case. If I considered more compensation was required then I would 
tell NatWest to pay it. But after looking at everything again, Im afraid Im going to disappoint 
Mr and Mrs W. Response to provisional decision
Ill address the points that Mr and Mrs W have made in response to my provisional decision.
Mr and Mrs W said that I had made the assumption that they would still have bought their 
home if theyd received the correct report. In my provisional decision I said, It is possible Mr 
and Mrs W would not have gone ahead with the purchase. But theyve been living in their 
home for around seven years now and have carried out a lot of work on the property. 
Unwinding the purchase and working out the financial loss they have suffered would be 
difficult. 
I acknowledged that Mr and Mrs W might not have bought the property if theyd received the 
correct report. Because theyve been living in the property and carried out a lot of work, 
working out the financial loss on that basis would be difficult. And in the circumstances, I 
dont consider it is a fair way to resolve this complaint.
I accept that if Mr and Mrs W had negotiated a reduction in the price of the property, then 
they would have had a smaller mortgage. It wouldnt necessarily reduce the loan-to-value. 
And there would have been the costs of putting everything right. It is difficult to say how that 
would have been funded. 
In any case, Mr and Mrs W have said they dont want to resolve the case on that basis. They 
want NatWest to meet the cost of all the repairs identified by the surveys. NatWests position 
is that it will meet the costs of any defects identified in the survey. Where the parties differ is 
whether NatWest should meet the cost of all repairs identified in the report rather than just 
items where there is a defect.
I said in my provisional decision that NatWests position was a broadly fair and reasonable 
way of looking at things  and I think that is correct. I understand that Mr and Mrs W are very 
upset at the position they are in. But I cant see any basis on which I could fairly tell NatWest 
to pay for everything that the reports identified might be a problem, but where the evidence 
does not suggest there is a defect. For the outstanding matters, I will explain what I consider 
to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances.  
 Outstanding matters
In my provisional decision I set out what I considered to be the matters that remained in 
dispute. They were:
Stairs/hallway
Chimney/fireplace
The extension
Neither Mr and Mrs W nor NatWest have told me that there are any other outstanding 
issues.
Stairs/hallway
Mr and Mrs W want NatWest to meet the cost of:
The balustrade to the stair and landing which would not comply with regulations as the 
horizontal planks could easily be climbed by children. This should be replaced with vertical 
spindles Lift landing carpet and fix loose floorboards.
I cant see that the Homebuyer report identified any defects with the stairs or floorboards  
but the structural engineer said:
Other non-structural issues included the balustrade to the stair and landing which would not 
comply with regulations as the horizontal planks could easily be climbed by children. This 
should be replaced with vertical spindles or over-boarded.
There is a loose floorboard on the Landing that does not feel as if its end is fully supported.
I agree with NatWest on this point. Just because a feature of a property does not comply 
with current building regulations does not mean that it is a defect or that there is any urgent 
need to put it right. I cant see any basis on which I could ask NatWest to pay for the cost of 
replacing the balustrade.  
The floorboard is a minor issue. Its not clear if it was an issue in 2016. I cant reasonably 
find that NatWest should meet the cost of repairing it.
Chimney/fireplace
The Homebuyer report gave the chimney breasts, fireplaces and flues a condition rating of 
three. The report said, Albeit there is no evidence of structural defect the absence of the 
rear chimney breast is a matter of possible concern and should be investigated by a 
Structural Engineer, probably necessitating removal of floorboards in the rear bedroom and 
removal of the plasterboard casing to the bulkhead in the Lounge.
The structural engineer commented on that point, Concern had been raised over the 
configuration of the chimney breasts, with the suggestion that one had been removed. This 
actually not the case, and the single fireplace in the front room with the brickwork bridging 
over the alcove between this and the kitchen wall is an original feature and not uncommon in 
council-built housing of this era.
The chimney rising astride the spine wall in the corners of the front and rear bedrooms is 
supported on this arrangement, which will most likely have a cast in-situ concrete slab at its 
base. There were no signs of structural weakness or movement to give cause for concern 
with this feature.
Mr and Mrs W want NatWest to meet the cost of:
Repointing the chimney brickwork
Renewing the mortar flaunching
Fitting vent to fireplaces
Fitting ventilated cowls to the pots
I cant see that the Homebuyer report identified any of those things as a concern. The 
condition rating was in relation to the potential absence of adequate support if a chimney 
breast had been removed. But the structural engineer said that no chimney breast had been 
removed.
Nevertheless, the aim here is to try and put Mr and Mrs W in the position they would have 
been in had the correct Homebuyer report been instructed. It seems to be accepted that they 
would then have instructed a structural engineers report based on the issues identified in 
the Homebuyer report. But the engineers report did not just look at the concerns raised in 
the Homebuyer report in regard to the chimney, it also said:
The chimney breasts against the party wall appeared to be intact and stable. The stack was 
weathered but in fair condition. The next time work is carried out at roof level, the brickwork 
should be re-pointed and the mortar flaunching holding the pots in place renewed. Some of 
the fireplaces had been blocked in and should be fitted with vents. Unused chimneys are 
liable to dampness problems due to the accumulation of moisture within the flues and so the 
pots should be fitted with ventilated cowls to prevent the ingress of rainwater and pests.
I consider it likely that these issues would have come to light but for NatWests error. But the 
majority of the issues identified by the surveyor are not urgent  he says the stack is in fair 
condition and that repairs can be carried out next time there is work at roof level. And 
venting the unused fireplaces and fitting cowls to the chimney pots are relatively minor issues. On that basis, I dont consider that NatWest should reasonably be required to meet 
those costs.
The extension
Mr and Mrs W want NatWest to meet the cost of remedial works to the damp proof course in 
the extension and to provide adequate underfloor ventilation. NatWest had previously 
agreed to keep that under review and meet the costs of repair if there was an issue in future. 
But as Ive explained above, I dont consider it is right for me to make a final decision on that 
basis.
NatWest said:
as evidenced by the survey and specialist reports, there is no evidence of a problem with 
the flooring and no certainty that there will be any defect to put right. As the customers have 
not incurred a financial loss and there is no evidence to show that any loss will occur beyond 
that of natural wear and tear that would occur in any property, I do not consider it reasonable 
to cover costs relating to the flooring.
The building survey states that there are airbricks to the front and flank walls. None of the 
reports we have seen make any reference to there being any concerns or requirement to 
replace or add any airbricks. As there is no defect to put right and no financial loss to Mr and 
Mrs W, I do not consider it appropriate to make an offer for this element.
The Homebuyer report is silent on those issues. But the structural engineers report said:
The damp-proof course was protruding and unevenly-laid  this is probably just a sign of 
poor workmanship and need not signify a lack of structural integrity; however it is important 
that the DPC is linked to the damp-proof membrane beneath the floor and this cannot easily 
be checked (but would be another of the statutory Building Control checkpoints).

There may be future problems as yet undiagnosed with regard to damp-proofing the walls 
and floors in the extension, but there is no reliable non-destructive means of testing whether 
the DPC and DPM have been properly installed.
One should allow a provisional budget of £10,000 to £15,000 against the need to make 
remedial repairs to the floor of the house or extension, which would include installing under- 
floor ventilation to the main house to reduce the risk of timber decay in the floor.
Mr and Mrs W said this was a major issue that has consistently been ignored by NatWest. 
The issue is structural not cosmetic and they would need to replace the flooring if the repairs 
were carried out. If they were aware of this issue, they would have been able to negotiate a 
discount of £15,000.
I appreciate why Mr and Mrs W are worried about the damp proof course. But my 
interpretation of the report is:
The damp proof membrane/course has been poorly installed.
Its effectiveness should have been checked as part of building control when the 
extension was built.  What I take from that is that if it was not effective then it would not 
have passed building control. So if it did pass building control  and no one has told me 
that it didnt  then the damp proof course would have worked effectively at that time.  
There is no evidence that it is not doing what it is supposed to do this is probably just a 
sign of poor workmanship and need not signify a lack of structural integrity. The 
structural engineer thought it was probable that it was just poor workmanship.
The only way to find out definitively would be to take up the floor. 
If issues were found, then the whole floor would need to be replaced and as part of that under floor ventilation should be installed  all though I cant see that the lack of such 
ventilation was identified as a defect in any of the reports. 
The repairs would cost between £10,000 and £15,000.
Ive thought very carefully about this point. It is potentially a significant issue  but equally 
there might not be any issue at all. The report merely said that the damp proof course has 
been poorly installed, but that would not necessarily mean it is not working. The only way to 
find out definitively would be to take up the floor  and that would be costly, considering 
there might not be a problem. 
In my provisional decision I said that I have not seen any evidence that part of the property 
has experienced damp, despite Mr and Mrs W living in the property for around seven years, 
and that any potential issues with the damp proof membrane/course are the cause of that. 
Mr and Mrs W have not disputed that or provided any evidence to show that the property has 
suffered damp as a result of this issue. It follows that it is unlikely there is a defect that 
NatWest should pay to put right. 
I dont consider the evidence we have is enough for me to say, on balance, that it is a 
serious defect that required immediate attention. Indeed there might not be any defect at all 
apart from poor workmanship that does not affect the proper operation of the damp proof 
course. Overall, I dont consider it would be fair or reasonable for me to require NatWest to 
meet the costs of this work based on the evidence available to me.
The report also said:
The airbricks at the front were in fair condition but the vents at the rear had been blocked by 
the extension instead of being ducted to the exterior beneath the floor.
I cant see that this was a significant issue where Mr and Mrs W could successfully have 
negotiated on price.
NatWest has offered to pay £100 for filling a gap between the extension and the house. It 
should honour that offer.
Conclusion
I consider the total offer of £108,163.20 (£104,566.64 of which has been paid) is a fair offer 
for the financial loss Mr and Mrs W have suffered. Whichever way I look at it, I cant see that 
I have reason to tell NatWest to pay them any more than that.
The total offer includes around £13,000 for Mr and Mrs W to employ a project manager, 
which Mr and Mrs W did not go ahead with. I understand their reasons for that, but theyve 
still had the benefit of that money. I think it is fair amount to cover any incidental costs and 
contingencies that may arise.
It is clear that Mr and Mrs W have been caused an severe amount of distress, inconvenience 
and suffering as a result of NatWests error. The upset and stress of finding out what had 
happened  along with the ongoing stress, inconvenience and upheaval of arranging quotes 
and building work and then having that work done with disruption to their home and family   
over a period of around two years warrants a large amount of compensation.  
NatWest has offered £6,000 for the distress, inconvenience and suffering this matter has 
caused to them. As I said in my provisional decision  we dont often make awards at this 
level and usually only where a complainant has suffered pain and suffering. Looking at the 
circumstances, I dont consider I could reasonably recommend a higher award here. In all 
the circumstances, I consider £6,000 is fair and reasonable. 
My final decision
My final decision is that National Westminster Bank Plcs offer of £108,163.20 (£104,566.64 
of which has been paid and a further £3,596.56) is a fair and reasonable way to settle this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 21 December 2023.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman