DRN-3276891
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Tesco Underwriting Limited declined a claim under her home 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs C had home insurance with Tesco. She instructed a surveyor because her side 
boundary retaining wall was showing signs of movement and structural damage. The 
surveyor advised the wall could either be crack-stitched or partly demolished and re-built. 
But because the neighbours werent happy with this, Mrs C engaged a structural engineer. 
The structural engineer concluded the foundations of the extension were raft foundations 
which werent suitable and meant the extension was surcharging the wall. Based on this 
information, Mrs C made a claim for the cost of repairing the wall and underpinning the side 
wall of the extension.
She explained to Tesco she hadnt known there was a problem with the wall until she tried to 
sell the house. She later made a further claim for the cost of underpinning an extension, 
which was said to be the cause of the problems with the wall. 
Tesco declined both elements of the claim. It said the damage to the wall wasnt caused by 
an insured peril and was instead the result of faulty construction and design of the adjacent 
extension, which was excluded under the policy. It also said the policy excluded damage to 
walls unless the main property was also affected at the same time and by the same cause.
Regarding the cost of underpinning of the extension, Tesco accepted there were inherent 
defects with the depth of the foundations which was likely exacerbated by the addition of the 
further storey in 1987, but it reiterated that the policy excluded damage caused by faulty 
workmanship, faulty materials and faulty design.
Mrs C complained to Tesco about its decision to decline the claim. She asked it to re-
consider the claim on the basis the defective design and construction had happened before 
she owned the property and she hadnt known there was a problem until she tried to sell the 
house. But Tesco maintained the damage was excluded under the policy. 
Mrs C wasnt satisfied and so she complained to this service about Tescos decision to 
decline her claim, commenting that Tesco hadnt bothered to inspect the damage. She also 
explained that dealing with the issue had caused her a considerable amount of stress which 
meant she needed to have counselling and that, as shes retired, her lifestyle will be 
compromised if her claim isnt settled.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She wasnt satisfied an insured 
event had caused loss or damage to the property and she felt Tescos decision was fair.
Mrs C wasnt happy with the outcome of her complaint and has asked for it to be referred to 
an ombudsman. She has commented that our investigator didnt deal with the cost of 
underpinning the extension, and she maintains she didnt know there was a problem with the 
extension because there is no evidence of any movement or cracking.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs C doesnt feel the cost of underpinning the extension was properly dealt with by our 
investigator and so Ive dealt with the two main issues under separate headings to avoid 
confusion.
the extension
Having highlighted an issue with the foundations of the extension, the surveyor advised 
before any remedial repairs to the wall can be undertaken, the side wall of the extension 
will require underpinning to stabilise the structure allowing demolition and re-construction 
of the damaged section of retaining wall. Tesco said the problem with the extension was 
the result of faulty construction and design, which was excluded under the policy.  
While I understand Mrs C is frustrated because she hadnt realised there was a problem with 
the foundations when she bought the property, there is no actual damage to the extension 
and so there is no claim. I accept there is a problem with the design and construction of the 
extension, but the policy doesnt provide cover for remedial repairs in these circumstances. 
the wall
The structural engineer said the foundations used for the extension appear to be shallow 
mass concrete strip foundations. Unfortunately, this type of construction is not 
acceptable so near to a retaining wall due to increases in lateral earth pressure and 
surcharge loading. It would certainly appear that this is the cause of the rotational failure 
of the retaining wall.
Based on the structural engineers conclusions, Im satisfied the problem with the 
retaining wall was a result of defective design and construction of the extension. But 
Tesco said the claim would fail because the policy excludes damage to walls unless the 
main property was damaged at the same time and by the same incident. While there is 
an issue with the foundations of the extension, as I have noted above, the building is not 
damaged and so I think the decision to apply this exclusion is fair.
I understand why Mrs C feels Tesco shouldve inspected the property but that isnt always 
necessary, and, in circumstances where there was no dispute about the evidence or the 
facts, Im satisfied the decision not to undertake an inspection was reasonable.
I know this claim has caused Mrs C a great deal of stress and I understand she will be 
disappointed but, for the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2022.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman