DRN-4275634
The complaint
Ms B complains that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) refuses to refund her losses after she fell 
victim to a scam. Ms B is represented by a claims management company. 
What happened 
Ms B saw an advert on social media for a Cryptocurrency company (which Ill call S). She 
registered on Ss website and they then contacted her on the phone. 
In October 2021, Ms B opened a Monzo account. Ms B made payments from her Monzo 
account to a third-party exchange which Ill call C. From there, she sent money onto the 
scammers. 
Between October 20221 and January 2022, Ms B made several transactions, ranging from 
£2 to £8,000 to C, which she then sent on to S. S turned out to be a scam company and she 
lost the money she had invested in that company. 
On 22 January 2022, Ms B contacted Monzo to report the scam and ask for help. On the 
same day, Monzo asked the recipient bank to return any monies still retained. On 25 
January 2022, the recipient bank replied the no funds remained to be returned. Monzo 
explained this to Ms B.
Ms B then raised a complaint against Monzo, saying it ought to have intervened when she 
sent these payments, and had it done so, it would have discovered the scam and prevented 
the loss. Ms B felt Monzo had failed in its duty to protect her. 
Monzo didnt agree explaining that while it was sorry Ms B had fallen victim to the scam, it 
had done nothing wrong and should not be held liable for the losses. 
Unhappy, Ms B referred the complaint to this service. One of our investigators looked into 
the complaint and didnt think that Monzo should have to cover the losses Ms B had 
suffered. She didnt think any of the transactions were sufficiently unusual or suspicious and 
so didnt think it was unreasonable that Monzo hadnt intervened before Ms B sent any of the 
payments. 
Ms B didnt agree, highlighting that at least the payment of £5,000 ought to have been 
flagged by Monzo. She also felt that the payments were going to a new payee, and they had 
gradually increased in value  so this had all the themes of a scam. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
In my provisional decision of 17 July 2023, I set out why I was minded to not upholding the 
complaint. I invited both parties to provide any further submissions they may wish to make 
before I reached a final decision. Monzo didnt make any further comments but Ms B 
(through her representative) didnt agree with my provisional decision making some 
additional comments which I will address below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I explained the following: 
Having done so, I dont think Monzo should be held liable for the losses here and Ill explain 
why. 
To begin with, where customers authorise payments from their accounts, businesses such 
as Monzo are under an obligation to process such transfers. If consumers authorised the 
transactions, the starting point is that theyre responsible. To be clear, Monzo did not scam 
Ms B and it is not the perpetrator of the scam.
 
However, financial businesses also have a duty to try to prevent their customers falling 
victim to scams. Businesses therefore need to strike a balance between intervening in 
payments to prevent scams or financial harm against the risk of unnecessarily 
inconveniencing or delaying legitimate transactions. 
In order for me to uphold a complaint of this nature, and hold Monzo liable for the losses 
instead of Ms B, Id need to be satisfied that Monzo failed in its duty to protect Ms B in some 
way, and that if it had instead done what it should have done, this either would have stopped 
the losses from occurring in the first place or helped to mitigate the losses once notified of 
the potential scam (by retrieving the money for example). 
The first thing I must bear in mind is that this was a new Monzo account that Ms B had 
opened solely to make these payments. So Monzo did not have a history of spending to 
review to identify whether these were unusual/suspicious transactions for her.
Ms Bs first few payments were for relatively small amounts and all parties appear to agree 
that these payments were of low value and otherwise unremarkable. I appreciate these 
amounts might be a lot of money for many consumers, but when compared to the thousands 
of transactions a business like Monzo processes  none of them are sufficiently significant 
figures that I would expect to trigger alarm bells. It is common for many consumers to 
transfer money like this to their online exchange like C quite frequently to trade and many of 
these transactions are completely legitimate. So, when assessing if Monzo should have 
contacted Ms B  I have to bear in mind the information available to Monzo at the time of the 
event. In the absence of any other concerning factors, I dont think these payment amounts 
are enough to have prompted an intervention by Monzo. Ms B appears to agree. 
Ms B, however, felt that the payment she made on 1 December 2021, for £5,000 ought to 
have triggered an intervention. She felt this payment was for a larger amount than shed 
previously sent, and by this time her payments had gradually increased in amount.
However, like our investigator, I dont agree with Ms B, and Ill explain why. £5,000 may 
seem like a lot of money, but like the other payments shed already sent, this sum is not 
unusually significant in the context of the thousands of transactions that a business like 
Monzo processes. By the time this payment had been sent, the payee had already been 
established, as Ms B had sent 6 payments to C before this one. I also have to bear in mind 
that Ms B had her Monzo account for a very short amount of time. So Monzo would still not 
have much to go on to determine her typical account activity and what should be regarded 
as unusual, uncharacteristic or suspicious. The £5,000 payment was also sent around five 
days after she had sent an earlier payment. So, there isnt a collection of payments sent on 
the same day or within a short space of time, that might also have been concerning. So, in the absence of any other concerning factors, I dont think the sum alone ought to have 
triggered an intervention. For a sum of this amount, in the absence of any other concerning 
factors, any intervention would have to have been proportionate to the risk present. Here, at 
most, I would have expected Monzo to have shown her a general written warning. But Ms B 
had been shown a written warning earlier on during a first payment, and it didnt deter her in 
any way, so Im not persuaded that a written warning would have had any impact in this 
case, in any event. 
Ive also thought about the payments Ms B made following this £5,000. And while she did 
make two other transactions of £8,000, these were again sent to an established payee, and 
not in short succession. So, for the same reasons as I dont think it was unreasonable for 
Monzo to have not intervened in the £5,000 payment, I also dont think it was unreasonable 
that it didnt intervene before these payments were sent either. 
I understand Monzo issued a notice of account closure to Ms B in early January 2022, and 
subsequently closed her account in March 2022. Ms B says she believes Monzo might have 
suspected the scam and therefore closed her account. I dont know why Monzo closed 
Ms Bs account, she hasnt complained about the closure of the account, so it isnt 
something weve investigated. However, usually, where a bank becomes aware of a scam, it 
will take measures to protect its consumers from harm, rather than closing their account. 
And nothing Ive seen in the banks records indicates it was aware of the scam and didnt 
inform her of it. So, I am still satisfied that Monzo wasnt aware of the scam, and it didnt 
unreasonably miss an opportunity to prevent the loss. It therefore couldnt have stopped 
Ms B falling victim to the scam. 
 
Monzo also tried to retrieve the money from the exchange after being alerted to the scam but 
was told nothing remained. So, overall, I dont think its fair for Monzo to be held liable for the 
losses. 
Im very sorry Ms B has lost this amount of money and I have no doubt that this has caused 
her a significant amount of distress. But as Ive said above, Monzo was not the perpetrator of 
the scam, and I dont think it acted incorrectly by not intervening before she sent her 
payments. So, as it couldnt have prevented the loss, I dont think its fair for it to be held 
liable for Ms Bs losses.
Ms B reiterates that Monzo ought to have intervened given the value of the payment and that 
the money was going to a cryptocurrency exchange which they feel was known for being 
associated with fraud. They also refer to two other decisions where despite consumers 
having opened a new account, it was decided that the financial businesses in those cases 
ought to have intervened. 
Firstly, Id like to reiterate that many cryptocurrency exchanges have been used by 
scammers to facilitate fraud but while that may be the case, theres nothing to suggest that 
the exchange itself was party to the fraud. Many consumers transfer amounts like this to 
exchanges like C completely legitimately to invest and trade. So, I dont think these factors 
alone are enough to persuade me that Monzo ought to have intervened. 
I would add that each case is decided on the individual merits of that case and whether a 
business should have intervened is very specific to each case. We would expect a business 
to consider a number of factors before deciding whether it is appropriate to intervene. I have 
already explained why I dont think its unreasonable that Monzo didnt intervene in this case 
having considered the specific facts of Ms Bs case. So, nothing Ms Bs representative has 
said has changed my view of this complaint.Having reconsidered this complaint in its entirety, including Ms Bs representatives 
additional comments, I find no reason to depart from my original findings as set out in my 
provisional decision. So, while I am again very sorry that Ms B lost this amount of money, I 
still dont think Monzo should be held liable for the losses and I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 September 2023.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman