DRN-3685788
The complaint
Miss T complains that Acorn Insurance & Financial Services Limited mishandled her motor 
insurance policy.
Where I refer to Acorn, I refer to the above-named company and I include employees and 
others insofar as I hold Acorn responsible for their acts or omissions. 
What happened
Acorn is an insurance intermediary rather than an insurer. 
For the year from January 2021, Miss T took out a motor insurance policy through Acorn. It 
acted as an intermediary between her and an insurer. 
Due to an error, Acorn didnt get the policy information recorded on the Motor Insurers 
Database (MID).
In mid-May 2021, July 2021 and September 2021, Miss T contacted Acorn for confirmation 
that she was insured.  
In October 2021, Miss T complained to Acorn that  despite her contact  it hadnt resolved 
her issue.  
Acorn updated MID in mid-October 2021. By an email shortly afterwards, Acorn told Miss T 
she could bring her complaint to us within six months.
For the year from January 2022, Miss T took out a new policy through Acorn with the same 
insurer. She paid a deposit and agreed to pay instalments to a finance company from 11 
February 2022. On that day, Miss Ts direct debit didnt go through and she was charged a 
fee of £25.00.
Miss T brought her complaint to us in mid-February 2022. She complained about problems 
with the police in 2021. She also complained that  although it had insured her in 2021  
Acorn had asked her for details of her no-claims discount (NCD) for the policy in 2022. She 
also complained that Acorn should refund the £25.00 fee for the failed direct debit.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. She thought that 
Acorn had acted fairly regarding the direct debit. But the investigator didnt think Acorn had 
done enough to put things right regarding the delay in updating MID. The investigator 
recommended that Acorn should pay Miss T £100.00 compensation for distress and 
inconvenience.
Acorn accepted the investigators opinion.
Miss T didnt respond to the investigators opinion. So the investigator asked for an 
ombudsman to review the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Acorn has accepted responsibility for MID not recording that Miss Ts van was insured from 
January 2021. But Miss T hasnt given us much detail of the problems she experienced as a 
result.
Her complaint form included the following:
the police had been in touch with me on multiple occasions in relation to my van 
not being insured
But Miss T didnt say that police had stopped her at the roadside. And Acorns file records 
that she contacted it in May, July and September 2021 because she had received a 
government letter or heard from DVLA. So I dont find that police had stopped Miss T.
The omission from MID caused DVLA to contact Miss T. Shes sent us a copy of a DVLA 
letter dated August 2021 that mentions a fixed penalty notice for failing to insure her vehicle 
and her challenge to that fixed penalty notice. DVLA asked Miss T to get her insurer to 
provide evidence that shed been insured in May 2021.
As Ive said, Miss T hasnt given us much detail of the impact on her. But I find it likely that  
although she knew she was insured  the contact from DVLA caused her some concern and 
put her to some trouble in contacting DVLA and Acorn.
Ive seen a letter from Acorn in mid-October 2021 confirming  on behalf of the insurer  that 
Miss T had been insured from January 2021. I find it likely that this was enough to resolve 
the issue with DVLA. And at around the same time, Acorn updated MID.
Ive noted that the 2021 policy wasnt renewed for 2022. Rather the 2022 policy was a new 
one that Miss T took out online. So I dont consider that Acorn treated her unfairly by asking 
her for evidence of her NCD.
I find it likely that it was the finance company rather than Acorn that charged the late 
payment fee of £25.00. Acorn says that it was refunded on about 7 March 2022. Miss T 
hasnt contradicted that. So I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Acorn to do any more 
in response to her complaint about that fee. 
Putting things right
The investigator recommended £100.00 for distress and inconvenience. Miss T hasnt given 
enough detail to persuade me to direct more. And Acorn has agreed the amount of £100.00. 
Overall I find it fair and reasonable to direct Acorn to pay Miss T that amount for distress and 
inconvenience.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct Acorn Insurance & Financial Services Limited to pay Miss T £100.00 for distress and 
inconvenience. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2022.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman