DRN-3444931
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC hasnt refunded debit card transactions he says 
he didnt make or otherwise authorise.
What happened
Mr B disputes gambling transactions paid from his account from 6 June 2019 until 
23 July 2020, all with the same gambling website, and made using his debit card details.
The individual transactions were low in value, normally £5-10, with several payments made 
on any given day. The spending was regular; not daily, but with rarely more than a few days 
before each series of transactions. The total spend runs into several thousands of pounds 
over the 14-month period. As an example of the typical activity, September saw over £450 
spent on the gambling website.  
Mr B has confirmed hed used the gambling website at some point, but perhaps only a 
couple of times
Mr B contacted Barclays about the transactions on 27 July 2020 to report them as 
fraudulent. He said he hadnt made them himself or allowed anyone to make them using his 
card details.
Mr B said that he worked away from home for long periods of time and so hadnt noticed any 
transactions on his statements, especially as each was low in value.
There was an initial refund of £54 for transactions made in July 2020. Barclays said itd need 
more information from Mr B if he wanted to dispute anything further. It says it never received 
this information, although Mr B says he provided it on 13 February 2021.
Barclays didnt go on to investigate any of the transactions before July 2020 as it didnt 
receive the information it needed from Mr B.
Mr B brought his complaint to our service as he was unhappy with how Barclays had 
handled his complaint and because it hadnt refunded the disputed transactions. He felt 
Barclays should have alerted him to the account activity, given how unusual it was. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened and didnt recommend the complaint 
be upheld. He couldnt see how an unknown third party could have obtained Mr Bs card 
information and used it on a gambling website that Mr B had used before. 
Our investigator did ask if Mr B could think of any time his card details might have become 
compromised. The only time Mr B could think of was when he lost his card in February 2020. 
But as the transactions had started months earlier, our investigator felt that wasnt a viable 
point of compromise.
Mr B didnt accept the investigators findings and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint as I believe its more likely than not he authorised the 
payments himself. 
Mr B is responsible for any transactions on his account that he authorises. Thats confirmed 
in the Payment Service Regulations 2017 and the terms and conditions of his account. So if 
the evidence shows its more likely than not Mr B authorised the transactions hes disputed, 
then Barclays will have acted fairly and reasonably in holding him responsible for them. 
For these transactions to have been made, someone would have needed access to Mr Bs 
card details. Theyd also need either his personal details to set up an account with the 
gambling website, or access to the existing account Mr B had opened himself. 
Mr B hasnt been able to offer any explanation as to how an unknown third-party might have 
obtained all this information. Thats not to say its impossible for fraudsters to obtain these 
details without a victim knowing but, in the circumstances of this case, I dont consider that to 
be the more likely than not scenario.
Its evident that Mr B was issued a new card in February 2020, eight months after the 
gambling spending had started and five months before it was reported. This means that the 
card that was being used for the spending was cancelled part-way through the disputed 
spending and the new card was used from that point on. That would then require an 
unknown fraudster to have obtained two different sets of card details across the 14 months 
of transactions. 
I can see that one card was cancelled on 3 February 2020 and the replacement card was 
issued on or just after 8 February 2020. There are gambling transactions up to 
2 February 2020 followed by a short pause of ten days. The transactions start again on 
12 February 2020. This means that for an unknown third-party to have continued with the 
transactions theyd have had to intercept and obtain the replacement card details almost 
immediately after the card was issued. I dont find that to be a probable scenario. 
I also find it unlikely that Mr B didnt check his statements or account activity at all in the 14 
months in which the disputed transactions were being made. I can completely accept that 
Mr B might work away from home for extended periods, perhaps limiting his ability to check 
his account. But he did still receive statements and could access his account either in branch 
or at a cash machine. Given the volume and frequency of transactions, along with the 
cumulative amount being spent, I consider it unlikely that even a cursory look at account 
statements or activity wouldnt reveal the gambling transactions. There are simply too many 
payments to the gambling website for them to be overlooked.  
Its reasonable to say that the loss of the card in February 2020 ought to have, and quite 
probably did, lead to a check of the account. That would be expected, to make sure 
someone hadnt been using the card fraudulently. And yet no transactions were reported at 
that time. 
Mr B has said how he thinks the bank ought to have alerted him to the account activity. But 
any consideration around the bank questioning potentially fraudulent transactions falls away 
given my finding that Mr B more likely than not authorised the payments. 
The same is true of any consideration as to whether the bank acted fairly or not in terms of 
looking at the disputed transactions made before July 2020. Ive seen no evidence to 
suggest Mr B did provide the bank with the information it needed. But, in any case, Ive 
found it was fair and reasonable for the bank to have held him responsible for them and so 
the result is the same. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 8 July 2022.
 
Ben Murray
Ombudsman