DRN-3916170
The complaint
Mr D complains that Vanquis Bank Limited lent to him irresponsibly in providing him with a 
credit card account and a subsequent increase to the credit limit.
What happened
Mr D applied for the credit card in May 2016. His application data included that he was a 
student with an annual income of £25,000. Vanquis provided the card with a limit of £500, 
which it increased to £1,000 in September 2016. 
In 2022 Mr D complained to Vanquis. He said it had lent to him irresponsibly regarding the 
credit card and that it hadnt carried out sufficient checks prior to offering the credit card and 
limit increase. 
Vanquis responded to say it was satisfied it had lent to him appropriately and in line with its 
acceptance criteria. It said it had considered a range of information when looking at his 
application and credit limit increase (CLI) including that provided by a credit reference 
agency (CRA) and the information provided by Mr D.
Unhappy with Vanquiss response, Mr D complained to us. Our investigator looked into the 
complaint and didnt recommend that it should be upheld. They believed Vanquis was 
entitled to provide the credit card with the original credit limit granted and also the CLI based 
on the information available.   
Mr D disagreed with the investigators findings. He said, among other things, that Vanquis 
didnt carry out proper checks when it made either lending decision. He said if it had, it would 
have become apparent that he was in financial difficulties in 2016 and that it shouldnt have 
lent to him. He said he was vulnerable due to his poor mental health at that time.
Because the investigator couldnt resolve the complaint informally, it was passed to me to 
review afresh. 
I issued my provisional decision on the complaint last month. I said I intended to uphold the 
complaint on the grounds that Mr Ds income, as stated to Vanquis in May 2016, ought to 
have raised concerns and led to further borrower focused checks. I concluded that, had 
these checks been carried out at that time, Vanquis shouldnt have lent to Mr D or later 
increased the credit limit. I asked Vanquis to put things right for Mr D and pay him £200 as 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience it had caused him.
I asked the parties to provide further comments and information before I reconsidered the 
complaint.
Mr D felt Id covered everything in my decision but added a few points and questions  some 
of which Ive responded to via the investigator and offered clarification on separately to this 
decision. Among other things, Mr D queried aspects of the award I was proposing. He also 
felt Vanquis had breached the lending rules and regulations in offering the credit and by 
editing the credit reference report it had obtained from a third-party. Mr D asked if proof of 
such behaviour might lead me to award more compensation. No further evidence was 
received to date.
Vanquis didnt agree with my provisional decision. It felt my argument that Vanquis should 
have carried out further checks was arbitrary and that, even if further checks were carried 
out, it still would have been entitled to lend to Mr D in the circumstances.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible lending complaints 
on our website  including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. 
And Ive considered this in deciding Mr Ds complaint. 
Having done so, and after carefully considering the responses to my provisional decision, 
Ive decided to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
There are several questions that Ive thought about when deciding if Vanquis treated Mr D 
fairly and reasonably when it provided him with the credit in May and September 2016. 
These include:
1) Did Vanquis complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr D 
would be able to repay the credit advanced in a sustainable way? 
2) If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at these times? 
3) Ultimately, did Vanquis make fair lending decisions?  
4) Did Vanquis act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Ill consider each of these in turn.
Did Vanquis complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr D would 
be able to repay the credit advanced in a sustainable way? 
The rules that Vanquis had to follow required it to carry out checks that would enable it to 
reasonably assess whether Mr D could afford to repay the credit being offered. This is often 
referred to as an affordability assessment. 
 
The rules dont set out what specific checks Vanquis needed to carry out  which is perhaps 
the aspect Vanquis finds arbitrary because its accepted some judgment is required in this 
regard. But the rules did set out that those checks needed to be proportionate to the 
circumstances of the application. I think what this meant in practice was that the scope and 
extent of Vanquiss checks needed to reflect the nature of the lending, bearing in mind things 
such as the amount of credit, the interest rate, the monthly and total amounts repayable, and 
any indications of customer vulnerability.  
The checks Vanquis needed to carry out as part of its affordability assessment had to be 
borrower focussed. What I mean by this is that the checks needed to consider whether 
paying the money back would cause Mr D any difficulties or have any adverse 
consequences for him. They would also need to take account of factors such as the amount 
of money being lent, the monthly repayments, total charge for the credit and the interest rate 
being charged. This isnt an exhaustive list. And, because of the above, I think reasonable and proportionate checks needed to be more 
thorough if Mr D had a low income. This would reflect that it could be more difficult for him to 
meet the credit card repayments with a low income. 
Vanquis would also need to be more thorough the higher the amounts he had to repay, as it 
would be more difficult to make higher repayments depending on Mr Ds income. 
With these principles in mind, Ive thought about whether Vanquis completed reasonable and 
proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr D would be able to repay the credit in a 
sustainable way.
In summary then, the circumstances of the credit card application and CLI are as follows:
The annual percentage rate (APR) that applied to the credit card was 39.9%.
Mr D was recorded by Vanquis as having an annual income of £25,000. 
The credit limit of £500 (prior to the CLI to £1,000) was, in itself, fairly low particularly 
when compared with Mr Ds stated earnings. 
I can see that Vanquis relied on information from Mr D regarding the lending and in doubling 
the credit limit a few months later. In its final response to Mr Ds complaint, Vanquis said it 
had carried out checks to ensure it made a responsible lending decision to increase the 
credit limit. Its searches revealed no new county court judgements (CCJs) or newly defaulted 
debt within the previous six months. It felt the level of outstanding external lending (excluding 
mortgage debt) was within the levels set as part of its lending policy. 
Mr D disputes that Vanquis carried out certain checks in 2016 or, if they were, says that they 
werent carried out properly. For example, hes provided evidence of a default notice applied 
to his credit file just prior to the application with Vanquis in May 2016. 
I think there was at least one aspect in which the checks Vanquis carried out fell short of 
what was required of it. Namely, that Mr Ds stated occupation and income were accurate. 
He said in his application that he was a student and was earning £25,000 a year. 
I accept it was possible from Vanquiss perspective that Mr D was a student earning that 
amount of money. It certainly couldnt be ruled out. But I also consider that would have been 
an unusual circumstance that ought to have raised concerns with Vanquis. 
Further, Vanquis would have been aware that many of its customers had imperfect credit 
histories and represented a higher-than-average risk  something reflected in the relatively 
high APR figure of 39.9% offered. As Vanquis said in its final response to Mr D of August 
2022, it saw itself as a second-chance lender aiming to assist those individuals with 
moderate means to have access to credit products that may otherwise be unavailable to 
them. Yet it apparently had few concerns with Mr D presenting as a student earning 
something approaching the median annual earnings in the UK at that time.   
Of course, Vanquis wasnt responsible for the figure Mr D gave  Mr D was, and he accepts 
this. But Vanquis was responsible for what it did, if anything, with that information. Its 
reasonable to expect that it would have sought to verify the information provided, perhaps 
with Mr D at first and then with the aid of supporting evidence. 
I realise that the initial credit limit was set at £500 and can see how that might have been 
less significant to someone in employment and earning a reasonable wage. But to many 
students, who were likely to earn little or nothing in comparison and who might in fact be more likely to be in debt, even that amount became more significant when considered in 
context.
It could be that Vanquis tried to explore the issue of Mr Ds income with him over the phone. 
But, due to the time thats passed, I gather its no longer able to provide call recordings from 
that time. Without them, or at least a reliable record of the notes taken from the time of any 
calls, its difficult to say what if anything was discussed about his income and/or how he was 
earning it.  
Given the uncertainty surrounding Mr Ds financial situation in 2016 and the lack of evidence 
showing this was explored in any detail, I dont believe Vanquis completed reasonable and 
proportionate checks in the circumstances as it should have done. Vanquis accepts it used 
the income figure given in May 2016 for the subsequent CLI on the basis there was nothing 
to show it had changed in the intervening months. It follows that I dont believe Vanquis 
completed appropriate checks then either.    
I still think the above ought to have led Vanquis into completing further checks. These 
checks would have helped it to determine whether Mr D could sustainably afford to repay the 
credit limit and the CLI.
As Ive already alluded to, Vanquiss internal lending policy isnt a determining factor in this 
case. The question is more one of whether it acted in accordance with the lending rules and 
regulations at the relevant times, which required it to carry out reasonable and proportionate 
checks to satisfy itself that the Mr D could sustainably afford to make the repayments in 
respect of the credit facilities he was being provided with. Bearing in mind the above, I dont 
believe the checks Vanquis carried out prior to it offering the credit limit or the CLI showed 
Mr D could sustainably afford to make the repayments. I dont think that the checks were, on 
balance, reasonable and proportionate.
What would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at these times?
I think it would have been reasonable for Vanquis to check how Mr D was earning the money 
he said he was when he applied for the account. This would have been in addition to any 
checks it carried out and to establish that he was able to sustainably afford the credit card 
repayments.
With respect to Mr D, he accepts he was unwell in 2016 and that this led him to provide 
inaccurate information in applying for the credit card. As it happens, although he was a 
student at the time, he wasnt earning a wage. He says the only income he received was 
through state disability and housing benefits, which came to much less than £25,000.
I consider it possible that Mr D could have provided inaccurate information again if 
questioned further by Vanquis in order to secure the credit card account. But ultimately, I 
think its fair to expect that any reasonable checks carried out by Vanquis would have 
uncovered the reality of the situation. 
Im satisfied the information Ive mentioned would have helped Vanquis develop a picture of 
Mr Ds financial situation at that time, which was that Mr D wasnt working and certainly 
wasnt earning as much as £25,000 a year. While Im prepared to accept on the available 
evidence that the default notice of 2016 likely wasnt brought to Vanquiss attention in May 
2016, its possible that it would have become aware of this if it had taken the time to carry 
out further checks regarding his true income. I believe the circumstances as they were ought to have given Vanquis significant cause for 
concern in offering the lending that it did. 
Did Vanquis make fair lending decisions?  
Mr D argues that he was in financial difficulties before applying to Vanquis and has provided 
evidence of a default added just prior to that. Im aware that there can sometimes be delays 
in credit histories being updated. So, as I referred to above, I accept its at least possible that 
this is why the default didnt flag on the searches carried out by the CRA that Vanquis 
instructed in May 2016.
Notwithstanding those issues, I believe the indications are that borrower focussed checks by 
Vanquis would have highlighted that Mr Ds financial situation was such that the credit he 
was offered was unlikely to be sustainably affordable for him. He wasnt working and he was 
in receipt of state benefits that meant his income was much lower than hed declared. 
Vanquis might also have discovered the then recently added default if it had taken the time 
to complete further checks.
For these reasons, I think that Vanquis should have realised in the circumstances that it was 
unlikely Mr D would have been able to cope with the credit it was offering and that it wasnt a 
fair decision to lend to him in May 2016 and, by extension, to increase the lending in 
September 2016. 
Did Vanquis act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr D in some other way? 
Ive carefully thought about everything provided. Having done so, I consider that the decision 
to lend caused Mr D a degree of distress and inconvenience as well as financial loss. I 
havent seen anything to suggest that the lending was the primary cause of the difficulties he 
experienced around that time and beyond. And although Mr D argues Vanquis knew or 
ought to have known he was vulnerable, Im not satisfied that was the case on the available 
evidence.
That said, Vanquiss lending resulted in default and ultimately led to a CCJ against Mr D. As 
compensation for the worry and upset caused, I think it would be fair for Vanquis to pay him 
£200 in the circumstances. 
Ive thought about Mr Ds comments about Vanquiss behaviour and what it might mean for 
my recommended compensation for distress and inconvenience if it breached lending rules 
and/or manipulated credit data. But this service isnt the regulator of financial services. We 
have no power to punish or fine financial businesses and instead must consider whats fair 
and reasonable redress in the individual case. Having considered that in this case, I remain 
of the view that £200 represents fair compensation for the non-financial impact of Vanquiss 
actions on Mr D.
Mr Ds asked if Vanquis should be held responsible for the cost of the CCJ being removed 
from his credit history. Being mindful that the CCJ was ultimately secured by a third-party 
and not by or on behalf of Vanquis, I dont think it should.
Putting things right
Vanquis should put things right for Mr D in relation to the credit card account from the start, 
albeit hes had the benefit of the money borrowed and so may need to repay the principal 
amount. I gather Mr D paid off the outstanding balance in 2020. So, where applicable, 
Vanquis should: Rework Mr Ds current credit card balance to ensure that all the interest, fees and 
charges applied to it from the start are removed.
If an outstanding balance remains once these adjustments have been made, Vanquis 
should contact Mr D to arrange a suitable repayment plan for this.
If no outstanding balance remains, any adverse information should be removed from 
the credit file. 
If the refund means theres no remaining balance, any extra should be treated as 
overpayments and returned to Mr D. 
Pay interest of 8% simple a year on any overpayments from the date they were made 
(if they were) to the date of settlement.
Arrange to either buy back the debt from the third-party it sold it to or liaise with them 
to ensure the redress set out above is carried out promptly.
Irrespective of the above, Vanquis should also:
Pay Mr D £200 as compensation for the distress and inconvenience its caused him.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Vanquis to take off tax from this interest. Vanquis must 
give Mr D a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided to uphold this complaint. I require Vanquis Bank Limited 
to put things right for Mr D as explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2023.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman