DRN-1670846
The complaint
Mr C complains a repair by Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Ltd under his motor 
insurance policy was of poor quality.
What happened
In May 2018 Mr Cs windscreen was damaged. He claimed for its replacement under the 
windscreen cover part of his LV motor insurance policy. 
In July 2019 the rear-view mirror broke away from the windscreen. It took some of the 
windscreen glass with it. Mr C felt this was because LV had fitted a windscreen with a 
manufacturing fault. It disagreed, saying the damage must have been caused by an impact. 
Mr C complained but LV didnt change its position. He didnt accept that. He wants it to cover 
the cost of replacing the windscreen.
Our Investigator didnt agree LV had made a poor repair. He didnt recommend it cover the 
cost of replacing the windscreen again. Mr C didnt accept that. So the complaint has come 
to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Insurers are expected to carry out repairs to an acceptable standard  to make a lasting and 
effective repair. When this doesnt happen I expect an insurer to take steps to put things 
right. In this case I accept it is possible LV didnt do an effective repair the first time. But 
based on what Ive been seen I cant say that is most likely the case. So Im not going to ask 
it to repair the windscreen again or do anything differently.  
Mr C says adhesive, on the mirrors fixing plate, wasnt distributed sufficiently. So it wasnt 
strong enough. He feels thats the cause of the damage. He feels that was a manufacturing 
defect. He said he would provide something from an expert to support what he says - but he 
hasnt done that. Although he has provided photos of the windscreen and mirror fixing. 
LVs technicians said lack of adhesive wouldnt have caused parts of the windscreen to 
break away. They felt, because of the strength of the glass, it would require an impact for 
that to happen.
I cant know for certain what the cause was. But on balance, Im more persuaded by what 
LVs said  particularly as its opinion was provided by technicians with expertise in the area 
and because of the time  more than 12 months - between the repair and the damage. 
Unfortunately, Mr C hasnt been able to provide similar expert opinion to support what he 
says.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont require Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Ltd to do 
anything differently.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2020.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman