The complaint
Mr W complains Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited declined his claim for a damaged 
mobile phone, and then cancelled his home insurance policy unfairly.
What happened
In July 2019, Mr W called Lloyds to register a claim for a damaged mobile phone. Mr W said 
the phone had been damaged when he dropped it on the front doorstep. Lloyds said it could 
accept the claim under the accidental damage section of his policy. Lloyds asked Mr W to 
send in photos of the damaged phone to progress the claim.
Around a week later Lloyds called Mr W and asked him some further questions about the 
claim. Mr W said the phone fell from the front doorstep onto the path outside his house. 
Lloyds told Mr W the claim wouldnt be covered as his policy didnt include contents in the 
open cover. Mr W then said his phone had been damaged by falling onto the street outside. 
Lloyds looked into the matter and called Mr W back again. Lloyds asked Mr W to clarify what 
had happened. Mr W confirmed the phone had fallen from his hands as he got out of the car, 
and onto the concrete floor of the street. Mr W said he hadnt been truthful in his initial call to 
Lloyds as he wasnt sure exactly what his policy covered. He also said it was a difficult time 
for him as a family member was terminally ill.
Lloyds declined Mr Ws claim. It also cancelled his policy and retained the premiums paid.
Mr W complained to Lloyds and asked it to review its position. Lloyds responded and 
maintained its position. It referred Mr W to the relevant policy terms and explained the 
actions it took were within these terms. Lloyds acknowledged it had provided Mr W with 
incorrect information when it said his claim would be accepted under the Accidental Damage 
section of the policy. It offered him £25 compensation for the inconvenience caused.
Unhappy with Lloyds response, Mr W referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator 
looked at everything and didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She found Lloyds had 
acted reasonably as Mr W had initially given it incorrect information. She also found Lloyds 
had acted within the terms and conditions of the policy wording. She acknowledged Mr Ws 
difficult circumstances but was satisfied this wouldnt have affected his recollection of events 
as to how the phone got damaged. 
Mr W didnt accept our investigators findings. He said the whole process was conducted by 
phone during an extraordinary period of family stress. Mr W said the issues about where the 
phone was dropped only arose after some time. He said he was confused by Lloyds tone as 
it had previously seemed to accept the claim. Mr W said Lloyds had acted unfairly in 
changing its mind about the claim and were unnecessarily aggressive in their approach to 
the matter. Mr W added he felt unfairly punished by Lloyds cancelling his policy and 
jeopardising access to future cover.
DRN-2009146Mr W requested an ombudsmans decision, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator and for the 
following reasons.
On the evidence Ive seen, it doesnt seem to be in dispute that Mr W gave incorrect 
information when registering his claim with Lloyds. Ive listened to the calls between Mr W 
and Lloyds. On the third call Mr W says he told Lloyds that his phone dropped on the front 
step of his house as he was unclear about what his policy covered. Mr W then gives the 
correct version of events to the advisor and says his phone dropped on the street outside. 
The advisor then clearly says Lloyds will review the information and may cancel the policy as 
a result.
So what I need to determine is if Lloyds has acted fairly and within the terms of the policy in 
the actions it then took. Ive also considered Mr Ws comments about his family situation.      
I was sorry to read of the difficult time he was going through when he claimed.
Ive looked at the relevant policy terms which state: 
We can cancel your policy by giving you  14 days written notice at your last known address 
if: 
You fail to provide us with information we have requested that is relevant to your 
policy or any claim.
The policy goes on to state:
The contract between you and us is based on mutual trust and we rely on the honesty of 
our policyholders. If you or anyone acting for you knowingly or recklessly
- provides information or documentation to us that is fraudulent or dishonestly 
exaggerates a claim;
then cover under the policy will end from the date of the fraudulent act and we:
- will not pay any part of a fraudulent or exaggerated claim; 
- will retain any premium you have paid;
So on the basis of the terms alone, I find Lloyds has acted reasonably and the actions it took 
in declining the claim, cancelling Mr Ws policy, and retaining his premium are all clearly set 
out in the terms quoted.
Ive considered that Lloyds initially told Mr W it could cover the claim. On the first call the 
advisor says to Mr W, Good news, youve got your accidental damage cover on the policy, 
so we can cover you for accidents that have occurred. But I dont find that this error alone 
removes Mr Ws obligation to provide the correct information when asked about the 
circumstances of the claim. In addition, I can see Lloyds called Mr W back around a week after the initial call to seek further information. On this second call the advisor says, I am 
trying to establish if the claim was accepted correctly or incorrectly from looking at the 
notes. Later in the call the advisor says Mr W isnt covered as the policy doesnt include 
contents in the open cover. 
I appreciate this would have been frustrating for Mr W after he was initially told the claim 
would be covered. But as Lloyds corrected its mistake without a significant delay here I dont 
think it impacted Mr W unduly, and I find its offer of £25 compensation reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Ive read Mr Ws comments about his family situation and the stress it caused at the time he 
claimed. But I am not persuaded this would have impacted his recollection of events to the 
point where he was unable to accurately recall where he had dropped his phone. So I dont 
think Lloyds needs to revisit its position in declining the claim based on the information 
provided.
Mr W has also said Lloyds were unnecessarily aggressive in pursuing the matter but having 
listened to all three calls I dont agree. Following the initial call Lloyds had some questions 
about exactly where the phone had been dropped, as the location would directly impact the 
outcome of the claim. So I find its actions reasonable in following up the matter here. And I 
dont think the manner in which its advisors did this was aggressive.
In summary, whilst I have sympathy with the difficult time Mr W went though when he 
claimed, I find Lloyds acted fairly in administering his claim and policy and wont require it to 
do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2020.
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman