DRN-4052604
The complaint
Ms H has complained that Bank of Scotland Plc (Halifax) mis-sold her a fee-paying 
Ultimate Reward Current Account (URCA) in September 2007.
Ms H has given a number of reasons why she says that the account was mis-sold. These 
include that she was sold the account to obtain an overdraft. Ms H says she didnt fully 
understand what was included with the account and never used the benefits. 
Ms H also says that Halifax shouldve downgraded her account because she did not meet 
the account criteria  Ms H says she was told that she needed to pay in £1,000 per month to 
be able to have the account.
What happened
Halifax issued a final response, and it didnt think that the URCA had been mis-sold.
After Ms H referred her complaint to our service, one of our adjudicators assessed the 
complaint and they didnt think that it had been mis-sold either.
Ms H disagreed with the adjudicators assessment, so the matter was referred for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about mis-sold packaged accounts on our 
website, and Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. And having considered 
everything, I am unable to conclude that the URCA was mis-sold.
Ive started out by considering whether Ms H was given a fair choice. Ms H has said that she 
was presented the URCA as being the best option to obtain an overdraft. However, at the 
time Ms H already had a fee-free account and that already had an arranged overdraft of 
£800 on it. After the URCA was sold to Ms H, the arranged overdraft limit did not change 
until over a year later. As such, I find it unlikely that Ms H thought the URCA was the only 
option available to get an overdraft  given that she already had one on a fee-free account.
At the time, one of the benefits of the URCA was that it provided an interest free overdraft on 
the first £300 of an arranged limit, and then lower rates of overdraft interest (compared to a 
fee-free account) on overdrawn balances above that amount  up to the agreed limit. 
Therefore, I think its much more likely that Ms H was told about the overdraft benefit, and it 
was because of that she agreed to upgrade  rather than because she thought she had no 
choice in the matter. 
As such, I think that Ms H was given a fair choice when the URCA was sold to her.
Based on everything I have seen, it appears that the URCA was sold on a non-advised 
basis. This means that Halifax was not required to check whether the account was a good fit 
for Ms Hs circumstances. But it was required to provide Ms H with all of the important 
information about the account, so that she was able to decide for herself whether it was 
worth upgrading to.
Ms H says that she didnt understand what was included with the account and says she 
never used the benefits. However, Halifax has provided evidence to show that Ms H 
registered a number of handsets under the mobile phone insurance and called the 
breakdown cover provider a number of times too. This evidence suggests that Ms H had a 
good appreciation of what benefits were included with the account and that she was given 
information about how to register for or use them. 
Due to how long ago the sale took place, its not clear what exactly was discussed during the 
sale. So I accept its possible that Halifax didnt highlight all of the important information 
about the account benefits during the sale. However, I cant see anything about Ms Hs 
circumstances that makes me think she wouldve been put off from agreeing to the account, 
had she been given more information about it. For example, although Ms H says that she 
had little need for the travel insurance that was also included with the account, given her 
apparent interest in the mobile phone insurance, breakdown cover and overdraft benefit, it 
seems unlikely that Ms H wouldve been put from agreeing to the package account had the 
key terms and exclusions of the travel insurance been made clearer to her. I should also add 
that as the account was sold as a package, Ms H was unable to pick and choose what it 
came with. So I think she agreed to it in the knowledge that she might not need all of the 
benefits that it provided.
As such, taking everything into account, Im unable to say that the URCA was mis-sold.
As well as saying that the account was mis-sold, Ms H has also said that she was told she 
needed to pay £1,000 into the URCA each month to be able to keep the account. Ms H says 
she has not met that requirement for many years and so says that Halifax shouldve 
downgraded her account many years ago.
Halifax has confirmed that it has never been the case that you can only keep the URCA if 
you credit £1,000 in each month. As such, I find it unlikely that Ms H was told this. And even 
if she was told this (although I dont think she was), given that there was no such 
requirement, I cant reasonably say that Halifax has done anything wrong by not 
downgrading Ms Hs URCA as soon as the amounts she paid in each month dropped below 
£1,000.
I note that Halifax did introduce an incentive in 2009, whereby account holders could receive 
£5 cash back each month if they credited £1,000 or more into the account each month. To 
me, it seems likely that this is what Ms H is referring to. However, that incentive was not in 
place when the account was sold to Ms H. Furthermore, that requirement was only 
applicable to the incentive i.e. Ms H could still have the account even if she paid in less than 
that each month, but she wouldnt get the £5 monthly reward. So again, I cant say that 
Halifax shouldve downgraded Ms Hs account just because she mayve paid in less than 
£1,000 per month.
On this point, I should also highlight that Halifax has never been required to monitor Ms Hs 
usage of the URCA benefits. Ultimately it wouldve been up to Ms H to decide if the account 
continued to provide good value for money  after all, Ms H wouldve known what benefits 
she was and wasnt using. Halifax has, since 2013, been required to send annual eligibility 
reminders to Ms H. The purpose of these were to remind Ms H of the insurance benefits 
included with the account and what the eligibility criteria were for each benefit. This was to 
help her decide whether the URCA was still worth having.
Halifax has provided evidence to show these were sent out in February 2014, March 2016 
and every March since then. So it seems that Halifax has sent out plenty of reminders of the 
insurance benefits over the more recent years that Ms H held the URCA. As such, I cant 
reasonably hold Halifax responsible because Ms H chose not to change the type of account 
that she had (or at the very least enquired about what other accounts were available to her).My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman