DRN-2848439
The complaint
Ms P, on behalf of H, complains that Covea Insurance plc unfairly declined a claim
under Hs business protection insurance policy.
What happened
H has the benefit of a business protection insurance policy. Ms P made a claim on
that policy to cover Hs losses arising out its closure from March 2020 due to the national 
government-imposed lockdown intended to control the spread of Covid 19.
Covea declined the claim because it said H didnt have cover for the losses it was
claiming for. Ms P didnt agree. She made a number of submissions including that the policy 
offered cover for notifiable human infectious or contagious disease and that this should 
extend to Covid-19, as the definition relied upon by Covea is unclear. In addition she feels 
that Covea should have amended the policy terms to ensure Covid 19 was covered when it 
became a notifiable disease.
Our investigator considered Hs complaint and concluded that it shouldnt be upheld.
He said there was no cover available under the policy for the difficult situation H found
itself in. Ms P doesnt agree so the matter has been put to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact lockdown has no doubt had on H. 
But for the same reasons the investigator set out, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill 
explain why. In doing so Ms P should note that whilst Ive considered all of her submissions, 
Ive addressed only those I consider most relevant to the heart of this complaint- namely that 
Covea were wrong to turn down cover on the policy.
The type of cover H is looking to claim on is business interruption insurance. There
are a range of business interruption insurance policies on the market covering different risks.
For example, some only provide cover for basic things such as fire or flood, whilst others
provide cover in more circumstances either as part of the policy or as optional add ons. The
starting point is to consider the specific policy H took out. As such Ive considered
every aspect of the policy H holds with Covea to determine whether there are any
sections that would require Covea to meet the claim like the one H is making.
Ms P has told us that H closed its doors in March 2020 due to the government imposed
lockdown. The policy provides cover for several things, including compulsory closure and 
loss of revenue, including prevention of access. Ive considered those sections below.
Compulsory Closure
The Covid 19 pandemic was intended to be controlled by way of a government-imposed
lockdown. Ms P feels that the compulsory closure section of the policy offers cover in these
circumstances. Ive considered what shes said about this and though I accept that this
section offers cover in certain circumstances, I dont believe any of those apply here.
Under this section the policy covers:
Interruption of or interference with the business in consequence of compulsory closure by a
public body authorised to prevent or restrict access to the premises arising from
a) discovery of a notifiable human infectious or contagious disease at the premises
b) foreign or deleterious matter in food or drink sold, supplied or provided at the premises
c) the occurrence at the premises of murder, manslaughter, suicide or rape
d) defective sanitation of the premises or the presence at the premises of vermin or pests
e) the occurrence within 25 miles of the premises of a notifiable human infectious or
contagious disease.
For the purpose of this cover the maximum indemnity period is restated as 6 months.
Our liability under each of 6 a), b), c), d) and e) will not exceed £10,000 in any one period of
insurance.
Based on the circumstances of the claim, there needed to be a discovery of notifiable human
infectious or contagious disease either at the insured premises or an occurrence within 25
miles.
The term notifiable human infectious or contagious disease is defined as:
acute encephalitis, acute poliomyelitis, anthrax, cholera, diphtheria, dysentery, food
poisoning, leptospirosis, malaria, measles, meningitis, meningococcal septicaemia (without
meningitis), mumps, ophthalmia neonatorum, paratyphoid fever, plague, rabies, relapsing
fever, rubella, scarlet fever, smallpox, tetanus, tuberculosis, typhoid fever, typhus fever, viral
haemorrhagic fever, viral hepatitis, hepatitis A, hepatitis B, hepatitis C, whooping cough,
yellow fever.
No other disease shall be added to the above list without our prior written consent.
Having considered the list of illnesses set out, Im not persuaded this section of the policy
provides H with cover in the current circumstances as Covid 19 isnt one of the
specified illnesses. When reaching this finding Im mindful that Covid 19 wasnt something
Covea might have known about when the policy was drafted, but I dont think that changes
anything. Thats because there are other policies that do provide cover for the present
pandemic as Ms P says. These tend to be where they cover all notifiable diseases, which
are set out and updated on a Government defined list. Hs policy sets out a list of the
illnesses which are covered by the policy and there is nothing in the policy which implies that
it provides cover for other illnesses, including any new illnesses which might emerge. Rather
the policy is clear that no other disease shall be added to the defined list without Coveas
prior written consent. And I havent seen anything to suggest that Covea provided such
consent in this case.
I think the purpose and effect of the policy is to provide cover in the event of these particular
illnesses. There are many potential illnesses that the policy does not cover, including SARS
(another type of Coronavirus). I dont think the policy can or should fairly be read as covering
any and all illnesses that fall outside of the defined list set out above.
Ive also given thought to whether Covid 19 might fall under plague which is one of the
illnesses specified in the policy terms, but I dont think it does. Whilst the policy does not
define what plague is, it does have a specific medical classification and is an infectious
disease in its own right caused by a particular bacterium. Plague appears as a specified
disease in the Governments list of notifiable diseases and it is caused by the bacteriaYersinia Pestis. There are three different types of Plague - bubonic, septicaemic and
pneumonic. In contrast Covid 19 is a viral infection.
Having considered the position carefully I am satisfied that the term plague used in the
policy was intended to only cover the recognised medical illness. And whilst I appreciate its
possible that plague could be interpreted on its widest dictionary definition as an infectious
disease, affliction or pestilence, I think that doing so would render the list Covea has set
out, redundant. Thats because it would cover most of the specified illnesses set out within it,
so it would be pointless to list them as Covea has.
The fact that plague is listed separately and that Covid 19 is different in its make up and
nature to plague is, in my view, enough for me to determine that Covid 19 does not fall within
the term plague in the policy and it wouldnt be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances
to treat the policy as if it did.
So, although Hs compulsory closure was due to a public body, and there may well
have been a case of Covid-19 either at the insured premises or within 25-miles of it, I dont
think this term covers its claim because Covid-19 does not fall within the definition of
notifiable human infectious or contagious disease.
When reaching my findings about this section of this policy I can assure Ms P that Ive taken
into account what shes said about the policy extending cover to diseases included in the
Governments defined list, that this list is enshrined in law and that it should take priority over
the policy terms. But for the reasons Ive set out in detail above, I dont agree that is the
correct way to interpret things, nor that the policy term is unclear. As Ive said above, there 
are policies that refer to the Governments defined list but this isnt one of them.
Finally, I know that Ms P is unhappy that Covea didnt update their policy terms to include 
Covid 19 when it became a notifiable disease on the Governments defined list. Thats a 
commercial decision for Covea as a business and not one that I can interfere with.
Loss of revenue, including prevention of access
Ive also thought about the loss of revenue section of the policy including prevention of
access but I dont think it applies.
That section only responds when there has been damage as a result of business interruption
or prevention of access. Damage is defined as loss, destruction or damage unless
otherwise excluded. Nothing in that section extends to damage caused to the business itself
by way of a notifiable human infectious or contagious disease or disease such as Covid 19,
or even a government-imposed act. Rather they refer to physical damage.
Overall and for the reasons set out above, I dont think Covea acted unfairly by turning down
Hs claim for cover. I know this decision will be disappointing for Ms P but I hope Ive
provided her with a thorough explanation of why Hs policy doesnt offer cover in the
circumstances of its claim.
In closing, I can assure Ms P that the outcome of the Supreme Courts judgement on appeal
from the High Court in relation to business interruption insurance policies in January 2021
has had no bearing on the outcome of this particular complaint. Thats because the policy 
that is the subject of this present complaint wasnt being considered by that appeal.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Hs complaint against Covea Insurance
plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2022.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman