DRN-4018199
The complaint
Miss Z believes Hartwell Finance Limited acted irresponsibly by agreeing a hire purchase 
agreement shed applied for.
What happened
In September 2019, Miss Z was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase agreement 
with Hartwell. She paid a £500 deposit and the agreement was for £8,547 over 60 months, 
with 59 monthly repayments of £206.48 and a final payment of £216.48.
Miss Z made payments to the agreement until April 2020, when her income was affected by 
the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic. And, in July 2020, Miss Z lost her job. Hartwell offered 
her payment deferrals, and her options to return the car were discussed. However, the car 
was damaged in an accident and written off by Miss Zs insurer in January 2021. Hartwell 
received around £5,000 from the insurer, and Miss Z cleared the remaining balance on the 
agreement in June 2021.
Miss Z has complained that Hartwell didnt act responsibly when approving the finance. 
Shes said that she had a poor credit history at the time, and the monthly payments took up 
a large proportion of her income. She also said that she was forced to borrow money and to 
consolidate her debts as a result of this.
Hartwell considered this complaint, but they thought theyd done adequate checks, which 
showed that Miss Z could afford the payments. And they didnt uphold her complaint.
Miss Z wasnt happy with this, so she brought her complaint to us for investigation.
Hartwell said Miss Z had a stable income and had declared a gross income of £26,500 a 
year (around £1,766 net a month). While they didnt verify this, they completed an 
affordability check based on Miss Zs credit file, which they said showed the finance was 
affordable. However, Hartwell werent able to evidence any of the checks theyd done.
Our investigator said Hartwell hadnt been able to evidence their checks, so she couldnt say 
if they were reasonable and proportionate. She considered what Hartwell wouldve likely 
seen had reasonable and proportionate checks been done. Miss Zs bank statements from 
the time showed her income was only £1,427 a month, while her outgoings averaged £1,731 
a month. So, even if she used the £1,766 a month income Hartwell had used, the 
investigator said Miss Z didnt have enough disposable income to support the payments. 
The investigator said that Hartwell should never have approved the finance, and that they 
shouldnt be able to profit from making an unfair decision. So, she said they should refund 
everything Miss Z had paid over and above the amount they lent her, plus statutory interest.
Hartwell didnt agree with the investigator. They said that the information Miss Z provided as 
part of her evidence in this matter is unlikely to be as sophisticated as the information 
available to us, so they didnt accept that their checks (which they again confirmed they 
were unable to evidence) werent reasonable and proportionate.
Hartwell also said that, while Miss Z mayve been overdrawn and missed some smaller 
debts, she was unlikely to have missed paying her mortgage, implying that she would 
therefore have always paid the payments to them. And that she always had the option of 
returning the car if she couldnt afford the payments. Finally, they said that Miss Z had likely 
misled them as to the amount of her income when she applied for the finance so is at least 
partially responsible for events that followed.
Given this, Hartwell have asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When someone complains about irresponsible and/or unaffordable lending, there are two 
overarching questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and reasonable in all 
of the circumstances of the complaint. These are:
1. Did Hartwell complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss 
Z would be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
a. if so, did Hartwell make a fair lending decision?
b. if not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Miss Z 
could sustainably repay the borrowing?
2. Did Hartwell act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
And, if I determine that Hartwell didnt act fairly and reasonably when considering Miss Zs 
application, Ill also consider what I think is a fair way to put things right.
Did Hartwell complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss Z 
would be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
Theres no set list for what reasonable and proportionate checks are, but Id expect lenders 
to consider things such as the amount, duration, and payments of the finance being applied 
for; as well as the borrowers personal circumstances at the time of application. 
While Hartwell have explained in detail the checks theyve done, and what these showed, 
they havent provided any actual evidence of the checks themselves. So, without a copy of 
these checks, I cant be satisfied that what was actually carried out was reasonable and 
proportionate, and that no further checks were required. As such, Ive gone on to consider 
what Hartwell would likely have found had reasonable and proportionate checks been 
carried out.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Miss Z would be able to repay 
the credit in a sustainable way?
Miss Z has provided an undated recent extract from her credit file. While this is after the 
finance was taken out, Im satisfied that the historic data it shows will give a good indication 
as to what Hartwell would likely have seen at the time they did their credit search.
The credit file extract shows Miss Z had two active credit cards at the time of the application. 
Shes provided the August 2019 statement for one of these, which shows she had exceeded 
her £400 credit limit, and had a minimum payment of £27.43.The credit file extract also shows that Miss Z had a £340 default in June 2019, which 
followed a period of arrears. Im aware that Hartwell has said weve placed too much weight 
on this default, and that they think its unlikely to have shown when they did their checks in 
September 2019. However, I disagree.
A recent default can be an indicator of financial difficulties, even if it related to a smaller 
debt as Hartwell have referred to it. And, while Id also expect a June 2019 default to show 
on a credit search in September 2019, even if it didnt then the period of arrears that led up 
to the default wouldve shown. I appreciate that different lenders have different lending 
criteria, and I wouldnt automatically expect an application to be declined because a default 
is present; where a customer is unable to pay a smaller debt that results in a recent default 
Id certainly expect a financial business to do further checks before agreeing to lend.
Miss Z has also provided bank statements for two accounts, for the periods 1 June to 2 
September 2019 and 23 May to 22 August 2019 respectively. As the finance agreement 
came into force on 16 September 2019, and while I wouldnt necessarily have expected 
Hartwell to ask for bank statements, I think the bank statements for the three months prior to 
the agreement give a good indication of what Hartwell would likely have discovered if theyd 
asked about Miss Zs income and expenditure at the time.
The bank statements show that Miss Z had an average income of £1,427 a month, and an 
average expenditure of £1,415 a month. This expenditure is for existing credit commitments, 
housing costs, household bills, car tax, insurance, and £24 a month worth of subscriptions. 
This would leave Miss Z with just £12 a month to cover the £206 payment to Hartwell, plus 
food, clothing, petrol etc.
The bank statements also show that Miss Z took out a £5,000 loan with a high interest loan 
provider in July 2019 and was using this to fund her general outgoings. This type of loan 
typically has a deferred first payments, and the bank statements (and therefore the monthly 
expenditure figure shown above) dont include any payments to this loan.
Finally, the bank statements show that Miss Zs second account was permanently overdrawn 
by around £500. 
Hartwell have raised the issue that Miss Z misled them as to the amount of her income. And 
they therefore think she is partially responsible for what happened. While it is the case that 
Miss Z declared an income which Hartwell calculated to be £1,766 a month, it was their 
responsibility to validate this. Which they didnt do as part of any reasonable affordability 
calculation.
However, for fairness, Ive also considered Miss Zs affordability based on the £1,766 
income Hartwell used. Deducting her regular monthly outgoings (not including the £24 she 
paid for regular subscriptions), this would leave her with a disposable income of £363 a 
month. Which would leave her with £157 a month after paying Hartwell to pay for food, 
clothing, petrol etc., as well as the payment to the loan she took out in July 2019. 
While I dont know what the payment would be, without any interest Miss Z would have to 
pay £83 a month over five years just to repay the amount she borrowed. And, given the high 
interest nature of the loan, the actual payment could be conceivably double this i.e. more 
than her disposable income after paying her regular outgoings and Hartwell.As such, Im satisfied that, had Hartwell carried out reasonable and proportionate checks, 
then they wouldve seen that Miss Z was unable to sustainably afford their payments, and 
the finance should not have been approved. So, I think that Hartwell need to do something to 
put things right.
Did Hartwell act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I havent seen anything else to make me think Hartwell acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
some other way.
Putting things right
In this instance, Miss Z has repaid the finance (albeit mainly through an insurance claim) and 
there is no outstanding balance. As Hartwell lent her £8,547, its only reasonable that they 
should be able to retain this amount. However, they shouldnt be able to profit from making 
an unfair lending decision. So, they should:
refund all payments received, over and above the £8,547 amount of the finance, to 
Miss Z;
apply 8% simple yearly interest on this refund, calculated from the date Miss Z made 
the payments to the date of the refund ; and
remove any adverse entries relating to this agreement from Miss Zs credit file.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Hartwell to take off tax from this interest. Hartwell must 
give Miss Z a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I uphold Miss Zs complaint. And Hartwell Finance Limited 
must follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2023.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman