DRN-2940329
Complaint
Mr T has complained about a hire-purchase agreement that Blue Motor Finance Ltd (BMF) 
entered into with him. Hes said the agreement was unaffordable for him as he already had a 
car on finance which he was making payments to. Hes also said that he wasnt told the 
terms and conditions of the agreement required him to be the registered keeper for the 
vehicle purchased.
  
Background
In October 2018, Mr T entered into a hire purchase agreement for a used car. The entire 
purchase price of £9,000.00 was funded by a hire-purchase loan from BMF. The loan had an 
annual percentage rate (APR) of 17.85% and this means that the total amount of 
£13,422.62 was due to be repaid in 60 monthly instalments of £217.42 and a final monthly 
instalment of £367.42. 
In May 2019, BMF issued a notification stating its intention to terminate the agreement. And 
in August 2019 BMF issued a notice of default. I understand this was because Mr T wasnt 
the registered keeper of the vehicle and the terms and conditions of the agreement required 
him to be the registered keeper. Mr T said he wasnt informed of this requirement and this 
prompted his initial complaint.  
BMF didnt uphold Mr Ts complaint. It said that it contacted the dealer who sold him the 
vehicle and it confirmed Mr T was given the V5 document to complete himself and 
complimentary insurance for a month, which would only have been possible if he was the 
registered keeper of the vehicle. Mr T was dissatisfied at BMFs response and referred the 
complaint to our service. He also said the finance was unaffordable at this point.
Mr Ts complaint was considered by one of our investigators. She didnt think the checks 
BMF carried out before providing the finance were reasonable and proportionate and such 
checks would have shown Mr T couldnt afford to make the monthly payments. She was also 
persuaded the dealer didnt tell Mr T about the need to be the registered keeper for the 
vehicle. So she recommended the complaint should be upheld. BMF disagreed with our 
investigator and the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Taking into account the relevant rules, guidance and law, and considering the main reasons 
for Mr Ts complaint, I think there are two overarching questions that I needed to consider in 
order to decide what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. These 
questions are:
Did BMF complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr T 
would be able to make his repayments in a sustainable way?
oIf so, was a fair lending decision made?
oIf not, would those checks have shown that Mr T wouldve been able to do 
so?
Did BMF act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr T in some other way?
Ill proceed to consider the first of the overarching questions.
Did BMF complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr T would be 
able to make his repayments in a sustainable way?
The regulations in place when BMF lent to Mr T required it to carry out a reasonable 
assessment of whether Mr T could afford to make his repayments in a sustainable manner. 
This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability check.
Any affordability checks have to be borrower-focused  so BMF had to think about whether 
repaying the credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr T. In 
other words, it wasnt enough for BMF to think only about the likelihood that it would get its 
money back without considering the impact of repayment on Mr T himself.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the credit application. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the borrower 
(e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability 
or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. Even for the 
same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different loan applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check generally ought to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to repay a 
higher amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); and
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for a longer 
period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
should be for a given credit application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability, any foreseeable changes in future circumstances, or any substantial 
time gaps between loans. Ive thought about all the relevant factors in this case.
BMFs decision not to uphold Mr Ts complaint appears to based on Mr Ts application 
meeting the acceptance criteria of its search engine. BMF says that it is only if any concerns 
were triggered that further information would be requested. 
BMF says its application engine showed Mr T exhibited good credit management showing a 
well-paid existing hire purchase agreement, good available credit on existing credit cards 
and no missed payments over the range of accounts held. It also believes there was further 
evidence of affordability as Mr T said he was living with parents which suggested that he had 
reduced outgoings. Ive thought about what BMF has said. While it has told us about the credit check it carried 
out and has offered some comments on what it says it saw at the time, it hasnt provided us 
with the results of the credit check. More importantly Im unsure what a credit check on its 
own, in these circumstances, could possibly have told BMF about Mr Ts ability to repay just 
over £13,000.00 at over £200 a month. Mr T might have been making payments to existing 
credit. But this doesnt in itself mean he had the disposable income to make the repayments 
to this agreement as and when they fell due. 
BMF almost presents it as fact that Mr T being a young adult living with parents and meeting 
his credit commitments means the agreement was affordable. But I disagree and I dont 
understand how it could possibly have reached this conclusion  notwithstanding the 
application having been accepted by its search engine  without taking any steps to verify  
Mr Ts monthly income and his employment.
In the absence of anything else to indicate that BMF took any further steps to ascertain      
Mr Ts monthly income or regular expenditure, I find that BMF did not carry out reasonable 
and proportionate checks before reaching the conclusion the agreement was affordable for 
Mr T.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks more likely than not have shown that Mr T was 
able to sustainably make the repayments to this agreement?
As proportionate checks werent carried out before this agreement was provided, I cant say 
for sure what they wouldve shown. So I need to decide whether it is more likely than not that 
a proportionate check would have told BMF that it was unfair to enter into this agreement 
with Mr T. 
Mr T has provided us with evidence of his financial circumstances at the time he applied for 
the finance. Of course, I accept different checks might show different things. And just 
because something shows up in the information Mr T has provided, it doesnt mean it 
wouldve shown up in any checks BMF mightve carried out. But in the absence of anything 
else from BMF showing what this information would have shown, I think its perfectly fair and 
reasonable to place considerable weight on it as an indication of what Mr Ts financial 
circumstances were more likely than not to have been at the time.
Mr Ts bank statements show that his income was at best around £1,000.00, the bulk of 
which he received as a result of being a contractor. Its clear that the monthly payments for 
the finance alone would have swallowed up a significant portion of Mr Ts monthly income. 
And this is without even taking into account the payments Mr T had to make to the existing 
hire-purchase agreement, which BMF was aware of as it formed part of the reason why it 
decided to lend here.
BMF has consistently maintained that it considered the vehicle was for Mr Ts use. So it 
would also have been aware that Mr Ts age and the car sold meant that hed also be faced 
with a significant outlay for insurance. Although BMF wouldnt have known exactly how much 
Mr Ts insurance premium would be, it would have known the insurance group of the vehicle 
being financed and that it was a condition of the finance agreement as well as a legal 
requirement for Mr T to ensure the vehicle was insured. And when the running costs of the 
vehicle are added to the finance and insurance costs, for both vehicles (there was no 
indication that this was a replacement vehicle for Mr T), its clear that Mr T didnt have 
enough funds to meet the cost of this additional vehicle in a sustainable manner. This isnt 
even taking into account Mr Ts other credit commitments and living costs either.So in these circumstances, I find that reasonable and proportionate checks would more likely 
than not have alerted BMF to the fact that Mr T wasnt able to make the payments to this 
agreement without experiencing financial difficulty and/or borrowing further. And so it follows 
that he wasnt in any sort of financial position to sustainably make the repayments to this 
agreement.     
Did BMF act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr T in some other way?
Mr T has says he wasnt told it was a requirement of the finance agreement for him to be the 
registered keeper of the vehicle. Im mindful that the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) 
includes provisions regarding the information a lender (or its agent on its behalf) is required 
to provide to a borrower and how it needs to be presented. 
In October 2018, when BMF provided this agreement to Mr T, CONC 4.2.5R said:   
Pre-contractual adequate explanations
(1) Before making a regulated credit agreement the firm must:
(a) provide the customer with an adequate explanation of the matters referred to in 
(2) in order to place the customer in a position to assess whether the agreement is 
adapted to the customer's needs and financial situation;
(b) advise the customer:
(i) to consider the information which is required to be disclosed under section 
55 of the CCA; and
(ii) where the information is disclosed in person, that the customer is able to 
take it away;
(c) provide the customer with an opportunity to ask questions about the agreement; 
and
(d) advise the customer how to ask the firm for further information and explanation.
[Note: section 55A(1) of CCA]
(2) The matters referred to in (1)(a) are:
(a) the features of the agreement which may make the credit to be provided under 
the agreement unsuitable for particular types of use;
(b) how much the customer will have to pay periodically and, where the amount can 
be determined, in total under the agreement;
(c)the features of the agreement which may operate in a manner which would 
have a significant adverse effect on the customer in a way which 
the customer is unlikely to foresee; [my emphasis]
(d) the principal consequences for the customer arising from a failure to make 
payments under the agreement at the times required by the agreement including, 
where applicable and depending upon the type and amount of credit and the 
circumstances of the customer:
(i) the total cost of the debt growing;(ii) incurring any default charges or interest for late or missed payment or 
under-payment;
(iii) impaired credit rating and its effect on future access to or cost of credit;
(iv) legal proceedings, including reference to charging orders (or, in Scotland, 
inhibitions), and to the associated costs of such proceedings;
(v) repossession of the customer's home or other property; and
(vi) where an article is taken in pawn, that the article might be sold, if not 
redeemed; and
(e) the effect of the exercise of any right to withdraw from the agreement and how 
and when this right may be exercised.
[Note: section 55A(2) of CCA and paragraph 3.13 of ILG]
(3) The adequate explanation and advice in (1) may be given orally or in writing, except 
where (4) applies.
[Note: section 55A(3) of CCA]
(4) Where the matters in (2)(a), (b) or (e) are given orally or to the customer in person, 
the explanation of the matters in (2)(c) and (d) and the advice required in (1)(b) must 
be given orally to the customer.
[Note: section 55A(4) of CCA]
BMF has relied on the terms and conditions of the agreement to justify its decision to 
terminate the Mr Ts agreement. However, Mr T says that not only was he not told about this 
requirement but the dealer (BMFs agent) knew that he would be paying for the car for 
someone else and that theyd be the registered keeper.
The first thing to say is that it isnt in dispute that it was a requirement of the terms and 
conditions of Mr Ts agreement for him to have been the registered keeper of the vehicle. 
And it also isnt in dispute that Mr T not being the registered keeper permitted BMF to end 
the agreement and take possession of the vehicle. But the question I have to consider here 
is whether BMF and/or its agent on its behalf acted fairly and reasonably by meeting its 
obligation to adequately explain the need for Mr T to be the registered keeper of the vehicle.
BMF initially said that it spoke to the agent about this matter and it confirmed Mr T had 
completed the V5 document himself and was provided with complimentary insurance for one 
month. BMF also says that Mr T would only have been able to have been provided with this 
complementary cover if he was the registered keeper of the vehicle. It also said that the 
registered keeper of the vehicle had changed in May 2019 and it believes this is when Mr T 
changed the registered keeper to the person who the vehicle was purchased for. We asked 
BMF to provide copies of the V5 document and the insurance cover to verify what it told us. 
For whatever reason, it has been either unable or unwilling to provide this documentation to 
us. So weve not been able to verify BMFs claims.
On the other hand, Mr T says he was never recorded as the registered keeper of the vehicle 
and he would never have gone ahead with the purchase had this term been made clear to 
him. Weve also spoken to the dealership which says it asked Mr T to complete the details of 
the registered keeper on the V5 document, which it then passed on to the relevant 
authorities. It also said that it had no record of Mr T having been provided with 
complimentary insurance on its database.
Ive thought about the representations the parties have made on this matter. I dont know 
what was discussed at the time. Only those who were present do. The lack of the V5 
document here, which weve asked the parties to provide us with, doesnt help matters 
either. That said, I am required to make a determination based on what I think is more likely than not to have happened. So what I have to do here is look at the evidence and 
information I do have and form a view on what I think is more likely than not the case. 
Im mindful that while the dealership has said Mr T was asked to complete the V5 document 
it hasnt said that he was recorded as the registered keeper. Equally, it has no record of 
arranging the complimentary insurance cover BMF has referred to. Finally, while BMF says 
that it believes the registered keeper of the vehicle was changed in May 2019 and this is 
when it believes Mr T transferred registration from himself to the person using the vehicle, it 
appears as though someone other than Mr T recovered the vehicle when it was impounded 
in April 2019. And the notes from the pound suggest the vehicle was returned to the 
registered keeper at this stage. 
Given it doesnt appear to be in dispute Mr T wasnt the person who collected the vehicle 
from the pound, this also points to Mr T not having been recorded as the registered keeper 
when the vehicle was sold either. Bearing in mind all of this, I think it is more likely than not 
Mr T wasnt recorded as the registered keeper of the vehicle at the time the finance was 
agreed.    
For the sake of completeness, Id also point out that even if the change in registered keeper 
did take place after October 2018, (I want to be clear in saying thats not the finding I make 
here) all of the available evidence suggests BMFs agent knew that someone other than    
Mr T would be the main driver of the vehicle. Bearing this in mind, I think that BMFs agent 
ought to have realised that the requirement, in the terms and conditions, that Mr T was the 
registered keeper of vehicle for the duration of the agreement would be of greater 
significance to him. And, in my view, in order to have acted fairly and reasonably here, 
BMFs agent will have needed to have done more to adequately explain this given it ought to 
have realised that this was a feature of the agreement which may have operated in a way 
which would have a significant adverse effect on Mr T, which he is unlikely to have foreseen. 
I cant see that BMFs agent took any additional steps at all to highlight this requirement to 
Mr T. So even if Mr T was recorded as the registered keeper at the time of the sale, I, in any 
event find that BMFs agent didnt adequately explain, in a fair and reasonable way, a feature 
of the agreement which may have operated in a way which would have a significant adverse 
effect on Mr T, which he is unlikely to have foreseen. And so any breach of this condition is 
more likely than not to have occurred as a result of BMFs agents failure to act fairly and 
reasonably towards Mr T in the first place. And so BMF acted unfairly and unreasonably 
towards Mr T in some other way    
Conclusions
Overall and having thought about the two overarching questions, set out on page 2 of this 
decision, I find that
BMF didnt complete reasonable and proportionate checks on Mr T to satisfy itself 
that he was able to make the payments to this agreement; 
reasonable and proportionate checks would more likely than not have shown Mr T 
was unable to sustainably make the repayments to this hire purchase agreement;
BMF did act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way towards Mr T; 
The above findings leave me reaching the overall conclusion that BMF didnt act fairly and 
reasonably when it entered into this hire purchase agreement with Mr T.Did Mr T lose out as a result of BMFs shortcomings?
Ive considered whether Mr T suffered adverse consequences as a result of BMF unfairly 
entering into this hire purchase agreement with him. The agreement was terminated in or 
around November 2019. BMF chose not to take possession of the vehicle from the 
registered keeper at the time and instead demanded the entire amount due under the 
agreement at this stage. Given Mr T was being asked to pay this entire amount when the 
repayments were in any event unaffordable - I think Mr T lost out.
So overall and having thought about everything provided and whats fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of this case, I find that Mr T lost out because BMF unfairly entered into 
a hire purchase agreement, which it ought to have realised was unaffordable for him, with 
him. And this means I think that BMF needs to put things right.    
Fair compensation  what BMF needs to do put things right for Mr T
Ive thought about what amounts to fair compensation in this case. Where I find that a 
business has done something wrong, Id normally expect that business  in so far as is 
reasonably practicable  to put the consumer in the position they would be in now if that 
wrong hadnt taken place. In essence, in this case, this would mean BMF putting Mr T in the 
position hed now be in if the agreement hadnt been entered into in the first place.
But when it comes to complaints about irresponsible lending this isnt straightforward. Mr T 
did enter into the agreement and was, at least, given custody of the car in question. So, in 
these circumstances, I cant undo whats already been done. And its simply not possible to 
put Mr T back in the position he would be in if he hadnt been sold the car in the first place.
As this is the case, I have to think about some other way of putting things right in a fair and 
reasonable way bearing in mind all the circumstances of the case. Our website sets out the 
main things we consider when looking at putting things right in cases where we conclude 
that a lender did something wrong in irresponsible/unaffordable lending complaints. 
We typically say the borrower should repay the amount lent and the lender refunds any 
interest, fees and charges the borrower paid. This is because the borrower will have had the 
benefit of the credit they were provided with and its usually the extra paid over and above 
this  any interest fees and charges  that will have caused the consumer to lose out. 
So, in this case, this would mean Mr T paying back the £9,000.00 originally lent. But I dont 
think that a refund of the interest fees and charges is appropriate here. It appears as though 
BMF has taken a conscious decision not to recover the car from the registered keeper in 
circumstances where it may have a right to do so and a settlement on this basis would mean 
Mr T paying the full amount lent for a car in circumstances where he shouldnt have been 
lent to and BMF hasnt taken reasonable steps to limit the loss. 
Ive therefore given careful thought to how else it might be fair and reasonable to put things 
right for Mr T bearing in mind he was provided with a hire-purchase agreement, rather than 
cash here. 
In considering this matter Im mindful that Ive found BMF acted unfairly or reasonably 
towards Mr T in some other way through its agent failing to adequately explain that the terms 
and conditions required him to be the registered keeper of the vehicle, or the agreement 
could be ended. I think that had BMF acted fairly and reasonably in relation to this matter,  
Mr T wouldnt have bought the vehicle in the first place. I say this because it is clear he was 
never intending to keep this vehicle.So Im satisfied that BMF not being able to limit its losses by being unable, or choosing not 
to, take possession of the vehicle was a reasonably foreseeable consequence of its agent 
failing to act fairly and reasonably towards Mr T when entering into the hire purchase 
agreement. As this is the case, I dont think that BMFs unwillingness or inability to take 
possession of the vehicle should limit its liability here and should increase the amount Mr T 
now has to pay.     
Bearing all of this in mind, I think that it would be fair and reasonable for BMF to waive all 
remaining outstanding amounts on Mr Ts balance.
Mr Ts credit file
Generally speaking, Id expect a lender to remove any adverse information recorded on a 
consumers credit file as a result of the interest and charges on any credit they shouldnt 
have been given. But Im mindful that the payments Mr T did make will not have been 
enough to repay the amount he was lent. So he will be having an amount written off.
So having carefully thought about everything, I think that BMF should amend Mr Ts credit 
file to reflect that an amount equivalent to the purchase price of £9,000 minus the payments 
Mr T made was written off. And the default should be amended to reflect this. 
All of this means BMF should put things right in the following way:
Write-off all amounts outstanding under Mr Ts agreement;
amend the default on Mr Ts credit file so that his credit reflects that an amount 
equivalent to the purchase price of £9,000 minus the payments made was written off.    
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ts complaint. Blue Motor Finance Ltd 
should put things right in the way that Ive set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 August 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman