DRN-3801090
The complaint
Mr C complains that Nationwide Building Society rejected an ISA application because his 
identification (ID) was not provided, and did not advise Mr C it had done this.
What happened
Mr C applied for a help to buy ISA in November 2019. His application was processed on 
1 December 2019. Mr C has explained that his intention was to open the ISA to ensure he 
could take advantage of the particular benefits it offered, but that he had never intended to 
pay any funds into it until two years later when he knew he would be receiving some money.
On 17 January 2020 Nationwide emailed Mr C to say that it needed to see some extra 
identification before it could finish opening the ISA. This email asked Mr C to take ID to his 
nearest branch or to call if he had any questions. This email did not give a deadline when ID 
needed to be provided by. Mr C says that as no deadline was given, and due to his particular 
personal circumstances, he did not appreciate the significance of the email. His 
understanding was that he could provide ID at any stage to complete the opening of the 
account but that there was no urgent need for this.
When Nationwide did not receive any ID documents from Mr C within a month, it cancelled 
the ISA application, so the account was not opened.
In January 2022 Mr C tried to pay funds into the ISA, but was told that it had not been 
opened. The help to buy ISA was no longer available at that stage, so Mr C could not open a 
new one. Mr C was unhappy with what had happened, so he raised a complaint. 
Nationwide looked into what had happened but did not think it had done anything wrong. It 
said that its process at the time was to send one email requesting ID and that it had followed 
that process. Nationwide acknowledged that the email didnt include a deadline, and said it 
would ensure feedback about this and about the application process overall was shared 
internally. Nationwide has since said that other emails would have been sent to Mr C, but 
has been unable to provide evidence of those emails.
Mr C remained unhappy, so he referred his complaint to us. He explained that he feels hes 
lost out on the benefits of the help to buy ISA because of what has happened and would like 
to be compensated for that. Mr C is also concerned that Nationwides application process 
indirectly discriminates against people with some disabilities  such as autism and ADHD.
One of our Investigators looked into what had happened. Ultimately, they agreed that 
Nationwides correspondence about the need for ID could have been better, and so 
recommended that Nationwide pay Mr C £100 to recognise the poor service provided. But 
they didnt think that Mr C has lost out financially and so did not think any further award or 
compensation was warranted. 
Neither Mr C nor Nationwide agreed with the Investigators findings, so the complaint has 
been referred to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same conclusions as our Investigator, and for largely the 
same reasons. 
Mr C is autistic, he has also been diagnosed with ADHD, and he says these conditions mean 
that for him, and other people like him, Nationwides application process makes it particularly 
difficult to open an account. Mr C has referred to the Equality Act 2010, specifically stating 
that he feels Nationwide has indirectly discriminated against those who live with similar 
conditions to him.
For clarity, as a service, its not our role to say whether a business has breached the 
Equality Act 2010 or discriminated against its customer  thats for the courts to do. Were an 
informal alternative to the courts and decide complaints on a fair and reasonable basis. For 
the purpose of this decision, Ive assumed that Mr C is disabled as defined by the Act and 
the Act is a relevant consideration when deciding this complaint, so Ive taken that legislation 
and what it says about how businesses should treat consumers into account when 
considering his complaint and whether Nationwide has acted fairly and reasonably here.
Ive looked carefully at what Mr C was told when he applied for his ISA and in the email he 
was then sent regarding the ID requirements. And I agree with our Investigator that these 
communications did not make it clear that there was a specific timeframe in which ID had to 
be provided. I also note that Nationwide has not provided any evidence that it sent either 
follow up correspondence chasing the ID or any notification that it was going to cancel the 
ISA application. I acknowledge that Mr C did not contact Nationwide again for two years, but 
even if, for example, he had tried to provide ID only two months after applying for the 
account he would still have been too late. 
So I dont think Nationwide did make it clear what would happen if ID wasnt provided, and 
its clear to me that when Mr C discovered what had happened this will have caused him 
some upset and inconvenience. So I think compensation is warranted here. But I dont think 
that compensation needs to include any amount to cover the loss of potential benefits of the 
help to buy ISA. I say this because Mr C had not previously paid any funds into the ISA, and 
so at the point when he discovered it hadnt been opened he had not experienced any 
financial loss.
The only loss we might consider here is potential future loss of benefits, but at the point Mr C 
discovered the ISA had not been opened other ISA products were openly available which 
offered similar benefits. So he could have invested his funds in one of those other products 
at that stage. There is therefore no actual financial loss caused by Nationwides poor service 
here.
With this in mind Im satisfied that an award purely for the upset and inconvenience is 
appropriate, and that award is modest because Mr Cs overall position wasnt changed by 
what happened here. He was still able to invest his money in a similar scheme when the 
issue came to light and had not lost out on any benefits up to that point as he had not put 
any funds into the ISA. So Im satisfied that the award of £100 recommended by our 
investigator is reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint.
Regarding whether Nationwides process is specifically discriminatory, I think that from the 
correspondence sent regarding the ID requirements it would not have been clear to any 
customer, regardless of disability, that a deadline for provision of those documents was in place. So I dont think I could fairly say that Mr C was disproportionately or unfairly impacted 
because of his medical conditions; its more that the communication was generally poor 
regarding this issue, and this is something that would likely affect all customers. 
I appreciate that Mr C may still be disappointed with my findings here, but I hope he will at 
least feel that his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Nationwide Building Society should put things right by paying Mr C 
£100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2023.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman