DRN-3112454
The complaint
Mr G complains about the total loss valuation of his car by Advantage Insurance Company 
Limited (Advantage) following an accident.
  
What happened
Mr G insured his car with Advantage. On 4 January 2021 Mr Gs car was damaged overnight 
whilst parked up. He reported this to Advantage and made a claim on his policy. 
 
Advantage decided that it was not economical to repair the car and valued Mr Gs car at 
£1,454. They say that this was the market value of the car immediately before the loss. They 
then deducted £80 for pre-existing damage, a £206.10 retention fee if Mr G kept the car, and 
the £95 policy excess. Mr G was paid a total of £1,072.90.
Mr G was not happy with this as he said it was not enough for him to purchase a new car. 
He valued his car at around £3,000 and complained to Advantage. Advantage says that they 
used the figures from standard industry valuation guides to come to their valuation, and fairly 
deducted an amount for pre-existing damage based on their engineers report. They did not 
agree to amend their valuation.
Mr G then complained to this service. Our investigator looked into the matter and concluded 
that Advantage had made a slight error in their calculation of the valuation of the car 
amounting to £17. He also didnt think it fair to deduct £80 for minor pre-existing damage due 
to the cars age. He said that Advantage should pay Mr G an additional £97.
Advantage accepted our investigators view, but Mr G didnt as he thought the valuation was 
too low and he did not agree with the deductions made. He asked for the matter to be looked 
at by an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The role of this service in valuation complaints, is not to decide on the value of a vehicle, but 
to look at whether the insurer has reached a reasonable valuation. In assessing whether a 
reasonable offer has been made, we obtain our own valuations using tools on standard 
industry databases. These are used for valuing second hand vehicles and are based on 
nationwide research and likely sales figures. If the insurers valuation comes within our range 
of valuations, we would usually consider it to be fair. 
Ive looked at Mr Gs policy of insurance. This says that Advantage will pay for damage to a 
car up to the market value. Market value is defined as the cost of replacing your car in the 
United Kingdom at the time the loss or damage occurred with one of the same make, model, 
age and condition. 
I have checked the value of the car on 4 January 2021 with the valuation tools on the three 
standard industry databases. One values it at £1,014, another at £1,509 and the third at 
£1,470. As is our usual practice, I have disregarded the valuation of £1,014 as it is 
significantly different to the other two. I therefore think a fair valuation would be between 
£1,470 and £1,509.
Ive looked at the valuations produced by Advantage and can see that they have taken the 
average of valuations from the same two databases. However, one of the valuations was 
obtained for a date after the date of the loss. As the policy says they will use the value at 
the time of loss or damage I think it fair to use the valuation range we have obtained for 4 
January 2021. I would therefore expect the valuation to be within our range of values and 
think it fair for Advantage to increase their valuation to £1,470. Our investigator suggested 
this represented an additional figure of £17 although I think it should be £16 based on the 
value Advantage calculated of £1,454. However, as the difference is minimal and Advantage 
accepted our investigators view, I intend to leave the additional sum payable at £17.
Ive also considered whether it was fair for Advantage to reduce the valuation by £80 for pre-
existing damage. Whilst it might be reasonable to reduce the value of a new car for minor 
damage, it isnt always reasonable to reduce the value of older cars. This is because older 
cars will be expected to have a certain amount of minor damage due to wear and tear and 
this will often not affect the market value. I have looked at Advantages photos of the 
damage and can see minor damage to the rear bumper and rear off side wheel arch. Im 
satisfied that this damage is consistent with the age of the car and do not think it reasonable 
for Advantage to make a deduction for it.
Mr G is also unhappy that the sum awarded to him was reduced by £206.10 for retention. 
This sum is only deducted if Mr G were to keep the car. This sum reflects the salvage value 
that Advantage could be expected to get for the car. Advantage have provided confirmation 
of the calculation and having looked at this I consider it to reasonable. If Mr G keeps the car, 
Advantage would lose the salvage value and Mr G would receive the full market value and 
the car. I am therefore satisfied that £206.10 should be deducted from the claim if Mr G 
keeps the car. 
Advantage have also deducted £95 for the policy excess. Most insurance policies will have 
an excess and this is the first part of a claim that the consumer has to pay. The amount of 
the excess is agreed when the policy is taken out. I can see from Mr Gs insurance policy 
that his excess was £95 and it is reasonable for Advantage to deduct this sum from the 
amount payable. 
 
I know that Mr G will be disappointed by my decision but I hope he understands my reasons 
for it. I understand that Mr G has already been paid the sum of £1,072.90 and therefore an 
additional sum of £97 is due.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Gs complaint and require Advantage Insurance 
Company Limited to pay Mr G the sum of £97, plus interest at 8% from the date the sum of 
£1,072.90 was paid to the date the additional sum is paid. 
If Advantage Insurance Company Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr G how much its taken off. 
It should also give Mr G a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or reject my decision before 18 November 2021.
 
Elizabeth Middleton
Ombudsman