DRN-2870050
The complaint
Miss M is unhappy with the amount she paid for her Gresham Insurance Company Limited 
home insurance policy.
  
What happened
The background to this complaint isnt in dispute, so Ill summarise the key points.
Miss M has held home insurance with Gresham since 2011 and renewed it annually.
Prior to the 2021 renewal, Miss M got in touch with Gresham as her premium had 
increased. Gresham was able to move Miss M to a new policy which cost around 
£400 less  a reduction of around 50%. Miss M asked whether she could have paid a 
reduced premium earlier.
Gresham said the new policy began in 2016 and Miss M had been told about it in her 
renewal documents. It accepted it had spoken to Miss M in 2019 and hadnt told her 
about the new policy  but it thought the renewal documents had been clear.
Our investigator considered Gresham had acted fairly until the 2019 call. Because 
Miss M had asked whether her premium could be reduced, he thought Gresham 
should have told her about the new policy. If it had done so  as it did in 2021  he 
thought it was likely Miss M would have reduced her premium earlier, saving around 
£500. Miss M accepted this was a fair outcome to her complaint.
Gresham disagreed and said it didnt offer the new policy during the call because:
oit provides a non-advisory service
othere was no guarantee the premium would have been cheaper
othe renewal documents were clear a new policy was available
oMiss M didnt question the policy cover  only the premium
oMiss M didnt ask for a quote for the new policy
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the view the investigator reached, for the following reasons:
The renewal documents from 2016 say on the first page that Gresham has recently 
launched a new policy. And amongst other potential benefits, it may reduce the cost. 
Im satisfied Gresham made it clear to Miss M there was a new policy in 2016  and it 
may be cheaper for her  so I think it acted fairly at that point.
When Miss M called in 2019, she questioned whether the premium could be reduced. 
Gresham told her it was too late because she had recently accepted a renewal. It 
didnt let her know about the new policy or mention that it might be cheaper for her.
I accept Gresham doesnt offer advice. But I dont think it would have amounted to 
giving advice to remind her what the renewal documents said  and give her the 
option to see if the new policy would be cheaper for her.
Gresham has placed a lot of weight on what Miss M said  that she didnt question 
the policy cover or specifically ask for a quote on the new policy. But I dont think she 
needed to do either of these things. It was clear during the call that Miss M was 
actively seeking to reduce her premium and wasnt aware of the new policy.
Whilst Im satisfied the policy documents from 2016 were clear, Greshams duty to 
provide information thats clear, fair and not misleading includes subsequent calls. 
Im not persuaded it met that duty as it gave Miss M the impression there were no 
options to reduce her premium  when its accepted an option was available.
When a new quote was created in 2021, it reduced Miss Ms premium by around 
50%. Gresham says theres no guarantee a quote in 2019 would have provided a 
similar reduction. But Gresham hasnt shown what the quote would have been. And 
Im not aware of any significant changes to the policy or Greshams view on risk in 
that time which might have caused it to differ greatly. So on balance Im satisfied its 
likely the reduction would have been around 50% in 2019 and 2020 as well.
In 2019 Miss M was interested in reducing her premium. Had she been offered the 
opportunity to explore that  and discovered a reduction in the order of 50%  Im 
satisfied she would likely have gone ahead with it. Bearing in mind the premiums she 
paid in 2019 and 2020, and the admin fee that would have been due in 2019, overall 
I agree with the investigator that £500 is a fair and pragmatic estimate of the amount 
she would likely have saved. So thats what Gresham should pay now.
Ive considered the premiums Gresham charged from 2011 to 2019. Overall there 
was an increase, although not a significant or unusual one over such a timescale. Im 
satisfied Gresham acted fairly when applying these premium increases.
  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
For the reasons above, I require Gresham Insurance Company Limited to pay £500.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 July 2021.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman