DRN-3273893
The complaint
Mr B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC, whilst having initially refunded him a disputed 
payment during its chargeback process, unfairly took the money back out of his account at 
the conclusion. 
What happened
Mr B made an online purchase of goods valued at £449 from a business Ill refer to as X. 
These goods were due to be delivered to Mr Bs address, but they never arrived.
Mr B complained to X, but it didnt offer a refund. So Mr B approached Barclays and asked it 
to help get his money back under the chargeback process.
Barclays agreed to try and help him, and issued a temporary refund for the price of the 
goods while it tried to obtain a refund from Xs bank.
But the chargeback was challenged and ultimately refused by Xs bank, so Barclays took 
back the temporary refund it had given Mr B, and said there was nothing more it could do to 
help.
Mr B didnt agree, so called Barclays to complain. Barclays confirmed on the call that it had 
gone as far as it could with the chargeback process, and wasnt able to force X to refund the 
money. And it wrote to Mr B to confirm this in its final response letter.
Mr B referred his complaint to our service, but our investigator didnt uphold it. He said he 
thought Barclays had done what it could to get his money refunded and had followed the 
correct guidelines.
Mr B didnt think it was fair because he thought the evidence showed X shouldve refunded 
him. As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I need to make clear that my decision isnt a reflection of the service that Mr B 
received from X, and I can fully understand his frustration and anger at not receiving an item 
that hes paid for. But that is not what we can look at in respect of his dispute against 
Barclays. I must focus solely on the way Barclays handled the chargeback process and 
establish whether it followed the rules, and whether Barclays treated Mr B fairly.
And having done so, I agree with the opinion of the investigator. Ill explain why.
The chargeback process;
To begin with I think it might be helpful if I explain what a chargeback scheme is, and how it
works. A chargeback is where a consumer disputes a transaction and asks the card provider
- Barclays in Mr Bs case - to claim the money back from the bank account of the business
that provided, or failed to provide, the goods or service. A chargeback isnt a legal right, but 
is a voluntary scheme operated by some card providers, including VISA. There are a strict 
set of rules by which the bank must abide, and a bank doesnt have to raise a chargeback 
or, if it is defended, to continue to the arbitration stage, if it looks clear to them that the claim 
has little chance of being successful. Arbitration is the final stage of the process and it is 
when the card scheme (VISA) make a final decision on whether the chargeback rules were 
followed.
As Ive said, a bank doesnt have to raise a chargeback or to continue to the arbitration 
stage, if it looks clear to them that the claim has little chance of being successful. And in Mr 
Bs case, X defended the transaction and provided evidence that it said supported its case - 
namely the goods purchased were delivered to the address that Mr B provided as part of the 
ordering process, and it had proof of delivery from the courier company. 
Now I understand Mr B disputes this, but given the evidence that X provided I believe it 
unlikely that Barclays would have been successful at arbitration. And as such I have 
decided, on balance, the decision to not take the chargeback further was not unreasonable. 
As Ive said, I have some sympathy for Mr B. I can fully understand his anger and upset as 
he feels his money was taken and hes not been given the goods hes paid for. This, 
however distressing, doesnt necessarily mean that Barclays has made any error in trying to 
recover his money, or treated Mr B unfairly in the way it went about things. So Im satisfied 
that Barclays dont need to do anything more in this case.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman