DRN-3702903
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy with the settlement Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) offered for his claim 
under his buildings insurance following an escape of water.
What happened
Mr G suffered an escape of water which meant he couldnt use his bathroom. He moved in 
with a friend, who Ill call Ms H, because she had the appropriate aid equipment he needed.
Mr G claimed under his policy and Aviva accepted it. However, the parties disagreed about 
the way the claim should be settled. Mr G wanted a change to the layout and furnishings in 
his bathroom. Aviva said that would be betterment and refused to carry out the additional 
work he wanted.
When Mr G brought his complaint to our service, Aviva had made a final offer to cash settle 
at £3,159.41 (inclusive of VAT), pay £415 disturbance allowance, and to waive the £100 
policy excess. However, Mr G wasn't happy with the amount offered because it wouldnt 
cover the quotes hed obtained, and it didnt cover the full cost of his alternative 
accommodation.
Aviva refused to increase the offer because the work Mr G wanted doing amounted to 
betterment. And it didnt think hed incurred costs over and above those which hed normally 
have to warrant an increase in the disturbance allowance. 
Our investigator didnt think Aviva had treated Mr G fairly. While she agreed the work Mr G 
wanted was betterment, she didnt think Aviva had offered enough to cover the cost of labour 
to put the bathroom back as it was. Our investigator also noted that Aviva hadnt included 
the cost of trace and access, which it had advised Mr G to arrange, and she didnt think it 
had made a fair offer for the alternative accommodation. In light of the inconvenience 
caused, our investigator recommended that Aviva pay £500 compensation. She also 
recommended that Aviva pay for alternative accommodation to reflect the true costs, and 
arrange for its contractors to complete the work once Mr G had ordered the materials.
Mr G didnt agree with the settlement and he asked for further costs, such as those for his 
gas and electricity standing charges, and labour.
Aviva didnt agree. It said the cash settlement offer it had already made was reasonable and 
it wasnt appropriate for its contractors to complete the work once Mr G bought the materials. 
Aviva also said the policy didnt provide for alternative accommodation costs in Mr Gs 
circumstances. However, it did agree to pay for the trace and access.
I issued a provisional decision in August 2022 explaining that I was intending to uphold Mr 
Gs complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Firstly, for clarity, Ill set out what has already been offered and what remains disputed.
Aviva has offered to:
pay the cost of materials at £1,577.27, plus VAT;
pay for labour and waste removal at £1,055.40, plus VAT;
pay £72 for the trace and access, which it has already paid directly to the plumbing 
company;
waive the £100 policy excess as a gesture of goodwill, and
pay £415 disturbance allowance.
Aviva doesnt agree that Mr G is entitled to:
alternative accommodation costs;
gas and electricity standing charges, and
additional labour costs.
Mr G doesnt think Aviva has offered enough to settle his claim, and he would like an 
increase in the compensation of £500 proposed by our investigator.
Alternative accommodation
Aviva says that because Mr G was staying with a friend, he didnt qualify for alternative 
accommodation. However, it agreed to pay disturbance allowance of £415, which is intended 
to cover costs over and above those which hed normally incur while works are being done. 
Mr G provided evidence that hed moved into a friends house and he paid rent at £60 per 
week, rising to £80 per week after around 11 months.
Ive looked at the policy to see whether the cost should be covered. The policy says:
Loss of rent and the cost of alternative accommodation
If the home is damaged by any cause covered under the Buildings Cover sections 
numbered 1 to 10 [this includes escape of water] and the damage means your home 
cant be lived in, well pay:
reasonable accommodation expenses for all insured persons and their 
domestic animals up to the limit shown on your schedule until the home is 
ready to live in.
In this section reasonable additional accommodation expenses means we will pay 
for alternative accommodation for you taking all of the circumstances of your claim 
into account, including factors such as your needs, the alternative (and 
comparable costs of) accommodation available in the area and the length of time for 
which it is required. 
Looking at Mr Gs personal circumstances, I can see why moving in with his friend was a 
better solution for him than accepting Avivas offer of a hotel. The weekly cost doesnt 
appear to be unreasonable, and Mr G has clearly incurred costs above and beyond those 
hed incur if hed been able to live in his home. So, Im satisfied that Mr G is covered for the 
alternative accommodation costs under the terms and conditions of his policy.
Ms H confirmed Mr G moved into her home in May 2021 and the weekly payment increased 
on 23 April 2022. Ive looked at when Aviva assessed and reported on the damage, which 
wasnt until 15 June. The delay was due to Mr Gs lack of availability. So, while Id ordinarily expect Aviva to pay from the date he moved out, I dont think its fair for Aviva to pay for the 
first six weeks or so when it wasn't able to start work. 
Im minded to require Aviva to pay Mr G accommodation costs of £60 per week from 15 
June 2021 to 23 April 2022, and £80 per week from 23 April 2022 until his home is habitable 
again. As Mr G incurred those costs and, therefore, didnt have the benefit of the money 
during this distressing time, I also think its fair that Aviva pays 8% simple interest on the 
accommodation costs from the date Mr G incurred them until payment is made to reimburse 
him.
Disturbance allowance
Aviva offered £415 disturbance allowance. As Ive already said, disturbance allowance is 
intended to cover costs over and above those Mr G wouldve incurred if the damage hadnt 
happened. Ms H confirmed that he contributed 50% of the costs for food, gas and electricity 
in addition to the rental amount. Thinking about this, Mr G would be responsible for his full 
gas and electricity bills and all of his food, so I dont think the costs would be any more than 
Mr G would ordinarily pay. I dont propose to ask Aviva to pay any disturbance allowance.
Gas and electricity standing charges
Mr G asked Aviva to pay the standing charges for the full period he was unable to live in his 
home because he wasn't using the gas or electricity. Its unclear whether Aviva agreed to 
cover these costs during contact with our investigator.
Standing charges are a fixed cost charged by the energy companies to make the supply 
available to a property. Theyre payable regardless of whether the homeowner uses any 
energy. Im satisfied that the cost of the standing charges is one Mr G wouldve incurred 
regardless of whether he was at home or not. If Aviva covered those costs, he would be 
benefitting from staying elsewhere. Therefore, I see no reason to ask Aviva to pay for Mr Gs 
gas and electricity standing charges.
Cash settlement and labour cost
Aviva offered Mr G £1,577.27 to cover the materials needed to put his bathroom back as it 
was before the escape of water. Due to the passage of time and increased material costs, 
our investigator recommended an uplift of £301.29 to reflect rising prices, excluding any 
elements of betterment. I think thats fair.
Our investigator recommended that Aviva appoint contractors to complete the repairs once 
Mr G had the materials, but Aviva disagreed. Having considered this, Im minded to agree 
with Aviva.
A fair outcome would be for Aviva to either cash settle in full or source materials and 
complete repairs. A combination of the two may cause future disagreement. Aviva said the 
claim would be set back if it arranged the work, so its preference was to cash settle at this 
stage. Looking at the policy, Aviva is entitled to make that decision.2. Settling claims
We can choose to settle your claim by: replacing, reinstating, repairing or payment.
Replacement will be on a like for like basis or based on the nearest equivalent 
available in the current market.
If we are able to replace property, but we agree to make a cash settlement, we will 
only pay you what it would cost us to replace the item as if it were new.
Ive looked at the quotes Mr G provided but they all contain an element of betterment, such 
that its difficult to determine how much the quote would be just for the reinstatement work. 
Therefore, I dont think its appropriate to require Aviva to settle the claim based on his 
quotes.
Avivas records show several quotes, but looking at the final approved work schedules, I can 
see that the labour and material costs for reinstatement are specified.
Aviva offered £2,632.84 which was the cash settlement quote calculated by the contractor 
that completed the strip out works. So, I understand why Aviva made that offer.
However, looking at the other completed and approved work schedules - General Works 
(GW) and General Works 3 (GW3) - provided by the same contractor, the sum quoted 
doesnt reflect Avivas offer. I trust that both Aviva and Mr G will be reassured that Ive 
considered the figures, and in doing so, I think the following reflects a fairer offer.
Avivas contractor quoted £4,791.65 for all works. That was broken down into two separate 
work schedules. One (GW3) was for the work done by the contractor, mainly strip out work, 
totalling £1,239.16. The remaining schedule (GW) was for the work needed to reinstate Mr 
Gs bathroom, totalling £3,552.49.
These figures were broken down into categories of materials and labour (and other sundry 
items). Materials totalled £1,577.27, which is the same as the amount Aviva originally offered 
Mr G. However, labour totalled £2,727.94, which is substantially more than Aviva offered Mr 
G, and accounts for more labour hours than its offer to him. All these figures appear to 
exclude VAT, which Ive assumed because Aviva added VAT to its offer.
Based on these figures, it seems Avivas contractor calculated that it would cost £4,791.65 
excluding VAT for all works. Taking the cost of the work completed away from that figure 
gives the total of £3,552.49, excluding VAT, which is shown on the GW schedule for the 
remaining work. As Aviva wishes to cash settle the claim rather than appoint contractors to 
complete the work, I see no reason why its offer should be less than this. 
Going back to my earlier point about an uplift to reflect rising material costs, this remains a 
valid consideration. The proposed uplift is £301.19, so Im satisfied this uplift should be 
added to the cash settlement offer, bringing it to £3,853.68, excluding VAT.
As Aviva has already confirmed it will pay the cash settlement inclusive of VAT, without need 
for a receipt, the total cash settlement figure for repairs would be £4,624.42. 
Compensation
Mr G doesnt think the recommended payment of £500 is enough. He commented on the 
waste which needed removing and the overall inconvenience caused by Avivas handling of 
his claim. 
I agree that Aviva couldve handled matters better. Specifically, I dont think Aviva 
considered his individual needs when he moved in with his friend, and it failed to recognise that the policy provided for alternative accommodation. I can see how that wouldve caused 
Mr G the distress and inconvenience he described, so I think compensation is warranted. 
However, as Ive proposed to require Aviva to pay the alternative accommodation costs and 
increase the settlement figure, which includes removal of waste, Im satisfied that £500 is 
enough to recognise the service shortfalls. I dont plan to ask Aviva to increase the proposed 
compensation of £500.
Trace and Access
Aviva has already settled the invoice of £72 directly with the trace and access company. 
Should that not be the case, I would expect Aviva to make the payment as previously 
agreed. Therefore, I dont see any need to make a further requirement in respect of this 
point.
Policy excess
As a final point, I note Aviva offered to waive the £100 policy excess as a gesture of 
goodwill. While I appreciate it made the offer to help bring matters to a close, I wont be 
asking Aviva to honour that offer. Thats because Im satisfied the proposals Ive made here 
will put matters right and the policy excess is due under the terms and conditions for a valid 
claim. Therefore, I consider it reasonable for the cash settlement figure to reflect a deduction 
of £100 for the policy excess.
I said I was minded to require Aviva Insurance Limited to:
pay Mr Gs accommodation costs of £60 per week from 15 June 2021 to 23 April 
2022, and £80 per week from 23 April 2022 until his home is habitable again;
pay 8% simple interest* on the accommodation costs from the date Mr G incurred 
them to the date payment is made to reimburse him;
cash settle the claim for repairs at £4,624.42, less the policy excess, and
pay compensation of £500 in recognition of the avoidable distress and inconvenience 
caused.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Aviva didnt provide any further comments or information.
Mr G provided lots of additional comments in direct response to my provisional decision 
explaining why he didnt agree. In summary, he felt that I hadnt made sure Aviva paid all his 
costs.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr Gs complaint but I wont be asking Aviva to do 
anything different to that set out in my provisional decision. Ill address the key points now.Cost of materials, repair completion, labour and waste removal.
Mr G explained that Aviva hadnt made an offer for the cost of materials and he didnt think it 
was appropriate to pay for them himself without Avivas permission. He also questioned that 
there was an offer for labour and waste removal.
All of these aspects of the work were included in Avivas total offer. The cost of materials 
was included within Avivas offer, but, as I said in my provisional decision, it isnt appropriate 
at all for Mr G to buy the materials for Aviva to fit. That would likely cause further problems. 
Therefore, I wouldntve expected Mr G to buy the materials with or without Avivas 
permission. 
To clarify, I agreed with Avivas point that it wouldnt be appropriate to cash settle for 
materials but then use its contractors to do the work. I explained in my provisional decision 
that Aviva should either source materials and complete the work or cash settle for materials 
and labour. There shouldnt be any option to provide a combination of the two as this would 
likely result in confusion. 
Disturbance Allowance
Mr G repeated that the disturbance allowance of £415 was nowhere near enough and his 
costs are ongoing. I dont doubt that he continued to incur costs. However, I explained that 
disturbance allowance is intended to cover costs over and above those usually incurred. So, 
for example, if Mr G had been staying in a hotel, hed have needed to pay for meals at the 
hotels rate, which would likely be more than his usual costs to buy food at the grocery store. 
The position here is that Mr G stayed with his friend and they shared the cost of groceries. 
Therefore, I havent seen any evidence that Mr G incurred costs over and above those he 
usually incurred.
Compensation
Mr G said Avivas offer of £500 compensation is unacceptable after making him homeless 
for 16 months. I dont agree. The escape of water that caused damage meant Mr G couldnt 
live in his own home. Aviva didnt cause the damage so it would be unfair to say it made him 
homeless. And Mr G had somewhere to live, so its unreasonable to say he was homeless. 
For the reasons I gave in my provisional decision, Im satisfied that the compensation Aviva 
offered is reasonable in the circumstances.
Accommodation costs
In my provisional decision, I said Aviva should cover Mr Gs alternative accommodation from 
15 June 2021. He disputes this and believes he should receive payment from the date of the 
claim. 
When I considered this point, I saw that Mr G didnt get the leak fixed until some weeks after 
moving in with his friend. After a month, Aviva followed up on this and offered to do the 
repair as a chargeable job. It offered an appointment but Mr G declined. Aviva couldnt start 
any repair works until the leak was fixed so I dont think it would be fair to ask Aviva to cover 
the first few weeks of alternative accommodation costs when it was prevented from starting 
work.
Although Mr G says he didnt receive a written offer of a hotel, the notes from when he first 
reported the event show that he said he could stay with family, later amending that to staying with a friend a few miles away. Aviva would have no reason to continue offering hotel 
accommodation to Mr G after having confirmation that hed made his own arrangements.
Strip out costs
Mr G disputes that strip out works cost £2,632.84. The figure he refers to is the cash 
settlement quote prepared by the same contractors which completed the strip out works. It is 
not the cost of completing strip out work.
Settlement
Ive thought carefully about Mr Gs concerns about the settlement payment. The settlement 
is expected to put Mr Gs bathroom back as it was before the damage. Any additional costs 
for changes to materials or layout compared to what he had before wouldnt be covered. I 
appreciate Mr G doesnt think that having different materials is betterment, but if the cost is 
greater than that to restore using the original materials, then it would be classed as 
betterment. Im satisfied that my calculations represent a fair settlement figure based on 
Avivas quotes compared to those which Mr G supplied.
Additional points
Mr G mentioned the cost of council tax and raised concerns about no longer being insured. 
The council tax is a cost Mr G would always have incurred, so I wouldnt expect Aviva to pay 
that. And providing Mr G pays his policy premium, I cant see why he wouldnt have 
insurance. However, hed need to check directly with Aviva whether his cover is limited 
during repair work.
Overall, Im satisfied the cash settlement set out in my provisional decision is fair and 
reasonable to address the repairs needed and evidenced in the schedule of work. Although 
Mr G clearly experienced some inconvenience and distress, Avivas compensation offer is in 
line with what Id expect. I havent seen anything that warrants a change to my provisional 
decision, so the outcome is the same and for the same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Gs 
complaint and Aviva Insurance Limited must:
pay Mr Gs accommodation costs of £60 per week from 15 June 2021 to 23 April 
2022, and £80 per week from 23 April 2022 until his home is habitable again;
pay 8% simple interest* on the accommodation costs from the date Mr G incurred 
them to the date payment is made to reimburse him;
cash settle the claim for repairs at £4,624.42, less the policy excess, and
pay compensation of £500 in recognition of the avoidable distress and inconvenience 
caused.
*If Aviva Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take 
off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr G how much its taken off. It should also 
give Mr G a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC 
if appropriate.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman