DRN-1734460
 
The complaint
Ms R says PDL Finance Limited, trading as Mr Lender, (PDL), irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
This complaint is about 11 short term loans PDL provided to Ms R between 
October 2013 and November 2016. Loans 1 to 4 were repayable by one repayment, 
Loans 5, 6 and 10 by four monthly repayments, and Loans 7 to 9 and 11 by six monthly 
repayments. All the loans except Loan 11 have been repaid. Ms Rs borrowing history is as 
follows:
Loan number Date of 
loanRepayment 
dateLoan 
amount Highest monthly 
repayment amount 
1. 31/10/13 28/2/14 £200  £270
2. 1/3/14 26/6/14 £250  £325
3. 10/7/14 28/7/14 £300  £390
4. 28/7/14 28/8/14 £450  £585
5. 29/8/14 28/11/14 £800 £440
6. 12/12/14 28/4/15 £820 £498.32
7. 30/4/15 1/10/15 £1,000 £398.66
8. 1/10/15 7/1/16 £850 £332.06
9. 7/1/16 28/6/16 £750 £270
10. 30/6/16 26/8/16 £450 £213.30
11. 1/11/16 Unpaid £1,000 £377.26
Ms R said that she couldnt afford to pay back the payday loans which was why she took out 
so many.  
PDL, in its final response letter, offered to refund £2,006.91 to Ms R, to wipe the outstanding 
balance of £1,064 to close Ms Rs account on Loan 11, and remove adverse information 
about Loan 11 from Ms Rs credit file. 
Ms R rejected PDLs offer.
Our adjudicator upheld Ms Rs complaint in part and said Loans 4 to 11 shouldnt have been 
given. She said that by Loan 4, Ms Rs overall pattern of borrowing suggested she had 
become persistently reliant on short term loans. The pattern of lending showed that these 
loans were unsustainable.
Ms R was happy with the adjudicators view.
PDL responded to say that during the application for Loan 4, Ms R had confirmed her 
income and expenses which confirmed that her outgoings had decreased. This meant her 
disposable income had increased ensuring that the increase in loan capital was sustainable. 
PDL said regarding Loans 5 to 7 that the monthly repayments were less than the previous 
loan as the repayments were to be made over a longer period. After Loan 7, PDL said that 
the loan amounts decreased with the highest repayment reducing. Its checks were 
proportionate to the loan amount and lending history.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
To start with, it seems that Ms R has accepted our adjudicators findings about 
Loans 1 to 3. So, I think this means I no longer need to make a decision about those loans. 
But I have kept these loans in mind when considering Loans 4 onwards.
Its not clear whether PDLs offer in its final response letter is still open so I have investigated 
Loans 4 onwards as if its offer was no longer open.
When PDL lent Loans 1 and 2 to Ms R the regulator was the Office of Fair Trading (OFT) 
and relevant regulations and guidance included its Irresponsible Lending Guidance (ILG). 
The ILG contained guidance for lenders about responsible lending. When PDL lent Loans 3 
to 11 to Ms R the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority and relevant regulations and 
guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). The ILG and CONC contained 
similar guidance for lenders about responsible lending.
PDL needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms R could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that PDL should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that PDL was required to establish 
whether Ms R could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the ILG and later CONC defined sustainable as being without 
undue difficulties and in particular the consumer should be able to make repayments on 
time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to 
meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Ms Rs complaint.
Before Loans 4 to 11, PDL did a number of checks before it lent to Ms R. It asked her for 
details of her income and expenditure. Ms Rs declared monthly income was £1,200 before 
all the loans and she said that her expenditure ranged between £437 and £720.
PDL also checked Ms Rs credit file before agreeing to the loans. PDL has provided us with 
a very brief summary of its credit checks which showed a credit score, that she hadnt been 
made bankrupt and she wasnt in an individual voluntary arrangement in the previous three 
years. I dont think that the results of these checks should have caused additional concerns 
to PDL.
I havent seen Ms Rs credit report. So, Im not aware of anything on that report that might 
have caused additional concerns to PDL about Ms Rs financial situation.
I note that Ms R said that she had other payday loans from other lenders at the time she 
borrowed from PDL. But Im aware that when a lender carries out a credit search, the 
information it sees doesnt usually provide the same level of detail that a consumers credit 
search will, and it isnt necessarily up to date. A lender might only see a small portion of a 
borrowers credit file, or some data might be missing or anonymised. Im also aware that not 
all short term lenders report to the same credit reference agencies. So, Ms Rs other short 
term loans may not have been identified by PDLs credit check. So, this may explain any 
differences between the information provided by PDLs credit check and Ms Rs actual 
situation.
I note that Ms R repaid both Loans 1 and 2 around three months late. I think that might have 
caused PDL some concerns. I also note that Loans 1 to 3 were each taken out shortly after 
the previous loan was repaid. And the loan amount increased in size with each new loan. 
Loan 4 was taken out on the same day that Ms R repaid Loan 3 and the amount of Loan 4 
and the loan repayment amount had substantially increased. I think all this might have 
caused PDL significant concerns about Ms Rs finances. 
Looking at the overall pattern of PDLs lending history with Ms R I think by Loan 4 the point 
had been reached where the lender should reasonably have seen that further lending was 
unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so PDL should have realised that it shouldnt 
provide further loans. Loan 4 was Ms Rs fourth loan request in just under nine months. 
Ms R was borrowing from PDL for all of that period less 13 days.I think by that time Ms Rs pattern of borrowing suggested that she was facing significant 
problems managing her money and needing to refinance loans on a regular basis. When 
Ms R asked for Loan 4, she wasnt making any inroads to the amount she owed the lender. 
Loan 4 was the largest loan shed taken to date and the loan repayment amount was a 
significant proportion of her income and I think it was unfairly given. 
 
Over the following 27 months Ms Rs borrowing pattern was largely unchanged. She 
continued to borrow very shortly after repaying a previous loan. I think PDL ought to have 
realised it was more likely than not Ms R was having to borrow further to cover the hole 
repaying her previous loans was leaving in her finances. I dont think this is a sustainable 
form of borrowing. And all the loan amounts from Loan 4 were larger than Ms Rs first three 
loans. 
I think that Ms R lost out because PDL continued to provide borrowing from Loan 4 onwards 
because these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Ms Rs indebtedness by allowing 
her to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time. 
The sheer number of loans was likely to have had negative implications on Ms Rs ability to 
access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market for these high-cost loans. And the 
fact that most of the loans were repaid doesnt mean that they were repaid sustainably, or 
without causing Ms R undue difficulty. 
PDL has referred to the amount of Ms Rs disposable income increasing. But even if PDL 
thought that Ms R appeared to have sufficient disposable income, this doesnt show that the 
repayments were sustainable.
PDL has also referred to the monthly repayments decreasing as the repayments for the later 
loans were to be made over a longer period. But I note that the repayment amounts on only 
one of Ms Rs instalment loans were smaller than her earlier payday loans. And she was 
also committing to making those repayments over a far longer period. 
I note that PDL has referred to its checks being proportionate to the loan amount and the 
lending history. But I think PDL will (or ought to) know from previous decisions that this 
service considers there will be times when the pattern of lending alone is enough to indicate 
that a consumer is likely to be in financial difficulty  or would otherwise be harmed should 
relending continue. 
I also think that when a consumer borrows numerous loans over a long period of time, its 
most likely that the loans arent being used for their intended purpose of temporary cash flow 
problems. As PDL will know, the FCA made it clear in a recent letter to CEOs of high cost 
lending firms that a high volume of relending..may be symptomatic of unsustainable 
lending patterns. And I think that is the case here.
So, I dont think PDL should have given Ms R Loans 4 onwards, and I think it needs to pay 
Ms R some compensation relating to these loans. So PDL should put things right as shown 
below. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this complaint 
I order PDL Finance Limited, trading as Mr Lender, to take the steps shown below.
If PDL has sold the outstanding debt it should buy it back if it is able to do so and then take 
the following steps. If PDL isnt able to buy the debt back, then it should liaise with the new 
debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.1. PDL should add together the total of the repayments made by Ms R towards interest, 
fees and charges on Loans 4 to 10, not including anything PDL may have already 
refunded.
2. PDL should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Ms 
R which were considered as part of 1., calculated from the date   Ms R originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
3. PDL should remove all interest, fees and charges from the outstanding balance on 
Loan 11, and treat any repayments made by Ms R on Loan 11 as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on Loan 11. If this results in Ms R having made 
overpayments then PDL should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to 
the date the complaint is settled. PDL should then refund the amounts calculated in 1. 
and 2. and move to step 5..
4. If there is still an outstanding balance, then the amounts calculated in 1. and 2. 
should be used to repay any balance remaining on Loan 11. If this results in a surplus, 
then the surplus should be paid to Ms R. However, if there is still an outstanding 
balance then PDL should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Ms R. PDL 
shouldnt pursue any outstanding balance made up of principal it has already written 
off.
5. The overall pattern of Ms Rs borrowing for Loans 4 to 11 means any information 
recorded about them is adverse, so PDL should remove these loans entirely from 
Ms Rs credit file. PDL doesnt have to remove Loan 11 from Ms Rs credit file until the 
outstanding balance has been cleared.
*HMRC requires PDL to take off tax from this interest. If Ms R asks PDL for a certificate 
showing how much tax PDL has taken off, it should provide this. If PDL intends to use the 
refund to reduce an amount Ms R owes, it must do this after tax.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2020. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman