DRN-3350733
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J complains that GE Money Consumer Lending Limited (GE Money) hasnt 
fairly looked at their claim under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). 
What happened
Mr and Mrs J bought a timeshare from Business S in April 2005. The cost of the 
membership was £7,950 and it was financed by a loan taken from First National Consumer 
Finance Limited (which became GE Money). The loan was in joint names and set to run 
for 10 years. Mr and Mrs J have told us the agreement was paid off two years after they 
took it out.
Mr and Mrs J say that, when they purchased the timeshare, they were told that the 
maintenance fees would not increase and that they would be able to book whatever 
accommodation they wanted whenever they wanted to.
So, Mr and Mrs J say that Business S misrepresented to them at the time of sale the true 
cost of the maintenance fees along with the availability of the accommodation on offer. Mr 
and Mrs J also say that, had they known that what Business S had said wasnt right, they 
would not have purchased the timeshare in the first place.
Unhappy with what had happened in April 2005, Mr and Mrs J  using a representative  
wrote to GE Money in December 2017 to make claims under:
(1) Section 75 of the CCA for misrepresentation; and 
(2) Section 140A of the CCA for an unfair debtor-creditor relationship.
As GE Money did not respond to Mr and Mrs Js claims, a complaint was referred to this 
Service.  
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and didnt think GE Money needed to 
do anything further. They thought that the claim under s.75 had been brought too late, so 
they didnt think GE Money needed to consider the substance of the claim. They also 
looked at s.140A CCA, but they didnt think that provision applied as based on the 
available evidence, the loan predated the enactment of that provision.
In response, Mr and Mrs J argued that they thought the complaint had been brought in 
time. But as an informal resolution couldnt be reached, the complaint was passed to me 
for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This includes the law and regulations, regulators' rules, guidance and standards, 
and codes of practice and good industry practice. Having done so, Im not going to 
tell GE Money to do anything further to resolve the matter and Ive explained why 
below.
When evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision about 
the merits of this complaint on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I 
consider is most likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the 
wider circumstances.
I want to assure Mr and Mrs J that, if I dont address every point thats been raised, its 
not because I havent thought about it. I have considered everything thats been said and 
sent to us. But Im going to concentrate in this decision on what I think is relevant and 
material to reaching a fair and reasonable outcome.
Was the claim under s.75 CCA brought in time?
Mr and Mrs J say that Business S misrepresented to them the nature and benefits of the 
timeshare agreement. So, they say GE Money is jointly liable under s.75 CCA. But if it 
could be shown that this claim was brought outside of the time limits set out in the LA, 
GE Money would be entitled to rely on the LA as a defence to answering this claim. I 
should make it clear however that Im not deciding if any right that Mr and Mrs J may 
have to bring this claim has expired under the LA - thats a matter for the courts. In this 
decision Im considering whether GE Money has to do anything further in response to 
this claim.
A claim in court for misrepresentation against Business S would ordinarily be brought under 
s.2(1) of the Misrepresentation Act 1967. And it was held in Laws v. The Society of Lloyds 
[2003] EWCA 1887 that this type of claim is an action founded in tort covered by s.2 LA or 
an action brought for a sum recoverable by statute within s.9 LA. Under both of those 
provisions, a claimant has a period of six years to bring a claim from the date on which the 
cause of action accrued.
As Mr and Mrs J made a like claim against GE Money under s.75 CCA, its covered by s.9 
LA  which, means they had six years from the date on which the cause of action accrued 
to make the claim.
The date on which a cause of action accrued is the point in time that everything needed to 
make a legal claim occurred. And in Mr and Mrs Js case, thats when they could have 
brought a claim for misrepresentation against Business S or a like claim against GE Money. 
So, I think that was the date they entered into the agreement to buy the timeshare i.e in 
April 2005 as it was at that time that they entered into the agreement based, they say, on 
the misrepresentations of Business S. They say, had the misrepresentations not been 
made, they wouldnt have bought the timeshare. And it was on that day that they suffered a 
loss, as they took out the loan agreement with GE Money.
It follows, therefore, that I think the cause of action accrued in April 2005. And it was from 
then that Mr and Mrs J had six years make a claim. But as they didnt try to contact GE 
Money about their claim until September 2018, which was outside of the time limits set 
out in the LA, I think GE Money acted fairly and reasonably by turning down Mr and Mrs 
Js claim for misrepresentation.
The claim under s.140A CCA
Under this section a court may make an order under section 140B in connection with a 
credit agreement if it decides that the relationship between the lender and the creditor 
arising out of the agreement is unfair. Only a court has the power to make such a determination but I think this is relevant law and I have taken it into account.
Our investigator considered whether Mr and Mrs J could have made a claim under 
s.140A CCA and concluded that they couldnt as that provision didnt apply to their 
credit agreement. This is because it started before 6 April 2007 and, based on Mr and 
Mrs Js recollections, it ended before 6 April 2008. This also means the argument 
made by Mr and Mrs Js representative in relation to commission under s140A cant be 
considered.
Conclusion
Ultimately, as Ive said before, its for the courts to decide whether or not any claim that 
Mr and Mrs J may have against the Business S or GE Money has expired under the LA. But, 
as far as I can see from the information available, any claim that Mr and Mrs J might have 
against GE Money is likely to have been made outside the time limits set out in the LA. And 
for that reason, Im not persuaded that GE Money needs to do anything to put things right in 
this complaint.
Unaffordable lending
The assertion that GE Money lent to Mr and Mrs J irresponsibly was framed in the Letter 
of Claim as giving rise to an unfair debtor-creditor relationship under Section 140A. But 
Ive already explained why I dont think that section applies to Mr and Mrs Js credit 
agreement. And as lending money under a regulated credit agreement of the kind in 
question wasnt an activity covered by our jurisdiction in April 2005, I cant consider GE 
Moneys decision to lend any further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Js complaint against GE Money 
Consumer Lending Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
Chandni Green
Ombudsman