DRN-2197367
The complaint
Mr M complains about a hire purchase agreement he entered into with PSA Finance UK 
Limited. He says that he wasnt given full credit for the deposit paid when he took out the 
agreement.
What happened
In July 2019 Mr M entered into a hire purchase agreement with PSA. He says he paid a 
£3,000 under that agreement. The car that was the subject of the agreement, however, 
developed faults within a couple of weeks and Mr M asked to replace it. PSA agreed and 
offered him an alternative. 
In August 2019 Mr M entered into a second hire purchase agreement with PSA. The monthly 
payments and final payment were almost identical to those under the first agreement, but 
this time the advance payment was recorded as being £2,000, not £3,000. Mr M thought that 
was wrong; he also said that the agreement included payment for a warranty, to which he 
had not agreed. 
PSA considered Mr Ms complaint but said that the hire purchase agreement was clear in 
saying that the advance payment was £2,000, not £3,000. That reflected the equity available 
under the first agreement  that is, the difference between the value of the first car and the 
amount needed to settle the first agreement. It also said that the relevant documents showed 
that Mr M had agreed to the warranty, which had been explained to him.
Mr M referred the matter to this service, where one of our investigators considered what had 
happened. He broadly agreed with what PSA had said. Mr M didnt accept the investigators 
findings and asked that an ombudsman review the case. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill deal first of all with the warranty. It and the monthly payments associated with it were 
clearly set out in the finance agreement and the accompanying invoice. In the 
circumstances, I dont believe that I can fairly conclude that Mr M did not agree to it. 
As far as the advance payment is concerned, it is in my view important to note that the 
second agreement was intended to replace the first, not to amend it. Whilst Mr Ms intention 
was no doubt to replace the first car with a similar one on near-identical terms, it wasnt 
possible simply to substitute one car for another without drawing up a new agreement. 
The advance payment recorded in the second agreement wasnt therefore transferred 
directly from the first agreement. Instead, it represented the difference between the sum 
needed to settle the first agreement and the value of the first car  that is, £2,000. 
Further, the amount needed to settle the first agreement was linked to the advance payment 
made under that agreement. The greater the advance payment, the less Mr M would have 
needed to borrow and the lower the settlement figure. Mr M has therefore had the benefit of 
the advance payment made when he entered into the first agreement, because it reduced 
that settlement figure and increased the equity available to make the advance payment 
under the second agreement. There isnt a missing £1,000, although I can see why that 
might appear to be the case. 
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I dont require PSA Finance UK Limited to take 
any further steps to resolve Mr Ms complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 February 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman