DRN-3432460
The complaint
Mr T has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold overdraft payment protection insurance 
(PPI) on a business account in 1996.
What happened
Mr T took out the PPI at the same time as arranging the current account. The policy covered 
him for accident and sickness.
I wrote a provisional decision earlier this month in which I explained why I wasnt thinking of 
upholding Mr Ts complaint. Mr Ts mother, who is representing him in making this complaint, 
responded with some further comments that I will address below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ts complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr T says that the PPI was a condition of being granted the business account. I have no 
doubt that Mr T has provided his genuine recollection of events. However, the sale was a 
long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising if his memory of it has somewhat faded. From 
what we know of Lloyds sales processes at the time, the policy would normally have been 
presented as optional and I havent seen any evidence that would lead me to conclude that 
something different happened in this case. On balance, I consider it most likely that Mr T 
decided to buy the PPI, knowing that he didnt have to, even if he no longer remembers 
doing so.
In response to my provisional decision, Mr Ts mother has said that she used to work for a 
building society up until the early 1990s and saw first hand how it was made out that PPI 
was a condition of the borrowing. Her experience was during a slightly earlier period and not 
in relation to Lloyds. I do take her point, however, Im unable to conclude that Lloyds didnt 
make it clear that the policy was optional because some other lenders may not have do so.
  
Mr Ts mother says that, because of her experience, she advised all of her children not to 
take out PPI. However, Im not persuaded I can rely on Mr T followed his mothers advice in 
this instance, to conclude that he wasnt given a choice about buying PPI. 
Lloyds advised Mr T to buy the policy. Therefore, in recommending it to him, it needed to 
ensure that the PPI met his needs. And from what I know of Mr Ts circumstances at the 
time, the policy was suitable for him.
Mr T says that he would have sold some assets if he had been unable to work due to illness. 
However, having the policy would have meant that he could have avoided or significantly 
delayed having to take such drastic action. He has also said that family could have helped. 
But having the policy meant that he wouldnt have had to rely on family. 
Lloyds also had to provide Mr T with enough information for him to be able to make an 
informed choice about whether or not the policy was right for him.
The PPI premium was charged on a monthly basis regardless of whether the account was 
overdrawn or not. Mr Ts account was opened on 11 September 1996. Lloyds has provided a 
screenshot of transactional data showing that, on 1 October 1996, Mr Ts overdraft limit was 
£5,500 and that he was already overdrawn by £3,796.25. Therefore, Mr T was already 
making use of his overdraft facility within a month of opening the account. There is another 
transactional screenshot showing that Mr T was £19,324.79 overdrawn on 24 December 
1998. Lloyds has also been able to provide copies of account statements for the month of 
September for the years 2001, 2006, 2008 and 2011, all of which show the account as being 
significantly overdrawn. Although the evidence provided is not a full record of the account for 
its entire period, I consider it sufficient to show that Mr Ts account was most likely 
consistently overdrawn from the time it was opened. Mr Ts mother has also now confirmed 
that Mr T had an overdraft on the current account he held with his previous bank. As such, 
there was no detriment to Mr T if Lloyds failed to make it clear that the policy premiums 
would be payable at all times and not just when the account was overdrawn.
Its possible that Lloyds could have provided more information about the PPI, particularly 
about the things that it didnt cover. But Mr T wasnt affected by any of those things. For 
example, he didnt have a pre-existing medical condition that might have limited his ability to 
claim under the policy. As I consider that Mr T had an interest in the PPI and decided to buy 
it, I dont think that more information would have caused him to change his mind. So Mr T is 
no worse off as a result of anything Lloyds may had done wrong, so there is nothing that 
Lloyds needs to do to put things right. 
In response to my provisional decision, Mr Ts mother has provided some wider information 
about Mr Ts business and about his health. I do sympathise with Mr T about the things that 
went wrong and with his ongoing health issues. Mr T may wish to think about making a 
retrospective sickness claim on the policy, giving consideration to whether the circumstances 
would meet the terms for a successful claim. However, for the reasons stated above, I do not 
uphold Mr Ts complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2022.
 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman