DRN-1696919
The complaint
Miss M complains about a credit card account she held with Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (BoI), 
trading as The Post Office. 
What happened
In May 2017, Miss M closed down her credit card account with BoI. Miss M says that as far 
as she was concerned, the account was closed, and she wasnt expecting any payments to 
come out from the account. Later in June 2017, unbeknown to Miss M, a payment was 
collected from the account for a renewal of an insurance policy. 
Miss M says she had no idea that the payment had gone out, and as far as she was aware 
the account was closed. Because she didnt make any payments to the account to clear the 
balance, BoI updated the credit reference agencies with this information. 
In November 2018, Miss M was applying for a mortgage with a different lender. The 
mortgage application was declined  Miss M says she found out this was due to some 
adverse information on her credit file. It was at this point that Miss M checked her credit file 
and became aware that there was an outstanding balance on her BoI credit card account. 
And that a payment had been allowed to go out from her credit card account once it had 
been closed. 
Miss M says that BoI didnt communicate with her at all to let her know about the outstanding 
balance, and had it have done this, she would have made a payment to the account. 
Miss M says the consequences of the adverse information showing on her credit file caused 
her much stress and anxiety. She almost lost the plot of land that she was hoping to 
purchase. She says she had to make a number of phone calls to resolve the issue. And she 
has spent a considerable amount of time worrying about what might happen with the 
purchase of the land.
BoI agreed that it had made a mistake in not contacting Miss M to let her know about the 
outstanding balance. It said that because the account was showing as closed, it didnt send 
any statements to her. Because of this, it said it would request that the adverse information 
regarding the account is removed from her credit file. It also offered to pay £15 to Miss M for 
the cost of the calls shed had to make to it to sort out the problem, and it offered to pay her 
£85 for the distress and inconvenience it caused  so a total of £100. 
Miss M wasnt happy with BoIs resolution of her complaint. She didnt feel that it had offered 
her enough to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience BoIs mistake had caused 
her. She complained to this service that she had to pay the balance owing on the account as 
she doesnt feel this balance is her responsibility. And she also wanted to make sure that 
this error didnt happen to anyone else in her position.   
Our investigator upheld Miss Ms complaint. He thought that Miss M should be offered £200 
in compensation for the trouble and upset BoIs mistake had caused. Miss M accepted what our investigator said, but BoI didnt agree with the level of compensation our investigator 
suggested it pays.
BoI responded to our investigators view and made the following main points. 
It resolved the issue with the adverse information on Miss Ms credit file within two 
phone calls.
Miss M ought to have checked her credit file sooner in the mortgage application 
process.
Miss M was purchasing the plot of land from a family member
Miss M should have done more to prevent the payment from leaving her account 
after the account was closed. In addition to this, Miss M should have known the 
payment had gone out because the insurer would have sent her correspondence to 
notify her of this.
 
Because BoI dont agree, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision on the 
matter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed all of the information available to me, Im upholding Miss Ms complaint and 
Im ordering BoI to pay Miss M £200 for the trouble and upset it has caused her. Ill explain 
my reasons for this below. 
BoI have already accepted that it failed to communicate with Miss M about the outstanding 
balance that remained on her closed account. So I dont need to make a finding on this point 
as all parties accept this. Ill now be considering the impact this mistake had on Miss M. 
Ive seen a sample of a letter BoI says it sent to Miss M once the account had been closed. 
Ive seen a copy of BoIs internal systems that show this letter was sent to her on 31 May 
2017. The letter says that Miss M was required to cancel any direct debits that were set up 
from the account  this is because direct debits are an agreement between the retailer and 
the customer. So I think Miss M ought to have been aware that she would need to cancel 
any direct debits from the account and she hasnt disputed this. 
The payment that went out was a direct debit. Miss M has told us that she called the retailer 
to ask them to cancel this. But shes also told us that she hadnt realised that shed selected 
for the product to be renewed. So it isnt really clear what happened here. BoI have said that 
Miss M should have done more to stop the payment coming out, Im minded to agree with 
this is some respects. 
But really, the main point here is that whether Miss M cancelled the agreement with the 
retailer or not,  BoI should have told Miss M that there was an outstanding balance on the 
account. And it didnt. I dont think its fair for BoI to rely on information that the retailer may 
or may not have sent to Miss M, for it to say that she should have known the payment had 
gone out of the account. 
The issues that have happened later down the line, in my opinion, have been caused by 
BoIs lack of communication with Miss M about the balance. Had it let her know a payment 
had left her account and there was still an outstanding balance left to pay, I think it likely 
things would have been resolved sooner. So there wouldnt have been the issue of missed payments and in turn there would have been no reason to report adverse information to the 
credit reference agencies.
BoI have said that Miss M should have checked her credit file sooner in the mortgage 
application process in order to ensure that there wasnt any adverse credit information on 
her file  this would have made things less stressful for Miss M. Yes, that might well have 
helped sort things out sooner. But she didnt. And this doesnt change what actually 
happened, as a result of what BoI did wrong. Miss M was completely unaware of the balance 
on the credit card account, and weve already established that this was because BoI didnt 
tell her about it. And so I dont think it was unreasonable of Miss M to have not checked her 
credit file sooner. 
BoI has also suggested that the mortgage process is a stressful process. I agree it can be a 
stressful time for many people, but its clear to me that it was made a far more stressful 
process by BoIs mistake. 
BoI have asked me to also consider that Miss M was purchasing a plot of land from a family 
member. I dont see the relevance of this. Miss M was concerned and worried that she 
wouldnt be accepted for a mortgage at all with the adverse information on her credit file. So 
while the seller of the land might have been a family member, I dont think this has any 
bearing on a mortgage companies decision to lend. During a call Miss M had with BoI, she 
let it know that there was someone else who wanted to buy the land, and so if she couldnt 
get the mortgage in a timely manner, she might lose the plot of land. 
BoI say that they sorted the issue with the adverse information on Miss M credit file in two 
phone calls. It might well have done this. But Miss M still had to wait to find out whether the 
lender was prepared to accept an email from BoI stating that the information on the credit file 
was going to be removed. There was a possibility that it might not have, and in turn a higher 
chance that Miss M could have missed out on the purchase of the land. 
Miss M has told us that BoIs actions have caused her a considerable amount of stress and 
anxiety. Shes told us that it made her ill. I dont doubt this. So BoI should pay Miss M £200 
to compensate her for the trouble and upset its mistake has caused.
Miss M doesnt think she ought to be responsible for repaying the balance that was left on 
her credit card account, but I disagree with this. Miss M is likely to have had the benefit of 
the product that was paid for with the credit card, and so she is responsible for paying for it. 
But if she didnt receive this benefit  then this is something shell need to discuss with the 
retailer. 
Miss M would also like for BoI to change its processes so that this doesnt happen to other 
people in the future. This isnt something I can order BoI to do and that isnt the role of this 
service. Our investigator has already explained to Miss M what she needs to do if she wants 
to take this element of her complaint further.
Putting things right
Miss M was caused unnecessary trouble and upset by BoI's error in not communicating the 
outstanding balance on her account to her. In turn this led to adverse information on her 
credit file, which resulted in a declined mortgage application. I can understand why this must 
have caused Miss M considerable stress. For these reasons, I'm ordering BoI to pay Miss M 
£200.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im upholding Miss Ms complaint. Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc 
need to pay Miss M £200 for the trouble and upset its error caused her
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 July 2020.
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman