DRN-4243377
The complaint
Mr R complains Nationwide Building Society unfairly blocked his accounts and then closed 
them. He wants compensation for how this impacted him. 
What happened
Mr R held two savings accounts with Nationwide. In April 2023 Nationwide carried out a 
review on his accounts and placed a block on them. They asked him a variety of questions, 
and about the source of £70,000 he deposited into his accounts a number of months before. 
Mr R wanted to know the reasons behind Nationwides questions, which they refused to 
give. He says the source of the deposits was from the sale of a property in his name, and 
that he moved the sale proceeds to several accounts because he wanted to ensure the 
funds were protected by the £85,000 deposit protection limit. 
He says he offered to take proof of the sale to branch, but he didnt want copies of his 
information retained. He says he didnt trust Nationwide due to a previous matter when he 
missed a mortgage payment for a mortgage he had with them, and they blacklisted him. He 
said they should have contacted the bank where the money came from to verify the source 
of the deposits.
Nationwide completed their review and closed his accounts, releasing the funds they held to 
him.
Our investigator concluded:
Nationwide required information on Mr R and his deposits in line with their legal 
and regulatory obligations. The relevant terms and conditions enabled them to 
block the accounts during this period. The terms did apply to him, and they didnt 
require his signature.
Mr R refused to provide Nationwide what they needed, after which they 
completed their review and decided to close his accounts. This was in line with 
their terms and conditions. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Rs complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive listened carefully to what Mr R has said.  He feels strongly about Nationwides actions, 
and that hes been treated unfairly. But after considering all the information and evidence 
available, I find Nationwide acted reasonably.
Nationwide have important legal and regulatory obligations they must meet when providing 
accounts to customers. Those obligations are ongoing and dont only apply when an account 
is opened. Part of their obligations can broadly be summarized as a responsibility to know 
their customer and verify their sources of income and transactions.
Nationwide will review accounts to comply with their responsibilities. And, its common 
industry practice for firms to restrict access to funds to conduct a review - doing so helps 
prevent potential harm that might otherwise result. Im satisfied Nationwide were entitled to 
ask Mr R for a copy of the deed of sale, and other questions about his income.
Mr R said he would have understood Nationwides actions if he paid the full amount of 
proceeds of sale into his Nationwide accounts being as this was much larger. But I dont find 
the size of money he deposited insignificant or of a nature which ought not to trigger a 
review.
Mr R wanted to know Nationwides reasons for their review. But it was self-evident they were 
reviewing him as their customer, and they wanted to verify the payments he deposited. I 
dont find they needed to reveal their full reasons and there was a legitimate basis for them 
not to discuss them with him. I understand he initially may have thought the call from 
Nationwide was a scam, but it would have later become clear it wasnt and that he was 
genuinely being asked to provide information .
Mr R didnt trust Nationwide due to prior experiences with them, and he didnt want to let 
them retain copies of documents he could provide. But I find Nationwide werent 
unreasonable in requiring copies. They may have needed to review what he presented 
further and retain it for legitimate reasons.
Neither do I find Nationwide needed to contact the bank from where the money was sent, 
despite Mr Rs thoughts to the contrary. Instead, it was reasonable to expect him, as their 
customer, to establish the origin of the payments into his account. He was best placed to 
provide and obtain the information to verify the sale of a property in his name. Also, the 
sending bank may not have had a copy of the deed of sale, so contacting them for 
information may not have been fruitful. 
Ive reviewed Nationwides actions when carrying out the review, and I find they completed 
their review without undue delay. And, as Mr R didnt comply with Nationwides request, I 
also find it was fair for them to close his accounts.
Mr R understandably found the situation challenging. Its not uncommon for customers to 
feel they are being treated unfairly when their accounts have been blocked and they are 
being asked to prove where their funds derive. But while I was sorry to hear how he was 
impacted; I find Nationwides responsibilities were overriding. They were entitled to block his 
account and ask him to provide evidence to verify his deposits. 
Mr R says the original terms of his accounts said there would be no checks on them, he 
wasnt sent notice of later changes to terms and conditions, and he didnt agree to them. But 
bank and building society accounts often have changes to their terms and conditions, which 
happen automatically after notice is given and they dont require a customers signature. 
Changes occur periodically to reflect changes to the legal and regulatory landscape and 
firms commercial offering. On balance, I find it less likely Mr R wouldnt have been sent notices of changes to the terms 
and conditions of his accounts, given he said one of the accounts opened in 2013. And I find 
it unlikely Nationwides original terms would have said they wouldnt carry out checks. I say 
this because they still had responsibilities to monitor accounts in compliance with legal and 
regulatory obligations at that time.
.My final decision
My decision is I am not upholding Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2023.
 
Liam King
Ombudsman