DRN-3062351
The complaintu
Mr T complains that Nationwide Building Society rejected an ISA application because the 
incorrect date of birth was on the application form, despite identification being provided. Mr T 
is represented in this complaint by his mother Ms T.  
What happened
In November 2019 Mr T applied for a Help to Buy ISA with Nationwide. At the time Mr T was 
living on an island off mainland UK which required a two-and-a-half-hour journey to visit a 
Nationwide branch so Mr T applied online. 
Ms T said Nationwide wrote to Mr T asking for identification to be sent. She said they sent 
three items in February and June including a high school letter, a doctors letter and driving 
licence. She said they wrote to Nationwide in May asking for confirmation that the account 
had been set up but didnt receive a reply. Ms T said her son didnt know there was a 
problem with the application until many months later. In August Mr T and Ms T visited a 
Nationwide branch and Mr Ts driving licence was scanned and verified. But branch staff 
said there had been a discrepancy with Mr Ts date of birth, and, due to the length of time 
the application had been ongoing, it was unlikely it would be successful. The application was 
rejected.
Ms T said Mr T had submitted his application on time and due to his remote home address 
had been met with obstacle after obstacle. She also said he had been told on the phone that 
his high school letter had been rejected because it wasnt suitable identification. She 
complained to Nationwide. 
In its final response Nationwide said Mr Ts date of birth could not be validated with the 
identification which Mr T sent and so the application had been terminated in March. It 
apologised that it had not notified Mr T earlier and sent a cheque for £75 for the 
inconvenience caused. Ms T brought Mr Ts complaint to this service. She said the 
identification supplied had confirmed her sons age but one of the letters had been rejected. 
She said every instance involved them chasing Nationwide to find out what stage the 
application was at but Nationwide didnt give any indication as to what the problem was and 
had wasted their time. Ms T said had they known what the problem was they could have 
rectified it. She said her son had been disadvantaged because the Help To Buy ISA was no 
longer available.
Our investigator concluded that Mr Ts application would not have progressed beyond 2 
March 2020 irrespective of the date of birth being incorrect. She said not only had the ID 
been sent in after the final deadline but this ID did not meet Nationwides requirements. 
However she didnt think £75 was fair compensation for the inconvenienced Mr T 
experienced as a result of him not being told his application had been closed in March. She 
thought Nationwide should pay Mr T a total of £150. 
Nationwide accepted this recommendation. Ms T, on behalf of Mr T asked for a decision 
from an ombudsman. She said an additional £75 by no means compares to the privilege her 
son could have received if Nationwide had shown clarity and aptly communicated in a 
responsible manner, given Mr T was a young adolescent dealing with a corporate 
organisation. She said her son had lost the opportunity to save for his first home and receive 
a 25% boost to his savings from the government when buying his first property. She said 
Nationwide should be held accountable. 
    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I shall be instructing Nationwide to pay Mr T an additional £75. 
Mr T applied for the ISA in late November. On the application form Mr T had inputted the 
incorrect year of birth indicating he was over 18. This was an error, as in fact he was under 
18, a minor. 
Nationwide told this service Mr T was first contacted at the beginning of December 2019. It 
said he was then sent another email on 19 December. As no identification was received a 
further letter was sent on 5 February 2020. The letter of 5 February gave 15 days for the ID 
to be provided and confirmed that if it wasnt the application would be terminated. 
Nationwide said the application was closed on 2 March 2020.
Although Mr Ts date of birth was incorrect Nationwide confirmed to this service that the 
application was terminated because the identification Mr T provided to prove his address 
wasnt on the list of acceptable identification. Nationwide has a list of appropriate 
identification it would accept to confirm details of a potential customers application, which 
Ive seen. It lists a letter from a university or college as proof of current address. Further 
down the page it says:
Children aged over seven if the account is in only the childs name:
Well need to see  a document from the proof of current address list for the parent 
or guardian...  
As the application form had Mr T as over 18 Nationwide would have expected him to provide 
proof of address from that list. A letter from a high school isnt on this list, nor is a letter from 
a GP, which Mr T also sent. I do understand that Mr T was, in fact, under 18. But Im 
satisfied that even if the date of birth had been correct a letter from the high school would 
still not have been accepted as proof of address, as Nationwide required a proof of current 
address for the parent. What identification is or isnt appropriate as proof is a commercial 
decision by Nationwide and its not my role to say that Nationwide should have accepted a 
letter from a high school because Mr T was under 18. So I think it reasonable that 
Nationwide closed the application in March, some three months after Mr T applied.
Ms T has said her son has been disadvantaged because of their remote location. I 
understand how it could be difficult for Mr T to provide documents had he been required to 
visit the branch. For many customers this is a convenient way to provide proof of identity. Mr 
T lived off the mainland, but Nationwide allows the customer to send the documents. And I 
can see that there was enough time for Mr T to send them in before the deadline. He was 
first contacted in December about the identification requirements and the application closed 
in early March. So Im not persuaded Mr T was disadvantaged because of where he lived. 
Although the application closed in March, Mr T was not informed of this until after he had 
travelled to his local Nationwide branch in August 2021, a trip he would not have had to 
make had he known about the application closure. Ms T said Mr T also sent in other communication chasing the application. Its also the case that Nationwide wasnt clear in its 
final response as to why the application was terminated. I consider £75 not fair 
compensation for this inconvenience and agree with the investigator that Nationwide should 
pay a further £75.
Ms T has said an additional £75 doesnt compare to the privilege her son could have 
received if Nationwide had shown clarity, and aptly communicated in a responsible manner, 
with a young adolescent dealing with a corporate organisation. She said Mr T has lost the 
opportunity to save for his first home and receive a 25% boost to his savings from the 
government when buying his first property. She said Nationwide should be held accountable 
for their failing in responsible communication and give a fair offer of compensation.  
I understand Ms Ts strength of feeling in this matter. She feels her son has missed out as a 
result of Nationwides actions. But Im afraid I dont agree. The application was terminated 
because appropriate identification wasnt sent in before the deadline and Ive seen evidence 
it was requested more than once. While I accept Nationwides communication after the 
application was terminated was poor, Im satisfied this didnt affect the actual progress of the 
application itself.  
Putting things right
 In order to put things right Nationwide Building Society should pay Mr T a total of £150 for 
the distress and inconvenience. To be clear, if Nationwide has paid Mr T £75 already then it 
should pay him a further £75.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and instruct Nationwide Building Society to 
put things right as set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2021.
 
Maxine Sutton
Ombudsman