DRN-4020816
The complaint
Mrs H says Tesco Personal Finance PLC, trading as Tesco Bank, irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
Mrs H took out a credit card from Tesco Bank in November 2014. She was given a credit
limit of £3,400. This was increased to £5,400 in February 2017 and to £6,400 in February
2018.
Mrs H says the card was mis-sold to her as it was unaffordable. She had to take out other
cards and loans to manage her repayments and this has affected her physically, mentally
and financially.
Our investigator upheld the complaint in part. She said the initial lending decision was not
fair, but Tesco Bank was not wrong to give the two credit limits increases as Mrs Hs income
had significantly increased by then.
Both parties asked for an ombudsmans review. Tesco Bank said, in summary, its
calculations showed Mrs H would have enough disposable income to sustainably repay the
credit. And the way she has managed her account supports this conclusion  she has at
times made large repayments. This shows that the investigators assessment is flawed. The
card has caused no detriment to Mrs H.
Mrs H said she still felt Tescos checks were not thorough enough. She had significant credit
commitments, including a mortgage, and she only paid more than the minimum payment by
borrowing more elsewhere.
I reached a different conclusion to the investigator so I issued a provisional decision. An 
extract follows and forms part of this final decision. I asked both parties to send any 
comments or new information by 16 March 2023.
Extract from my provisional decision
I can see Tesco Bank asked for Mrs Hs income, employment status and residential status
when she applied for the card. It estimated her living costs using data from the Office for
National Statistics. It carried out a credit check to understand her existing credit
commitments and credit history. It took into account a proportion of the total mortgage
payment that its checks showed. Based on these checks Tesco Bank approved Mrs Hs
application and concluded a limit of £3,400 would be affordable for her.
I think these checks were proportionate given the type and value of the lending, but I dont
think Tesco Bank made a fair lending decision based on the results of the checks. Ill explain
why.
When she applied Mrs H declared a gross annual income of £10,000 and that she worked
part-time. Tesco Bank used a net monthly income of £900 for its assessment. It could see
she had very little debt, except for a mortgage, and no adverse data on her credit file. The
credit check showed she was making monthly mortgage payments of £729 a month, Tesco
Bank used a lower figure of £270. It assumed her living costs were also £270 and that she
would need to spend £84 each month to repay this card. And so she would have net
disposable income of £276.
Our investigator challenged using £270 for Mrs Hs housing costs. And I agree Tesco Bank
should not have ignored the result of the credit check. Tesco Bank argues that if Mrs H was 
paying the mortgage in full it is reasonable to assume her husband covered the other 
household costs and I find this to be fair. Tesco Bank said that the card then remained 
affordable as based on those revised assumptions Mrs H would have £113 net disposable 
income a month.
I agree however with the investigators point that at least £102 needs to be allocated as the
monthly cost of this new card if Mrs H was to repay it within a reasonable period of time.
Using her declared income of £900, the mortgage cost as retuned from the credit reference
agency of £729 and the cost of this card at £102 this means Mrs H would be left with just
£69 a month for unexpected costs and seasonal expenses. This is not sustainable and so I
find Tesco Bank was wrong to give the card with a £3,400 limit to Mrs H.
Tesco Bank argues that Mrs Hs account management shows this finding to be flawed  she
often made large repayments, but it does not know how she did this. And Mrs Hs testimony
confirms that she borrowed to repay, and was just moving debt around.
The credit limit increases in February 2017 and 2018
Our investigator concluded that as Tesco Banks checks at the time of each increase
showed Mrs Hs income had increased significantly it was not wrong to increase her limits.
I can see Tesco Bank checked Mrs Hs income with one of the credit reference agencies
before increasing her limit  and it had increased substantially. Both checks showed Mrs Hs
income had increased to around £3,600. But I find that this four-fold increase in income in a
two-year period should have triggered an additional check, such as asking for a pay slip. The
requirement on the lender is not just to gather the right information but to respond to it
appropriately. I havent seen any evidence it did that here.
To understand what better checks would have shown Tesco Bank, I have checked Mrs Hs
salary for the three months prior to each limit increase using bank statements. This shows it
averaged £902 a month prior to the increase in 2017 and £884.98 in 2018. In addition, she
received monthly benefits of £82.80 in 2017 and £137.60 in 2018. Taking into account that a
sustainable monthly repayment on this card after the first increase would be £162 and £192
after the second, for the same reason as explained above for the initial limit, I think Tesco
Bank was wrong to give the limit increases to Mrs H. I find she would not be left with a
sustainable level of net disposable income, particularly taking into account she had
dependents.
I anticipate that Tesco Bank will highlight that Mrs H continued to make repayments over the
minimum required and then cleared her balance in full. But as I have said earlier, it did not
know she did this without suffering other adverse financial consequences (although arguably
it should have seen from the bureau data that her indebtedness was steadily increasing over
the life of the card), so this does not change my conclusion.
I have not found that Tesco Bank acted unfairly or unreasonably in some other way towards
Mrs H.
I then set out what Tesco Bank would need to do to put things right if I went on to uphold   Mrs Hs complaint. 
Mrs H responded, accepting the provisional decision. Tesco Bank did not reply.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
As neither party sent in any new evidence or comments I have no reason to change the 
findings or outcome I set out in my provisional decision. 
It follows I think Tesco Bank was wrong to offer the credit card to Mrs H, and to then 
increase its limit twice.
Putting things right
Mrs Hs credit card account is now settled and closed. It is fair that Mrs H has repaid the
capital she borrowed as she had the benefit of that money. But she has also paid interest
and charges on credit that should not have been given to her.
So Tesco Bank must:
- Refund all interest, fees and charges applied Mrs Hs card.
- Return them to Mrs H along with 8% simple interest from the date they were paid
until the date of settlement.
- Amend Mrs Hs credit file to remove any adverse information recorded.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Tesco Bank to take off tax from this interest. Tesco Bank must
give Mrs H a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
I am upholding Mrs Hs complaint. Tesco Personal Finance PLC, trading as Tesco Bank, 
must put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 April 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman