DRN-4230799
The complaint
Ms X complains about the way that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) dealt with her various home 
insurance and home emergency claims for water damage to her property.
What happened
Ms X has a number of medical issues and should be regarded as a vulnerable consumer. 
She made the following claims which UKI cash settled in 2022, net of any excesses:
November 2016 (two claims) leak from behind washing machine (£828 and £185)
November 2018 leak from bathroom flexi hose (£1,674)
January 2022 leak from ensuite (£5,182)
April 2022 leak from pipe in utility room (home emergency claim) disturbance allowance
(DA) only £670
For personal and medical reasons and the impact of Covid-19, Ms X was unable to follow up 
the 2016 and 2018 claims until late 2021.
Some stripping out and drying out occurred in respect of the 2018 and 2022 claims.
UKI set up a meeting with a loss adjuster at the property when all of Ms Xs claims were 
discussed. Ms X wasnt happy with the meeting and complained about the loss adjuster. She 
felt that she had been accused of there being no leak. Subsequently UKI took the view that 
as Ms X couldnt make up her mind about how to proceed and as the claims needed to 
progress, it would pay her the above cash settlements, which it did so in June and July 2022. 
Ms X was unhappy with the payments being sent straight to her bank account, she had been 
trying to apply for a council tax reduction and the council refused to disregard the insurance 
payments, so she couldnt get a reduction. She feels that the payments were forced on her.
Ms X advised that a payment of £1,924 was missing from the payments. UKI said it had 
been overlooked and paid the required payment in February 2023.
Ms X further complained that she was misled into believing that, in respect of the home 
emergency claim, the radiators needed to be power flushed whereas she was told by her 
plumber there was a leak.
She further believes she should have been offered alternative accommodation (AA) for the 
claims in 2016 and 2018.
UKI issued a final response to Ms Xs complaints. It agreed that her claims could've been 
handled much better. It said it should've appointed a single person or loss adjuster to 
manage all of the claims so that she felt comfortable and didn't find its processes as 
confusing. As she didnt believe she had been paid enough money for all of the costs she felt 
she was entitled to, it proposed appointing a loss adjuster to review all of the claims and the 
costs to ensure shed received sufficient settlements for all of her claims costs. It further paid 
her £1,000 in respect of the delays, upset and trouble shed experienced throughout the 
handling of all of he claims.
On review by our Investigator, they said UKIs response was reasonable except that rather 
than a loss adjuster, an independent loss assessor should be appointed.
Both parties agreed to this, Ms X wanted to appoint her own loss assessor to consider all the 
claims and the compensation. She is unhappy with the amount of compensation paid to her 
as this doesnt adequately reflect the way she feels she was treated.
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that, although I thought the proposed remedy was 
reasonable, Ms X should be given the opportunity to have a loss adjuster rather than a loss 
assessor to be appointed.
UKI accepted my decision.
Ms X made further comments. I shall set those out below and reply to her points.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My provisional findings are set out below in italics.
appointment of loss assessor
I note that Ms X is unhappy with the settlements she has received, and UKI did offer to 
appoint a loss adjuster to consider the claims and all the costs. I note that Ms X would like to 
appoint her own loss assessor, as our Investigator proposed, and I can see that she might 
prefer to instruct someone she contacts directly. However I would caution that a loss 
assessor would be unlikely to be able to manage the claim, they usually instruct third parties 
like surveyors to assess the costs and to project manage any claim, on the basis that they 
will be doing any repairs. More importantly Ms X should understand that if she is unhappy 
with the results of any assessment carried out by a loss assessor she appoints, she would 
be unlikely to be able to make a further complaint to UKI or to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service as UKI wouldnt be responsible for someone not appointed by it.
So long as she understands that I would be prepared to direct that a loss assessor be 
appointed, one from a list of three chosen by Ms X. She would have to provide three names 
to UKI who would then indicate which assessor to appoint.
Alternatively my proposal would be for UKI to appoint a loss adjuster, not connected to any 
persons previously involved in running the claims. Such a loss adjuster should be able to as 
set out by our Investigator, assess all the claims, any outstanding issues, manage the claim 
and arrange any further settlement. And as Ive said if Ms X remained unhappy she would 
still be able to make a further complaint, as UKI would continue to be responsible. If this
option is preferred, UKI would provide three names to Ms X who would choose the adjuster 
to appoint.
Any such settlement that resulted would need to be based on private contractor rates rather 
than the rates UKI would be able to obtain from any of its panel contractors. As the original 
payments were made on 27 June 2022, in respect of any further payments due from this exercise, it should add interest from that date to the date it reimburses Ms X.
Ms X should indicate what she prefers in response to this provisional decisio n. If necessary 
she can di scuss it with our Investigator.
forced cash payment
Ms X feels that she was forced into having cash payments for her claims, without her 
consent. She says that as a result she lost 
the opportunity to have a council tax reduction in 
respect of arrears of council tax she owes.
I can understand why Ms X wa s upset over this  it does seem unfair that the council would 
treat the insurance payments in such a way. However, as regards UKIs positio n, some of 
the claims had been outstanding for a number of years and as Ms X couldn t make a 
decision as to what she wanted to do, I dont think it was unreasonable for UKI to make cash 
payments. She would then have been able to have the wo rk done at her own pace. If UKI 
had just let the matter drift it would rightly expect criticism. Also, UKI didnt know about Ms 
Xs council ta x position when it made the payments, and the normal procedure is for insurers 
to make direct transfers. I think it likely that any payment by chequ e, and paid into a different 
account would have had to be declared to the Council in any event.
attitude of the loss adjuster
I note that Ms X wa s unhappy with the lo ss adjuster who visite d the property. She says she 
was stopped fro m taking notes, though I note the loss adjuste r says the y suggested this 
wouldnt be necessary as they would be supplying her with a full note. However any view of 
the loss adjusters conduct must be subjective and given that the lo ss adjuster didnt think 
there was anything wrong with their conduct, theres insufficie nt evidence for me to make a 
finding about this.
misleading regarding the leak under the utility room floor
Ms X says she was told by the plumber who attended from the home emergency team that 
there was no leak and the radiato rs just needed a power flush (not covered under the 
policy). My experience of viewing such claims is that this is often suggested. I cant say the 
plumber was wrong in that respect a s it was the ir opinion. In respect of the claim, the tracing 
and fixing of the leak was not covered, so it was Ms Xs responsibility to pay for this. I note 
that Ms X was without hot water for a month but UKI did pay a disturbance allowance for her 
and he r son. The purpose of that is to co ver extra expense incurred when there wa s a lack 
of hot water. I think UKI acte d reasonabl y here.
delay in receiving payment
This refers in particular to the payment outstanding in respect of the cash settlements. It 
appears th at thi s was due to an administrati ve error. Thi s can be remedied b y UKI paying 
interest on the late paid sum from 27 June 2022 until payment.
fail to provide AA
This refers to the claims in 2016 and 2018. AA would be paid where the property is 
uninhabitabl e, i.e. without basic cooking o r washing faciliti es. I dont think that applies here.
outstanding disbursementsI note that Ms X has outstanding expenses relating to laundry costs in 2016 when the 
washing machine was out of action and/or when there was no hot water. She should present 
the disbursements to UKI for consideration by the appointed loss adjuster or assessor. 
table and chairs
I understand these were damaged at the time of the November 2018 claim. UKI has agreed 
in principle to pay for or replace these, so it should deal with this.
handling of the claims
I can understand that the number of claims and the disjointed way of dealing with them 
would have caused upset and I think Ms Xs particular vulnerabilities werent taken 
adequately into account. It was for that reason that a loss adjuster to oversee all the claims 
was proposed. I think that was a reasonable proposal.
compensation
This wont be dealt with by the loss adjuster/assessor. Ms X doesnt feel that she has been 
given enough compensation. She has told our Investigator that she is still living in a cold 
house, with the celling in the hallway removed where asbestos was found. I would point out 
that it would have been reasonable for UKI to expect that she might at least get some works 
under way with the settlement shes received.
Ms X has received £1,000. Such a payment might be appropriate where the impact of any 
inadequacies has caused substantial distress, upset and worry. There may have been 
serious disruption to daily life over a sustained period, with the impact felt over many 
months. I think this applies in Ms Xs case as especially concerning the failure adequately to 
take into account her vulnerabilities. But I do think that the payment of £1,000 is reasonable 
and I wont be directing UKI to increase that payment.
As for Ms Xs assertion that there has been discrimination and a breach of the Equality Act, 
such a finding can only be made by a court. However I reiterate that her vulnerabilities 
werent taken fully into account, and that the compensation awarded is reasonable to reflect 
that.
Ms Xs comments, indented, and my replies, not indented
She is not satisfied with the 8% Interest offered and would like it to be renegotiated to 
a higher rate due to inconvenience and hardship.
The payment of interest is not intended as compensation for distress and inconvenience, nor 
to penalise UKI, but rather, if a payment should have been made at a certain time, to reflect 
the length of time Ms X wont have had that money. The 8% rate is a standard one which 
wont be altered.
For the November 2016 and January 2022 major water damage claims Ms X says 
full quotes have been submitted as requested via the Investigator. Regarding the 
outstanding expenses when the washing machine was out of action, she says all 
receipts were present and ready for the loss adjuster at the time of her visit but she 
would not accept or acknowledge them.
Ms X should submit the quotes and receipts for the outstanding expenses to the appointed 
loss adjuster. Our Investigator can help with producing the necessary documents she sent 
us, if needed. However, I cant really comment on what she says about the loss adjusters attitude here - I refer to my provisional findings concerning that visit.
Having no means of showering has caused further damage to her spinal condition 
and hardship.
I note what Ms X says but on balance I think the amount of compensation paid is 
reasonable.
She was offered AA for the time she was without hot water, but she had to ask for it 
and only found out through her plumber. She wasnt offered the higher amount of AA 
which is in her policy. She was only offered the budget accommodation, with no extra 
for food, which was impossible to arrange.
I understand that this was for a short period when she was without hot water. There is no 
higher amount payable under the policy for AA. There is a maximum limit of £25,000, but 
her entitlement was for like for like accommodation which would be difficult to provide in 
respect of a hotel. And though she may have perceived the offer as a budget hotel, I cant 
comment on availability. UKI admitted that its agent failed to offer AA but did offer £10 a day 
per person payment for food. I note it was impossible to arrange, meaning Ms X stayed in 
her home, and was paid DA instead. I think that was reasonable in the circumstances.
Regarding being forced into a cash settlement paid into the wrong account without 
her authority it not only caused inconvenience and hardship, it caused a lot of anxiety 
and affected her mental health and wellbeing.
I am sorry that this caused Ms X so much anxiety. But as I said in my provisional findings I 
cant find that UKI was responsible for this.
Ms X prefers the option of UKI appointing a loss adjuster.
I note that and will direct accordingly.
She would like it acknowledged that UKI threatened her that, on renewal, if she didnt 
take out its insurance for which it told her she needed a rebuild valuation, it would tell 
other companies, when discussing on the phone.
As our Investigator told Ms X at the time, this was a discussion with her bank, not UKI, who 
arranged the policy and she should take this up with the bank.
In summary I remain persuaded by my provisional findings which are now final and form part 
of this final decision
Putting things right
UKI should appoint a loss adjuster unconnected with the claims chosen in the way described 
above (UKI is to provide three names to Ms X who would choose the adjuster to appoint).
That loss adjuster should assess the various claims and assess the right payment for each 
claim, based on private contractors rates, and manage and deal with any settlement.
UKI should make any further payments required and add 8% simple interest to any 
additional settlement from 27 June 2022 until it repays Ms X. This includes the delayed 
payment made in respect of the original settlement.
UKI should also deal with the replacement or payment for the damaged table and chairs.My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require UK Insurance Limited to carry out the remedy set out 
under Putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms X to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2023.
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman