The complaint
Mr M complains that BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS) hasnt properly 
addressed the settling of the finance on a car he part exchanged. 
What happened
In late 2018 Mr M arranged to acquire a new car using his old one in part exchange. Mr M 
had two finance agreements on his old car, one for its purchase and the other for an 
accessory he had added to it. Mr M presumed both finance agreements were to be paid off 
as part of the deal, but later he found that he owed £562.50 on the accessory finance 
agreement. The accessory cost £1500. 
He contacted the dealer and was told that it wasnt aware of the second agreement. Mr 
asked for the return of the accessory so he could sell it to cover or reduce the money he 
owed, but he was told it had been sold with the car. He said that when he took the old car in 
he had been asked if he wanted to retain the accessory. 
Mr M complained to BMWFS, but it said any agreement he had reached with the dealer was 
not one for it to address. He brought his complaint to this service where it was considered by 
one of our investigators who recommended it be upheld.
He concluded that the dealer should have been aware that there were two finance 
agreements and should have made it clear that the second one hadnt been taken into 
account in the deal. He suggested BMWFS pay Mr M compensation of £150 which would 
cover the outstanding accessory finance.
Mr M replied and said that he owed £562.50. BMWFS confirmed this was the correct figure 
and it had made an error in letting this service know the sum due was £150. It offered to 
cover half the outstanding sum which came to £281.25. Our investigator thought this was 
reasonable, but Mr M asked that it be covered in full. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is clear there was some misunderstanding about the finance on Mr Ms old car. I believe it 
is unusual for there to be more than one finance agreement on a car and I can see how it 
could have been overlooked. I presume Mr M was aware that there were two agreements 
which needed to be cleared and it would have been prudent to have checked when buying 
the new car to ensure all was in order. However, it seems neither the dealer nor he explored 
the issue fully before the sale.
DRN-1913432I gather the salesman asked Mr M if he wished to keep the accessory when he collected the 
new car and he declined. I am not convinced that this shows that the dealer was aware there 
was a separate finance agreement on it. But it does show there was some discussion about 
it and neither party picked up on the possibility that it hadnt been factored into the deal.
Putting things right
Given the misunderstanding by both parties I think it reasonable that the cost of the 
outstanding finance be shared equally by Mr M and BMWFS.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct BMW Financial Services (GB) 
Limited to pay £281.25 towards the outstanding accessory finance agreement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 August 2020.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman