DRN-1886448
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1998. Ms W says Lloyds Bank PLC (trading as TSB Trust Card) mis-sold her the PPI.
What happened
Ms W complained that PPI had been mis-sold to her. Our adjudicator rejected Ms W's 
complaint. Ms W disagreed with our adjudicator's view and asked for the matter to be looked 
at again. Ms W added she didn't understand what she was being told and that the PPI was 
only sold to her because of her disability.
I issued a provisional decision in April 2020 to give Ms W more time to produce any 
evidence about her disability. I am satisfied all parties have had enough time to consider my 
provisional decision. None of the parties has sent us any new evidence or comments for me 
to consider. So I see no reason to change the conclusions I reached in my provisional 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Ws case.
I dont think the policy was mis-sold because:
Having seen a sample PPI application which Lloyds Bank said Ms W would most 
likely have completed at around the time of the sale, I think Lloyds Bank made it clear 
enough that Ms W didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out  
although I can understand why she cant remember this.
Lloyds Bank recommended the PPI to Ms W so it had to check that the PPI was right 
for her  and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it 
was. For example she wasnt affected by any of the main exclusions to or limits on 
the PPI cover and she seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Lloyds Bank gave Ms W about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it should have been. But she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this 
type of cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for her if something went 
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the 
PPI would have put her off taking out the cover. 
Which means Lloyds Bank doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms 
W. 
 
But Lloyds Bank has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms W because: Lloyds Bank got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Ms W about that. Because Lloyds Bank didnt 
tell Ms W that was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds Bank has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and at this stage, I think that is fair in 
this case.
 
Ive thought about everything Ms W has said - including what she said about the PPI being 
sold to her only because she had a disability. However, she didnt say what the disability 
was, when she was suffering from it or how it affected her generally and in respect of this 
PPI sale. I noted also that she did not mention it on any of her completed complaint forms. 
Ms W has been given time to produce this evidence. However, I havent received anything 
further from her or her representatives about this matter, so I am not going to uphold the 
complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that the PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank PLC does not have to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms W.
Lloyds Bank PLC has to pay back to Ms W any commission and profit share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I dont award 
any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 July 2020.
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman