DRN-1760485
 
Complaint
Mrs M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, mis-sold her a 
monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Background
Mrs M took out a credit card in 1999. She was sold the PPI at the same time in connection 
with this card.
The PPI cost around 70p per £100 of the monthly outstanding balance and would have paid 
10% of the outstanding balance for up to 12 months if Mrs M was off work sick or lost her 
job.
Our adjudicator didnt think Mrs Ms complaint should be upheld. Mrs M didnt agree with our 
adjudicator and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ms case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
First of all Ive considered whether Mrs M would have been eligible for the policy. Based on 
Mrs Ms age, work and residence at the time of the sale, Im satisfied Mrs M would have 
been eligible for the policy. 
Barclays had to make it clear to Mrs M that the policy was optional and needed her consent 
before it could be applied to the account.
Mrs M has provided her account of how the sale took place. She says she was at the 
departure lounge of an airport about to board a flight. She says a Barclays representative 
approached her and pressured her into taking the credit card out. She says the application 
was rushed and she didnt know PPI had been added to the account.
However, Barclays have confirmed that this was a postal sale. They have provided us with a 
copy of the application form and it appears to be consistent with a postal application. Based 
on this evidence, I think its more likely that this was a postal sale. So unfortunately, I cant 
place weight on Mrs Ms account of how the policy was sold. 
I note that the application form had a separate section for PPI and this gave Mrs M a choice 
as to whether or not to take PPI. It appears Mrs M ticked to take PPI and signed this 
application form.  So all in all, I think its more likely that Barclays did make Mrs M aware that PPI was optional 
and it was only applied to the account because Mrs M chose to take it out. 
Given that this was a postal sale with no involvement from a representative, I dont think 
Barclays advised Mrs M to take PPI. This means they didnt need to take steps to check if 
PPI was suitable for her.
But Barclays did have to give Mrs M clear information so that she could make an informed 
decision about whether or not to take PPI. Its possible the information Barclays gave Mrs M 
wasnt as clear as it should have been. But this in itself doesnt mean the PPI was mis-sold 
as I have to go on and consider whether better information would have put her off taking it 
out. And I dont think it would have. I say this because:
Mrs M didnt appear to have been affected by the exclusions and onerous terms in 
the policy which would have made it difficult for her to make a successful claim under 
the policy. Mrs M has told us she was self-employed at the time of the sale and 
would have been affected by onerous terms if she wanted to make a claim for 
unemployment under the cover. However, I have seen no evidence that Mrs M was 
self-employed at the time of the sale. The application form shows Mrs M ticked to say 
that she was employed at the time of the sale even though there was an equally clear 
option for self-employed. Mrs M says she ticked full time employee as she was 
rushed. But as already mentioned, Mrs Ms account of how she was sold PPI is at 
odds with the evidence Barclays have provided. This was a postal application and I 
havent seen any credible evidence as to why Mrs M felt she was rushed or any 
evidence to support that she was in fact self-employed despite what it says in the 
application form.
 
As Mrs M believes she was self-employed at the time of the sale, she has told us she 
was not entitled to any employee sick pay. As I have found its more likely that Mrs M 
was employed at the time of the sale, it may be that Mrs M may have been entitled to 
some sick pay. But the PPI would have paid out in addition to this. And it would also 
have paid out if she lost her job.
 
I havent seen any evidence to suggest the PPI was unaffordable to Mrs M at the 
time of the sale. 
 
Mrs M could have cancelled the PPI at any time without losing out financially if she 
no longer wanted or needed it.
 
So having taken everything into consideration, I dont think Barclays mis-sold Mrs M this PPI 
policy. 
 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2020.Navneet Sher
Ombudsman