DRN-3210801
The complaint
Mr K has complained that Chetwell Financial Limited (Trading at the time as Live Lend) 
provided him with an unaffordable loan.
What happened
Live Lend provided Mr K with a personal loan of £1,000.00 in November 2018. This loan had 
a 24-month term with a monthly repayment amount of £53.47. This all meant the total 
amount repayable of £1283.18 was due to be repaid.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint and didnt uphold Mr Ks complaint. He 
concluded that Live Lend carried out proportionate checks and made a fair lending decision 
based on what it had in front of it. 
Mr K disagreed with our investigator and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive 
referred to this when deciding Mr Ks complaint.
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are overarching questions that I 
need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Mr Ks complaint. These questions 
are:
Did Live Lend complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr 
K would be able to repay his loan in a sustainable way?
If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr K wouldve been able to do so?
Live Lend provided this loan while it was authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). The rules and regulations in place required Live Lend to carry out a 
reasonable and proportionate assessment of Mr Ks ability to make the
repayments under this agreement. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an
affordability assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Live Lend had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would cause significant adverse consequences for Mr K. In practice this 
meant that Live Lend had to ensure that making the payments to the loan wouldnt cause Mr 
K undue difficulty or adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Live Lend to simply think about the likelihood of it getting 
its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr K. Checks also 
had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different 
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is likely to be 
greater and the customer is required to make payments for an extended period); and
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a given loan application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances.
Ive carefully thought about all of the relevant factors in this case.
what checks did Live Lend do?
Live Lend gathered some information from Mr K before it agreed the loan. It asked him for 
details of his income. Live Lend verified Mr Ks income by looking at an online income 
verification tool and used a monthly figure of £1909. 
Live Lend then gathered information from Mr K about his living costs (£800), his rent (£475) 
and says it could see he had credit commitments of £315 a month after it says it ran a credit 
search. 
Live Lend worked out that this left Mr K with disposable income which meant that the 
monthly contractual instalments of around £54 that he had signed up to make on this loan 
should have been comfortably affordable for him. It also says it didnt see anything that it felt 
demonstrated that Mr K was having any financial problems.
did Live Lend do proportionate checks?
Ive carefully considered whether the information that Live Lend gathered at the time should 
reasonably have triggered further checks. On balance, I dont think that the information Live 
Lend had collected about Mr Ks financial situation was enough to prompt a reasonable 
lender to think it needed to do further or more in-depth checking. On balance, I think based on the checks it carried out that there wasnt anything that would 
have alerted it to wanting to find out more. So, I think the checks it carried out were 
proportionate.
did Live Lend make a fair lending decision?
Taking things as a whole, I think it would have been reasonable for Live Lend to consider 
that the monthly repayments on its loan were affordable for Mr K  allowing for the amount it 
had assessed to be his disposal income. 
Ive needed to see whether Live Lend made a fair lending decision based on what it had in 
front of it, and from what I have seen, I think it did.
Overall, I think the checks that Live Lend carried out before lending to Mr K were reasonable 
and proportionate. I think it was reasonable in the circumstances for Live Lend to have relied 
on the information that Mr K provided and what it found in its checks - and this was enough 
to enable Live Lend to gain a reasonable understanding of his financial situation and see 
that Mr K appeared to be managing his money without any significant payment problems. I 
dont think more in-depth checks  such as requesting bank statements were required.
So, I havent seen enough to be able to uphold Mr Ks irresponsible lending complaint.
In conclusion, I do not uphold Mr Ks complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against
Chetwood Financial Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2022.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman