DRN-4326894
Complaint
Mr M has complained about a logbook loan CarCashPoint Limited (Car Cash Point) 
provided to him. He says the loan was unaffordable.
Background
Car Cash Point provided Mr M with a loan of £560 in July 2022. This loan was due to be 
repaid in 18 monthly instalments of £87.12. 
One of our investigators reviewed what Mr M and Car Cash Point had told us. And she 
thought that Car Cash Point hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mr M unfairly. So she 
didnt recommend that Mr Ms complaint be upheld. Mr M disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsman to look at his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ms complaint.
Car Cash Point needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is Car Cash Point needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether  Mr M could afford to repay before providing this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Car Cash Point provided Mr M with a logbook loan for £560 in July 2022. This loan was to be 
repaid in 24 instalments of around £87.12. which meant the total amount to be repaid was 
around £1,500.00. Car Cash Point says it agreed to Mr Ms application after he provided 
details of his monthly income and some information on his expenditure. 
It says it cross-checked this against information on a credit search it carried out and copies 
of bank statements. All of this information showed Mr M could comfortably make the 
relatively low monthly repayments he was committing to. 
On the other hand, Mr M has said he was struggling, had a poor credit score and was using 
an overdraft.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr M and Car Cash Point have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that Car Cash Point has provided a record of the credit search 
information it received. It shows that Mr M had had previous difficulties with credit in the form 
of county court judgments (CCJ), although these were historic as they had been obtained 
in 2018 and they had also been settled too. 
So I do agree with Mr M that he may well have had a poor credit score and I also think that 
relying on a credit check alone, in these circumstances, is unlikely to have seen Car Cash 
Point carry out reasonable and proportionate checks. But Car Cash Point didnt rely solely 
on the credit check it also requested copies of Mr Ms bank account transactions. 
And what was contained in these bank statements dont obviously contradict the information 
recoded on the income and expenditure assessment. And certainly not to the extent that 
they ought reasonably to have alerted Car Cash Point to the fact that the loan payments 
were unaffordable.
Furthermore, bearing in mind this was Mr Ms first loan with Car Cash Point, the low monthly 
loan payments in comparison to Mr Ms income and there being nothing else to contradict 
the not unreasonable figures arrived at in the income and expenditure assessment, I dont 
think that it was unreasonable for Car Cash Point to have proceeded with this application. 
I accept that Mr Ms actual circumstances may not have been fully reflected either in the 
information he provided, or the information Car Cash Point obtained. For example, I know 
what hes said about his existing debt position. And in particular that he was using his 
overdraft at the time. But while Mr M was using his overdraft his limit was low. And the funds 
from this loan were sufficient to have cleared his balance completely. So I dont think that   
Mr M was trapped in his overdraft or that his use of his overdraft was, in itself, a reason not 
to lend to him.
Equally the key here is that its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in 
circumstances where a lender did something wrong. Given the circumstances here, I think 
that Car Cash Point carried out proportionate checks and reasonably relied on what it found 
out which suggested the repayments were affordable. 
Ive also considered Mr Ms arguments regarding being pressured. But in order to uphold his 
complaint on this basis, Id need to be satisfied that Car Cash Point pressured Mr M to the 
extent that he was effectively left in a position where he had no choice other than to agree to 
this loan. 
Im afraid that Im not persuaded that this was the case here  particularly as Mr M agreed to 
meet the Car Cash Point representative. Mr M could have decided not to go ahead with the 
loan if he felt he didnt have enough time to consider the documentation and he could have 
withdrawn from the loan and returned the funds if he had second thoughts. Indeed, I have 
difficulty accepting that Mr M couldnt simply have halted the process or refused to provide 
access to the requested documents, if he genuinely didnt wish to go ahead with the loan. 
As this is the case, I dont think that Car Cash Point did anything wrong when deciding to 
lend to Mr M. And overall I dont think that Car Cash Point treated Mr M unfairly or 
unreasonably when providing him with his loan. 
Having carefully considered everything, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint. I appreciate this 
will be very disappointing for Mr M. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision 
and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.Although Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint, I would remind Car Cash Point about its 
obligations to exercise forbearance and due consideration should it be the case that Mr M is 
experiencing financial difficulty and is struggling to make his loan repayments.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman