DRN-1989956
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy with the settlement Allianz Insurance Plc (Allianz) gave him when he 
claimed for a broken phone.
What happened
In late September 2019 Mr R dropped his phone and broke it. He contacted Allianz which 
agreed to consider his claim.
In October Allianz said it would replace the phone  but that the exact model he had was no 
longer available, so it would give him the next version of the phone.
Mr R didnt want that particular phone as he thought it would be discontinued soon and not 
supported by the manufacturer. Allianz explained that it was only obliged to provide a phone 
based on the specification of his old one  and that this was the nearest. Allianz offered to 
give Mr R a voucher for a high street supplier of phones  and said if he wanted to, he could 
pay the extra to get a later version of the phone if thats what he wanted. It also said he 
could have a cash settlement  but that would only be £371.41, as thats what it would cost 
Allianz to replace the phone.
Mr R complained that this wasnt good enough, but Allianz didnt change its position. 
Sometime later Allianz said it would make the cash payment to Mr R as he didnt want the 
replacement phone offered. The money didnt arrive and it took Allianz more than a month to 
sort this out.
Mr R brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said she thought Allianz had settled the 
claim in line with the terms and conditions of the policy, and need do no more on this point. 
But she thought the administration of the payment had been handled poorly and suggested 
Allianz pay Mr R £75 for the inconvenience this caused.
Allianz says it will pay the £75. Mr R remains unhappy that hes not going to get a phone of 
his choice and wants the claim met as he wishes and more compensation.
Ive been asked to conclude this complaint. This decision is the final part of our process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going to comment on every point thats been made in this complaint  but I can 
assure Mr R that Ive given serious thought to what hes said.
The terms and conditions of Mr Rs policy say how Allianz will settle a claim.  They say, in 
summary, that if the item being replaced isnt available then Allianz will provide an 
equivalent, based on the specifications and quality of the original. The model of phone Mr R 
broke is no longer available. Allianz has said it will replace the phone with one from the 
same manufacturer (so of a similar quality). Its offered the next model produced by the 
manufacturer. As mobile phone models are normally issued with incremental improvements I 
think thats fair, as the next model along would be based on the one Mr R originally had.
I can see that Allianz said Mr R could pay the difference between the new phone and one he 
preferred if he so wished, and it offered him a voucher towards this. The voucher would have 
had a face value of more than the cash settlement  which reflects the discounts insurers 
negotiate. Mr R doesnt seem to have taken this option up.
Allianz eventually gave Mr R a cash settlement based on what it would have paid for the 
replacement phone. Thats in line with the terms and conditions.
Taking everything into account I think Allianz settled the claim fairly and I wont be asking it 
to do more on this point. Im not upholding this part of the complaint.
Turning to the payment of the claim, I can see that in December Allianz promised a payment 
would be made to Mr R by the following day. Instead it took a month or so to make the 
payment and Mr R had to chase this up. I think he should get some compensation for this, 
and I think the investigators suggestion of £75 fairly reflects the inconvenience he had.
Im upholding this part of the complaint.
Mr R does have another complaint with Allianz, but thats about a separate claim he made 
and isnt included in this decision.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and order Allianz to pay Mr R £75 for the 
way it handled the payment of the claim, if it hasnt done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2020.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman