DRN-2692376
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain about Ageas Insurance Limiteds handling of a subsidence claim 
made under their buildings insurance policy.
For ease, Ive referred to both Ageas and the agents acting on its behalf as Ageas within 
this decision.
  
What happened
In 2017, Mr and Mrs M made a claim for subsidence damage to their property. Ageas 
thought that the movement was the result of shrinkage of clay soil caused by nearby 
vegetation. It arranged for a neighbours tree to be removed. Monitoring then took place, to 
ensure the movement had stopped before repairs began.
During Ageas investigation into the subsidence, Mr and Mrs M had advised Ageas that they 
thought their neighbours cypress tree was contributing to the movement. That was because 
that particular tree had caused damage to their drains previously. Ageas didnt arrange for 
tree to be removed, because its investigations hadnt shown cypress tree roots below the 
propertys foundations. 
Mr and Mrs M therefore arranged for their own expert to carry out an investigation, and they 
did find cypress tree roots below the propertys foundations. Ageas reimbursed Mr and 
Mrs M for the cost of that report, and contacted their neighbour to arrange for the removal of 
the cypress tree (as well as a hedge).
Mr and Mrs M brought a complaint to this service about Ageas handling of the claim. They 
thought Ageas had delayed the claim unnecessarily by refusing to previously accept that the 
cypress tree was contributing to the movement of the property. They also said they had 
needed to constantly chase Ageas in order to progress the claim.
We told Ageas about Mr and Mrs Ms concerns, and it accepted thered been some 
customer service issues. It offered to pay Mr and Mrs M £250 compensation. Mr and Mrs M 
didnt accept this offer, and asked us to continue looking into their complaint. 
Our investigator didnt think that Ageas needed to do anything more. She thought it had 
been reasonable for Ageas to rely on the results of its investigations which hadnt found 
cypress tree roots below the property, and that the £250 compensation offer made by Ageas 
was fair for the customer service issues. 
Mr and Mrs M didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to 
me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs M brought a previous complaint to this service about Ageas handling of their 
subsidence claim. To be clear, Ive only considered whats happened since then. 
Mr and Mrs Ms main concern is that they thought their neighbours cypress tree was 
contributing to the movement at their property, but Ageas didnt arrange for the tree to be 
removed. Mr and Mrs M later provided evidence which supported their suspicions, and so 
they think Ageas delayed their claim by around a year because of this. 
When investigating the cause of the subsidence, Ageas arranged for two trial pits to be 
excavated in the areas where the property was affected. The investigations carried out found 
roots of vegetation below the propertys foundation, but there was no presence of cypress 
tree roots.
I note that Ageas did have concerns about the cypress tree. Its a large tree near to Mr and 
Mrs Ms property, so Im not surprised that Ageas thought the tree may have been 
contributing to the movement (or may do in the future). Ageas had initially asked Mr and 
Mrs Ms neighbour if theyd remove the cypress tree, but the neighbour didnt agree to this. 
As matters progressed, Ageas only arranged for the removal of one of the neighbours trees 
(which wasnt the cypress tree). 
Given that the cypress tree belonged to a third party, I think Ageas needed evidence to 
support that it was contributing to the subsidence damage at Mr and Mrs Ms property in 
order to proceed with the removal of the tree. However, its investigations hadnt found the 
presence of cypress tree roots below the property.
Mr and Mrs M think that Ageas ought to have excavated further trial pits to see if it could find 
the cypress tree roots. However, I think Ageas carried out reasonable site investigations at 
the time. I note that Ageas arranged to carry out level monitoring to check the movement 
had stopped so it could be sure that the remaining nearby trees (including the cypress tree) 
werent causing ongoing movement to the property before it arranged repairs. I think that 
was a sensible course of action. 
Mr and Mrs M then arranged for their own site investigations which did show the presence of 
cypress tree roots below the property. However, those site investigations took place over 18 
months after Ageas. I therefore cant be sure that the cypress tree roots would have been 
present when Ageas carried out its investigations, even if it had agreed to excavate further 
trial pits.
Im satisfied that Ageas acted appropriately once it learnt that the cypress tree roots had 
been found beneath the propertys foundations. Given that its monitoring hadnt shown 
significant movement, it arranged for an arborist to provide their opinion on the matter. The 
arborist thought the cypress tree (and a nearby hedge) ought to be removed to prevent any 
further movement to Mr and Mrs Ms property. Ageas therefore complied with this 
recommendation, and arranged for the tree and hedge to be removed. It also reimbursed Mr 
and Mrs M what theyd paid for their report. I think that was reasonable.
Mr and Mrs M have explained how the ongoing situation has impacted them, so I recognise 
my decision will disappoint them. However, I think Ageas acted appropriately based on the 
information available to it at the time. 
Mr and Mrs M have also raised some concerns about the progress of the claim.
Ive looked at the timeline of what happened, and for the most part, I think Ageas progressed 
the claim as Id expect. Unfortunately, there were some delays that were out of its hands. 
However, there was one particular delay of around a month, where I think Ageas should have progressed matters sooner. I also think Ageas could have updated Mr and Mrs M more 
often about the matter. 
Ageas has offered Mr and Mrs M £250 compensation for its handling of the claim, and Im 
satisfied that was reasonable compensation for the above errors.
My final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold this complaint. I require Ageas Insurance Limited to 
pay Mr and Mrs M £250 compensation, if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 July 2021.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman