DRN-3850570
The complaint
Mr K complains that Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 118 Money has unfairly and 
inaccurately recorded the amount of a fixed sum loan he has with it on his credit file.
What happened
In January 2022 Mr K entered into a 60-month fixed sum loan with 118 118 Money. The loan 
was for £2,500 and the interest charge was £2,389.40 making a total to pay of £4,889.40 
over the term of the loan. 
As this was a fixed sum loan the total interest amount was applied to the capital at the start 
of the agreement. However, should Mr K choose at any point before the term of the 
agreement ends to repay the outstanding balance, then he would be liable for a rebate of the 
total interest figure as per the Consumer Credit (Early Settlement) Regulations 2004.
Mr K was unhappy to discover that 118 118 Money had reported the loan as being 
£4,889.40 to the Credit Reference Agencies. He complained to 118 118 Money and said this 
was misleading to other credit providers and looked as though he had taken out a larger loan 
than he had.
118 118 Money didnt uphold Mr Ks complaint. It said it was obliged to report the value of 
the total cost of the credit to the Credit Reference Agencies. Mr K disagreed with 118 118 
Moneys view and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Ks complaint should be upheld. She said she 
didnt think 118 118 Money had acted unfairly in the way it had reported this loan as it 
showed the amount that was owed.
Mr K didnt agree with our investigators view. He said that the way this loan had been 
reported was unfair and gave an example that a mortgage wouldnt be recorded in this way. 
He said 118 118 Money should only have reported the actual loan amount of £2,500 and 
then shown via the payments being made the reduction in the balance of the capital and the 
amount of interest being paid. Mr K said this wasnt treating customers fairly.
Mr K said an error in a credit file in respect of the amount a consumer owes can have a 
detrimental affect as it impacts on their ability to secure other types of credit. He said the 
way this loan was reported gave the impression his borrowings were larger than they were 
and that the amount of interest that had been added was fictitious in that he may or may 
not have to repay it.
As the parties werent able to reach an agreement the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that Mr K feels strongly that the way 118 118 Money has reported this loan to the 
credit reference agencies is unfair and that it will have an adverse impact on the way other 
credit providers will view him. However, while I appreciate this will be of disappointment to 
him, I disagree that 118 118 Money has acted unfairly here, and I will explain why.
This loan was a fixed sum loan for £2,500 and the interest was loaded on to the capital at its 
commencement. This is set out in the terms and conditions of the loan and the amount of 
interest that has been added is clearly shown as £2,389.40. Mr K therefore had a total 
liability to pay of £4889.40. 
Mr K says that the amount of interest isnt necessarily accurate since he may not pay that 
amount. However, while I agree if Mr K was to arrange an early settlement of the loan, he 
would receive a rebate on the interest charged that doesnt mean that £2,389.40 interest 
wasnt added to the capital amount when the loan started. And until any early settlement 
took place the added interest and the capital amount would be both being paid off by the 
monthly payments.  So, I dont think I can reasonably agree that the amount of interest is 
fictitious as described by Mr K. It has been calculated according to the amount borrowed, 
the rate and term of the loan. Mr K owed £4,889.40 when he took out this fixed sum loan in 
January 2022.
Mr K says that mortgage loans arent recorded in the same way as this credit agreement, but 
I dont think I can fairly compare the reporting of a mortgage product with a fixed sum loan. 
And while I accept that some credit providers may only report the amount of capital 
borrowed to a credit reference agency, others may report both the capital and the interest as 
118 118 Money has here. So, there are two ways a credit agreement of this type can be 
reported. I cant say that 118 118 Money wasnt entitled to report this loan as it has. It has 
accurately reported the amount of Mr Ks borrowing and his management of that account.
Mr K has raised the impact that the way this loan has been recorded will have had on his 
credit file because it looks as though he has borrowed more than he has. But credit 
providers, when looking at credit reports, are checking at how credit accounts have been 
managed and whether any new credit agreements are affordable. So, repayment history and 
the size of the monthly commitments versus monthly income will be the important factors. 
And this loan, if Mr K makes the contractual payments as agreed, will benefit his credit 
history.
For the reasons given above, Im satisfied that 118 118 Money was entitled to report this 
loan as it has to the credit reference agencies and Im not upholding Mr Ks complaint. 
My final decision
As set out above Im not upholding Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 January 2023.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman