DRN-3315286
The complaint
Mr Ms complained that Gladstone Brookes Limited (GBL) failed to contact two lenders in 
relation to mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI)  so he lost the opportunity to make 
a claim.  And, in relation to a successful claim, Mr M says GBL forged his signature on 
letters of authority.
What happened
Mr M contacted GBL in March 2019 for support in finding out whether hed been mis-sold 
PPI.  He identified four possible lenders  three of whom are referred to in this decision.  Ill 
call these L1, L2 and L3.
GBL sent Mr M letters of authority for him to sign.  Mr M didnt return any documentation until 
just before the PPI deadline of 29 August 2019.  GBL said that, at this point, they only 
received a letter of authority for L1  not L2 or L3.
GBL submitted a claim to L1 on Mr Ms behalf.  The claim was successful and L1 and Mr M 
received a refund of £7,681.31, before tax.  GBL sent Mr M a letter confirming L1s offer and 
sending their invoice for £1,843.51.
Mr M later complained to GBL that theyd forged his signature on the letter of authority to L1 
and theyd not submitted claims to L2 and L3 for him.  GBL responded that they would not 
under any circumstances forge a clients signature and it was likely Mr Ms signature looked 
different because the form was signed online.  They said the signature had been accepted 
by L1 and Mr M had continued to deal with them on the claim  which had been successful.
And GBL said theyd not received any letters of authority from Mr M for L2 or L3  so they 
couldnt make a claim.
Mr M wasnt satisfied with GBLs response and brought his complaint to us.  During the 
course of our investigation, Mr M sent GBL more information which led them to review their 
previous responses to his complaint.  They found they had received authorities to contact L2 
and L3  but at this point they no longer dealt with those lenders.  
GBL said they hadnt told Mr M this.  To recognise this mistake, they offered him £250.
Our investigator considered Mr Ms complaint and thought £250 was a fair offer.  He 
explained he couldnt decide whether or not Mr Ms claims would have been successful.  But 
Mr M should be compensated for losing the chance to pursue them.
The investigator also considered Mr Ms complaint that GBL had forged his signature on the 
letter of authority for the claim to L1.  He noted the signature was electronic.  And Mr M 
confirmed hed instructed GBL.  So he concluded they had Mr Ms consent to make the 
claim.
Mr M didnt agree with our investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im upholding Mr Ms complaint.  But Im not asking GBL to do more than 
theyve already offered to do.  Ill explain why.
Complaint about L1 claim
Mr M responded to our investigators view because he says they didnt provide a service.  
Ive thought about that  but I dont think thats the right way to look at the fee charged.
GBLs terms and conditions make it clear their fee is payable in the event of a successful 
claim.  Mr Ms claim was successful, and he received a payment from L1 of £7,681.31, less 
tax.  So, on that basis, GBL are entitled to their fee.
I understand Mr M says he didnt sign the form.  I cant say whether the signature on it is 
forged.  But an e-signature is not always identical to a wet signature  so Im not 
persuaded that any differences necessarily mean its not Mr Ms.
And I am persuaded that Mr M did instruct GBL.  He confirmed this to our investigator and 
liaised with GBL during the claim.  I can see that GBL have reduced their fee as a gesture of 
goodwill.  But it wouldnt be fair for me to say they should receive any less than that reduced 
fee.
Complaint about L2 and L3 claims
I can see GBL have accepted they should have told Mr M theyd stopped dealing with claims 
to L2 and L3.  I agree they should have.  So Ive thought about whether the offer theyve 
made is enough to compensate Mr M for their mistake.
Mr M doesnt think it is.  He responded to our investigators view that, based on the refund 
he received from L1, hed lost out on thousands of pounds.  I understand why hed come to 
that conclusion.  But I dont think its right.
There was no guarantee that everyone who made a claim received a PPI refund.  Refunds 
were only made when the lenders involved established the PPI had been mis-sold.  And 
each lender had to consider its own claims.  So L1s decision doesnt persuade me that L2 
and/or L3 would have given him a refund too.  
Without that, I cant be sufficiently certain Mr M has lost out on what he believes he has  or 
on anything at all.  Nor is any conclusive calculation of what he might be owed been done.  
In the circumstances, it wouldnt be fair for me to say GBL should pay Mr M what he might 
have recovered from L2 and L3.
So Im only looking at what Mr M lost.  That was the opportunity to make a claim.  I think 
£250 is a reasonable amount for GBL to pay him to compensate for that loss of opportunity  
and thats what Im going to ask them to pay.  But I dont think they need to do more than 
that.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ms complaint and directing Gladstone 
Brookes Limited to pay him £250 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 7 April 2022.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman