DRN-2010384
Complaint 
This complaint is about the compensation DFS Trading Limited offered to pay Mrs D after 
it mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) to her in 2007.
Background 
I issued a provisional decision in this matter, which is attached and forms part of my final 
decision. 
In that provisional decision, I said that Mrs Ds PPI premiums should be refunded. Mrs D had 
already had a commission refund, so I said that DFS could deduct that from the amount that 
was now owed. I also agreed with our adjudicator that Mrs D should be paid £100 
compensation for the trouble she was put to when DFS promised her the wrong refund. I 
asked the parties for their comments
Mrs D acknowledged my provisional decision, but she did not provide any further evidence 
or information. DFS said that it wasnt fair that Mrs D should have her PPI premiums 
refunded, as well as commission. It reiterated that it disagreed with the £100 payment our 
adjudicator recommended. 
My findings 
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, I am not persuaded to change my provisional findings. So I uphold the 
complaint to the extent as set out in my provisional decision. 
With respect to DFS, I think it has misunderstood what I said in my provisional decision. To 
be clear, I did not tell it to refund the commission Mrs D paid, as well as her PPI premiums. 
What I said was that DFS could take off what she had received in respect of the commission 
when it was calculating the refund of her premiums. That doesnt mean in any way that she 
is receiving both a commission refund and full premium refund because DFS is subtracting 
what shes already been paid.  
On the question of the £100, I can see DFS doesnt agree, but it hasnt given me any further 
information to consider. So I still think our adjudicator was right to say Mrs D should be paid 
£100 for the trouble and upset caused by its mistake. 
So for the reasons set out in my provisional decision, Im partly upholding the complaint and 
DFS needs to take action to put things right. 
Putting things right 
DFS will need to put Mrs D in the position she would be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. 
DFS will need to:
a. Pay Mrs D the amount she paid each month for the PPI;b. Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. 
The rate of interest is 8% a year;
c. Pay £100 to Mrs D for the inconvenience and trouble she was put to in 
consequence of DFSs error;
d. If Mrs D made a successful claim under the PPI policy, DFS can take off what 
she got for the claim from the amount it owes her;
e. DFS can also deduct the amount Mrs D has already received from the lender 
inrespect of undisclosed commission. I understand this figure is £61.29.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires to take off tax from this interest. DFS will need to 
give Mrs D a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision 
I have partly upheld this complaint and require DFS Trading Limited to comply with the 
above putting things right section. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2020.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Copy of my provisional decisionComplaint
This complaint is about the compensation DFS Trading Limited offered to pay Mrs D after 
it mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) to her in 2007.
Background
PPI was sold to Mrs D in a DFS branch when she took out finance to buy furniture. 
The lender was a third party who is not subject to this complaint.
Mrs D initially complained to the lender about the mis-sale of PPI. In response, the 
lender said it wasnt responsible for the sale, but it offered to pay back some of the 
commission it had received in respect of her PPI premiums. The reason for its offer was 
because it didnt tell Mrs D about a high level of commission it had received. I understand a 
cheque for £61.29 was issued on or around 4 May 2019.
Mrs D then complained to DFS about the mis-sale. On 8 May 2019, it sent a final 
response letter and it offered to refund £583.33. It said this figure represented what shed 
paid for PPI, along with 8% interest.
On 24 June 2019, Mrs D hadnt received the promised refund and so she contacted 
DFS. She says she was told that the final response letter wasnt intended for her and that 
the offer of £583.33 compensation was wrong. Mrs D then complained to this service and 
said she thought DFS should honour the offer of £583.33.
Our adjudicator made enquiries of DFS. I can see that when the initial enquiry was 
made, DFS repeated its initial error and told him that an offer of £583.33 had been made to 
Mrs D. It also stated that Mrs D accepted that offer and had been paid.
After further enquiries from this service, DFS produced a further final response letter 
dated 24 June 2019 in which it offered Mrs D £255.46 to settle the complaint. As our 
adjudicator said in his view, it is not clear whether that letter was received by Mrs D.
Our adjudicator thought that DFS should pay £255.26 to Mrs D and recalculate the 
8% interest from the date she paid her premiums until the date she got the compensation. 
He also thought DFS should pay Mrs D a further £100 to compensate her for inconvenience 
and trouble shed been put to. When he made his recommendation, our adjudicator didnt 
say anything about the £61.29 Mrs D had already received.
DFS didnt agree with our adjudicators opinion. It said it did not see how it had caused 
Mrs D inconvenience to a value of £100. It said that the letter it sent out in June 2019 to 
amend its offer was correct.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive partly upheld this complaint for effectively the same reasons as given by our adjudicator.
But I think DFS should be able to deduct the £61.29 Mrs D received from the lender from 
the amount it will now owe her.
The parties agree that PPI was sold and so the issue I have to consider is the 
compensation Mrs D should be paid for that mis-sale.It may be helpful if I explain that when PPI is mis-sold, we expect a business to return 
aconsumer to the position they would have been in if they hadnt taken a policy out. Wed 
also expect a business to pay 8% simple interest from the time the consumer paid premiums 
until the date the consumer receives a refund. This is to compensate them for the time they 
have been out of pocket because of the mis-sold PPI.
Applying that to this case, DFS will need to refund the PPI premiums Mrs D paid. And 
it should calculate and pay 8% simple interest to each premium from when Mrs D paid it 
until she gets it back.
As I said above, I understand the lender sent a cheque to Mrs D for £61.29 to refund 
some of the commission it received from her PPI premiums. Im provisionally satisfied that 
DFS can deduct this amount from what it now owes Mrs D. If it doesnt deduct that amount, 
it would mean that Mrs D has been refunded that money twice. Again, that wouldnt put 
her back in the position she would have been in if she hadnt been mis-sold PPI because 
she would be in a better position.
In her complaint form, Mrs D said she thought DFS should honour the initial offer it made 
of £583.33. But that wouldnt be putting her back in the position she would have been in if 
she hadnt had PPI either. So, I cant tell DFS to pay the offer it made to her by mistake in 
May 2019.
Ive also considered whether it would be appropriate for DFS to make a further payment 
of £100 to Mrs D because of the trouble and inconvenience she was put to in making 
her complaint.
Looking at the evidence before me, I agree with our adjudicator that it would be fair 
and reasonable for DFS to make this payment. I can see that sending the letter of 8 May 
2019 with the wrong figure would have raised Mrs Ds expectations. I appreciate DFS says 
that it sent a letter to Mrs D on 24 June 2019 correcting its error. However, that appears to 
have been sent in response to a call from Mrs D chasing payment. And DFS repeated its 
mistake when the complaint was referred to this service when it told our adjudicator that 
the complaint had been settled and compensation paid.
Taking all of that into account, Im satisfied that a further payment of £100 to Mrs D is 
both fair and reasonable as our adjudicator suggested. As things stand, Im intending to 
uphold the complaint in part and tell DFS to put things right as set out below.
Putting things right
As things stand, DFS will need to put Mrs D in the position she would be in now if she 
hadnt taken out PPI. DFS will need to:
a. Pay Mrs D the amount she paid each month for the PPI;
b. Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The rate 
of interest is 8% a year;
c. Pay £100 to Mrs D for the inconvenience and trouble she was put to in consequence of 
DFSs error;
d. If Mrs D made a successful claim under the PPI policy, DFS can take off what she got for 
the claim from the amount it owes her;e. DFS can also deduct the amount Mrs D has already received from the lender in respect of 
undisclosed commission. I understand this figure is £61.29.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires to take off tax from this interest. DFS will need to 
give Mrs D a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My provisional decision
Im intending to partly uphold this complaint about DFS Trading Limited.
I now invite all parties to submit any further evidence or comments they wish me to consider
by 4 July 2020 after which I will issue a final decision.
 
 
 
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman