DRN-3590441
The complaint
Ms H complains that Bradford & Bingley Limited mis-sold payment protection insurance 
(PPI) to her alongside a mortgage in 1987. 
What happened
Bradford & Bingley didnt uphold Ms Hs complaint and so she complained to this service. In 
her complaint she said Bradford & Bingley told her the mortgage application would not be 
agreed unless she took a PPI policy. She said the policy exclusions were not explained to 
her. She also said that she was not told in advance that the cost of the PPI was added up 
front to the mortgage and that she would have to pay interest on the cost of the policy. 
Our adjudicator considered the matter, but he didnt think the complaint should be upheld. 
Through her representative, Ms H disagreed with that view. She reiterated her view that the 
optional nature of the cover was not made clear. She provided a number of documents from 
the point of sale that she said supported her point. 
As Ms H did not agree with our adjudicators view, the matter was passed to me to make a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken that into account in deciding this case.  
Im sorry to disappoint Ms H, but Im afraid I havent upheld the complaint. Ill explain why 
below. 
The first thing I want to clear up is the type of policy that was sold to Ms H. I know that when 
she initially complained, she thought shed had to pay interest on the cost of the PPI and that 
it had been added to the mortgage. However, looking at the documentation, Im satisfied that 
this was a regular premium policy. I say this because I can see from the certificate of 
insurance that the cost was £12 per month. That means Ms H didnt have to borrow extra to 
pay for the cover and she didnt have to pay interest on the premiums. 
Ms H told us she couldnt exactly remember how the PPI policy was sold to her, but she 
thought it was most likely during a face to face meeting in a Bradford & Bingley branch. 
Looking at the mortgage application form, I think Ms Hs recollection on that point is probably 
right. I cant know what was said during that meeting. So to help me decide whats most 
likely to have happened, Ive looked at what Ms H told us about it. And Ive also considered 
the documentary evidence thats available from the time. 
Bradford & Bingley should have made it clear to Ms H that the PPI policy was optional, and 
she didnt have to take it out if she didnt want it. I know from the representatives 
submissions that it was contended the optional nature of the policy was not made clear and 
that no choice was presented on the application form. However, in considering the 
application form, I can see that it was stated if Cover is NOT required, please indicate with a 
cross in the box. This box was left blank. I think it would have been clear that if Ms H wanted 
the PPI cover, the details about the type of cover should have been completed and if she 
didnt want cover, the relevant box should be marked. 
I know that Ms H said that she did not have sight of the application form other than to sign it. 
But I think there must have been some discussion about PPI because a selection had to be 
made about the type of cover to be sold to Ms H. I think those discussions probably reflected 
what was written on the application form and so I think the fact Ms H had a choice about the 
cover was most likely discussed.
Ms H referred me to a number of documents. I can see she said information in respect of the 
endowment plan said that the cost included the cost of a mortgage protection policy. Ms H 
argued that this showed the PPI was automatically included. However, the section Ms H 
referred to was in respect of an illustration about the cost of an endowment policy and was a 
note to explain the figures in the examples given. Putting that sentence in the context of the 
illustration and the document as a whole, I cant reasonably say this indicated the PPI policy 
was mandatory. 
Ms H also referred me to a leaflet dated January 1987, specifically a sentence in which it 
was stated you must apply before the cheque for your mortgage to buy your new home has 
been sent to your Solicitor. Ms H argued that this indicated the Bradford & Bingley 
misrepresented the policy as compulsory. Im afraid I cant agree with Ms Hs interpretation 
of this document. I think the sentence referred to has to be taken in the round and in the 
context of a document as a whole. I think the leaflet in question is giving general information 
about the PPI policy and I think the sentence in question shows when an application had to 
be made if Ms H wanted the PPI. I cannot see how this document can reasonably be 
interpreted as suggesting the PPI was compulsory when it was not. 
I havent treated this as an advised sale. Ive seen a number of documents that are 
contemporaneous to the point of sale, but I have not been provided with anything to suggest 
Bradford & Bingley recommended the cover to Ms H after taking account of her personal 
circumstances. For example, I havent seen anything that would resemble a demands and 
needs document. 
That means Bradford & Bingley wasnt required to check the PPI was suitable for Ms H. But 
it still had to give her enough information about the cover so she could decide for herself 
whether it was a good fit for her needs. That information should have been clear, fair and not 
misleading. 
I said above that I thought the discussions between Ms H and Bradford & Bingley most likely 
reflected what is written on the application form. In considering the information on that form, I 
think its possible that the cost of the cover wasnt set out clearly to Ms H and that the 
exclusions may not have been fully explained. 
That doesnt mean I can automatically uphold the complaint. I next have to consider 
objectively whether Ms H would have acted differently if Bradford & Bingley had told her 
everything it should have done. To decide on this point, Ive looked at the terms and 
conditions of the cover and Ive also looked at what Ms H told us about her personal 
circumstances at the time. 
I appreciate the terms and conditions changed over the years, but at the point of sale, if 
Ms H had to make a claim, she would have been covered indefinitely if she was too unwell to 
work and for up to 24 months if she was made redundant. Looking at what Ms H told us 
about her job, it looks as though the PPI would have paid out for longer than Ms Hs 
contractual sick pay and her redundancy pay. 
Ms H told us she didnt need the cover because she had a number of health plans through 
her work. Looking at the information Ms H provided on this point, it seems to me that  the 
policies she referred to were mainly health plans. This effectively means she would have had 
private health insurance through her employer. I wouldnt expect these policies to have provided a financial benefit to cover her mortgage. I can see Ms H told us about one policy 
that covered her for accident, sickness and unemployment. But that policy wasnt taken out 
until 1990, which was after the point of sale. So I cant say this later policy would have 
affected Ms Hs decision to take PPI out in 1987. 
I understand Ms H was in good health in 1987, so I dont think any of the exclusions about 
medical conditions would have affected her. I havent seen anything unusual about her wider 
employment circumstances that would have stopped her from being able to make a 
successful claim if she needed to. Ms H said the policy was not fit for purpose because there 
was a problem with a claim she made in August 1991 after shed appealed a decision of her 
employer to make her redundant. I cannot comment on the outcome of that claim because I 
do not have sufficient information. However, I do note that Ms H made two successful claims 
 one in January 1991 and another in April 2003. Im afraid I cant agree the policy was not 
fit for purpose. 
I must stress that Ms Hs borrowing was secured on her home, which could have been at 
risk if she fell behind with her repayments. I havent seen anything to suggest the cover was 
unaffordable for Ms H at the point of sale. I know Ms H strongly feels that the cover was mis-
sold, but I cant reasonably say she would have acted differently if Bradford & Bingley had 
told her everything it should have done about the PPI. 
I am sorry to disappoint Ms H. I can see she and her representative have put gone to some 
considerable efforts to pursue the complaint. But having considered all of the issues raised 
at length, I cannot say PPI was mis-sold and so it follows that I cannot uphold the complaint. 
My final decision
I do not uphold the complaint about Bradford & Bingley Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2022.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman