DRN-3878090
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund the money he lost when he fell victim to 
a scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties. So I wont repeat them all here. 
The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as the investigator for these reasons: 
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2009, which were in force at the time, 
Lloyds is expected to execute authorised payment instructions without undue delay. 
Its not in dispute Mr G was scammed. But nor is it in dispute that he authorised the 
disputed payment. So the starting position is that hes liable for it.
There are some situations where we believe that Lloyds  taking into account 
relevant rules, codes and best practice  ought to have identified a fraud risk, so 
should have looked at the wider circumstances surrounding the transaction before 
making the payment.
Ive considered whether Lloyds ought to have realised Mr G was at risk from fraud. If 
it failed to intervene appropriately when it should have done, and that failure led to a 
fraudulent loss, it might be fair to hold it liable.
The disputed payment was for £3,500. Mr G had made several higher payments in 
the year leading up to this one, so I dont think the value stood out as particularly 
unusual. Nor do I think there was anything in the destination of the payment that 
ought to have alarmed Lloyds  it went to an account with another well-known high 
street bank. So, in the circumstances, I consider it reasonable Lloyds didnt detect a 
fraud risk  and simply processed the payment in line with Mr Gs instructions.
As well as considering whether Lloyds ought to have prevented Mr Gs loss, Ive 
considered whether it ought to have done more to recover it. Ive noted that it 
contacted the beneficiary bank on the same day he reported the scam, but no funds 
remained. So I dont think theres more it ought to have done here.
I appreciate this will be hugely disappointing for Mr G, who was a victim of a cruel 
and convincing scam. But given this disputed payment was made in 2016, there 
wasnt a general expectation for Lloyds to reimburse victims of scams in these 
circumstances. So my consideration is focused on whether Lloyds is at fault for 
failing to stop or recover his losses. And for the reasons Ive explained, Im not 
persuaded it is here. That means I cant fairly hold it liable. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2023.
 
Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman