DRN-3878778
The complaint
Mr P complains that Revolut Ltd wont refund money he lost to an investment scam.
Mr P is being represented by solicitors in his complaint.
 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so I wont repeat it 
again here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
The complaint concerns 17 payments totalling £11,673 which Mr P made from his Revolut 
account  mixture of card payments and transfers  between January and April 2022 (see 
table below). Mr P says he made the payments in connection with an investment opportunity 
promoted by a company, D, which he subsequently discovered had cloned a legitimate 
company bearing the same name.
Sequence Date Type Payee Amount
Payment 1 31 January Debit card Etoro £950
Payment 2 9 February Debit card Luno £50
Payment 3 14 February Faster payment Luno £500
Payment 4 27 February Faster payment Luno £250
Payment 5 11 March Faster payment Luno £190
Payment 6 28 March Faster payment Luno £725
Payment 7 28 March Faster payment Luno £215
Payment 8 28 March Faster payment Luno £8
Payment 9 28 March Faster payment Luno £20
Payment 10 29 March Faster payment Luno £250
Payment 11 29 March Faster payment Luno £750
Payment 12 1 April Faster payment Luno £970
Payment 13 11 April Faster payment Luno £1,050
Payment 14 11 April Faster payment Luno £120
Payment 15 11 April Faster payment Luno £525
Payment 16 17 April Faster payment Luno £100
Payment 17 25 April Faster payment Luno £5,000
Total loss £11,673
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the overall outcome reached by the investigator. Ive explained 
why below.
Revolut hasnt disputed Mr Ps claim that he sent payments to a clone company instead of 
the legitimate company. I havent seen sufficient evidence to conclude either way. But given 
that Revolut hasnt disputed Mr Ps claim that he was scammed, Ive proceeded on the basis 
that his dealings were with the scam company. 
The starting position is that liability for an authorised payment rests with the payer, even 
when they are duped into making that payment. Theres no dispute that Mr P made the 
payments using his security credentials, and so they are authorised. But in accordance with 
the law, regulations and good industry practice, a payment service provider, including an 
electronic money institution like Revolut, should be on the look-out for and protect its 
customers against the risk of fraud and scams so far as is reasonably possible. If it fails to 
act on information which ought reasonably to alert it to potential fraud or financial crime, it 
might be fair and reasonable to hold it liable for losses incurred by its customer as a result.
Revolut submits that payment 3 (see above table) did flag on its fraud detection systems. It 
says it asked Mr P the purpose of the payment and displayed a warning based on the 
purpose selected from the available options. Revolut argues that Mr P continued with the 
transaction despite being given the opportunity to seek advice before going ahead.
The investigator concluded that Revoluts intervention at the time of payment 3 was 
proportionate given the amount. But having requested further information, I disagree. I asked 
Revolut to tell us the payment reason Mr P selected and forward a copy of the warning 
message it says it displayed at the time. Looking at its response, Mr P selected safe 
account when in fact hed been investing funds and that was one of the payment purposes 
on the list. It isnt clear why Mr P selected the reason that he did. Regardless, Revolut ought 
to have been concerned when safe account was selected, given it is never a legitimate 
reason for sending money to another account. 
In the circumstances, I dont consider displaying a scam warning on the screen and giving 
Mr P the option to (1) read its scam guidance, (2) get advice from one of its agents, (3) 
cancel the payment, or (4) go ahead with it, was a proportionate response to the risk 
identified. Revolut ought to have contacted Mr P to discuss the payment further, even if it 
meant directing him to an in-app chat. 
Had there been a human intervention and questions asked about the payment purpose 
selected, its likely Mr P would have explained hed made a mistake and selected the safe 
account option in error. Given that the payment had triggered on Revoluts systems prior to it 
knowing the payment purpose, I would have expected it to continue with its enquiries once 
Mr P confirmed that he was making an investment. So, I consider it missed an opportunity.
But thats not the end of the matter. Causation is a critical determinative factor in every scam 
case. It isnt enough that a payment service provider like Revolut failed to act unfairly or 
unreasonably; its acts or omissions must be the immediate and effective cause of losses that 
were reasonably foreseeable at the time of the breach. I cant know for certain what would 
have happened if Revolut had questioned Mr P further about the disputed transaction. In 
such situations, I reach my conclusions not based on mere possibilities but rather on what I 
find most probable to have happened in the circumstances. 
In other words, I make my decision based on the balance of probabilities  so what I 
consider most likely to have happened considering the evidence and wider circumstances of 
the case. Having carefully thought about this, Im not convinced that a scam warning 
specifically about investments would have made a difference to Mr Ps decision-making. Ive 
kept in mind that he thought he was dealing with the legitimate company, who he and a 
friend he trusted had carried out due diligence into before deciding to invest. Even if 
Revoluts intervention had included a discussion about scammers cloning legitimate businesses, having done a backdated search on the internet I cant see any information or 
regulator warnings about D being cloned. 
So, although Mr P had already done checks before deciding to invest, I dont think further 
checks would have yielded anything else seeing as he would most likely have only seen 
information about the legitimate company. Im also mindful that Mr P was in contact with the 
scammer during the relevant time and any concerns he might have had following a more in-
depth discussion with Revolut would have been alleviated by the scammers reassurances. 
So, under the circumstances, Im not convinced that better intervention by Revolut along the 
lines Ive described above would have necessarily unravelled the scam. And much for the 
same reasons, I dont think further intervention at a later point would have made a difference 
either. As the investigator has highlighted, Mr P says he wasnt pressured into sending more 
money until after hed made the last disputed transaction. 
Ive also thought about Revoluts actions in relation to the recovery of payments after it 
became aware of the situation. In relation to the debit card transactions, the only avenue 
here would have been a chargeback. Revolut could have only raised a chargeback against 
the merchant Mr P paid, not another firm i.e., D. And given the merchant he paid had 
provided the service (conversion of money into cryptocurrency or loading funds), its unlikely 
that a chargeback would have been successful. 
As for the faster payments, Revolut says that it contacted the beneficiary bank and 
requested a recall of the funds. But the beneficiary bank asked for some further information 
which it didnt have, so recovery was considered as failed. I cant see that Revolut reached 
out to Mr P to check if he had the information that the beneficiary bank had requested. But I 
dont think that matters. According to Revoluts notes, Mr P reported the scam on 27 June  
over two months after hed made the last payment. Its unlikely that funds would have 
remained in the beneficiary account by that point, given its often the case that scammers 
move funds immediately to avoid the possibility of recovery. And if it is the case that the 
beneficiary account here was Mr Ps wallet with Luno (from where the funds were sent on), 
then there would have been nothing left to recover given the funds had already left Mr Ps 
wallet. 
In conclusion, I know that Mr P will be disappointed with this outcome. Not least because the 
matter has been ongoing for some time. I fully acknowledge that theres a significant amount 
of money involved here. Despite my natural sympathy for the situation in which Mr P finds 
himself, for the reasons given, it wouldnt be fair of me to hold Revolut responsible for his 
loss.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2023.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman