DRN-2972019
The complaint
 Mr and Mrs M complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE hasnt provided them with a refund 
of premiums for a single trip travel insurance policy they held.
What happened
 Mr and Mrs M took out a single trip travel insurance policy on 7 February 2020 for a holiday 
which was due to take place from 23 April unit 8 May 2020. They paid a total of £867.53 for 
the policy, which included cover for some medical conditions they declared.
On 17 March 2020, Mr and Mrs M contacted Great Lakes to explain that they were unable to 
travel to their intended holiday destination due to the Covid-19 pandemic. They didnt 
request the cancellation of their policy at this time but said theyd contact Great Lakes again 
once they knew more about how the pandemic might affect their travel plans.
On 27 March, Mr and Mrs M contacted Great Lakes again. This time they informed Great 
Lakes that they would not be travelling on holiday. They were told they could either change 
the dates for their policy or receive a pro rata refund by way of a voucher, which would be 
valid for use within 36 months. 
On 9 April 2020 Mr and Mrs M called Great Lakes to cancel their policy. They asked it to 
refund all the premiums theyd paid. But Great Lakes offered Mr and Mrs M a voucher for 
£481.38 which they said represented a pro-rata refund of the premiums. The voucher was 
valid for 36 months. 
On 10 November 2020, Mr and Mrs M contacted Great Lakes. They said they werent 
intending to travel or use the credit voucher theyd been offered as a result of Mr M suffering 
from a new medical condition. Great Lakes initially offered to provide a partial cash refund of 
half the pro-rata refund with the remainder to be given as a voucher. However, it later issued 
a full cash pro-rata refund of the premiums by bank transfer to Mr and Mrs M. Mr and Mrs M 
remained unhappy with how Great Lakes had resolved their complaint. They wanted a full 
refund, so they complained to our service. 
Our investigator set out the details of the relevant cancellation rights and how they applied in 
the circumstances of this case. That means its not unreasonable for an insurer to keep any 
premiums relating to the risk it covered during that time. The investigator also explained that 
Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for the contract of insurance to be performed because 
cover under the policy started on 7 February 2020 and the policy covered various risks 
during that time. 
The investigator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19. 
They initially thought Great Lakes had made a fair offer in all the circumstances and that the 
amount refunded was also fair and reasonable. However, they revisited this case 
subsequently and explained that, in order to put matters right, Great Lakes should calculate 
Mr and Mrs Ms refund by dividing the price they paid for their policy by the total cover length 
(in days). They then thought Great Lakes should multiply that value by the days Mr and Mrs 
M werent on risk. As Mr and Mrs M disagreed with our investigators initial view of their 
complaint, Ive been asked to decide what is a fair and reasonable way of resolving their 
concerns.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. 
The policy terms and conditions say: 
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or receipt of your 
documents, whichever is later. We will only refund to you any premium you have paid, less 
any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or have made, or intend to make a claim. 
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14-day cooling off period no premium will 
be refunded, however discretion may be exercised in exceptional circumstances such as a 
bereavement or a change to the policy resulting in us declining to cover your medical 
conditions. 
Im upholding this complaint because: 
Cover under Mr and Mrs Ms policy commenced immediately once it had been 
purchased, which is confirmed by the insurance validation certificate they received. 
Im satisfied Mr and Mrs M were reasonably made aware of the terms that applied to 
their policy, which are typical of the cancellation terms found in most travel insurance 
policies.
The policy was cancelled outside the cooling off period and so there is no 
requirement under the relevant industry rules and guidelines for the insurer to offer a 
refund. And it is a fundamental principle of insurance law that if the insurer had 
started to bear risk  for however short a time  the premium paid is not returnable.
As Ive outlined above, the contract of insurance says that no refund is due for 
cancellation outside the cooling off period except in exceptional circumstances. The 
examples of exceptional circumstances identified in the policy are specific to the 
individual policyholder, such as bereavement or changes to their health. They dont 
extend to cancellation as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic.
Ive taken into account what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the 
complaint including the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding Covid-
19. In the circumstances of this case I think Great Lakes acted fairly in calculating Mr 
and Mrs Ms pro-rata refund of their premiums from 17 March 2020 until the date 
their trip was due to end  even though they cancelled their policy over three weeks 
after the cancellation date used here. I think 17 March is a reasonable date to 
calculate the refund from as Mr and Mrs M havent demonstrated that their holiday 
was cancelled at an earlier date, and 17 March was the first date Mr and Mrs M 
contacted Great Lakes about the holiday not going ahead.  
While Great Lakes wasnt obliged to refund any premium to Mr and Mrs M, it used its 
discretion to initially offer them a pro-rata credit voucher refund as an alternative to a 
pro-rata monetary refund. This voucher was valid for 36 months and our service 
would view this as a fair resolution to this complaint because the validity period provides a reasonable period within which a consumer can use it towards future 
travel insurance policies they may wish to take out.
In this case, Great Lakes paid Mr and Mrs M a pro-rata monetary refund as an 
alternative to the credit voucher it had previously offered. This was after they 
explained that they werent intending to use their credit voucher as a result of a 
previously undiagnosed medical condition. In treating the information it had been 
given about Mr Ms health as an exceptional circumstance Great Lakes acted fairly.  
In offering a pro-rata refund, initially by credit voucher and then by cash, when it 
wasnt obliged to, Great Lakes has departed from industry rules and the terms of its 
policy to the benefit of Mr and Mrs M because of the unanticipated and unforeseen 
events surrounding the global Covid-19 pandemic. 
Ive carefully looked at whether the amount refunded by Great Lakes to Mr and Mrs 
M was fair and reasonable. In this case Mr and Mrs M had the benefit of a discount 
on their policy at the point of sale of £43.98. When Great Lakes calculated the refund 
it paid Mr and Mrs M, this was based on it removing the discount at the end of the 
calculation. I say this because its starting point was to add the discount onto the 
price Mr and Mrs M paid then divide that by the 92 days of cover theyd purchased. It 
then multiplied that sum by the 53 days they werent on risk and subtracted the 
discount theyd received. This gave a final refund figure of just over £481.
I dont think the approach that Great Lakes adopted in calculating Mr and Mrs Ms 
refund is fair and reasonable. Like our investigator, I think the fairest way to resolve 
this complaint is for Great Lakes to calculate Mr and Mrs Ms refund by dividing the 
price they actually paid for their policy by the total cover length (92 days). It should 
multiply that value by the days Mr and Mrs M werent on risk (53 days). This gives a 
refund of £499.77. As Great Lakes has already made a payment of £438.38 to Mr 
and Mrs M it should refund them the shortfall  namely £61.39.
Putting things right
To resolve this complaint Great Lakes should make a payment of £61.39 to Mr and Mrs M 
for the reasons outlined above.  
My final decision
 My decision is that I uphold this complaint. To resolve Mr and Mrs Ms complaint, Great 
Lakes Insurance SE should pay them £61.39.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 October 2021.
 
Julie Mitchell
Ombudsman