DRN-1788025
The complaint
Mr L complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc wouldnt allow him to change the credit card hed 
taken out on a promotional rate to a new one with better terms, and because of this, he had 
to pay a higher balance transfer fee.
What happened
In July 2019, Mr L was looking to apply for a new credit card to undertake a balance transfer 
from his existing cards. After looking at a third-party website he saw that Clydesdale were 
offering 0% interest on balance transfers for 29 months with a 3% fee. So Mr L applied 
online to transfer around £21,000 of debt from his other cards with a fee of around £600.
Shortly after Mr L had applied for the credit card, he saw that through their own website, 
Clydesdale were offering a similar credit card with 0% interest on balance transfers for 27 
months with a 1.45% fee. So he contacted Clydesdale and asked them if he could change to 
the credit card with a lower fee as he was within his 14-day cooling-off period and this would 
save him around £300 on the fee.
Clydesdale explained to Mr L that they werent able to transfer him to the credit card with the 
lower fee as hed already made an application which was being processed. They also said 
that if Mr L wanted a different promotional rate on his card, he would have to repay the 
outstanding balance of around £21,000 and wait for six months before applying again  
although they couldnt guarantee hed be accepted. Mr L didnt think this was fair, so he 
raised a complaint.
Clydesdale didnt uphold the complaint. They said they werent able to transfer to different 
products within the same group and that the promotional rates could only be applied to the 
product Mr L had applied for. They said this information was provided in the terms and 
conditions Mr L received when hed applied for the new credit card. 
They also confirmed that if Mr L wanted a new rate, he would have to repay the outstanding 
balance from another source as you couldnt use a credit card with Clydesdale to repay 
other borrowing with them, and he would have to wait six months before reapplying.
Mr L didnt agree. He said he wouldnt have any way to repay the £21,000 as Clydesdale 
wouldnt return the balance transfers back to the original card providers, and if he did so 
himself, hed incur more fees. So, he asked this service to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He didnt think that Clydesdale 
had put an unreasonable barrier in place to stop Mr L cancelling his credit card, and that the 
14-day cooling off period was so Mr L could decide if he wanted to cancel  not change his 
product. 
Mr L didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to look into his complaint, so the case has 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
Mr L has told us he feels Clydesdale have treated him unfairly as they wouldnt allow him to 
change to an alternative product with a lower balance transfer fee. And that in doing so, 
theyve not met the consumer outcomes set down by the FCA for treating customers fairly. 
Which says that Consumers do not face unreasonable post-sale barriers imposed by firms 
to change product, switch provider, submit a claim or make a complaint.
I acknowledge that it would be frustrating for Mr L to apply for a credit card with a 3% 
balance transfer fee, to see shortly afterwards that he could have had a similar card with a 
lower fee 1.45%. I can also understand why Mr L felt that because he was in his 14-day 
cooling off period he should have just been able to change to an alternative product. 
However, Ive looked at the terms and conditions which Mr L would have been provided with 
when taking out the credit card and I can see that under section 6. How can I use the card 
and are there any restrictions it says You cannot transfer a balance to this account from 
another card we issue, another card issued by a non-UK financial organisation or from 
certain store cards. You should not use your card to repay other borrowing from Virgin 
Money.
Ive also seen screen shots of the information that Mr L was provided with as part of the 
application process which repeated that he wouldnt be able to use one product with 
Clydesdale to repay borrowing that was already held with them. So, I think Mr L ought to 
have been reasonably aware that once hed made his application for a product with 
Clydesdale and the transfer was already taking place to move the outstanding balances to 
that credit card, that he wouldnt be able change this to a different one.
I recognise that Mr L feels it was within a short period of time that hed asked to change to a 
new product. However, by the time Mr L had identified there was a different credit card that 
he felt was more suitable, Clydesdale were already in the process of opening him an 
account and repaying the borrowing hed requested, so they werent able to make the 
change he requested. 
I acknowledge Mr L feels that by declining his request, Clydesdale have put unreasonable 
barriers in place to stop him changing his product, but I dont agree. I havent seen any 
evidence that Clydesdale have prevented Mr L taking out a new product or acted in a 
discriminating way. They have just explained that he cannot have a different promotional 
rate than the one he already applied for. I understand Mr L is frustrated by this, but it is a 
commercial decision that Clydesdale are entitled to make. 
I understand that Mr L will be disappointed with my decision as he wanted a refund of the 
difference hed paid in fees. However, Mr L successfully applied for a credit card with 
Clydesdale and was given the promotional terms hed requested. So it wouldnt be fair to 
hold Clydesdale responsible because Mr L then found a product he felt was better after 
making the application. So, I wont be asking them to do anything more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2020.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman