DRN-3656416
Complaint
Mr A is unhappy that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) failed to return all the funds in 
his accounts when it closed them.
Background
In July 2021, RBS notified Mr A that it no longer wished to offer him accounts and explained 
that it would be closing them and returning some of his funds. Mr A was unhappy with this 
and complained. RBS didnt uphold Mr As complaint. As Mr A remained dissatisfied, Mr A 
referred the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr As concerns. He didnt think that RBS had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr A unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr A disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I dont think that RBS acted unfairly towards Mr A 
and so Im not upholding his complaint. Ill explain why in a little more detail.
As our adjudicator explained to Mr A, a bank is under no obligation to continue offering 
accounts to a consumer if it doesnt wish to do so. And RBS decided it no longer wished to 
have Mr A as a customer. Closing a customers accounts is a commercial decision that a 
bank is entitled to take. And it has no obligation to share its reasons for that decision  
although I understand that Mr A now knows why his accounts were closed and why some of 
the funds which remained werent returned to him. Equally, having looked at matters Im also 
satisfied that RBS was entitled to take the action it did in line with the terms and conditions of 
Mr As accounts.
I know Mr A remains unhappy that RBS hasnt returned all of the funds that were in his 
accounts at the time they were closed. But it looks like RBS has returned all of the funds that 
Mr A was entitled to, to him. RBS says the remainder of the funds were returned to the 
banks that sent them  in order words they were returned to source. Mr A may be unhappy 
with this. But he is free to go back to the parties that sent the funds in the first place if he still 
feels that he is entitled to them. In any event, and most importantly, I dont think that RBS did 
anything wrong or unfair when it returned the funds in question to the banks that sent them.   
So overall and having considered everything, I dont think RBS acted unfairly towards Mr A 
and Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr A. But 
I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that hell appreciate why I think RBS 
hasnt acted unfairly or unreasonably towards him.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman