DRN-3657562
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Society of Lloyds (SOL) delayed in accepting his claim.
Any reference to SOL includes any agents acting on its behalf.
What happened
Mr S had a personal accident and illness insurance policy. In 2020, Mr S made a claim for 
permanent total disability (PTD) which was initially rejected by SOL. SOL said Mr S had 
continued to take part in his sport within the last 12 months and so didnt meet the definition 
of PTD. 
Mr S agent appealed this in early 2021 and so SOL appointed an independent medical 
expert. Following further investigations, Mr S claim was accepted in October 2021. 
Mr S has complained that SOL didnt keep him updated and took too long to accept the 
claim. As a result, he has incurred legal costs of over £30,000. 
SOL didnt accept that it delayed and didnt agree to pay Mr S legal costs. It said there is no 
provision for legal costs in the policy. 
Unhappy, Mr S referred his complaint to this Service. Our investigator looked into the 
complaint but didnt think SOL needed to take any further action as it had paid the full 
amount of the claim as soon as it was due, 12 months after Mr S had retired as a 
professional sportsperson.
Mr S disagreed and in summary, has made the following comments:
He accepts interest isnt payable.
He wasnt kept updated and so felt he had to instruct solicitors.
His legal fees should be paid.
And so the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say an insurer should handle claims promptly and 
fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
The policy defines permanent total disablement as follows:
disablement which entirely prevents the Insured Person from their normal 
occupation and which lasts twelve months and at the end of that period is beyond 
hope of improvement.
Mr S retired from his sport in October 2020. Initially SOL declined Mr S claim but his agent 
appealed. And so an independent medical expert was instructed by SOL who completed his 
report in April 2021. He concluded Mr S was permanently and totally disabled.
SOL obtained legal advice and corresponded with Mr S solicitors until it accepted the claim.
SOL paid the claim when it was due, in October 2021, 12 months after Mr S retired from 
sports. And so, although it took SOL a number of months to investigate the claim, the benefit 
was paid to Mr S when it was due. 
Mr S says he instructed solicitors as a result of SOLs lack of action. He says he wasnt kept 
updated but I havent seen any evidence of any prolonged periods where he specifically 
asked for an update and didnt receive one. There was ongoing communication between 
SOL and Mr S agent or solicitor throughout 2021 until the claim was accepted. 
SOL is entitled to obtain its own legal advice, further medical evidence and carry out 
investigations to satisfy itself that the claim meets the policy requirements. And as I dont 
think there was any unreasonable delay, I cant fairly ask SOL to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2022.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman