DRN-3996436
The complaint
Mr H complains that London General Insurance Company Limited trading as Assurant 
(London General) are only willing to pay a portion of the labour cost he paid to replace the 
rear differential on his vehicle following a claim. 
What happened
Following the failure of the rear differential on his vehicle, Mr H submitted a claim on his 
parts and labour policy with London General. 
The repairing garage (the repairer) agreed to pay for the rear differential itself, so Mr H 
submitted a claim to London General for labour only. The repairer charged him £768 labour 
to replace the part. But London General only agreed to pay £370 toward that cost.
So, Mr H complained. But London General said £370 was all it was required to pay under 
the policy terms and conditions. Mr H then complained to us and an investigator at this 
service suggested that London General should pay the full labour cost.   
But London General doesnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me for a review.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 14 February 2023. That provisional 
decision is below and forms part of my final decision.
What Ive provisionally decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im not planning on 
upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
As the repairer paid for the part, Im satisfied that the only issue I have to decide is how 
much London General should pay for labour to replace it.
The policy says, "In giving authorisation for repairs, we will assess repair times in line with 
Autodata (or equivalent industry standard) recommended repair or service times and hourly 
labour rates at a maximum of £100 + VAT per hour."  
London General says that Autodata gives a labour time for this job of 2.9 hours. Mr H says 
that the repairer - who are also the vehicles manufacturer - charged him for 8 hours labour. 
London General doesnt dispute the 8 hours. But it says its obligation is to pay the labour 
time for a requested repair as detailed on Autodata, not to specifically support the labour 
time held by the manufacturer.
My role is to decide if what London General has done is fair and reasonable and in line with 
the policy terms and conditions. 
And I think it has. We asked the repairer to quantify the 8 hours labour time. It said the book 
time was 5.2 hours to remove and install, and 2.8 hours for adaptions. It also sent us a 
diagram to support this. But the breakdown diagram seems to show the removal and install 
of the bevel gear drive and the dual clutch gearbox, not the rear differential. 
So, I contacted Autodata. It said the vehicle manufacturer doesnt list the words rear 
differential on its system as it uses different terminology. It says on Autodata its listed as the 
final drive and this has a labour remove and install time of 2.9 hours. Autodata says that 
the manufacturer may call it "Four-wheel drive coupling".
Autodata goes on to say that the bevel gear drive is listed at 5.2 hours labour. But this is a 
part that is bolted onto the side of the gearbox at the front of the prop shaft rather than the 
rear - where the rear differential would be. It says the bevel drive doesnt form part of the 
rear differential.
So, we went back to the repairer. We asked it to check the data it had sent us, and we 
pointed out that the diagrams were of the bevel drive, not the rear differential. The repairer 
has replied with a screenshot of its warranty accounting instruction. This does list the 
remove and install of the four-wheel drive with coupling. But the repairer says this is all it 
can provide and there is no labour time given in the screenshot.
And this makes things difficult. In short, London General has supported its labour times 
using Autodata. But the repairer hasnt. However, even if the repairer did provide its labour 
times for the removal and installation of the four-wheel drive with coupling, Im not confident 
it would match what Mr H paid. The evidence initially provided by the repairer matched what 
was charged, but it looks like it was for the removal and installation of the bevel gear drive, 
not the rear differential. 
I know Mr H is going to be disappointed with my outcome. But based on the evidence Ive 
seen I dont think London General has done anything wrong. Its paid what it said it would as 
per its policy terms and conditions, and this is supported by verifiable evidence. So, I wont 
be recommending that London General pay any more. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I sent my provisional decision on 14 February 2023.
London General didnt respond. Mr H did respond. Mr H asked whether the repairer had 
responded to our last information request. We replied and provided Mr H with a copy of what 
the repairer had sent to us. 
Mr H hasnt raised any additional points since this correspondence. So, as there are no 
further issues raised, I see no reason to depart from my findings as set out above.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2023.
 
Derek Dunne
Ombudsman