DRN-1786435
 
The complaint
Mr M complains that when he purchased a mobile phone, in April 2015, he was mis-sold 
insurance cover by Ageas Insurance Limited which he didnt need. 
What happened
The administration of Mr Ms policy is dealt with by a third party on behalf of Ageas. But 
Ageas are the underwriters, so Ill refer to them in this decision.
Mr M bought a new mobile phone on 25 April 2015. He says he was mis-sold insurance for 
his phone, which he didnt need, as he had insurance cover for the phone through his bank 
account. Hes said that he wasnt aware he had this insurance until recently, when he 
realised direct debit payments were being taken from his bank account.
Hes told us that he didnt receive any documents relating to the insurance, although when 
he bought the phone, he did receive confirmation that hed been given one months free 
insurance cover. 
Mr M still has the phone, but he doesnt use it, as he bought an upgraded phone in October 
2017. He believes that if insurance cover was in place, he should have received policy 
documentation, and an annual summary of his cover. And had he received this he says hed 
have cancelled the insurance as he didnt need it. 
Mr M has provided evidence to confirm that he has mobile phone insurance provided 
through his bank account. He had this cover when he bought the phone in 2015 and its still 
in place.
On 11 September 2019 Mr M called Ageas to query the monthly payment of £9.99 being 
taken from his bank account. He was told that the payment related to insurance for his 
phone, and during the call he was given the option to raise a complaint, which he did. Mr M 
called Ageas on 25 September 2019 for an update on his complaint. He was told there was 
no record of the complaint. A complaint was finally recorded by Ageas when Mr M called 
them again on 4 October 2019. During this call Mr M asked Ageas to refund half of the 
premiums hed paid since 2015, to resolve his complaint, as he said he hadnt received any 
correspondence about the policy since it had been taken out. 
Ageas didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint as they said that when he bought his phone online, in 
April 2015, hed selected the option of one months free insurance, with a monthly charge of 
£9.99 thereafter. They also said an email was sent to him on 27 April 2015, attaching the 
policy terms and conditions, and telling him that his premiums would be collected on the 28th 
of each month. They acknowledged that he hadnt received any correspondence since 
taking out the policy. But said that the terms and conditions clearly set out who he needed to 
contact, to cancel the policy.
Mr M wasnt happy with the response he received from Ageas and complained our service. 
Our investigator considered the case and partially upheld Mr Ms complaint. He didnt think 
the policy had been mis-sold to Mr M, as Ageas had provided evidence that Mr M had 
selected the option of insurance cover, when he purchased his phone. But Ageas had 
acknowledged that Mr M hadnt been sent any correspondence about his policy, after the 
email of 27 April 2015. Our investigator felt they should have provided him with an annual 
reminder of the cover he held with them. And he felt Mr M had no longer received any 
benefit from the policy, after he bought a new phone in October 2017. So, he recommended 
that Ageas refund the premiums Mr M had paid since that date.
Ageas didnt accept our investigators opinion. They said theyd be more swayed by his 
opinion if the cover provided through Mr Ms bank account covered two phones, but it only 
covered one phone, and he could still make a claim under the policy if his old phone was 
lost, stolen, or damaged. So, they believe hes still benefitting from the cover he has under 
his policy with them. They also said they were surprised by how long it had taken Mr M to 
realise he was still paying for the policy. 
Mr M has told us that he hasnt used his old phone since he bought his upgraded phone in 
October 2017. He still has it, its in a drawer, in his home. But he doesnt need insurance for 
it, and the cover provided through his bank account, for one phone, is all that he needs.
The case has now come to me for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied from the evidence that Mr M has provided, that he has insurance cover for his 
mobile phone through his bank account. And that this cover was in place when he bought his 
old phone in April 2015. 
But based on the evidence provided by Ageas, Im also satisfied that when Mr M bought his 
phone online, in April 2015, he selected the option of one months free insurance, with a 
monthly charge of £9.99 thereafter. And that Ageas sent an email to Mr M, on 27 April 2015, 
telling him that the premiums would be collected on and 28th of each month, and that they 
attached the policy terms and conditions to this email. The insurance was a rolling contract 
and the policy included details of how to cancel the insurance.
So, even though Mr M had cover for the phone through his bank account, Im not persuaded 
that the insurance was mis-sold. Mr M may have forgotten taking out the cover, and it can be 
easy to not to check what a monthly direct debit for £9.99 relates to.
Ageas have acknowledged that Mr M wasnt sent any correspondence about his policy after 
their email of 27 April 2015. He may have signed up to a rolling contract, but at the very 
least, Id have expected them to send him an annual summary of his cover and his 
payments. Had they done this Im persuaded by what Mr M has said, that if he hadnt done 
so before, hed have cancelled the policy when he bought his new phone in October 2017.
I dont accept that Mr M has had any ongoing benefit from the policy, as Ageas have 
suggested. While the cover through his bank account may only cover Mr M for one mobile 
phone, effectively this is what he has. If he doesnt use his old phone, he doesnt need 
insurance for it, and hes not going to claim on the policy. 
As Ageas didnt provide Mr M with an annual summary of his cover, or any other 
correspondence, to remind him of the cover he had in place, Im not satisfied that the policy 
was properly administered. I accept that if hed been reminded of the cover hed was paying for, Mr M would have cancelled the policy when he bought his new phone in October 2017. 
So, while I dont think Ageas need to refund all the premiums Mr M has paid, I think its fair 
that they refund him the premiums hes paid since October 2017, to compensate him for the 
poor administration of his policy.
My final decision
So, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint against Ageas Insurance Limited.  
And to put things right I require them to refund the premiums Mr M has paid for his policy 
since October 2017, together with simple interest at 8%, from the date the payments were 
made until settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2020.
 
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman