DRN-4485723
The complaint
Mr O complains HSBC UK Bank Plc have refused to refund money he lost to an investment 
scam. 
Mr O is represented in this complaint, but as its his complaint, Ill refer mostly to him. 
What happened
Mr O met a man, Mr A, in 2019 at a networking event. In 2021, Mr A persuaded Mr O to 
make a series of transactions to two cryptocurrency wallets (held at Coinbase and Kraken) 
for the purposes of making investments. Once in the wallet, Mr O then transferred the money 
on to make the investments.
In 2022, Mr O found that the platforms hed invested in stopped paying out and later 
discovered warnings on the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) register about the company 
Mr A ran  which appeared to have been providing investment advice - and some of the 
investment companies.
 
Mr O complained to HSBC. HSBC responded to say they werent obliged to refund the 
payments under the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) as Mr O had sent the 
payments to cryptocurrency wallets in his name. They also said some of the transactions 
wouldnt have flagged as unusual because Mr O had made payments to Coinbase before 
the scam began and that they provided an appropriate warning when Mr O made the first 
payment to Kraken. 
An Investigator considered Mr Os complaint. He said, in summary, he didnt think it should 
be upheld because  although he thought HSBC shouldve intervened at one point during 
the payments  he didnt think this wouldve prevented Mr Os loss. 
Mr O replied to say he didnt agree. So the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
I issued a provisional decision. My findings are set out again below and they form part of this 
decision. 
Provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that Mr O has fallen victim to a cruel scam here, nor that he authorised 
the payments he made to the two cryptocurrency wallets. The payments were made by Mr O 
himself, using his security credentials provided by HSBC. 
Generally, banks should follow their customers instructions in relation to legitimate 
payments and, as Ive already explained, Mr O did instruct the bank to make these 
payments. However, there are some situations in which a bank should reasonably have 
looked more at their customers payments before allowing them to proceed. So Ive also 
considered whether HSBC should have done more to prevent Mr O from falling victim to the 
scam. 
Mr O made two calls to HSBC to report the scam, the first on 1 June 2022 and the second 
on 13 September 2022. When Mr O first contacted HSBC, he told them he hadnt made any 
payments to the wallet at Coinbase prior to December 2021 but says later in the same 
conversation that he had made other payments to his wallet with Coinbase that werent part 
of the scam. The second time Mr O contacted HSBC he told them the first payment to the 
scammer was October 2021. Mr Os original complaint to the bank (and the complaint 
submitted to our service) said the scam payments began in March 2021. And our 
Investigator asked Mr O, via his representative, about the other payments to Coinbase which 
hadnt been highlighted as part of the scam. In response to which Mr O said these were 
payments he made to save money in cryptocurrency. But his representative later told us, all 
payments to Coinbase were part of the scam. Having listened to Mr Os calls to HSBC 
though and considering what he told our Investigator in response to their questions, I dont 
think this is correct. Mr O told us and HSBC he had made payments to Coinbase which were 
not part of the scam. 
Mr O has been inconsistent about which transactions were made as part of the scam and 
which payments were his own buying of cryptocurrency. Because of this, Im unable to place 
much weight on his testimony as to which transactions were made as part of the scam and 
which were simply Mr Os own cryptocurrency transactions. 
What is now clear, is that Mr O had an existing cryptocurrency wallet with Coinbase. He says 
he opened it in 2017 but didnt use it much before 2021. HSBC have told us the payments to 
Coinbase didnt flag as outside of Mr Os normal use  because Coinbase was an existing 
payee on Mr Os account. 
The first payment to Coinbase was in February 2021. Having considered the initial payments 
Mr O made, I dont think these were enough to have prompted an intervention by HSBC 
considering the amounts and Mr Os usual account activity. However, on 12 March 2021 
Mr O made a payment to Coinbase of £10,000. This marked a significant increase in the size 
of payments to Coinbase and was a large amount compared with Mr Os usual account 
activity. So I think this payment should have prompted an intervention by HSBC. 
Based on Mr Os original complaint, this is the first payment made as part of the scam. 
If HSBC had contacted Mr O about this payment, I wouldve expected them to have asked 
questions about the nature of the payment. I think Mr O likely wouldve told them it was for 
investment purposes, and that he was receiving advice from Mr A. I think its likely Mr O 
wouldve explained that he met Mr A in person two years previously and considered him a 
mentor. Its also clear from Mr Os contact with Mr A that they met in person for meals and 
meetings  on several occasions. So it seems that he trusted him and I think Mr O likely 
would have told HSBC this had they questioned him about the transaction he was making. 
Hed also likely have mentioned that he had held the cryptocurrency wallet for a number of 
years before this payment and that hed used it before to make his own cryptocurrency 
purchases. At the time of this payment there were no warnings about any of the specific 
investments concerned or Mr As company. So I think its unlikely Mr O would have changed 
his mind about the payment having spoken to HSBC, even if theyd warned him it could be a 
scam. Nor do I think anything Mr O would likely have said should have prompted HSBC to 
refuse to make the payment. 
Mr O continued to make payments to Coinbase after this in varying amounts. But most of 
these didnt form part of Mr Os original complaint. For the reasons Ive already explained, 
its unclear which of these payments were part of the scam, but even if they were, I think 
further interventions wouldve been unlikely to reveal he was being scammed or prompted Mr O to change his mind. By this time, Mr O had received significant returns from Coinbase 
on at least some of those payments which, it seems, were made as part of the scam, since 
Mr O says the platforms stopping paying out is what initially prompted his concern that 
something was wrong in 2022. And, based on Mr Os contact with Mr A during this period  
he was content with the returns. So if questioned, I think Mr O would likely have told HSBC 
that as well. 
The first payment to Kraken was made in January 2022 for £15,000. Mr O has told us he 
started using Kraken because the fees werent as high as Coinbase. A written warning was 
given during this transaction. The warning told Mr O his payment had been flagged as high 
risk and highlighted it could be a scam. It suggested Mr O talk to a trusted person not 
involved in the investment, independently research who he was sending the money to 
(including checking the FCAs website) and directed Mr O to HSBCs own fraud centre. Mr O 
says he didnt see this warning  so, presumably, didnt take any of the advised steps. I think 
in the circumstances this payment should have prompted HSBC to speak to Mr O rather 
than just give a written warning. But even if they had, I dont think this wouldve changed 
Mr Os overall position. 
I say this because again, at the time, there were no warnings on the FCA register about the 
company Mr A was running and I think its him or his company Mr O wouldve mentioned to 
HSBC if asked, since thats where he was getting the advice to invest. There was an FCA 
warning in place at this time for one of the actual investments. But given Mr Os relationship 
with Mr A, the trust he had built and the returns he had received, it seems unlikely that Mr O 
would have followed any suggestion from HSBC to check the FCA register specifically for 
the investment company names. I think Mr O would likely have also mentioned he had 
started using a different cryptocurrency wallet to save on fees  indicating some experience 
in this area. So again, I think its unlikely a conversation about this payment would have 
stopped Mr O from going ahead with it or given HSBC such cause for concern that they 
should have refused to make it. 
HSBC arent obliged to refund the payments under the CRM, because, as they explained to 
Mr O at the time of his original complaint, the CRM doesnt cover payments made to 
accounts held in the same name. 
Its unclear whether HSBC made any attempts to recover the funds Mr O had lost when he 
reported the scam to them. But Mr O says he sent the funds from his cryptocurrency wallets 
to the scammers straight away, so it seems unlikely there wouldve been any money 
remaining for HSBC to recover in any event. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr O and his representatives both provided responses. Ive summarised the points below. 
Mr Os representatives said:
All transactions made to Coinbase were part of the scam. 
They didnt agree that because Mr O had a seemingly close relationship with the 
scammer, that interventions wouldnt have made a difference.
Mr O had been the victim of a previous Authorised Push Payment (APP) scam in 
2018. 
They said Mr O was unhappy Id not gone into detail about the payments to Kraken. 
Mr O said:His representatives are incorrect. Not all the transactions made to Coinbase were 
part of the scam  only the ones highlighted in his original complaint were. He had 
made some legitimate payments to Coinbase. 
As Id said HSBC shouldve intervened, why didnt they?
He felt Id not considered the payments to Kraken in enough detail  considering 
these were the bulk of the transactions hed made to the scammers. 
HSBC responded to say they had nothing further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on the responses to my provisional decision, there still seems to be inconsistency 
between Mr O and his representatives regarding which transactions formed part of the scam.
  
Mr O has now told us that only the highlighted Coinbase transactions were part of the scam 
(there were six of these). But Mr O has also said the Kraken transactions formed the bulk of 
the transactions to the scammer but only three payments were highlighted as part of the 
original complaint. And only five were made to Kraken in total during the period of the scam 
 so I dont agree there were significantly more Kraken payments. So again, a further 
inconsistency from Mr O and his representatives about which transactions were made as 
part of the scam.
 
In any event, I explained in my provisional decision I thought HSBC should have done more 
in relation to Mr Os first payment to Kraken (and also one of the earlier payments to 
Coinbase). But, I must also consider whether that intervention (or indeed any intervention) 
wouldve likely made a difference in the circumstances of Mr Os complaint. 
As I explained, I dont think it wouldve done in these particular circumstances. I know Mr Os 
representatives dont agree  theyve referenced romance scams in particular to illustrate 
this point. But this wasnt a romance scam, Mr O had built a friendship with Mr A. Based on 
what Mr O knew and his relationship with Mr A, at the time, I dont think HSBCs intervention 
would have made a difference for all the reasons I set out in my provisional decision.
 
For the other Kraken transactions, I wouldnt necessarily have expected these to trigger 
interventions because of the amounts involved and because of Mr Os other account activity. 
During the period of the scam, there were over 30 payments to Coinbase and Kraken, only 
nine of these were disputed in Mr Os original complaint. As Mr O has now confirmed the 
Coinbase transactions in dispute, this means the large majority of these were genuine 
payments not made as part of the scam. So I dont think payments to Kraken, after the initial 
one, would have seemed out of character compared to Mr Os previous account activity of 
having made regular and, often substantial, payments to cryptocurrency exchanges.
 
Mr Os representatives said Mr O had been the victim of a previous APP scam  so HSBC 
shouldve done more because they knew this. I havent seen any information about the 
previous scam. But the previous scam took place in 2018, and Mr O had made a significant 
number of relatively high value genuine transactions to cryptocurrency exchanges since. So 
I dont think I can fairly say HSBC shouldve done more for this specific reason. And in any 
event, Ive already explained why I dont think any interventions would have made a 
difference. My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Os complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2024.
 
Eleanor Rippengale
Ombudsman