DRN-2265756
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) turned down his theft 
claim and voided his home insurance policy.
What happened
While Mr D was abroad his rucksack was stolen from him. It contained several valuable 
items, including jewellery and a laptop. He reported it to the police and contacted Lloyds to 
make an insurance claim. Lloyds investigated the claim and turned it down and cancelled Mr 
Ds policy, as it didnt think there was evidence that all of the items had been stolen.
Mr D complained to Lloyds. Lloyds maintained its decision to decline the insurance claim 
and void the policy, but it offered him £75 compensation for the delays in it reaching its 
decision.
Mr D complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said she 
thought it was reasonable for Lloyds to turn down the claim based on its terms and 
conditions. The photos and other evidence Mr D provided to support the claim werent 
consistent with what he said had happened.
As Mr D did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D said he was robbed while he was abroad. Lloyds hasnt disputed this. The issue for me 
to decide is whether it was reasonable for Lloyds to turn down the claim and void the policy 
on the basis of the fraud term in the policy.
Ive looked at why Lloyds thought some of the items might not have been stolen. Mr D 
provided some photos to support his claim. When Lloyds checked the photos and the details 
of when they were taken, it found that some of them had been taken after the date on which 
Mr D said the items had been stolen. An investigator for Lloyds asked Mr D about this and 
he then explained that he provided photos of items that were a likeness of those that were 
stolen. Lloyds investigator was also concerned that some of the photos looked staged. Mr D 
then explained that some of the photos were of him wearing his brother in laws jewellery to 
show what the item looked like, as it was identical to his own. 
Lloyds was also concerned that Mr D said he wore the items all the time due to a previous 
theft, but didnt have any photos of him wearing the jewellery before the loss. It also said Mr 
D changed his explanation about when the photos were taken, as he originally said that they 
were taken at a family members bar on an unknown date. But when he was asked about 
this, Mr D then said that the photos had been taken after the theft as evidence of what the 
items looked like.
Mr D said that he hadnt suggested that the photos were of his own items. He said he had 
been asked to provide evidence of what the items looked like. As part of this, he had also 
provided examples that were clearly from the internet, but he said that wasnt being 
questioned.
I can understand Mr Ds position but, thinking about this, I can also see why the photos 
would cause Lloyds to be concerned about the claim. Mr D was unable to provide photos of 
the items taken before the date he said they were stolen. I accept that people dont always 
have lots of photos of themselves, but Mr D provided photos that appeared to be of him 
wearing one of the items claimed for, but with a date stamp that raised questions. Although I 
can understand that he might not have understood the need to explain the circumstances in 
which the photos were taken, I think that Mr D changing his explanation of when and why the 
photos were taken, gave Lloyds reason to think that the claim might be fraudulent.
Mr D also provided a receipt that Lloyds said had been altered by adding a more faint 2 in 
front of the original amount, increasing the value by £2,000 to £2,430. Ive looked at the 
receipt and can see the addition of the 2. I note that the receipt doesnt say what it is for. Mr 
D provided more details about the receipt and said both Lloyds and our investigator 
misunderstood about the receipt. He explained that he had said it couldnt be for the stolen 
necklace, but was more likely for a pendant. He thought the necklace was worth about 
£2,000 and was insured for £2,500. The combined cost of the pendant and £2,000 for the 
stolen necklace came to £2,430, which was within the amount it was insured for. 
So, based on what Mr D said, he submitted a receipt for an item, the pendant, that wasnt 
stolen because the combined value of the pendant and the stolen necklace come to £2,430. 
Thinking about this, I think it was reasonable for Lloyds to be concerned about the receipt 
and I dont think that the additional information that Mr D has now provided removes those 
concerns.
Mr D has also explained that he has a range of health problems, including some that affect 
his memory. I can understand that this might make it harder to remember exactly what 
happened and when. However, I think that Mr D was given a number of opportunities to 
provide information and evidence to support his claim. When he was interviewed about his 
claim, he was also able to take away the statement to read before signing it. This meant that 
he was also able to provide additional comments about parts of the statement that he was 
unhappy about or that he felt were inaccurate. So, I think that although his health issues 
might have affected his ability to provide information that, where he thought there had been 
a misunderstanding, he was also able to clarify his position and to provide further information 
or evidence.
Mr D has also said that he thought the investigator was a liar and had misrepresented what 
he said. Ive thought about this. The interview wasnt recorded because Mr D said he didnt 
want it to be. So, its difficult to know whether what was said was accurately recorded in the 
statement. Looking at what is in the statement, I can see that Mr D was asked to provide a 
range of information and that where this was unclear, he was asked to provide further detail. 
Mr D was also given the opportunity to provide further information, including by being able to 
take the statement away to read and comment on. I havent seen anything that has made 
me think that Mr D was treated unfairly or that he was prevented from explaining what had 
happened, both during the interview and at other times. I also dont think that it was just that 
interview that caused Lloyds to decide to turn down the claim, but was one of a range of 
factors, including information provided directly by Mr D.
So, thinking about all of the above, I think it was reasonable for Lloyds to turn down the claim 
on the basis of fraud, as I think it had sufficient reason to think that items claimed for werent 
stolen in the robbery. Ive also thought about whether it was reasonable for Lloyds to cancel the policy. Looking at 
the policy terms and conditions, these said:
If you make a claim under the policy which is false or fraudulent in any respect, we will not 
pay the claim and all cover under the policy will cease from the date of the fraudulent act.
So, I think that Lloyds acted in line with its terms and conditions by voiding the policy.
Mr D was also concerned about how long Lloyds took to deal with his claim. When Lloyds 
responded to Mr Ds complained. It accepted that it had taken a long time to decide the 
outcome of the claim. It offered Mr D £75 compensation. I think that was reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Thinking about the full circumstances of this complaint, I dont uphold it or require Lloyds to 
do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 November 2020.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman