DRN-2116749
The complaint
Mr E complains about Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited (Markerstudy). His 
complaint is about Markerstudys decision to avoid his motor insurance policy and refuse to 
pay his claim.
What happened
Mr E took out his motor insurance policy at the start of August 2017 over the telephone 
through an insurance intermediary. Mr E had an accident a few weeks later and made a 
claim under his policy.
 
Markerstudy said hed answered the question asked by the insurance intermediary about his 
employment status incorrectly. At the time he took out the policy, Mr E stated that he was 
employed as a full-time insurance representative. When Markerstudy considered his claim, 
they asked him for proof of his employment status, but Mr E replied that he wasnt currently 
working. He explained when he had applied for the policy he was about to start a new job 
but that hadnt happened as expected and so he was still looking for work. Markerstudy 
concluded that Mr E was in fact unemployed. They considered this to be a 
careless/deliberate or reckless qualifying misrepresentation, which entitled it to avoid his 
policy from the date of its inception, meaning that it was considered never to have been in 
place. Markerstudy therefore rejected his claim. They also refused to refund the cost of the 
premiums that Mr E had paid for the policy, on the grounds that they were faced with a 
significant loss arising from Mr Es accident.
Markerstudy also maintained that had they known that Mr E was not employed at the time he 
took out the policy, they would not have offered him insurance under their underwriting 
guidelines.
Mr E complained to Markerstudy about their decision to avoid his policy. They considered his 
complaint but rejected it in January 2018, on the basis that he had misrepresented his 
employment status at the time the policy was taken out.
Mr E has told us that he was suffering from significant mental health issues at the time of his 
application and subsequent accident, and that he received a formal diagnosis and medical 
intervention towards the end of 2018.  Mr E said that he responded well to his medical 
treatment and he complained again to Markerstudy in December 2019. Mr E provided 
evidence, in the form of an email from a third party, that he maintained showed he was 
employed between July and September 2017. Markerstudy considered the evidence but 
they did not consider that it provided proof of employment. Based on this consideration they 
maintained their original decision to avoid the policy. Mr E was unhappy with Markerstudys 
decision and complained to this service in February 2020.
 
Our investigator considered the circumstances of the complaint and concluded that 
Markerstudy had dealt with Mr Es complaint fairly. The investigator considered the evidence 
about the circumstances under which Mr E took out his policy and concluded that he had 
provided an incorrect answer when asked about his employment status. Mr E did not accept 
the investigators view and requested an ombudsman review the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I also want to reassure Mr E I have considered what he has told us about his mental health 
and how it may have impacted both his application for insurance and subsequent claim.
 
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer.
 
If a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation.
 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Markerstudy thinks Mr E failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation 
when he stated that he was employed as an Insurance Representative when he took out his 
policy. Ive considered the circumstances and evidence relating to Mr E taking out his policy. 
I think several points are relevant. First, Ive considered the terms and conditions of the 
policy that Mr E took out, specifically those that relate to information provided by the 
policyholder. The Introduction to the document states:
This contract is entered into on the basis that:
You have taken all reasonable care to answer all questions asked honestly, 
accurately and to the best of your knowledge; and
The information supplied has been given honestly and to the best of your 
knowledge and belief.
The General Conditions section of the policy further emphasise this requirement, stating 
that:
We will only provide the cover described in this insurance policy if:
In entering into this contract you have taken all reasonable care in answering all 
questions in relation to this insurance honestly and to the best of your 
knowledge.
The same section goes on to require the policyholder to tell the insurer (via the insurance 
intermediary) of any changes to that information, including any change of occupation 
(including part time).
Second, Ive listened to the recording of the phone call between Mr E and the insurance 
intermediary that took place when he took out his policy. In that conversation, Mr E clearly 
states that he is an Insurance Representative [selling white goods] when asked about his employment. Third, the same information about his employment status as employed and as 
an Insurance Representative is also contained in the proposal form for his policy.
Ive also noted the point that when Markerstudy asked Mr E for proof of his employment 
status, he replied that he was looking for a new job as he didnt start his new job as expected 
and was therefore looking for full time employment. Ive also considered the subsequent 
email from a third party provided by Mr E that he maintains shows that he was employed (on 
a self employed basis, in a different capacity) at the time of his taking out the policy (and the 
date of the accident and subsequent claim). However, Im not persuaded that it provides 
proof of employment. Even were it to be considered to do so, it also contradicts what Mr E 
stated at the time about the nature of his employment and its status.
From the evidence Ive seen Its clear that Mr E was not in fact employed as an Insurance 
Representative at the time that he took out his policy and so Im satisfied that Mr E 
misrepresented his circumstances when applying for the policy.
 
Ive seen the evidence that Markerstudy would not, under its own underwriting guidelines, 
have offered Mr E insurance had it known that he was not employed. This means Im 
satisfied Mr Es misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
 
Markerstudy has said Mr Es misrepresentation was careless, because he was not able to 
provide further details to support his employment, and that he did not start the job as 
expected. I agree that Mr Es misrepresentation was careless because the evidence 
indicates that Mr E made the representation on the basis of an expectation that a job offer 
would lead to his being employed.
 
As Im satisfied Mr Es misrepresentation should be treated as careless, Ive looked at the 
actions Markerstudy can take in accordance with CIDRA. The Act states that when theres a 
careless misrepresentation the insurer may still avoid the policy where it wouldnt have 
offered the cover at all, but it should refund the insurance premiums for the relevant period of 
the cover. This means the policy is treated as if it never existed, however the insurer may 
recover costs paid to third parties on any claim. In this case Markerstudy has said it will 
retain Mr Es premiums against the accident claim with which he was involved. This is 
allowed by CIDRA and is fair in the circumstances.
 
Im satisfied Markerstudy was entitled to avoid Mr Es policy in accordance with CIDRA. And, 
as this means that  in effect  his policy never existed, Markerstudy did not have to deal 
with his claim following the accident. I do appreciate the significant impact the mental health 
issues Mr E has told us about had on him at the time. But as CIDRA reflects our long-
established approach to misrepresentation cases, I think allowing Markerstudy to rely on it to 
void Mr Es policy produces the fair and reasonable outcome in this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Es complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 March 2021.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman