DRN-2880514
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1982 and another taken in 2003. Mr W and Ms P say Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax 
mis-sold them PPI. For simplicity Ill refer to the business as Halifax for the majority of the 
rest of this decision. When I talk about cover, Im referring to both policies.
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr W and 
Ms Ps circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations 
and exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So, I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mr W and Ms Ps representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise 
any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr W and Ms Ps. I havent set out that detailed 
information here, but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr W and 
Ms Ps complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 
I think Halifax made it clear that Mr W and Ms P didnt have to take out the PPI and they 
chose to take it out. I will explain why I say this. Its not easy to decide this issue because 
neither party has been able to provide me with any of the documents that would have 
been completed at the point of sale for each policy. Thats maybe not surprising because 
the 1982 sale occurred nearly 40 years ago whilst the 2003 sale occurred over 18 years 
ago. So, its not surprising that theres no documents available from the point of sale. For 
the 2003 sale, from what we know about how these policies were sold in 2003, I think 
that Mr W and Ms P would have chosen the cover to get it and would have known they 
had a choice. So, for both sales, considering all the submissions that have been made in 
this case, and considering how long it has been since the sale of both policies, and in the 
absence of any detailed testimony from the consumers to the contrary, I think they knew 
they were taking cover and that it was optional for each sale. 
Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr W and Ms P, so it had to check that the PPI was 
right for them in each sale. And the evidence about Mr W and Ms Ps circumstances at 
the time, shows that the policies werent fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. For 
example, Ive seen no evidence that Mr W and Ms P were ineligible for the cover and 
they told us they had no company sick pay or any other means they could rely on at the 
time of either sale, so they had a need for cover. 
Ive seen no evidence that there was anything about Mr W and Ms Ps employment or 
occupation which would have made it difficult for them to claim. And they havent told us 
about any pre-existing medical conditions that could affect their ability to claim. 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr W and Ms P about the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it shouldve been. But Ive found that they chose to take the policies out - so it looks 
like they wanted this type of cover. The cover in each sale wasnt fundamentally wrong 
for Mr W and Ms P as I concluded above, or too dissimilar to what they reasonably 
thought they were buying from the information they were given. It also looks like the 
policies were affordable  so it seems like the cover each policy gave would have been 
useful for them if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think Mr W and Ms P 
would have declined the cover had Halifax done anything more.
While each of the policies contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental 
health conditions, in light of Mr W and Ms Ps circumstances at the time of sale and 
despite their limitations, the policies werent fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. 
So, I think they would have still thought they had some good reasons to take the policies 
out.
Overall, I consider that Mr W and Ms P would have still taken out PPI. I think the policies 
could provide a useful benefit in a difficult time, given their circumstances at the time. I also 
think the policies were sufficiently close to what its likely they thought they were getting. And 
in those circumstances, I think that they would have taken out the policies in any event.
Mr W and Ms Ps representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a 
claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules 
and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of 
the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant Halifax should have disclosed the poor value 
and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Mr W and Ms Ps representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts 
and circumstances of Mr W and Ms Ps individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr W and Ms Ps particular 
case. But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold this complaint.
This means Halifax doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
non-disclosure of commission
Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including whether the non-
disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act  
and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that unfairness.
Having done so, Ive decided Halifax didnt need to disclose the commission it received, so 
Halifax doesnt need to pay back any of the commission Mr W and Ms P paid. My reasons 
are set out below.
The Supreme Court decided a case that involved the commission on a PPI policy  Plevin 
v Paragon Personal Finance. And the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  who make the 
rules for financial businesses  introduced some new rules and guidance for businesses to 
follow when theyre looking at PPI complaints. This means businesses will sometimes 
need to give consumers back some of the commission paid on certain PPI policies.
But this only applies to credit taken out and still running at certain times. From the 
information that has been submitted in this case those dates do not apply in this case for 
these sales. And so, it falls outside of the scope for our consideration. So, I dont think 
Halifax have to refund any of the commission paid on the PPI policy.
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mr W and Ms Ps complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Ms P to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 February 2022.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman