DRN-1213198
 
The complaint
Mrs E says HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold her a regular monthly premium payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy alongside a mortgage. 
What happened
In October 1994 Mrs E purchased a PPI policy. The PPI included cover for accident, 
sickness and unemployment. The policy cost £11.89 each month and wouldve provided a 
monthly benefit of £200 for up to 12 months following a successful claim. The policy was 
cancelled in 2003.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mrs Es complaint, but Mrs E disagreed with this. So, the 
complaint comes to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account when deciding Mrs Es 
case.
Im not upholding Mrs Es complaint. Ill explain why.
The mortgage and the PPI were taken out more than 25 years ago and the policy was 
cancelled more than 15  so its unsurprising neither party has been able to provide much 
detailed information about the sale. And in these situations, I have to look at what I think is 
more likely to have happened.
I dont doubt that Mrs E has given her honest recollections of the sale, but in the absence of 
any strong testimony or recollections from Mrs E about the purchase of the policy (which is 
entirely understandable), Im not persuaded that the policy wasnt presented as being 
optional and that she wasnt given a choice about taking out the PPI.
Its not clear whether HSBC recommended the PPI to Mrs E or not. But I dont need to make 
a decision about this. Because I think the PPI was suitable for her for the following reasons:
 
Mrs E met the PPIs requirements, so was eligible for it. And Ive set out the PPIs 
costs and main benefits above.
Mrs E was working at the time, but she says she was self-employed - so Ive looked 
very carefully at the terms and conditions to see if she was unfairly affected by any 
restrictions that can sometimes apply to self-employed people. But she wasnt  it wouldve been no more difficult for her to make a successful claim than an employed 
person.
Because she was self-employed, Mrs E had no sick pay and she told us she had no 
savings either. I understand Mrs E was solely responsible for the mortgage 
repayments. And although she says she couldve relied on her family for help, there 
could be no guarantee that her family wouldve been in a position to help at some 
unknown point in the future. So, I think it was prudent for Mrs E to purchase PPI and I 
think the policy was suitable for her.
 
I dont know whether the cost of the policy was clearly communicated to Mrs E before she 
agreed to purchase it. I dont know if she was told it would cost £11.89 each month until after 
the policy had started. For this reason Ive considered whether clearer information about the 
cost wouldve affected her decision to purchase the policy. But she had chosen to take out 
the policy, knowing she would have to pay something for it. The policy was competitively 
priced and apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely she wouldve made a different decision 
if better information about the cost had been provided. And as this was a regular monthly 
premium policy, if Mrs E decided that the cost was unaffordable, or that she no longer 
wanted the policy, she couldve cancelled it without penalty.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I dont uphold Mrs Es complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2020.
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman