DRN-3945945
The complaint
Mr H complains that Aviva Insurance Limited is delaying settling his theft claim on his motor 
insurance policy. He wants it to settle his claim.
What happened
Mr Hs said his car was stolen, and he reported this to the police, but it didnt prove him with 
a Crime Reference Number (CRN). The car was later recovered by the police damaged and 
Mr H made a claim to Aviva. It initially discussed valuations. But it said it couldnt progress 
the claim without the CRN. It said it needed this to request a police report to validate the 
circumstances of the theft. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought Mr H 
had called 999 but she couldnt see what he had reported. She thought Mr H hadnt notified 
Aviva of the theft immediately, as he should have done. She thought it had then taken three 
weeks for Mr H to provide Aviva with a statement about the theft. 
Aviva said it wouldnt request a police report without a CRN as it said this would incur costs 
and Mr H could obtain this for free. And she thought it was reasonable for Aviva to ask for 
the CRN to request a police report to confirm that the police were treating this as theft. 
Mr H replied that he wanted his car back. He said Aviva had declined to keep the claim open 
unless he provided a CRN. And he asked for an Ombudsmans review. So his complaint has 
come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr H feels frustrated that his claim hasnt been settled nearly a year 
after he said his car was stolen. He has explained that this is causing him financial difficulties 
and stress. I was sorry to hear about this.
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
Aviva said it needs the CRN in order to validate the claim. I can see that in the policy 
document on page 43 it states under Claims procedures, 
Your duties
You must contact us as soon as reasonably possible and provide all the information, 
documents, evidence and help we need to settle your claim or pursue a recovery.
Anyone claiming under this policy or anyone acting on their behalf must let us know 
immediately if anyone insured under this policy is to be prosecuted as a result of an incident 
or if there is to be an inquest or a fatal accident inquiry.
You must notify the police as soon as reasonably possible if your car is lost, stolen or broken 
into.
Mr H didnt contact Aviva until after he had been told that his car had been recovered. He 
said hed contacted the police on the day of the theft. So I think he could then also have 
reported the theft to Aviva. 
I think Aviva reasonably wanted to hear Mr Hs version of events to understand the 
circumstances of the theft. But Mr H didnt contact it to provide this for three weeks. He 
hasnt explained why he didnt contact Aviva sooner.  
I think its reasonable for Aviva to request information from Mr H to validate his claim. And I 
think it is standard for the police to provide a CRN when a crime is reported by phone. Mr H 
thought the police would have to attend the theft scene to generate a CRN. But this isnt 
correct. So I think it was reasonable for Aviva to ask Mr H to provide the CRN before it 
progressed his claim further.
I can see that Aviva asked Mr H for the CRN on many occasions. And he said he would try 
to obtain it. But he was only available to provide a Computer Aided Despatch (CAD) number 
that showed that Mr H called 999, but not what he reported. Aviva also emailed the police to 
ask for a CRN, but there was no immediate response. I cant reasonably hold Aviva 
responsible for the polices delays in responding to its request. 
When the police did respond, it said that Aviva must request a police report to obtain the 
CRN. But it declined to do this as this would incur costs and it said Mr H could provide the 
information for free, as he was required to do by the policys terms and conditions. 
I think that was fair and reasonable because without the CRN Aviva cant establish that a 
theft crime was reported or that the police were treating the matter as theft. So I think Aviva 
has acted in keeping with the policys terms and conditions, and fairly and reasonably. So I 
cant say that Aviva has done anything wrong in not settling Mr Hs claim at this stage. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 April 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman