DRN-2738134
The complaint
Mrs I complains that TFS Loans Limited (TFS) shouldnt have lent to her because it ought 
reasonably to have realised that she might struggle to make her repayments.   
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint TFS, but I agree with the adjudicators view. Please let me explain 
why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Before agreeing to provide a loan a business should check that the loan is affordable. The 
type of checks which a business should carry out should be proportionate, so (for instance) a 
mortgage lender will ask for bank statements and payslips, but a catalogue offering a low 
credit limit doesnt have to go into so much detail. 
In considering this complaint, Ive looked at whether TFS carried out proportionate checks, 
and at what information they had been given about Mrs Is financial circumstances.
The methods TFS used to establish affordability were for them to decide but the practices 
and procedures they used had to be effective. And the depth of their analysis could be 
proportionate to the amount of money being requested.
TFS have provided the information they considered when making the decision to advance 
credit. They provided a copy of a credit report and a payslip from the period in question and 
they explained, in their final response to Mrs I, that they used the credit report to identify her 
expenditure. Having considered her income and expenditure and the debt for the loan they 
were providing they were satisfied that she had sufficient disposable income to afford the 
repayments sustainably.
I dont think TFSs checks were sufficient here. They didnt give sufficient consideration to 
Mrs Is expenditure. Its clear they considered the outgoings in the credit report, but they 
didnt ask about, or take into consideration, her payments towards gas, electricity, food, 
clothing or other living expenses and I think, given the size of the loan, they should have. 
I think they should have been alerted to the fact a further loan may have been increasing 
Mrs Is indebtedness too far because of the presence of, three relatively recent defaults on 
her file for about £18,000; four active credit cards with significant debt on them and four pay 
day loans that were also active. It was also apparent from her credit file that she was 
significantly overdrawn on her current account.
I think its reasonable to suggest that the checks werent sufficient. So, Ive looked at what 
TFS would have discovered if those checks had been sufficiently thorough. Mrs Is income 
was, as TFS expected, at £2,378 but her monthly credit commitments were about £2,132 
and that didnt include food, transport or any payments to her partner or the loan that was 
being proposed. Once those aspects were taken into account I dont think the fixed sum loan 
that TFS were provided could have been considered affordable.
  
Putting things right
Its only fair that Mrs I repays the money she borrowed as she has had the benefit of it. But 
she shouldnt have to pay the interest or any charges on that loan as the business were in 
error when advancing the credit. These should be repaid to Mrs I with interest as Mrs I has 
been deprived of that money.
Its not fair for Mrs Is credit file to be impacted by TFSs loan decision so they should 
remove any adverse information they may have reported to Mrs Is credit file.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell TFS Loans Limited to add 
up the total amount of money Mrs I received as a result of having been given her loan. The 
repayments Mrs I made should be deducted from this amount.
a) If this results in Mrs I having paid more than she received, then any overpayments
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest (calculated from the date the
overpayments were made until the date of settlement);
b) If any capital balance remains outstanding, then TFS Loans should attempt to arrange
an affordable/suitable payment plan with Mrs I.
TFS Loans Limited should also remove any negative information they have recorded on Mrs 
Is credit file regarding her loan.    
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs I to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman