DRN-4064136
The complaint
Mrs A has complained about Interactive Investor Services Limited (Interactive). She said it 
provided misleading information about the available funds on her account. She said this 
ultimately led to her obtaining a negative balance on a currency account, for which she was 
charged interest. Mrs A thinks Interactive are responsible for this and so would like it to put 
things right.
Mrs A has been represented by her father Mr A throughout her complaint with our service. 
He has made submissions to our service to support his daughters complaint. I have referred 
to both Mrs A and Mr A throughout, but to be clear the complaint is from Mrs A about her 
share dealing account. 
What happened
Mrs A has a share dealing account with Interactive. Mrs A had around £20,000 worth of 
shares in Avant. There was a corporate action regarding this company as it was being 
bought by a US company. 
Mrs A would have received a notice from Interactive dated 17 August 2022 giving her 
options to choose from regarding the corporate action. These included taking a mix of cash 
and shares in a new company along with which currency Mrs A wanted the cash paid as, in 
either dollars or pounds. 
Mrs A didnt make her preference known, so she received the default option, this being she 
would receive money in US dollars. On 26 September 2022 Mrs A received the dollars in her 
account. Mrs As father, Mr A, said he checked the account on 7 October 2022 and saw 
overall what Mrs A had as an account balance. This, he said, was shown in pounds sterling. 
He invested what he thought Mrs A had in her account on new share holdings.
Mrs A received an email from Interactive saying there was a negative balance on the 
account. Mrs As father Mr A went in and saw that the money was sitting in a US dollars 
currency account, so he converted the dollars to pounds and transferred the balance over to 
the main account. This left a negative balance of around £490. This is because the 
exchange rate had moved since Mr A had invested in the two new stocks. Mrs A then 
transferred £500 into her account and cleared the negative balance. 
Mr A on behalf of Mrs A, complained to Interactive initially about not being notified that 
money was put in the account and that it was in dollars. Mr A said this meant Mrs A lost 
money due to the exchange rate worsening during this period. He said he reinvested the 
money based on an account balance, and he later found out this was not accurate. He said 
this was misleading. Mr A said Interactive did not provide clear information about the 
account balance and as such it led to Mrs A having a negative balance. He said Interactive 
charged interest on this balance, and it was like having a loan or an overdraft, something 
that wasnt agreed to. Mr A said Interactive are responsible for this and should put things 
right. 
Interactive said in response that it sent a notice to Mrs A giving options for the corporate 
action. It said it felt the notice was clear and the onus was on Mrs A to read it. It said its 
accounts are multi-currency. It said if Mrs A had money transferred to her account, in any of 
the nine currencies it deals with, then she would be allowed to trade using the money. It said 
this is why Mr A could purchase the shares that he did. It said the onus is on Mrs A to ensure 
funds are available so that they cover trades as they settle, as outlined in its terms and 
conditions. It paid £50 to Mrs A at this point, due to a phone call that Mr A made to one of its 
representatives and the nature of that call, that it said wasnt up to the standard that it would 
expect. 
Mr A was not happy with Interactives response and referred Mrs As complaint to our 
service.  
An investigator looked into Mrs As complaint. She said she didnt think Interactive needed to 
take any action. She said she could not find an error in Interactives actions relating to the 
corporate action, allowing the two trades, not auto converting the dollars, or allowing the 
account to go into a negative balance. She pointed to clauses provided, that she said 
showed Interactive were acting within its own terms and conditions. 
Mr A on behalf of Mrs A is not in agreement with the investigators view. So as this is the 
case, Mrs As complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to look into.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am not upholding Mrs As complaint. I will explain why:
Mr A said Interactive provided misleading information on Mrs As account. He said it 
provided an estimate balance and he was unaware of this. He said this led to him 
investing in two share holdings and then incurring a negative balance. He said this is 
wrong as Interactive should have clearly notified him about how much Mrs A held in 
the account. There is still a dispute about this between the parties, so I have looked 
into this.
Interactive provided within its terms and conditions an explanation as to how it was 
going to administer Mrs As account. This was a document Mrs A and Mr A wouldve 
been able to see when the account was opened. I have looked through this 
document and can see of relevance to Mrs As complaint is term 3.6 by placing an 
order for the purchase of investments, you agree that you will have sufficient cleared 
funds on your account. Along with term 11.3 of the terms that the customer is 
responsible for requesting currency exchange. 
After reading these terms, I can see that Interactive has stated from the outset that 
the emphasis is on Mrs A or her representative Mr A, to ensure there are sufficient 
funds to pay for any purchases. In addition, it is also their responsibility to ensure 
that they request a currency exchange of funds if needed. I can see that this is 
clearly stated. 
In the circumstances of Mrs As complaint, I can see that Mr A was reinvesting 
proceeds that Mrs A received from a corporate action. I can see that the options 
were clearly presented by interactive, and these included in which currency any 
money would be paid in. I think on balance, Mrs A and Mr A would have been given 
enough notice that the money was being paid into the account in dollars. I also dont think it is unreasonable for Interactive to put the balance on the account in dollars, in 
a tab that could be looked at separately on the account by Mrs A and by Mr A on her 
behalf.  
I cant see that Interactive has done anything wrong when it has transferred the 
proceeds from the corporate action into Mrs As account, and then has allowed Mr A 
on Mrs As behalf to reinvest the money. I can see that it was acting within its own 
terms and conditions.
Mr A says Interactive shouldnt have charged Mrs As account with interest 
payments. He said its like it provided a loan or overdraft but without Mrs As 
permission. I can see though that Interactive again, are acting within its own terms 
and conditions and in particular term 8.2 charges applicable on overdue sums. I 
dont think that the fees charged on Mrs As account resemble a loan or overdraft as 
Mr A suggests. Its more that Interactive has charged fees, as it said it would if an 
account holder doesnt have sufficient funds and has an overdue sum of money or 
negative balance. 
I have also seen on Interactives website that it has clearly explained fees and 
charges, in particular in this complaint, for late settlement of trades and negative 
balances. I have seen the rate that Interactive has said it will charge for this and can 
see that it has applied this to Mrs As account. I dont think it was unreasonable for it 
to charge the fees that it did for Mrs As account seen as it made clear that it would 
do this from the outset if this happened and this was something that Mrs A agreed to 
when she opened her account.
Interactive has paid £50 to Mrs A in relation to a phone call that Mr A had with one 
of its representatives. I dont have anything further to add in relation to this. 
In conclusion, I dont think Interactive, in the circumstances of this complaint, has 
done anything wrong here for the reasons I have provided.   
I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Mrs A and Mr A, and I acknowledge 
the strength of their feelings in the submissions provided by Mr A. But based on everything I 
have read and the findings I have given, I dont uphold Mrs As complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2024.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman