The complaint
Mr B and Mrs B are unhappy that Ageas Insurance Limited turned down a claim on their 
buildings insurance policy.
What happened
Mr B contacted Ageas to make an insurance claim when a boundary wall fell down during a 
storm. Ageas sent a surveyor to assess the damage. Ageas turned down the claim because 
the surveyor concluded that the wall had blown down because it was only half a brick thick, 
rather than because of the storm.
Mr B and Mrs B complained to Ageas. It replied and said that it was correct to turn down the 
claim because the damage was due to wear and tear. The wall was 1.8 metres high and so 
should have been one brick thick rather than half a brick. As a result, every time the wind 
blew, the wall moved slightly causing strain on the mortar holding the bricks together and 
weakening the structural integrity of the wall.
Mr B and Mrs B complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He 
said that Ageas was reasonable to rely on the surveyors report and that this indicated that 
the main cause was wear and tear, rather than the storm.
As Mr B and Mrs B did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt in dispute that there was a storm at the time when Mr B and Mrs Bs boundary wall fell 
down. The issue is that Ageas has said that the cause of the wall falling down was wear and 
tear, whereas Mr B and Mrs B have said that the wall was in good condition and it was the 
storm that caused it to collapse.
When the surveyor inspected the wall, Mr B and Mrs B were told that the claim would be 
declined due to wall being  BK TK (brick thick). Height 1.8m should be one BK TK. Mr B 
said Mrs B asked the surveyor whether this was the only reason the claim was being turned 
down and was told that it was.
Looking at the government guidance on the wall thickness required for different height 
garden and boundary walls (https://www.gov.uk/guidance/your-garden-walls-better-to-be-
safe), I can see that a 1/2 brick thick wall wasnt appropriate for the height of the boundary 
wall. Mr B and Mrs B have argued that it complied with the building regulations in place at 
the time that it was built. I dont know what the regulations were at the time that the wall was 
DRN-1679451built, so cant say one way or the other whether that is correct. However, I think the key issue 
is why the thickness of the wall was relevant.
The surveyors report explains that as a result of the construction of the wall This means 
that every time the wind blows against the wall, it causes it to move slightly, this cause strain 
on the mortar holding the bricks in place and the structural integrity of the wall weakens. This 
repeatedly occurs over the lifetime of the wall until the wall can no longer support itself and 
reaches the end of its serviceable life .
I think this was a reasonable assessment for the surveyor to make and it was also 
reasonable for Ageas to rely on it. Im also satisfied that the evidence indicates that the claim 
could be turned down as wear and tear.
Im aware that Mr B and Mrs B have said that when Ageas told them the claim had been 
turned down on the basis of wear and tear that this was different than the reason given to 
them by the surveyor. Although I can understand why they might think this, the explanation 
provided by Ageas wasnt inconsistent with the information Mr B and Mrs B were given by 
the surveyor during the visit. The surveyor explained the issue with the construction of the 
wall. In Ageas response to Mr B and Mrs B on the claim, it also said that the construction of 
the wall was the issue and then described the effect of this on the walls structural integrity. It 
explained that the claim therefore wasnt covered as this was wear and tear. Ageas therefore 
provided additional information, but in my view all this did was more thoroughly explain the 
reason for the decision and the part of the policy that applied.
Thinking about all of the above, Im satisfied that it was reasonable for Ageas to turn down 
the claim, as the evidence indicates that the dominant cause of the damage being claimed 
for was not one of the specific events covered by the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 July 2020.
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman