DRN-2968720
The complaint
Miss F was unhappy with how her pet insurance policies were administered after they were 
replaced with ones with a new provider, which were underwritten by Zenith Insurance Plc. 
She told us that the premiums increased excessively, the excess increased and none of the 
claims she had made were fully covered. 
What happened
Miss Fs ex-partner had lifetime insurance policies for their dogs in 2019. The policy provider 
decided to withdraw from the market in 2019, but arranged for another provider, underwritten 
by Zenith, to offer replacement policies that wouldnt exclude existing illnesses or conditions.
The new policies started in May 2019. They were lifetime policies, which means that they 
would provide cover for Miss Fs dogs entire lives, if she chose to renew each year. There 
was an annual monetary limit for veterinary treatment and investigation, but no time limit for 
treatment of any individual illness or condition. Miss F renewed the policies in 2020, but she 
didnt renew in 2021 due to the premiums Zenith required.
Policy 1 had an initial premium of £441.24, which renewed in 2020 with a premium of 
£520.68. The policy schedules for 2019 and 2020 showed that the excess for veterinary fees 
was £85 plus a 10% variable excess. The quote given to Miss F before she took out the 
policy also confirmed that a 10% variable excess would be payable on top of the £85 normal 
excess.
Miss F made a claim on policy 1 in February 2021. Zenith accepted the claim, but in addition 
to the standard excess of £85, it also deducted the variable excess of £25.28. The amount 
paid for two medications prescribed was also limited because the veterinary practice had 
marked up the cost by more than 100%, which was Zeniths limit. 
Policy 2 had an initial premium of £340.08 and renewed in 2020 for £401.28. 
Miss F made a claim on policy 2 in May 2020. The claim wasnt initially paid as information 
Zenith requested from the veterinary practice wasnt provided. However, the claim was later 
reopened when the information did become available and the claim was paid in June 2020. 
Again Zenith limited the amount it paid for medication because the veterinary practice had 
marked up the medication by more than 100%.
In May 2020 Miss F complained about the renewal premium for both policies. Zenith sent 
Miss F its response on 9 June 2020. It said that the premiums had been set based on its 
rating factors, such as the pets age and breed. It didnt identify any errors in the way the 
premium had been calculated and rejected the complaint.
In June 2020 Miss F raised concerns about the amount that was paid for the claim on 
policy 2. She asked Zenith to check the deductions. Zenith responded and confirmed that 
the deductions it had made were correct. It explained the reductions it had made for the 
medication was because it would only pay up to 200% of the wholesale price of medications 
and thats the amount it had paid. The difference was due to Miss Fs vet having marked up 
the medication by more than 100%.
In the spring of 2021 Zenith issued renewal documents to Miss F for the policy year 
beginning in May 2021. The renewal premium for policy 1 was £1,015.32 and for policy 2 it 
was £782.52. Miss F decided to take cover elsewhere. Miss F complained about the 
premium increase. In addition, she was concerned about the deductions that had been made 
from the claim made on policy 1. She also believed that she was being treated differently by 
Zenith than she had by the policy provider before the policies were transferred.
Zenith responded to the complaint in April 2021 and explained why the premiums for 2021-
2022 had increased, both generically and specifically based on the details of the individual 
policies. This meant that the premiums on policies could increase significantly when claims 
had been made. Zenith said that this should have been made clear when the policy was 
sold, so that Miss F could make an informed decision about whether to accept the quote for 
policies. It apologised if the potential for significant increases hadnt been highlighted to her. 
It offered her £25 compensation for any upset or inconvenience shed suffered. In relation to 
Miss Fs concern about the excess, it confirmed that the type of policy she arranged had a 
variable excess once the insured pet reaches a certain age. 
Miss F wasnt satisfied with Zeniths response and asked us to consider her complaint.
One of our investigators considered Miss Fs complaint. He proposed to partially uphold the 
complaint, in that he considered Zenith should pay Miss F £150 compensation for the upset 
and inconvenience shed suffered due to the unexpected increases in premium on her 
policies. He didnt consider Zenith had acted inappropriately in increasing the premium or 
charging the variable excess on the January 2021 claim she made.  
Zenith didnt accept the investigators conclusions. It highlighted that Miss F had chosen to 
take the new policies because one of her dogs had pre-existing conditions. It said that 
Miss F was made aware that there would likely be increases to the policy premiums as her 
pets got older and treatment costs increased. It said that at the 2020 renewal it had 
highlighted that if Miss F had claimed, the increase would be significant.
Our investigator considered Zeniths comments, but they didnt change his mind. As 
agreement couldnt be reached, Zenith asked that the complaint be referred to an 
ombudsman for consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would initially clarify that while Miss F has compared the policies she had with Zenith with 
those previously held, they are not the same policies. Miss F took out completely new 
policies with different terms and conditions to the ones previously held. The only difference 
in the situation was that the previous provider had arranged that Zenith wouldnt exclude 
existing illnesses or conditions from cover as long as the new policies started when the old 
ones ended with no gap. 
Miss F is unhappy with the deductions made from the claim settlement; in particular the 10% 
variable excess applicable because of the age of her dogs. Ive reviewed the evidence in this 
case and Im satisfied that it was clearly detailed in a prominent position in the information 
Miss F was given both before and after the policies were taken out. As such, I cant find that 
it was unreasonable for the variable excess to have been deducted from the claim.Lifetime pet policies of the type that Miss F took out tend to be comprehensive in nature. And 
their key selling point is that they will cover pets for ongoing medical problems they might 
develop after the policy has been taken out. So they tend to be more expensive than other 
policies available on the market. 
Premiums for pet policies will usually increase as the pet ages. But, particularly for lifetime 
policies, its also usual for the premium to increase in response to a claim. That is, once a 
pet has a medical condition its likely that it poses a higher risk to the insurer. And, as a 
result, the insurer will reflect that increased risk in the premiums they charge going forward. 
So its important that potential policyholders are aware of that when they buy the lifetime 
policy. 
Given the significant increase in Miss Fs renewal premium I can understand her concerns 
that the increase isn't fair. However, were not the industry regulator and we have no power 
to make an insurer lower its charges. Generally, its not my role to tell an insurer what price it 
should charge for the risks its policies cover, nor do I decide what factors it should take into 
account when assessing those risks. And we usually take the view that, providing they treat 
people fairly, insurers are entitled to charge what they feel they need to in order to cover a 
risk.
Insurers consider many factors when setting premiums. When deciding how much to charge 
for their policies they will make an assessment of how likely it is that their policyholders will 
make a claim and how much they might have to pay out for those. And each insurer will go 
about that in its own way. 
That said, as Zenith explained to Miss F, it had a responsibility to explain to her when the 
policies were taken out that there was the possibility of significant premium increases. It 
offered her £25 in the event it didnt do this. Ive listened to the calls with Miss F and her 
ex-partner that took place before and at the time the policies were arranged. Zenith didnt 
highlight that this might happen. 
Miss F has explained that under the previous policies, despite one of her dogs having an 
ongoing condition for which the insurer paid throughout the year, the premiums didnt 
increase much each year. Indeed, Miss F raised concerns about the amount of increase at 
the first renewal, when the premiums increased around £80 and £60 respectively. While 
Zenith didnt provide a copy of its letter responding to the 2020 concerns raised about the 
premium increase, the information it did provide doesnt indicate that it highlighted the 
possibility of significant premium increases as a result of claims at that point either. 
As such, without some form or warning from Zenith, any significant premium increases 
would have come as a considerable shock to Miss F. Just such increases happened the 
following year and made the policies unaffordable. I am satisfied from Miss Fs submissions 
that being in the position of being unexpectedly unable to afford to insure her dogs, one of 
which had an existing medical condition, was both worrying and upsetting for her. As such, I 
am in agreement with our investigator that the amount of compensation offered by Zenith 
was not sufficient.
My final decisionMy decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of the complaint, 
I order Zenith Insurance plc to pay Miss F £150 compensation for the worry and upset its 
omission caused her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Miss F to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 December 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman