DRN-3990263
The complaint
Mr F1 and Mr F2 complain about the way Great Lakes Insurance SE has handled a claim 
they made on a travel insurance policy.
As Mr F1 made the claim and brought the complaint, Ill refer mainly to him.
What happened
Mr F1 and Mr F2 were abroad on holiday. They were due to return to the UK on 14 May 
2022. Unfortunately, on 13 May 2022, Mr F2 suffered a stroke and was admitted to hospital. 
I understand that Mr F1 contacted Great Lakes medical assistance company for help. Mr F1 
returned to the UK on 21 May 2022, whilst it appears that Mr F2 was later repatriated to the 
UK by Great Lakes. Mr F1 made a claim for the additional expenses hed incurred whilst 
abroad, together with the cost of unused tickets for an evening show.
Great Lakes took some months to consider Mr F1s claim. Unhappy with the delays hed 
experienced, Mr F1 asked us to consider his complaint. Subsequently, Great Lakes partially 
settled some costs in August 2022, but omitted some costs from the payment. In October 
2022, it made a further settlement payment, including a payment for hospital benefit.
But Mr F1 remained unhappy with the settlement hed received and the way that Great
Lakes had handled his claim. He said a taxi fare and the price of the unused show tickets
remained outstanding. And he said that Great Lakes hadnt fully settled the cost of his actual
return flight.
Our investigator thought Mr F1s complaint should be upheld. She felt that Great Lakes
should settle the costs of Mr F1s taxi from his hotel to the airport and that it should pay the
cost of the unused show tickets. She recommended that Great Lakes should settle the
difference between the cost of Mr F1s return flight and the amount it had paid. And she
thought the delays in Great Lakes handling of this claim had caused Mr F1 some upset and
inconvenience. So she recommended that Great Lakes should also pay Mr F1 £200
compensation.
I issued a provisional decision on 21 February 2021. In my provisional decision, I explained 
the reasons why I didnt think Great Lakes had treated Mr F1 fairly. I said:
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly, 
provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and provide appropriate
information on its progress. And that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive
considered, amongst other things, the terms of Mr F1s policy and the circumstances of his
claim, to decide whether Great Lakes treated him fairly.
It's common ground that Great Lakes has accepted and settled the majority of the costs that
Mr F1 claimed for. So I dont propose to explore these in detail here. Instead, I will focus only
on the three outstanding costs and Great Lakes overall handling of the claim.
The cost of the tickets
Mr F1 has provided evidence that he and Mr F2 had tickets booked for an evening show on
13 May 2022. Due to Mr F2s sudden stroke and admission to hospital, understandably,
neither Mr F1 nor Mr F2 could attend the show. Great Lakes says that the price of these
tickets isnt covered under the medical expenses section of the policy (and I agree with this
point) and that theyre not covered by the cutting short your trip section of the policy either.
However, Great Lakes has defined what it means by cutting short in the policy. And part of
this definition says that cutting short is being a hospital in-patient outside your home
country for a period in excess of 48 hours. Mr F2 was admitted to hospital on 13 May 2022
for around 16 days. As such then, I think its fair to conclude that his trip was cut short, within
the meaning of the policy, at the point he became ill and was taken to hospital.
The cutting short your trip section of the policy includes cover of up to £350 for unused
excursions. The unused show tickets cost significantly less than the applicable limit. So I
think it would be fair and reasonable for Great Lakes to settle the ticket costs. Thats
because while Mr F1s trip itself was actually extended for the purposes of remaining with Mr
F2 rather than being cut short, I think his holiday effectively ended at the point Mr F2 was
admitted to hospital  the day before they were due to return to the UK.
The flight cost
Great Lakes accepted and settled the majority of the cost of Mr F1s actual return flight to the
UK (it has paid EUR 335.78 against a cost of EUR 383.17) and it appears that it also settled
the cost of Mr F1s original return flight to the UK (£175.01). I appreciate theres a shortfall in
the settlement Mr F1s been paid for his actual return flight to the UK on 21 May 2022. But
most travel insurance policies wont cover the cost of a policyholders original pre-booked
travel expenses and their actual travel expenses if their trip has had to be cut short or
extended. Thats because whether a claim occurred or not, a policyholder would always
have had to pay to get home from their trip. In this case, it seems that Great Lakes has met
the majority of both Mr F1s original and actual return flight costs, which seems very fair in
the circumstances. It isnt clear to me, from the terms of the policy, that both costs should be
covered. If I were to direct Great Lakes to pay for the costs of both flights in full, Mr F1 would
be travelling home for free  which would mean hed profited from the insurance policy, 
rather than being indemnified for his losses. As such then, I dont currently think it would be
fair or reasonable to direct Great Lakes to pay any shortfall here.
The taxi cost
I appreciate Mr F1 paid for a taxi to take him from his hotel to the airport. And I can
understand why he may have wished for this cost to be covered. But I simply dont think
theres any cover under the policy terms for this particular cost  neither under the cutting
short your trip section of the policy, nor the medical expenses section of the policy. The cost
of taxi fares is covered for a policyholders taxi fares to and from the hospital, related to their
admission. But that wasnt the purpose of Mr F1s taxi journey and the policy specifically
excludes cover for other taxi fares. So I think it was fair for Great Lakes to exclude this cost
from the settlement it paid.
Great Lakes handling of the claim
Like the investigator, I think that there were failings in the way Great Lakes handled Mr F1s
claim. It took some months to settle the claim in a piecemeal way. Great Lakes asked Mr F1
to provide the same information multiple times and it caused unnecessary delays in
assessing and settling the costs it met. I think this caused additional upset and distress to Mr
F1 (and Mr F2) at a time when Mr F2 had already suffered a serious stroke and wasundergoing treatment. So I think its fair that Great Lakes should pay Mr F1 and Mr F2 £200
compensation for the additional trouble and upset it caused them.
I asked both parties to provide any further evidence or comments they wanted me to 
consider.
Both Mr F1 and Great Lakes accepted my provisional findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, as both parties have accepted my provisional findings, I see no reason to 
change them. So my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same 
reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint.
I direct Great Lakes Insurance SE to:
Settle the costs of the evening show, in line with the remaining terms and conditions 
of the policy. Great Lakes must also add interest at an annual rate of 8% simple, from 
the date of claim until the date of settlement.*
Pay Mr F1 and Mr F2 £200 compensation. Great Lakes Insurance SE must pay the 
compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it that Mr F1 and Mr F2 
accept my eventual final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on 
the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement at a 
rate of 8% a year simple.
*If Great Lakes considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax 
from that interest it should tell Mr F1 and Mr F2 how much it has taken off. It should also give 
Mr F1 and Mr F2 a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F1 and Mr F2 
to accept or reject my decision before 27 March 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman