DRN-3159645
The complaint
Miss D complains that Santander UK PLC (Santander) declined her fraud claim and 
registered a CIFAS marker against her name. She also complains that she received poor 
customer service during this time.
What happened
Miss Ds Santander account was opened in May 2019. She says that fraudsters took 
£1,880.57 from her account, by way of card payments, cash withdrawals and a bank transfer 
over a period of 7 weeks from August to September 2019. She also says a cheque for 
£18,259.38 was paid into her account, without her knowledge.
Santander declined Miss Ds claim for reimbursement of the transactions she had disputed 
because there was no explanation as to how a fraudster could have obtained her PIN, Miss 
D had logged onto her online banking numerous times during the period in question and it 
found her testimony inconsistent. It also closed Miss Ds account and registered a CIFAS 
marker against her after the £18,259.38 cheque paid into Miss Ds account bounced and 
was reported as fraudulent.
Miss D brought her complaint to our service, saying the last time shed used her card and 
PIN was at the start of August 2019, for a payment of £8 to a retailer, and that she had left 
her card in her wardrobe. She said she wanted Santander to apologise to her for accusing 
her of fraud, to reimburse the money she had lost, to make sure this didnt happen again, 
and to remove any markers from her credit file.
Our investigator didnt uphold Miss Ds complaint. She said it was unlikely the transactions 
had been made by a fraudster, and concluded Miss D had authorised the transactions 
herself. She said Miss Ds testimony had been inconsistent and that there was no 
explanation as to how a fraudster could have got hold of Miss Ds card or her PIN.
She also said that, on balance, it was likely that Miss D had paid the £18,259.38 cheque in 
herself, or gave someone authority to do so. So she felt Santander had acted reasonably in 
applying a CIFAS marker and didnt think it would be fair to ask Santander to remove it. 
Finally, she felt Santander had done enough by awarding Miss D £60 in respect of the poor 
service shed received.
Miss D remained unhappy. She said there was no CCTV evidence catching her in the act, so 
asked for an ombudsman to review the matter afresh. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In her view, our investigator made a number of important points. She noted Miss Ds 
physical card and PIN had been used, and that Miss D said only she knew the PIN, and that 
she hadnt written it down anywhere. She also said that her physical card was in her 
wardrobe, i.e. that it hadnt been stolen by an unknown party.
Our investigator also noted that there were a number of logins to Miss Ds online banking 
while the disputed transactions were ongoing, and that Miss D hadnt reported the 
transactions to the bank at that time, despite the fact that she would have seen them when 
she logged into her online account.
And our investigator noted that the pattern of spending didnt match that of a likely fraudster: 
the transactions were spaced apart over several days and weeks, and there was no attempt 
to quickly maximise the fraud before being discovered.
With regard to the CIFAS marker, our investigator noted that the cheque for £18,259.38 had 
been paid in using Miss Ds physical card and PIN. Again, our investigator could find no 
evidence to show how Miss Ds card and PIN had been compromised. 
She also found that the cheque had been written out to Miss Ds full name, and yet only her 
first initial and surname appeared on the card. So even if a fraudster had got hold of Miss 
Ds card, there was no explanation as to how they could have guessed Miss Ds full name.
Finally, our investigator said it wouldnt make sense for a fraudster to pay money into Miss 
Ds account without being able to access those funds subsequently. And she noted Miss D 
had logged into her online banking several times the day after the cheque had been paid in.
In order to uphold Miss Ds complaint, I would need to be persuaded that she didnt 
authorise the transactions, and that she knew nothing of the inbound cheque.
In response to our investigators findings, Miss D offered no explanation as to how her card 
or PIN might have been compromised. She didnt seek to explain how her online banking 
details could have been compromised, nor did she offer an explanation as to how a fraudster 
might have obtained her full name in order to pay in the cheque. She simply said she wanted 
to see hard evidence and asked for CCTV footage showing her withdrawing money or 
paying in the cheque.
Ive thought about everything both Santander and Miss D have said, and Ive considered all 
of the evidence both parties have provided our service with. Having done so, I wont be 
upholding Miss Ds complaint. 
In order for the transactions to be made, Miss Ds card and PIN had to be used. But theres 
no evidence to support how anyone could have obtained Miss Ds card and PIN, without her 
authority. Which suggests the transactions were carried out by Miss D, or by someone with 
her permission.
If CCTV footage were available, it wouldnt help Miss Ds case. If it were to show another 
person carrying out the transactions, that wouldnt demonstrate that person did so without 
Miss Ds authority. And I havent seen sufficient evidence to persuade me on the balance of 
probabilities that a third party could have obtained Miss Ds card and PIN, without her 
consent.
With regard to the CIFAS marker, the same rationale applies. The evidence Ive seen shows 
that Miss Ds card and PIN were used to pay the cheque in, and that her full name was 
written on the cheque. And Ive seen nothing to persuade me that all of those details could 
have been obtained by a third party, without Miss Ds consent. So I cant reasonably say 
Santander acted unfairly in registering a CIFAS marker against Miss D. I agree with our investigator that the pattern doesnt fit the behaviour of a fraudster. There 
are many small transactions spread over several weeks, whereas a fraudster would 
ordinarily seek to max out a card before getting caught, or the card being stopped. And it 
seems unlikely that a fraudster would pay a cheque into Miss Ds account, with no way of 
accessing the funds. And Ive seen no compelling evidence to show how the details needed 
to access those funds could have been compromised.
In summary, the evidence Ive seen suggests its more likely than not that Miss D authorised 
the transactions she disputes, including the cheque she paid in. She was the only person 
who knew her PIN and she regularly logged into her online banking, including the day after 
the cheque was paid in, which suggests she was aware of the activity on her account. Miss 
D has offered no explanation as to how her PIN , name and card could have been obtained 
by a fraudster, despite the clear comments our investigator made in her view.
With regard to the service Miss D received, she says she had difficulty obtaining her funds 
once her account had been closed. I note that Santander offered Miss D £60 to compensate 
her for the distress and inconvenience this caused, and Im satisfied Santander have done 
enough to put matters right for Miss D by offering the payment of £60.
At this point, I would like to acknowledge that Miss D has put forward a large volume of 
submissions in support of her complaint. Ive read these carefully, but Ive only commented 
on them in this decision insofar as I consider them relevant to the outcome of this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 December 2021.
 
Alex Brooke-Smith
Ombudsman