DRN-3384726
The complaint
Mr Ws complaint is about an early repayment charge (ERC) that was charged when the 
mortgage he and his ex-wife held with Santander was paid off in 2021.
What happened
Mr W and his ex-wife had a joint mortgage with Santander. They attached an interest rate 
product to the mortgage in 2017 which was due to end in August 2022. If the mortgage was 
repaid (fully or in part) before the end of the product term, an ERC of 5% applied. 
Mr W has told us that in early 2020 his ex-wife was furloughed and couldnt afford to pay the 
mortgage, as she was required to as part of the divorce settlement. Santander agreed a 
payment holiday on the account for six months and Mr W took over making the mortgage 
payments from that point onward. 
However, this was financially difficult for Mr W, so he and his ex-wife decided to sell the 
property to avoid going into arrears. Mr W asked Santander to waive the ERC. Santander 
considered Mr Ws situation, but didnt agree to waive the ERC.
Mr W complained to this service. He said hed been a loyal customer of Santander over 
many years. He explained that he would need as much of the equity released as possible to 
be able to rent a suitable property in the same area for him and his children to live in. Mr W 
also said that as the interest rate product was in its last year, he felt the ERC was 
disproportionate given the amount of payments due during the remainder of that term.
Mr W hadnt complained to Santander about its decision, so we forwarded the complaint to 
Santander for it to respond to. It did so, but it didnt uphold the complaint. Santander 
explained why it charged an ERC and maintained its previous decision. It suggested that 
Mr W speak to its financial support team as hed said he was having difficulty maintaining the 
mortgage payments.
The mortgage was repaid in June 2021 and an ERC of over £18,000 was charged by 
Santander.
Mr W remained dissatisfied with Santanders decision and again asked us to consider the 
complaint. One of our investigators did so, but he didnt recommend that it be upheld. He 
was satisfied that the ERC was applied fairly and in line with the mortgage terms and 
conditions. 
Mr W didnt agree with the investigators conclusions. In response, he said he considered 
that the interest rate product should have ended in May 2022, not August 2022, as it was a 
five-year fixed rate applied to the mortgage in May 2017. As such, if he had sold the house 
when he did, and kept the mortgage going for another ten months (totalling just over £6,000 
in payments), he wouldnt have had to pay an ERC at all and wouldnt have lost out 
financially. Mr W put forward that Santander was only due the monthly payments over the 
remaining term of the product, not the amount of the ERC, and wanted the difference repaid.
Our investigator responded to Mr Ws further comments and explained that this wasnt how 
mortgages and ERCs worked. He highlighted that the costs the lender incurs arent based 
on how much the borrower will pay over the remaining term of the product and Santander 
hadnt overcharged the ERC.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The ERC was clearly documented in the mortgage offer that was sent to Mr W and his 
ex-wife before the product was attached to the mortgage. They accepted that offer and the 
ERC that was associated with it, even if they thought, at the time, it was unlikely they would 
have to incur it. As such, in charging the ERC when the mortgage was paid off before the 
end of the product term, it was simply applying the mortgage conditions that Mr W and his 
ex-wife agreed to.
Mr W believes the amount of the ERC is unfair. I would explain that in order to be able to 
lend to consumers, lenders will borrow money themselves. As with loans made to the 
lenders customers, there are costs associated with borrowing that money. When the lender 
decides the format of the loans its going to use a tranche of money for, it has to include an 
assessment of the potential risks associated with doing so. Included in those risks is that 
some customers may repay their borrowing early. When that happens some of the money 
expected to be received by the lender will not be, but the lender remains liable for its own 
cost of borrowing the money. In addition, if the lender repays its borrowing early, there may 
be costs associated with that too. These costs can be quite significant.
In light of this, lenders are allowed by the regulator to charge ERCs to cover the costs to it of 
consumers repaying borrowing early. This can be done on an individual mortgage basis, but 
is more commonly calculated for a tranche of money or group of mortgages (of a similar 
type) and based on a proportion being repaid early. This calculation will be based on the 
lenders experience of the likelihood of early repayment and assessment of future conditions. 
The regulations allow a lender to calculate ERCs in this way. It also fulfils the lenders 
requirement that a consumer is told in advance of taking the mortgage what the ERC will be 
and is given an example of it in monetary terms. 
Mr W consider the ERC was disproportionate because it was for more than the amount that 
would have been paid to Santander over the remaining term of the interest rate product. As I 
have explained above there are many factors that are taken into account when an ERC is 
calculated. Under the rules, provided the charge is a reasonable pre-estimate of the loss 
suffered by Santander if the mortgage is paid early, it can make the charge. I have seen the 
evidence of the calculations; although it cant be made publicly available as its commercially 
sensitive and confidential, I am satisfied the amount charged in this case was a reasonable 
pre-estimate of loss. I dont think all or part of the charge should be refunded.
Mr W asked Santander to waive the ERC, given his circumstances at the time and those that 
he would experience going forward. It declined to do so, but offered to look into what else it 
could do to assist him through the period of financial difficulties. I have considered Mr Ws 
explanation of why he wants the ERC waived. I can understand that he would have 
appreciated receiving as much from the sale of the property as possible, given the expenses 
he was anticipating going forward, but I cant find that this means that Santander shouldnt 
have applied the ERC when his property was sold. Santander was entitled to apply the ERC 
under the mortgage conditions and I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable of it to do so.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr W to accept or reject my decision before 
28 April 2022.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman