DRN-4506507
The complaint
Mr A complains about the advice he was given by Montfort International Limited to transfer 
the benefits he held in a defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a self-
invested personal pension (SIPP). He believes the advice was unsuitable and has caused 
him a financial loss.
What happened
Mr A, along with his wife, first got in touch with Montfort in 2008. They were in the process of 
emigrating to Australia, and it appears the company that handled their visa applications 
recommended Montfort to them to provide financial advice connected to this move. 
In May 2008, Montfort completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr As 
circumstances. This recorded that he was 37, married with one dependent child and another 
due approximately seven months later. Mr A worked full time, earning a salary of 
approximately £29,000 per year, as well as also working in a separate role on a self-
employed basis, earning an additional income. Mr A was recorded as having small savings 
of approximately £600 and no significant assets or liabilities.
Montfort noted that Mr and Mrs A had made the decision to emigrate several years earlier, in 
around 2005. The different climate and lifestyle, as well as affordability, were noted as the 
reasons theyd decided to move. It was noted that Mr A had a sibling already living in 
Australia and, when he and Mrs A moved, his parents intended to potentially spend 
extended periods there as well, visiting them. At the time, Mr and Mrs As intention was to 
emigrate permanently, renting a house initially but Montfort noted they hoped to buy a 
property within twelve months. 
Mr A had a DB pension which had a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) at the time of 
the fact find of £61,751.18. 
Montfort also asked Mr A to indicate his attitude to investment risk based on a list of six 
different profiles. It recorded that Mr A felt he had a cautious to medium attitude to risk. 
On 29 May 2008, Mr and Mrs A signed a client agreement with Montfort, confirming they 
wanted it to produce a Personal Migration Financial Plan on their behalf. This set out the fee 
for that service and noted this included implementing the plan. But Montfort would also 
receive fees for any financial restructuring that took place as a result of implementing the 
plan, including transferring any pension benefits to an Australian Superannuation (AS) 
scheme. Authority was also provided for Montfort to gather relevant information from Mr As 
existing financial providers.
Montfort has explained that the Personal Migration Plan was provided in three stages. 
Stage one was a package of helpful information, which Montfort has described as an 
education programme to assist with planning Mr and Mrs As move. This included 
information about the Australian tax system, and how this would be applied to their assets if 
they remained UK residents or became Australian residents. The notes indicate this was 
shared with Mr and Mrs A during their first meeting with Montfort.
Montfort also introduced Mr and Mrs A to an independent financial adviser (IFA) in 
Australia, to provide any financial advice they required once there.
Stage two, which was issued in July 2008, was a summary of Montforts understanding of 
their circumstances and objectives, including information gathered from existing financial 
providers. 
On 21 July 2008, Montfort produced a transfer value analysis (TVAS) report for Mr As DB 
pension based on the CETV of £61,751.18.
Stage three of the personal migration plan was then provided to Mr and Mrs A on 
25 July 2008. This was a report of Montforts preliminary advice and recommendations. It 
said if Mr and Mrs A were remaining in the UK, it would not recommend that they transfer out 
of their DB schemes. However, based on the assumption that they were emigrating to 
Australia permanently, Montforts advice was that once Mr and Mrs A had ceased 
employment in the UK, it would recommend that they transfer out of their DB schemes to a 
complying AS scheme, but possibly initially via a UK-based SIPP. Montfort said that the 
advice as to which AS scheme the funds should be transferred to would be provided by their 
Australian IFA.
There were some addendums issued to the recommendations in the weeks that followed as 
circumstances changed - most notably about whether Mr and Mrs A intended to retain 
ownership of their UK property  which the fact find noted was in Mrs As name. There was 
also an illustration provided, on 26 August 2008, indicating what the DB pensions could be 
worth after they were transferred to Australia, based on assumptions about the exchange 
rate and investment returns. For Mr A, this was an updated version of the illustration set out 
in the stage three report. This version assumed a retirement age of 60 rather than age 55.
On 4 September 2008, Montfort wrote to Mr and Mrs A to provide some additional 
information about SIPPs. It said it couldnt make a firm recommendation at that stage as it 
needed to carry out further analysis. But it noted an advantage of transferring their pension 
funds to a SIPP, before transferring to a pension scheme in Australia, was that they could 
convert their holdings in the SIPP when the currency exchange rate was preferable.
Mr and Mrs A moved to Australia as planned at the end of May 2009.
By this time the CETV of Mr As pension had expired so new valuation was required. This 
was obtained from the trustees of the DB scheme at the start of June 2009, and the CETV 
increased to £86,477.54. A further TVAS was carried out in light of the revised CETV. 
On 11 June 2009, Montfort issued a letter summarising the reasons for its recommendation 
in relation to Mr As pension.
Montfort said it recommended Mr As pension benefits be transferred to Australia, but before 
that said they should be moved into a SIPP. It said the SIPP it recommended allowed the 
holdings to be converted into Australian Dollars (AUD), meaning there would be no 
exchange rate fluctuations impacting the onward move to an Australian pension. It said it 
recommended the funds be transferred to Australia because, following emigration, Mr A 
would become a tax resident there.
It noted Australias tax rules were different to that of the UK, and in relation to pensions, tax 
was largely levied before retirement, as opposed to on income drawn in retirement. Montfort said this had implications for benefits left behind and once transferred funds would be 
considered tax-paid and Mr A could draw these at retirement, tax-free. The letter noted:
You need to be aware that if you transfer your funds to Australia, and subsequently decide 
to return to the UK, it is very difficult to transfer your funds back as this can only be done 
under certain circumstances. It also noted, If you were remaining in the UK, we would not 
be recommending a transfer for any of the schemes, but it is the fact that you are migrating 
permanently to Australia that has resulted in our end recommendation to transfer.
The recommendation letter went on to note the main drawback of transferring away from the 
DB scheme was that Mr A would be losing guaranteed benefits. And it explained that the 
TVAS had been carried out to demonstrate the value of the benefits being lost. But Montfort 
noted that the TVAS didnt take account of Australian tax charges, relevant to Mr As specific 
circumstances, so was not strictly accurate.
Montfort recommended a UK-based SIPP provider. And, although Mr A had a cautious to 
medium attitude to risk and wanted to benefit from long term investment growth, Montfort 
recommended that the funds should not be invested initially and should instead be held in 
cash. This was because the SIPP was only intended as a short-term home for the funds 
before onward transfer to Australia. And it said the Australian IFA would advise on the most 
suitable receiving pension, as Montfort could not give Australian-based advice.
Mr As DB scheme benefits were transferred to a SIPP in line with Montforts 
recommendation in August 2009.
Mr and Mrs A indicated that they wanted to wait for the exchange rate to improve before 
moving the SIPP funds into Australian dollars and making an onwards transfer to an AS 
scheme. So, Mr As funds remained in the UK-based SIPP. Correspondence between 
Mr and Mrs A and Montfort continued, including about potentially converting funds to AUD 
and investing Mr As funds in the interim.
In 2010, Mrs A raised a number of concerns about the SIPP charges and the impact this had 
made on the value of Mr As pension while the funds were not benefiting from investment 
growth in the SIPP. And in 2011, Mr and Mrs A terminated their ongoing advisor relationship 
with Montfort.
Mr As SIPP was not exchanged to AUD or transferred on to an AS scheme.
Mr A complained to Montfort in 2021 about the suitability of the advice hed received. 
Montfort responded, saying it thought the advice it had given was suitable. It said this had 
been given on the understanding Mr A was permanently emigrating to Australia and so the 
tax implications of doing so made moving his pension benefits appropriate. And upon death, 
the remaining funds in an Australian pension would all transfer to Mr As beneficiaries, rather 
than Mrs A just receiving a spouses pension. Montfort added that direct transfers from DB 
schemes to overseas pension schemes were notoriously lengthy, so transferring the funds to 
a SIPP first helped address this while also providing control over the exchange rate used.
Mr A asked the Financial Ombudsman Service to consider the complaint. He said that he 
and Mrs A had returned to the UK in 2012 and Montfort had not assessed the likelihood of 
the move not being permanent or discussed the risks of this. He also didnt think Montfort 
had analysed the likelihood of achieving the returns required to address the impact of giving 
up the guaranteed benefits. 
One of our Investigators considered the complaint. He thought it should be upheld and that 
Montfort should compensate Mr A for any loss the DB transfer had led to. He said Mr A didnt have a need for alternative death benefits at the time, and although he might have 
been interested in potential pension growth, he thought it was unlikely that hed be able to 
achieve the level needed to exceed the benefits the DB scheme already guaranteed. And he 
noted that Montfort had said in its recommendation that it wouldnt have recommended a 
transfer if Mr A intended to return to the UK.
The Investigator acknowledged that the main reason for the advice seems to have been the 
taxation treatment of the pension after Mr A emigrated. But he didnt think this necessarily 
meant a transfer was in Mr As best interests  as it meant he was giving up a guaranteed 
escalating benefit and exposing his pension to risk. He also didnt think, even though Mr A 
had indicated he intended to permanently emigrate, that a decision about a pension transfer 
needed to be made at that time  particularly considering how far away from retiring he was. 
So, he didnt think the advice given was in Mr As best interests.
Montfort disagreed. It felt the Investigator hadnt appropriately considered Mr As 
circumstances  that his plan at the time was to emigrate and this was expected to be 
permanent. And therefore, the tax treatment of the pension was vital and could not be 
disregarded, so transferring the pension was suitable. Montfort believed that the Investigator 
had not understood the tax implications of leaving the pensions in the UK and drawing 
benefits from them at retirement. It added that it had devised an alternative method of 
assessing the financial viability of the transfer, which it had done with the regulators 
knowledge and encouragement. So, it had also conducted a financial viability assessment 
from an Australian perspective, by taking the critical yields and building in the tax 
consequences. Montfort maintained Mr A would be better off by transferring his DB pension 
to an AS scheme and it was entitled to accept what Mr and Mrs A had told it about their 
move being permanent.
The Investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
I requested some additional information from each side in order to reach a decision.
I then issued a provisional decision upholding the complaint. I didnt think the advice Mr A 
received to transfer out of his DB scheme to a SIPP was suitable, so I recommended that 
Mr A should be compensated on the basis that he had remained in his DB scheme and set 
out how Montfort should calculate this. I also thought Montfort should pay Mr A £750 for the 
significant distress and inconvenience its advice had caused him.
Mr A largely accepted my provisional decision, although he felt the £750 I had awarded him 
for the distress and inconvenience caused by the unsuitable advice was too low.
Mr A said that Montfort had purposefully and deliberately delayed and not submitted 
information they were legally required to submit from the outset of the Financial Ombudsman 
Services investigation, for example, the stage three report. He said the amount of money he 
had spent on legal fees was hugely significant, and Montfort not supplying all the information 
at the outset had caused this, as it had delayed the complaint resolution at the Ombudsman 
stage.
Mr A said that in addition to the legal fees he had already incurred, hed had to vacate his 
court date to finalise his divorce and refile, which would result in around another six-month 
wait. Mr A said he and Mrs A had not been able to market their house for sale as they had 
not been able to progress critical areas of the divorce financials. Mr A added that their 
mortgage was increasing by almost £2k per month (interest only) from 1st December and 
they were going to have pay this whilst they waited for a further court date. Mr A felt that he 
and Mrs A each should receive compensation of £5,000, which would still nowhere near cover the legal costs already incurred and will continue to be incurred in addition to the 
incremental mortgage charges.
Montfort responded at length to my provisional decision, which I have summarised below.
Montfort provided copies of emails between it and Mr and Mrs A from 2008 to 2010. It said 
they showed Mr and Mrs A were very clear that they intended to emigrate permanently and 
that Montfort had checked in at appropriate points to ensure that was still the case. It 
maintains it was fair for it to accept what Mr and Mrs A said about their move being 
permanent and it would not have recommended they transfer their pensions if they were 
intending to return to the UK. Mr and Mrs A were fully aware of the consequences of 
transferring.
Montfort said I had referred to it advising Mr and Mrs A to put off transferring their pensions 
until they were settled, but I had not offered any definition of settled. 
Montfort also said there were serious technical discrepancies and interpretations in the 
provisional decision surrounding the tax understanding. It said there was no reference to the 
means test and how this would impact Mr As entitlement to the Age pension in Australia. It 
also said that said Australia did not treat DB or DC schemes differently for tax purposes; a 
DB scheme is simply considered to be a non-complying foreign superannuation fund. It said 
that when a foreign pension is transferred to an AS scheme it is treated as a contribution and 
income tax must be paid on the part of a foreign transfer that is applicable fund earnings. 
Montfort referred me to an Australian Tax Office (ATO) webpage1, which stated:   
The applicable fund earnings are the earnings on your foreign super interest that have 
accrued since you became an Australian resident for tax purposes. 'Super interest' is any  
amount, benefit or entitlement a member holds in a fund.
Montfort explained that when considering a DB scheme such as the scheme Mr A held 
deferred benefits in, the super interest would represent the difference between the CETV 
on the date of arrival in Australia and the future value of the benefits on the date they were 
transferred to Australia. So, my view that Mr A would not accrue a tax liability on the value of 
his DB scheme benefits if he left them intact in the UK until a later date, was not accurate.
Montfort said that expert opinion on the tax issues ought to have been obtained before 
I made my provisional decision and it was not for Montfort to educate the Ombudsman 
Service on this issue.
Montfort added that I hadnt given adequate consideration to the currency risk if Mr A had 
remained in his DB scheme and the impact of the exchange rate plummeting. It also 
disputed that death benefits were not important to Mr A.
Lastly Montfort considered that Mr As complaint had been made too late. It said that Mr A 
was aware he was giving up guarantees associated with his DB scheme when he was given 
the advice by Montfort. And that upon Mr As return to the UK, he ought to have considered 
whether the advice to transfer out of his DB scheme was right for him. This was more than 
three years before he complained.
Given the number of issues that had been raised since my provisional decision by both 
sides, I issued a further provisional decision on 17 November 2023. Although I made some 
different findings in respect of the tax burdens facing Mr A if he left his DB scheme intact 
1 https://www.ato.gov.au/individuals/super/foreign-super-funds/transfer-from-a-foreign-super-fund-to-
an-australian-super-fund/ until a later date, I maintained that the complaint should be upheld for largely the same 
reasons.
Mr A accepted my findings.
Montfort didnt accept my provisional decision and made the following points:
It maintained Mr A had awareness of his cause for complaint from the date of the 
advice because of the extensive education programme he went through about the 
differences between the Australian and UK pensions and tax systems.
Mr and Mrs A had actually started looking into the pension advice they received in 
2019  Mrs A had requested sight of the stage one, two and three reports in 
August 2019. This should cast doubt on Mr and Mrs As testimony about when they 
became aware of their cause for complaint.
Mr A could have complained when he decided not to exchange his SIPP funds for 
AUD because of the exchange rate falling.
Montfort provided a holistic migration plan to Mr A, not just retirement planning, and it 
was unreasonable to focus only on the pensions advice.
Montfort sets high standards when dealing with customers such as Mr A, but his case 
has not been judged in accordance with those standards. 
I had incorrectly referred to Mr As DB scheme when I should be referring to it as a 
foreign superannuation fund.
It checked Mr and Mrs As intentions as to the permanence of their emigration at 
stage three and not enough consideration had been given to this. It couldnt have 
done more to check their intentions.
The fact Mr As sibling was already in Australia and that his parents were intending to 
make frequent visits made the permanence of their emigration more likely. Montfort 
did not consider Mr and Mrs A at high risk of returning to the UK and the fact Mrs A 
chose to move her pension to Australia demonstrates their commitment to the move.
Montfort maintains that I had misinterpreted the reason for the recommendation of 
life cover. Mr and Mrs A said that the only reason they would return to the UK was if 
one of them were to die prematurely, so this was why bridging life cover was 
recommended.
In the provisional decision I said that I had considered all of Mr As options but there 
were many other factors that had an impact on transferring his pension including 
death, failing health, divorce and currency exchange movements.
It said I hadnt been clear about what taxes I was referring to when I talked about the 
level of investment growth required in the AS scheme before the deduction of taxes 
to replicate Mr As DB scheme benefits.
It maintained that the means test effectively reduced any pension Mr A took from his 
DB scheme by 50%.
It is clear and obvious that Mr A wouldve been better off if hed moved his pension to 
Australia and remained there.
Montfort added that I hadnt factored in Mr As entitlement to his UK state pension or 
Australian Age pension, all of which were taxable and subject to the means test. 
I had not given adequate consideration to the currency exchange rate risk of waiting 
to transfer the pension benefits.
Montfort refutes that any distress had been caused and says it provided all evidence 
and documents requested of it. It provided Mr and Mrs A with copies of the reports 
they requested and responded to their complaint promptly.
As Ive now received both parties responses to my provisional decision, Im now making my 
final decision.What Ive decided  and why
Jurisdiction
Montfort maintains that Mr A made his complaint to it outside of the relevant time limits. So, 
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments in order to decide whether we 
can consider Mr As complaint. 
The rules I must follow in determining whether we can consider this complaint are set out in 
the Dispute Resolution (DISP) rules, published as part of the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
(FCA) Handbook. DISP 2.8.2R says that, where a business doesnt consent (as Montfort 
doesnt here), I cant consider a complaint made more than six years after the event 
complained of, or if later, more than three years after the complainant was aware, or ought 
reasonably to have become aware, of their cause for complaint.
Montfort says that Mr As complaint was raised outside of these time limits. Montfort received 
Mr and Mrs As complaint by email on 11 June 2021 but believes that they ought reasonably 
to have questioned whether the advice was suitable for them when they relocated back to 
the UK, which it believes was in 2012/2013. So, Montfort believes that Mr and Mrs A ought 
reasonably to have complained by 2015/2016. Thats particularly the case given the 
education programme Montfort says it took Mr and Mrs A through, during which Montfort 
says they were made fully aware of the differences between the UK and Australian systems. 
In Mr As case in particular, Montfort questions why he didnt complain in 2010/2011 when 
he decided not to exchange his funds for AUD because the exchange rate was falling. 
Overall, Montfort believes that Mr and Mrs A ought reasonably to have complained by 
2015/2016. 
When Mr and Mrs A first referred their complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service, the 
Investigator asked them what had prompted them to complain now, given the advice was in 
2008/2009. Mrs A explained that when Mr A had turned 50 (in December 2020) hed started 
to think about his retirement plans, particularly as hed been in quite poor health. At that 
point, Mrs A said he realised his current pension wasnt worth anywhere near what his 
previous pension was worth, given the guaranteed pension he was entitled to. Mrs A has 
since added that Mr A had been suffering with his health since April 2020, and that he 
started looking into his pension arrangements to see whether this could potentially support 
him with his income needs. They had initially believed that Mr A couldve accessed his DB 
scheme from age 50.
Having considered this testimony carefully Im persuaded that this was the first time Mr and 
Mrs A realised that something might not have been right with the advice they received. 
Mrs A said she returned to the UK with her children in November 2012 and Mr A followed in 
early 2013. But I dont think that relocating to the UK ought reasonably to have led them to 
question the pension advice they received. At that point, Mrs A was 40 years old and Mr A 
was 43; they say that they were not thinking about their pension arrangements, given their 
retirement some way off in the future. And I dont think that position was unreasonable.
I also havent seen anything to persuade me that Mr and Mrs A wouldve received any 
documentation between then and when they started to look into things in 2020 that wouldve 
given them cause to question the advice. For example, I havent seen any statements they 
received that wouldve allowed them to easily compare the benefits theyd be entitled to 
through their new arrangements and the guaranteed benefits provided by the previous DB 
schemes, that wouldve led them to question whether the advice was right for them.
Montforts advice stated that it was recommending Mr and Mrs A transfer their pensions to a 
SIPP and onwards to an AS scheme on the basis that theyd be better off financially.Mrs As AS scheme statements simply provided a fund value in AUD. So, this wouldve been 
difficult for her to compare it with her original DB benefits. Montfort says Mrs A couldve 
simply converted the value to British Pounds (GBP). But I still dont think that wouldve 
allowed her to make a comparison with the annual pension shed be able to take from her 
DB scheme at retirement because she wouldnt be aware of or be able to predict what 
annuity she could buy with her fund. Furthermore, Montforts advice was based on Mrs A 
leaving her funds invested to age 60, so it was also difficult for her to establish whether her 
funds were performing in line with the expectations Montfort gave her at that stage. 
Although Mr A initially wasnt achieving growth on his pension because it remained in cash 
until such time it was going to be transferred to Australia, once it was invested, the value 
increased. Similarly, Montforts advice was based on Mr A transferring his funds to Australia 
and leaving them invested until age 60. So, it was also difficult for him to know whether his 
pension was growing in line with the expectations Montfort gave him, as his pension funds 
remained in the UK, whereas Montforts projections were based on AUD at age 60. And for 
the same reasons as above, knowing the fund value wouldnt have allowed Mr A to make a 
comparison with the annual pension hed be able to take from his DB scheme at retirement.
So, at the point Mr and Mrs A returned to the UK, their pension plans were intended to 
remain invested for at least another 15-20 years, meaning theyd be expecting further growth 
in line with Montforts projections. For this reason, I dont think theyd have been in a position 
to otherwise establish whether the advice was right for them until they started looking into 
things more forensically in 2020.
Its clear that in 2020 things changed. Mr As retirement in particular was less certain; he 
may have needed to access his pension early due to his health. So, I think it was only at that 
stage did he have reason to look into things in more detail, and make comparisons with the 
DB scheme hed been advised to transfer out of. I also think he came to realise how valuable 
the guarantees were, in light of his health. With all of this in mind, I dont think either Mr A or 
Mrs A were in an informed position to question whether the advice was suitable for them, 
before December 2020.
Mrs A also adds that during the moves between the UK to Australia then back to the UK they 
realised they had lost Montforts reports. So, they asked for copies in 2021 and complained 
soon after.
Ive considered Montforts point that Mr and Mrs A started looking into their pension 
arrangements earlier than this, as Mrs A had asked for copies of Montforts reports in 
August 2019. But even if Mr and Mrs A had access to the reports from August 2019, Im still 
persuaded that the catalyst for them looking into their pension arrangements in more detail 
was Mr As health deteriorating in 2020. And even if I think they ought reasonably to have 
looked into their pension arrangements more closely on receipt of the reports in 
August 2019, I still think they complained within three years of this date. This is because 
they complained to Montfort in June 2021, around two years later. So, as Mr A complained 
within three years of August 2019 and December 2020, Im satisfied he made his complaint 
in time.
For completeness, I also dont think Mr A had reason to complain about the advice in 
2010/2011 when he decided not to exchange his funds for AUD. While I appreciate he was 
concerned about the exchange rate decreasing, Montfort had advised Mr A to transfer his 
funds to a SIPP so he could manage at which point in time he exchanged his funds for AUD. 
So I think the exchange rate fluctuating was anticipated and accounted for in the advice Mr A 
received. So, I remain of the view that Mr A did not have grounds to complain about the 
advice before August 2019.Merits of the complaint
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im still upholding it in line with the findings I made in my second provisional 
decision. So, Ive set those findings out again below.
Both sides have provided a large amount of information to us in connection with this 
complaint. Please be assured that Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill 
concentrate my comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its 
not because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it, but because I dont think I need 
to comment on it to reach my decision.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Montfort's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Montfort says that I havent taken into account Australian tax rules and regulations when 
making my decision. But in reaching this decision I have taken Australian tax rules into 
account, where relevant, as set out below. 
I agree with Montfort that it was important for it to take into account all of Mr As material 
circumstances and objectives when giving the advice. And it is evident that the advice was 
sought from Montfort because Mr and Mrs A had decided to emigrate to Australia. So, they 
needed to know how this move affected their finances, including their existing pension 
arrangements. As such, the advice had to be given with this key fact in mind.
Nevertheless, the FCA states in COBS 19.1.6G that the starting assumption for a transfer 
from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Montfort should have only considered a 
transfer out of Mr As DB scheme to be suitable if it could clearly demonstrate that it was in 
his best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available and considered Mr As 
circumstances overall, Im not satisfied it was in his best interests.Mr A was aged 38 at the time of the advice and told Montfort that his intention was to 
emigrate permanently to Australia. He had a DB pension, which represented all of his 
retirement provisions at the time. I acknowledge that in Australian terms, a DB pension is 
described as a foreign superannuation fund, but for ease of reading, I will continue to refer to 
the pension as a DB pension scheme.
I also acknowledge that the pensions advice Montfort gave was part of a holistic migration 
plan covering all aspects of Mr and Mrs As proposed move to Australia. As Mr A has only 
complained about the pension advice he received, Ive only considered this aspect of the 
advice, although in doing so I have had regard to the wider context in which this pension 
advice was provided.
In my view, Montfort had to consider whether transferring Mr As DB pension to Australia 
was clearly in his best interests. And in doing so, I think Montfort had to weigh up this option, 
against Mr As other options. So, Ive thought about the options Montfort ought to have 
considered when delivering its advice to Mr A.
Montfort considered whether Mr A should leave his DB scheme in the UK and withdraw 
benefits from it directly in Australia. However, it determined that this was not suitable for 
Mr A. Instead, it recommended that Mr A should transfer his DB scheme to an AS scheme, 
via a UK SIPP. The intention behind the initial transfer to a SIPP was so that Mr A could 
exchange his funds for AUD at a time when the currency exchange rate was favourable. 
In order to consider whether this advice was suitable, Ive first considered the financial 
viability of the transfer. In accordance with the regulators requirements, Montfort carried out 
a TVAS showing how much Mr As pension fund would need to grow by each year in order 
to be able to provide the same benefits as his DB scheme (the critical yield).
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case. 
The first TVAS is dated 21 July 2008 and it is these figures which are referred to in the stage 
three report. The TVAS was based on a CETV of £61,751.18. It said the scheme normal 
retirement age (NRA) was 55 and that Mr A could expect a full pension of £10,717 per year. 
The critical yield required to match Mr As DB scheme benefits at age 55 was 11.5% if he 
took a full pension and 10.9% if he took tax-free cash (TFC) and a reduced pension.
However, when the time came for Montfort to finalise its recommendation to Mr A following 
his migration to Australia in May 2009, his CETV had expired. So a new one was sought and 
this prompted a further TVAS to be completed. This TVAS, from June 2009, used a CETV of 
£86,477.53. But it said the scheme NRA was age 60 and that Mr A would be entitled to a full 
pension of £12,937 per year. The critical yield required to match Mr As DB scheme benefits 
at age 60 was 8.55% if he took a full pension.
These critical yield rates compare with the discount rate of 7% per year for 16 years to 
retirement at age 55 and 7.2% for 21 years to retirement at age 60. For further comparison, 
the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 9%, the middle projection rate 7%, and 
the lower projection rate 5%. I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr As 
cautious to medium attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. There would be little 
point in Mr A giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB scheme only to 
achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. But here, the lowest critical 
yield was 8.55%, which was more than both the discount rate and the middle projection rate. 
So, if Mr A transferred his benefits out of the DB scheme into a SIPP, which was the advice 
he was given, I think he was likely to receive benefits of a substantially lower overall value 
than the DB scheme at retirement, as a result of investing in line with that attitude to risk.
Im mindful, however, that the intention behind the recommendation to transfer out of the 
DB scheme to a SIPP was so that Mr A could then transfer his pension benefits to an 
AS scheme. So, the figures Ive quoted here dont tell the full story as they dont compare the 
benefits Mr A was entitled to through his DB scheme, with the AS scheme pension he could 
achieve. And Montfort said as much in the stage three report  it explained that it had to 
carry out a TVAS but the figures produced were not accurate because, they do not take 
account of Australian tax charges and the consequences of not transferring.
Nevertheless, Montfort has also said that it did carry out a financial viability assessment from 
an Australian perspective, by taking the critical yields and building in the tax consequences. 
It says that it was encouraged to formulate a different approach by the regulator following a 
meetings in 2008 and 2009. I dont know what Montfort discussed with the regulator over 13 
years ago, but I dont think it matters for my decision. I have already acknowledged that the 
TVAS undertaken by Montfort didnt show the full picture, so Ive considered what additional 
comparisons Montfort made.
I can see that in the stage three report Montfort set out an illustration of the benefits that 
might be payable from an AS scheme at age 55. In the absence of any other analysis 
provided by Montfort, I have assumed that this is the Australian financial viability assessment 
that it says it carried out and Montfort hasnt disputed this. The figures assumed an 
exchange rate of $2.10 AUD = £1 and assumed a yield rate of 6.25%. It projected the 
following retirement income based on assumed growth net of all taxes and charges:
5% - $18,914.75 AUD per year
6% - $22,330.45 AUD per year
7% - $26,240.60 AUD per year
However, in August 2008 Montfort provided an updated version of the illustrated benefits, 
based on Mr A retiring at age 60 instead. It projected the following retirement income based 
on assumed growth net of all taxes and charges:
5% - $23,920.93 AUD per year
6% - $29,575.60 AUD per year
7% - $36,288.67 AUD per year
The stage three report stated:
The basic premise behind this recommendation is that you will be financially better off in 
your retirement by doing so. The tax implications of retaining your pension in the UK as an
Australian resident and the potential advantages of investing in the concessionally taxed
superannuation environment in Australia mean that this course of action will prove over the
long term to be the most beneficial.
But I dont think that this is necessarily clear from the analysis Montfort carried out. The FCA 
required Montfort to compare the benefits likely (on reasonable assumptions) to be paid under a defined benefits pension scheme with the benefits afforded by a personal pension 
scheme (COBS 19.1.2R). And under COBS 19.1.3R the FCA said, the comparison should:
1) take into account all of the retail client's relevant circumstances;
2) have regard to the benefits and options available under the ceding scheme and the 
effect of replacing them with the benefits and options under the proposed scheme; 
and
3)explain the assumptions on which it is based and the rates of return that would have 
to be achieved to replicate the benefits being given up. 
So, I dont think Montfort met its obligation under this rule as it didnt explain what rate of 
return Mr A would need to achieve to replicate his DB scheme benefits if he transferred them 
to an AS scheme. Instead, it told him what pension income he might be able to achieve if he 
achieved certain levels of growth net of tax and charges. So, it isnt clear what actual level of 
investment growth would be required before the deduction of tax and charges or whether 
that level of growth was actually achievable given Mr As attitude to risk.
Montfort has questioned what taxes I am referring to here, but I am simply reflecting the 
language used in the illustration it produced. Montfort set out the different levels of assumed 
growth  net of all taxes/charges in a table format. My point here is that Montfort hasnt set 
out the levels of assumed growth before taxes/charges are deducted. So, it doesnt show 
Mr A the complete picture of how much growth hed need to achieve to obtain the income 
Montfort projected in the illustration.
Based on the projected benefits set out in the updated illustration, even if Mr A achieved net 
growth of 5%, that would still only provide him with an approximate income of around 
£11,390.92 per year, using the AUD exchange rate Montfort gave. It isnt clear whether this 
was based on Mr A purchasing an annuity (with associated escalations and/or spouse 
benefits) or whether taken on a drawdown basis.
Whilst this sum would be payable to him tax-free (because in Australia tax is paid on pension 
contributions rather than on retirement income), this sum was less than the £12,937 per year 
the TVAS of June 2009 said Mr A would be entitled to draw directly from the scheme at age 
60. And as Ive said above, it isnt clear whether this income would increase in retirement or 
provide a spouses pension, whereas the income from Mr As DB scheme was guaranteed, 
increased each year and included a spouses pension on his death.
I accept that if Mr A drew his full DB pension directly from the scheme it would likely be 
subject to income tax at his marginal rate. However, because Australia has a double-taxation 
agreement with the UK, assuming Mr A was a permanent resident in Australia (which was 
his intention) then he would only pay income tax in Australia. Montfort has said that the 
pension would be effectively reduced by 50%. But in Montforts stage one report, it set out 
the following Australian income tax rates applicable until 30 June 2008:
0% on $0 - $6,000 AUD
15% on $6,001 - $30,000 AUD
30% on $30,001  $75,000 AUD
40% on $75,001 - $150,000 AUD
However, by the time this advice was given in June 2009 this had changed to:
0% on $0 - $6,000 AUD
15% on $6,001 - $34,000 AUD
30% on $34,001  $80,000 AUD40% on $80,001 - $180,000 AUD
At the time there was also an additional levy for Medicare at a rate of 1.5%.
So, based on what Ive seen, if Mr A took his annual pension directly from the DB scheme 
while in Australia, it wouldnt be reduced by 50%, it would be taxed at his marginal income 
tax rate in Australia.
I think its unlikely Mr A would be expecting to be earning more than $80,000 AUD in 
retirement, which would include any entitlement he had to the UK state pension and the 
Australian Age Pension. And given this was Mr As only pension at the time, its possible his 
total taxable income in retirement would stay within the lower tax band, particularly as the 
trend is generally for the upper limit of each tax bracket to increase over time to account for 
inflation. However, based on the tax brackets as they were at the time of the advice, if Mr A 
stayed within the 15% tax bracket, I dont think hes likely to have been able to exceed the 
pension he could take through his DB scheme if he achieved a net return of 5%. Though 
I accept he couldve exceeded his DB starting pension if returns were higher than this or if 
his total taxable income in retirement put him into a higher tax band.
So, based on this illustration alone Im not satisfied Montfort has shown that Mr A would 
most likely be better off in retirement, even allowing for the tax-free payment of pension 
benefits in Australia, if he transferred out of his DB scheme. Although Mr A couldve 
exceeded his starting DB scheme pension, that was dependent on net investment returns 
being consistently above 5% over the next 20 years. And I think that was far from certain.
Montfort says that I have not taken into account the effect of Mr A receiving this pension on 
the means test. In the stage one report, Montfort explained that the Australian state 
pension, called the Age Pension is means tested. The report further explained:
This is to ensure that Social Security benefits are only paid to people who really need them. 
The Age Pension is subject to an income test and an asset test, the test that relates to the 
lower rate of payment is the one that is applied.
Montfort says that if Mr A drew benefits directly from his DB scheme he would be unable to 
maximise his Age Pension (which he would be able to mitigate if the benefits were 
transferred to an AS scheme) and that it could have the effect of reducing his entitlement to 
it. It also says that this would have an impact on disability benefits. But I still dont think that 
was a good enough reason to recommend that Mr A transfer out of his DB scheme at that 
point. I dont think Montfort could say either way at the point it gave advice that it would have 
an impact on his entitlement to the Age Pension. And I dont think mitigating this risk 
outweighed the guaranteed pension he would be giving up if he transferred out of the DB 
scheme.
Notwithstanding what Ive said above, I also think that it was too soon for Mr A to make the 
decision to move his DB pension to Australia. Mr A was 38, and although his plan was to 
emigrate and remain in Australia permanently, that was still around 20 years away and his 
plans couldve changed. In my view, there was a significant risk that the move to Australia 
may have not proved successful, and transferring Mr As pension prematurely, before he 
was settled in Australia also came with disadvantages. Indeed, Montfort has been very clear 
that it would not have recommended that Mr A transfer his pension to Australia if he wasnt 
intending to remain there permanently.
Montfort asserts that Mr and Mrs A were very clear that they had decided to move to 
Australia permanently and they did not intend to return. It said that they didnt present as 
being at high risk of returning to the UK, particularly as Mr A already had a sibling in Australia.  So, its advice was based on this fact and Montfort made it very clear throughout 
the advice process that its recommendation was based on the understanding that Mr and 
Mrs A had no intention to return to the UK to live, work or retire. Montfort also stated in the 
recommendation letter:
You need to be aware that if you transfer your funds to Australia, and subsequently decide 
to return to the UK, it is very difficult to transfer your funds back as this can only be done 
under certain circumstances.
Montfort adds that it couldnt have done more to check Mr and Mrs As intentions and says 
that Mrs As decision to move her pension to Australia demonstrated their commitment to the 
move.
I dont doubt that Mr and Mrs A believed at the time that their move to Australia would be 
permanent. And I accept that Montfort checked this several times throughout the process 
and Mr and Mrs A assured them that they intended their move to be permanent. So, I accept 
that was a key factor when providing suitable advice. However, I think Montfort was aware 
that there was a risk that Mr and Mrs As move to Australia might not work out as intended. 
Indeed, it recommended that they take out bridging life cover citing this very reason.
On 24 July 2008 it wrote to Mr and Mrs A with its reasons for recommending life cover, and 
an accompanying appendix stated:
Whilst it goes without saying that you are proposing to stay in Australia / New Zealand for 
the duration, it is an unfortunate fact that many families change their minds and return to the 
UK. After all, Australia / New Zealand is a totally different environment, let alone country, and 
with the best will in the world some people will find that it is just not for them. Consequently 
we do our best to provide our Clients with as much flexibility in their cover as we can, within 
the restraints of individual budgets. We refer to this as Bridging Life Cover  quite literally to 
bridge the gap between two entirely different legislative regimes
We recommend a five year term plan, and expect our Clients to keep their plan for a good 
four years. This has proved to be the time of greatest risk for most of our Clients  broadly 
coinciding with the time it takes to attain citizenship, and to reach a finite decision as to 
whether they will return or stay.
So, I think this shows that Montfort was aware, through its experience of advising customers 
in a similar position to Mr and Mrs A, that the first five years of any move was deemed to be 
a critical period for customers determining whether or not they would stay in Australia or 
move back to the UK. And I think that this shouldve been factored into the pension advice it 
gave Mr A.
Montfort says that this has been taken out of context. It says it recommends life cover for the 
first five years of any move because if the worst were to happen during that time, the 
widow/widower is more likely to decide to return to the UK and the money would be required 
to cover relocation costs. It says Mr and Mrs A agreed to take out the life cover as this was 
the only circumstances under which they could envisage returning home. But I think the 
sentiment of what Montfort said in the appendix applies to anyone emigrating. Montfort 
stated that despite a customer proposing to stay in Australia, it was an unfortunate fact that 
many families return home because it is a totally different environment and many find it is 
not for them. And I think its likely to have reached that view based on its experience. While 
Montfort may have used this rationale in order to recommend Mr and Mrs A life assurance, 
I still think that a move abroad not working out because of the different environment or it 
not being for them is a reasonably foreseeable consequence of any migration.In Montforts latest response it said that, many families change their minds but not Montfort 
families as Montfort families plan. The suggestion being with enough planning, a migration 
will be successful. So, there was no reason for Montfort to believe Mr and Mrs As migration 
would fail given the planning they had undertaken and that they already had a support 
network there (Mr As sibling). But I dont think that is realistic, one cannot plan for every 
eventuality. And the reality is that Mr and Mrs A were proposing to emigrate at a relatively 
young age with a young family to a completely different environment, so it was very possible 
that it would not prove to be a good fit for them. 
Furthermore, I dont think that Mrs A moving her pension to Australia is evidence of Mr and 
Mrs As commitment to emigrating permanently. In my view, Mrs A was simply following 
Montforts recommendation.
With this in mind, I dont think it was sufficient for Montfort to simply warn Mr A that its advice 
was based on him moving permanently away from the UK, particularly as it knew how 
difficult it would be to move pension funds back from Australia if Mr A returned to the UK. So, 
this is another reason why I dont think it was suitable advice to recommend that Mr A 
transfer out of his DB scheme at the time.
I think Montfort could have instead advised Mr A not to consider moving his pension for at 
least five years because of the risk that the move may not prove successful. And I also think 
that this wouldve been suitable advice taking into account all of Mr As circumstances. By 
remaining in his DB scheme for at least five years, and until closer to his retirement age, he 
mitigated the risk of the move not becoming permanent and his funds becoming stuck in 
Australia and him being unable to access them until age 60. He also wouldve been 
sheltered from any investment risk during that time, because his DB pension was 
guaranteed and his entitlement increased the closer he got to his normal retirement age.
Montfort says there is no objective way to measure at what point a customer could be said to 
be settled and more likely to remain permanently in a country they had emigrated to. In the 
absence of this, Montfort asks how any advice it gives to a customer in the same 
circumstances as Mr A can be seen as suitable.
But in making this decision, Im only considering the circumstances of Mr A. Given his age at 
the point the advice was taken, and the fact he had a young family, I think there was 
considerable scope for his plans changing, including the possibility of him returning to the 
UK to live, between now and his retirement. Montforts role wasnt to simply transact what 
Mr A thought he wanted. It had a duty to act in his interests overall and I think that this 
included acknowledging and accounting for the reasonably foreseeable risk of his plans 
changing in the advice it gave him.
Could Mr A have left his DB pension in the UK and transferred it at a later date?
Montfort says that there were other significant tax implications that meant transferring out of 
Mr As DB scheme as soon as he emigrated was in his best interests. It said that the tax 
treatment of pension transfers from UK pension schemes, if made more than six months 
after arrival in Australia, are punitive under Section 27CAA of the Income Tax Assessment 
Act 1936 and Section 305 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997. It added that if Mr A 
remained in his DB scheme, any death benefits payable to his spouse would be substantially 
reduced by tax, whereas if the pension was transferred to an AS scheme the remaining fund 
would be paid as a lump sum to his spouse, free of tax. Ive considered these points 
carefully below.
I accept that Mr A wouldve attracted a tax charge if he moved his pension to an AS scheme 
at a future date.According to the stage three report, Montfort said:
Certain UK pensions are subject to Australias Foreign Investment Fund (FIF) tax regime 
which seeks to tax the annual growth on an unrealised basis until you reach retirement age.
However, pension funds which are employer-sponsored and maintained by your employer 
(or former employer) are exempt from Foreign Investment Fund measures. As such there 
will be no tax on the annual growth of your pension schemes if they remain in their current 
format.
So, it seems to me that Mr As DB scheme would not be subject to the FIF tax regime if he 
left it behind in the UK. And I note Montfort says this was abolished in 2010.
Montfort went on to say:
The alternative option to leaving your pension funds in the UK is to transfer your UK 
pension entitlements into an appropriate Australian superannuation fund. Generally, this can 
be done directly from each plan but, in some cases, consolidation into a new UK personal 
pension before transferring to Australia may be advisable.
You will need to consider Section 27CAA of the Australian Income Tax Assessment Act, now
referred to as Section 305/10 (please see page 12 of Stage 1) on transfer under which you
have six months to complete the transfer to Australia without any liability to 27CAA (305/10)
tax. If the transfer is not completed within this time you will pay tax on the growth from arrival
value.
This tax can be paid personally (at your highest rate of tax).
Going back to page 12 of the stage one report, it states:
Pension Transfers from the UK to Australia
The Six Month Window
A 6 month exemption exists allowing a window of opportunity for people to transfer a 
pension fund from the UK to Australia without becoming subject to S27CAA. This is seen as 
encouragement for people to move funds within 6 months of residency.
Transfers outside six months
If a UK pension fund is transferred to an Australian superannuation fund six months or more 
after a person became an Australian resident for tax purposes, a portion of the payment will 
be included as assessable income.
In general terms, the formula to calculate the assessable amount ensures that you are only 
taxed on the growth component of the benefit that accrued from the time you became a 
resident of Australia.
This growth is included in your assessable income and taxed at your marginal rate of income 
tax 
 
As I understand it, if Mr A transferred the CETV of his DB scheme to an AS scheme, it would 
be treated as assessable income and the applicable fund earnings would be taxed 
according to section 305.Thats because according to the ATO, the applicable fund earnings are the earnings on a 
foreign super interest that have accrued since becoming an Australian resident for tax 
purposes. And 'super interest' is any amount, benefit or entitlement a member holds in a 
fund. Montfort says this would include an entitlement to a pension through a DB scheme. So, 
that would mean if Mr A did not transfer the CETV of his DB scheme to Australia within six 
months of his arrival, he would be required to pay income tax on the applicable fund 
earnings. And that would essentially represent the difference between the CETV on the day 
of his arrival and the eventual CETV transferred.
The ATO webpage Montfort referred me to further sets out:
Including applicable fund earnings in your funds assessable income
You may be able to choose to include some amount of your applicable fund earnings in your 
funds assessable income. In this case, the amount will be taxed in your fund instead of as 
part of your income. Your fund pays income tax at 15%, which may be less than the rate of 
tax you pay.
To make a choice, you must meet all of the following conditions:
you have been an Australian resident for tax purposes for more than 6 months or 
have terminated your employment more than 6 months ago
you have transferred the whole of the foreign fund interest directly to a complying 
Australian super fund
you no longer have a super interest in the foreign fund.
If you don't meet these conditions you can't choose to include any amount in your funds 
assessable income. Instead, you must include any applicable fund earnings in your personal 
assessable income.
It then gives the following example:
Example: applicable fund earnings and assessable income
Tony transfers $160,000 from his foreign super fund to his Australian super fund. The 
transfer is the whole of his interest in his foreign fund. His applicable fund earnings amount 
is $40,000. If Tony doesn't elect to include any of this amount in his Australian super fund's 
assessable income, he must include the $40,000 in his personal assessable income for the 
year (taxed at his marginal tax rates).
If Tony elects to include $30,000 of the applicable fund earnings in his funds assessable 
income, his fund will include this amount in its assessable income (taxed at 15%) and he 
must include $10,000 in his personal assessable income (taxed at his marginal tax rate).
If Tony elects to include $40,000 of the applicable fund earnings in his funds assessable 
income, his fund will include this amount in its assessable income (taxed at 15%) and Tony 
won't have to include any of the applicable fund earnings in his personal assessable 
income.
So, it seems to me that if Mr A transferred the CETV of his DB scheme more than six 
months after his arrival in Australia, he could elect to include the applicable fund earnings in 
his AS schemes assessable income, and pay income tax on it at 15%. This would 
essentially mean Mr A would pay income tax of 15% on the difference between the CETV on 
his arrival in Australia and the CETV transferred to the AS scheme.According to the ATO website2, when a customer transfers an amount from a UK-based 
pension to an AS scheme, the AS scheme will report the transfer as a contribution for the 
customer for that year.
[The transfer] will be counted as either, or a combination of:
a non-assessable foreign fund amount, which is counted towards their non-
concessional contributions;
an assessable foreign fund amount, which is counted towards their concessional 
contributions.
If you choose to include some of your applicable fund earnings in your funds assessable 
income, the amount will be reported as part of your total contributions (increasing your total 
superannuation balance) but doesn't count towards your contributions caps.
Non-assessable foreign fund amount
Generally, most of a transfer from a foreign fund will consist of contributions you have made 
to the foreign fund and the earnings on those contributions.
The non-assessable amount is the amount that was vested (paid to you or for which you're 
entitled by law) at the time of the transfer. This will include earnings on your contributions 
from the foreign fund even if the earnings were not allocated to you at the time of the 
transfer.
Applicable fund earnings are included in the non-assessable foreign fund amount, less any 
amount you choose to include in the fund's assessable income. This amount is no longer 
treated as a contribution but treated like normal earnings of your fund.
So, based on what the ATO says here, it seems to me that the CETV Mr A would receive in 
future (which he would then go on to transfer to an AS scheme via a UK SIPP) would be 
classified as a non-assessable foreign fund amount which is counted towards his non-
concessional contributions. But if Mr A elected to include his applicable fund earnings in his 
AS scheme's assessable income, then this amount wouldnt be counted towards the 
contributions cap.
In Montforts recommendation letter of 11 June 2009, it stated:
Contributions Cap
From the 1st July 2007, the Australian government introduced new provisions relating to 
non-concessional contributions, which typically take the form of pension contributions made 
from the individual taxpayer's after tax income.
Due to concerns that concessionally taxed superannuation may be too attractive for high net
worth individuals a ceiling on the amount of non-concessional contributions has been 
introduced of A$150,000 per annum (or a total of A$450,000 averaged over 3 years).
The treasury has confirmed that the non-taxable portion of any amounts transferred 
from overseas superannuation funds will be subject to the non-concessional 
contribution cap.
2 https://www.ato.gov.au/Individuals/Super/Foreign-super-funds/Transfer-from-a-foreign-super-fund-
to-an-Australian-super-fund/#HowyourAustralianfundreportsaforeigntranContributions made in excess of the cap will be taxed at the top marginal rate plus medicare 
(46.5%).
With all of this in mind, if Mr A transferred his DB scheme at a later date, and included his 
applicable fund earnings in his AS scheme's assessable income, then he would not likely fall 
foul of the non-concessional contribution cap. Thats because the CETV in May 2009, which 
is the non-taxable portion of the amount transferred, is well below the $150,000 AUD cap. In 
its latest response, Montfort said it agreed with this, though it said this rule had since 
tightened and breaching the cap was not an impossibility if Mr A made personal non-
concessional contributions or if the currency exchange rate increased in Mr As favour.
Montfort believes that it was in Mr As best interests to transfer his DB pension immediately. 
This is because hed avoid paying any income tax on the amount transferred that would 
otherwise be due if the transfer was delayed by more than six months. But I still think that 
had to be weighed up against the loss of the guarantees and the risk of the move to 
Australia not becoming permanent. And I dont think its likely that the CETV would increase 
so drastically if Mr A delayed the transfer by five years, such that the income tax payable on 
the transfer would be prohibitive. Thats particularly the case given that the increase to 
Mr As DB pension was essentially guaranteed, whereas any increase to the fund if 
transferred to the AS scheme was dependent on investment returns and would be subject to 
charges.
Overall, I dont think avoiding the potential for Mr A to pay income tax of 15% on any 
increase to the CETV between his arrival date in Australia and the eventual transfer date, 
was worth it in view of the other risks Ive identified. And had this been explained to Mr A 
I think he wouldve accepted this, particularly as Montforts advice was that Mr A should 
retain his funds in a UK SIPP until such time that the currency exchange rate was 
favourable. And it then went on to discuss investment strategies with him in the interim. Its 
evident that these funds wouldve also been taxable under section 305 when they were later 
transferred. So, I dont think Mr A wouldve insisted on transferring this pension even if it 
meant paying income tax if he transferred it at a later date.
Currency risk
Montfort says that I also havent considered the currency risk of remaining in the DB scheme 
until such time that Mr A was ready to transfer his pension. It says transferring immediately 
to a SIPP allowed Mr A to immediately take advantage of the currency exchange rate when 
it was most favourable, whereas initiating a pension transfer can take months.
I accept that the exchange rate between GBP and AUD would fluctuate over time and that 
transferring to a SIPP would allow Mr A to take advantage of a higher rate more quickly. But 
I still dont think that it was worth Mr A giving up his guaranteed DB pension, to potentially be 
able to take advantage of a more favourable exchange rate, given what Ive already said 
above. Thats particularly the case given there was no guarantee of when or if the exchange 
rate would improve. And as Montfort recommended that Mr A transfer to a SIPP and remain 
in cash, until such time the currency exchange rate was favourable, there was a very real 
risk that his funds would reduce in value whilst waiting for a favourable exchange rate, given 
the charges payable.
So, I dont think it was suitable advice to transfer out of the DB scheme for this reason.
Death benefitsMontfort has argued that Mrs A would be entitled to better death benefits as a result of Mr A 
transferring his DB pension. It says that the spouses pension would be taxable, and would 
also have an impact on her other benefits because of the means test, whereas the remaining 
funds in an AS scheme would be paid to his spouse tax free. So, this was also a reason to 
support the transfer.
Montfort says it has provided evidence showing that death benefits were important to Mr A. 
Whilst I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, the priority here was to 
advise Mr A about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily 
designed to provide income in retirement  not a lump sum to family after death. In any 
event, death benefits were not mentioned in either the stage three report or the 
recommendation letter. So, it seems to me that the different death benefits Mr A would be 
entitled to were simply highlighted as a consequence of transferring. Furthermore, Montfort 
had already recommended that Mr A should take out bridging life cover for five years. So, it 
seems to me his spouse was already covered for the first five years of his move, which 
allowed him time to consider transferring his DB pension after that period without having to 
worry about his spouse being provided for.
Summary
Ultimately, I dont think the advice Mr A was given was suitable or in his best interests. Mr A 
was giving up a guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income from the DB scheme and I dont 
think Montfort has demonstrated that he would most likely be better off by transferring it to 
an AS scheme, even if his move did end up being permanent. I also dont think Mr A needed 
to make a decision about transferring his pension at that time as there was a reasonably 
foreseeable risk that the move wouldnt work and he would return to the UK.
So, I dont think the recommendation Montfort gave to Mr A to transfer out of his DB scheme 
was suitable, because it exposed him to the risk of his pension becoming stuck in Australia if 
the move failed. And if it did fail, then Mr A would most likely receive a lower overall income 
in retirement. 
Based on what Ive seen, I think Mr A couldve remained in his DB scheme for at least five 
years when he would likely be more settled in Australia, at which point he could then 
consider transferring his pension. This protected him against the very real risk that the move 
would fail  which it in fact did only three years later  and also sheltered him from 
investment risk in the meantime. While I accept that Mr A would likely have to pay income 
tax on his applicable fund earnings if he transferred the pension at a later date, I dont think 
having to pay this overrode the risks involved in Mr A transferring his pension immediately.
So, I dont think Montforts advice was suitable as it was not clearly in Mr As best interests to 
transfer his DB scheme benefits at that time. Of course, I have to consider whether Mr A 
would've gone ahead anyway, against Montfort's advice.
Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr A wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme, against Montforts advice. I say this because Mr A was an 
inexperienced investor with a cautious to medium attitude to risk and this pension 
accounted for the majority of his retirement provision. Theres no evidence to suggest that 
Mr A was interested in transferring out his DB scheme prior to meeting with Montfort, and the 
advice was given solely in connection with the planned move to Australia. So, if Montfort had 
provided Mr A with clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it 
wasnt in his best interests to do so at that time, I think he wouldve accepted that advice.
In light of the above, I think Montfort should compensate Mr A for the unsuitable advice, in 
line with the rules for calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice.Investment performance
Montfort may argue that Mr A did not mitigate his loss because after transferring his pension 
to the SIPP, the funds remained in cash for some time before Mr A eventually appointed 
another firm to invest them. So, I have considered whether any award I make against 
Montfort should be reduced to take this into account. In the circumstances, though, I think it 
fair to make an award for the whole loss against Montfort.
Montfort should not have recommended Mr A transfer out of his DB scheme to a SIPP; it 
was only as a result of Montforts involvement that Mr A transferred the funds held in his DB 
scheme to the SIPP. And in fact, it was Montforts advice specifically that Mr A should keep 
his funds in cash until such time that the exchange rate was favourable to him. So to my 
mind the fact Mr As funds were not invested until later was a direct result of Montforts 
advice. As Mr A ended up returning to the UK only a few years later, it is understandable that 
it took some time for him to appoint a new adviser to manage his funds  the sole purpose of 
transferring out of his DB scheme was because of his move abroad and his plans had 
changed completely. Ultimately if Montfort had given Mr A suitable advice, Im satisfied he 
wouldve remained in his DB scheme and as such, would not have had to think about how 
his pension funds were invested in future.
So, in my view, the entirety of Mr As loss stems from Montforts unsuitable advice to transfer 
away from his DB scheme.
Compensation for distress and inconvenience
Mr A has explained that he and Mrs A are intending to divorce, and their pensions are assets 
that will be considered in the divorce settlement. The ongoing dispute with Montfort means 
theyre unable to settle the matter until redress is provided, and this is stopping his family 
from moving on with their lives. He said Montfort had caused delays whilst the complaint has 
been with the Financial Ombudsman Service which has meant he and Mrs A had to vacate 
court dates, and had incurred significant legal fees. He added that the inability to finalise 
their divorce also meant they were unable to sell their house, and this had resulted in a 
significant increase to their mortgage repayment due to their fixed rate ending.
Montfort disputes that Mr A has been caused any distress and inconvenience by the advice 
he received. And it says it provided any documents requested promptly and responded to his 
complaint within the relevant timeframe.
In each of my provisional decisions, I said I thought Montfort should pay Mr A £750 for the 
impact of the unsuitable advice.
I dont doubt that this has been a difficult time for Mr A and his family. I understand that the 
matter has caused Mr A significant distress and will continue to do so until it is settled. Mr A 
is understandably concerned that he has lost the guarantees associated with his DB pension 
and that has had an impact on his retirement plans  he says he wouldve been able to retire 
on a full pension at age 55 and hes lost this significant benefit. This is even more of a 
concern for him as hes suffered with health issues.
But overall, I think the £750 I have awarded is fair compensation for the impact of the 
unsuitable advice Mr A received in 2009. I dont think I can fairly attribute the additional legal 
fees or extra mortgage costs incurred to that event. Ultimately, these costs have arisen in 
connection with Mr As impending divorce, and I think they are too far removed from the 
event complained about here. Although I appreciate the inability to resolve the complaint 
before now has had an impact, I had to be fair to both sides and provide them with the opportunity to comment on key pieces of evidence and my findings about them before 
making my final decision.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr A, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr A would have 
most likely remained in the occupational pension scheme if suitable advice had been given. 
Montfort must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
For clarity, Mr A has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age, which I understand 
to be age 55 based on what Mr A has said about his length of service, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance. But Montfort should liaise with Mr As DB scheme 
provider to ensure that it calculates redress correctly using Mr As correct scheme normal 
retirement age. 
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with PS22/13 and DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should 
be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of 
notification of Mr As acceptance of the final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Montfort should:
always calculate and offer Mr A redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr A before starting the redress calculation that:
- his redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr A receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr A accepts Montforts offer to calculate how much of their redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr A for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of their redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr As end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr A as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits that 
would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, Montfort may 
make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to take account of tax that Mr A 
would otherwise pay on income from his pension. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to Mr As likely income 
tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%.  So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.Montfort should pay Mr A £750 for the significant distress and inconvenience caused by the 
unsuitable advice.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Montfort International 
Limited to pay Mr A the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Montfort International Limited pays Mr A the balance.
If Mr A accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Montfort International 
Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr A can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr A may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2024.
 
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman