DRN-3492636
The complaint
Mr G complains Evergreen Finance London Limited trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk
(MoneyBoat) gave him loans that he couldnt afford to repay.
Mr G also says that after he told MoneyBoat he was having difficulties and after doing so it
increased the amount he had to repay for the final loan.
What happened
Mr G took three loans from MoneyBoat and an overview of the lending relationship is
outlined below:
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
datemonthly 
instalments
1 £200.00 20/06/2018 31/07/2018 2
2 £200.00 06/02/2019 31/07/2019 6
3 £500.00 07/08/2019 outstanding 6
Based on the statement of account provided to the Financial Ombudsman in June 2021 by
MoneyBoat an outstanding balance remained due for loan 3. But, in response to the
adjudicators first assessment Mr G told us the balance had been repaid in full.
Following Mr Gs complaint MoneyBoat wrote to him with a final response letter outlining why
it wasnt going to uphold his complaint.
Unhappy with this response, Mr G referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman.
Our adjudicator initially reviewed Mr Gs complaint and she didnt uphold it. She said the
checks carried out were proportionate before each loan was approved and there was no
indication that these loans may have been unsustainable for Mr G.
Mr G didnt agree with the outcome, in summary he said;
Loan 3 was repaid in July 2021.
Mr G explained that he ended up repaying nearly £1,000 to MoneyBoat towards loan 
3. This was more than he wouldve repaid it had he been able to repay the loan in 
line with the credit agreement.
Mr G says he wasnt treated fairly with regards to the final loan.
The adjudicator went back to MoneyBoat to ask for some comments in relation to what
Mr G had given in response to the view.
After a number of months, MoneyBoat explained the following to the adjudicator.
interest is calculated daily on any outstanding balance and this is in line with the 
terms and conditions of the loan.
Had Mr G repaid the loan in line with the terms and condition he wouldve repaid a 
total of £394.55 in interest.
However, due to late payment Mr G paid an additional £90.45 in interest and one late 
fee of £15.
Although MoneyBoat acknowledged that Mr G had contacted it before the first 
payment due for loan 3 was made, Mr G then failed to make payment in August 2019 
or September 2019. The October 2019 payment was made through a link sent to him 
and then from that date, all payments were made as expected.
Following these comments, the adjudicator issued a second assessment. In this assessment
she said the following:
She still thought it was reasonable for MoneyBoat to have advanced the three loans 
to Mr G.
Shortly after loan 3 was advanced Mr G contacted MoneyBoat asking for a 
repayment plan.
She didnt think that MoneyBoat had acted fairly or treated Mr G with forbearance 
when thinking about what the industry regulator says (The Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA)) in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC).
The adjudicator explained that Mr G had told MoneyBoat about his difficulties which 
were made worse by the COVID-19 pandemic and so it wasnt fair for the extra 
interest and late fee to have been applied to the account balance.
Mr G didnt have any further comments for the adjudicator after the second assessment was
sent.
MoneyBoat didnt respond to the adjudicators second assessment.
As no agreement has been reached, the case was passed to me for a decision. I then issued 
a provisional decision explaining why I was intending to uphold the complaint in part but 
offered slightly different redress to what the adjudicator offered. 
A copy of the background to the complaint and my provisional findings follow this in italics 
and form part of this final decision.
What I said in my provisional decision
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
MoneyBoat had to assess the lending to check if Mr G could afford to pay back the amount
hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate
to the circumstances. MoneyBoats checks could have taken into account a number of
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Gs
income and expenditure.
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest MoneyBoat should have
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr G. These factors include:Mr G having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr G having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of 
time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had 
become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr G coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr G.
MoneyBoat was required to establish whether Mr G could sustainably repay the loans  not
just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr G was able to repay
his loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
The Financial Conduct Authoritys (the industry regulatory) in the Consumer Credit
Sourcebook (CONC) states payments are sustainable if they are made without undue
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further,
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Gs complaint.
Mr Gs complaint has been dealt with in two parts, firstly dealing with what happened when
the loans were issued and secondly what happened when Mr G told MoneyBoat about his
financial difficulties.
Unaffordable Lending
Before I look at these loans, its worth noting that there are two periods of lending. This is
because there is a significant gap after Mr G repaid loan 1 before he returned for further
lending for loans 2 and 3.
This is key, because by having two chains of lending loan 2, in effect becomes loan 1 in the
second chain. I think it wouldve been reasonable in these circumstances for MoneyBoat to
have considered the application for loan 2 afresh meaning as the first loan in a new loan
chain
In order to repay loan 1, Mr G had to make two payments of around £117, for loan 2, six
repayments of around £59 and finally, for loan 3, six payments of around £149. And so, it
was these sums that MoneyBoat needed to see that Mr G was likely to be able to afford. In
order to do this, and as Ive set out above, MoneyBoat was required to carry out a
proportionate check.
For these loans Mr G declared income of between £1,269 and £1,400. He also declared he
had between £725 and £850 a month for expenditure. MoneyBoat following its checks
increased Mr Gs expenditure by between £40 and £191 for each loan.Overall, MoneyBoat calculated for loan 1 he had £352 of monthly disposable income and
£438 for loan 2 and £600 for loan 3. These amounts are more than enough to afford the
monthly repayment amounts Mr G was committed to repaying.
I also dont think the credit checks results which Ive seen wouldve prompted MoneyBoat to
have either carried out further checks or led it to the conclusion that these loans would be
unsustainable for Mr G.
There was also nothing else in the information that Ive seen that wouldve led MoneyBoat to
believe that it needed to go further with its checks  such as verifying the information Mr G
had provided.
Given it was still quite early on in the lending relationship, I think it was reasonable for
MoneyBoat to have relied on the information Mr G provided along with the income and
expenditure figures (and credit search) to show that Mr G had sufficient disposable income
to afford the repayments he was committed to making. So, like the adjudicator Im not
upholding Mr Gs complaint about these loans.
Im therefore intending to not uphold Mr Gs complaint about this lending.
Payment plan
Its worth mentioning at this point that although this element of the complaint wasnt
mentioned in the final response letter, Mr G did mention this part of his complaint on his
complaint form when it was referred to the Financial Ombudsman in June 2021, and the
issues of repayment problems are intrinsically linked to the lending decisions that
MoneyBoat made.
The adjudicator partly upheld Mr Gs complaint about this element of it, and I agree and Ive
explained why below.
MoneyBoat says, in effect it hasnt done anything wrong because the terms and conditions
allow it to apply interest at a daily rate. Ive looked at the loan agreement for the third loan
and I can see the following condition:
12. Charges:
In the event of non-payment or default by you in breach of this Agreement, we
reserve the right to charge:
a. an initial missed payment fee of £15.00 should we fail to receive the agreed
payment within three days from the agreed repayment date; and
b. interest on all unpaid principle at the rate of 0.7% per day subject to the total
amount of interest payable under this agreement not exceeding 100% of the amount
of credit provided, including all interest, fees and charges.
c. in the event that we issue court proceedings against you for the amount that you
owe, we may also recover from you any costs or fees incurred in relation to the court
proceedings.
Had Mr G repaid loan 3 on time and in accordance with the payment schedule outlined in the
credit agreement, he wouldve repaid a total of £894.55. In effect repaying £394.55 of
interest.
However, MoneyBoat says as a result of the repayment plans and missed payments it
added an extra charge of £15 as well as additional interest of £90.45. In total Mr G has now
repaid £1,000 towards a £500 loan. This was the maximum he couldve been charged underthe FCAs cost cap which has been put in place for this type of product.
In order to see whether this extra interest was fairly charged, I have also considered the 
industry guidance and Id have expected MoneyBoat to follow the guidance when treating a
customer with forbearance. The relevant section is CONC 7.3.4 at the time of these loans
says:
A firm must treat customers in default or in arrears difficulties with forbearance and
due consideration.
CONC then goes on to provide some examples of what treating a customer with forbearance
may look like. CONC 7.3.5 says:
Examples of treating a customer with forbearance would include the firm doing one
or more of the following, as may be relevant in the circumstances:
(1) considering suspending, reducing, waiving or cancelling any further
interest or charges (for example, when a customer provides evidence of
financial difficulties and is unable to meet repayments as they fall due or
is only able to make token repayments, where in either case the level of
debt would continue to rise if interest and charges continue to be applied);
[Note: paragraph 7.4 (box) of ILG]
(2) allowing deferment of payment of arrears:
(a) where immediate payment of arrears may increase the customer's
repayments to an unsustainable level; or
(b) provided that doing so does not make the term for the repayments
unreasonably excessive;
(3) accepting token payments for a reasonable period of time in order to allow
a customer to recover from an unexpected income shock, from a
customer who demonstrates that meeting the customer's existing debts
would mean not being able to meet the customer's priority debts or other
essential living expenses (such as in relation to a mortgage, rent, council
tax, food bills and utility bills).
I can see from the statement of account provided that Mr G made monthly repayments
towards the balance of loan 3 every month from October 2019  paying initially £35. Then
from October 2020 Mr G paid £50 per month before increasing the repayments to £70 from
April 2021. As far as I can see MoneyBoat was happy to accept these repayments towards
paying down the money he owed.
Ive also considered the notes MoneyBoat has provided in order to see what it knew about
Mr Gs financial situation and at what point in time this was.
I can see that Mr G contacted it on 28 August 2019. In his contact, he explained that his
partner was ill and was self-employed and so paying the amounts he had agreed to wasnt
possible and he asked for a repayment plan.
On the same day MoneyBoat showed it was willing to negotiate a repayment plan with
Mr G because it asked how much he could afford  and Mr G said £35 would be affordable
for him. The plan was set up for three months, with the agreement that the payments would
be made on the first of each month.However, I can see no payment was made in September 2019 as couldve been expected
under the terms for the plan. However, it is worth noting that the contact was first made right
at the end of August 2019 so there may or may not have been some confusion around when
the payment was made and / or Mr G may not immediately have had the money available.
Whatever the reason was, I dont think given what MoneyBoat knew about his circumstances
that any late fees or extra interest should be charged here given that CONC says
consideration should be given for waiving or cancelling further interest.
I can see in July 2020 when Mr Gs repayment plan was ending MoneyBoat contacted him to
let him know and to see whether he could pay a larger sum each month. Mr G is clear in his
response, that since the last plan his situation had deteriorated. He was now on furlough as
a result of the pandemic and he made it clear that the £35 was too high an amount for him.
However, and MoneyBoat hasnt explained why, upon hearing that the £35 wasnt
acceptable to Mr G, it then proposed the same amount again - £35 per month. It isnt clear to
me, how after being told that this sum wasnt affordable why MoneyBoat was offering Mr G
the same amount again. I do have concerns, given what CONC says about treating a
customer in forbearance with due consideration that this happened here.
MoneyBoat was on notice of a change in circumstances and didnt adjust the help and
support accordingly, The fact that Mr G did continue to make that level of repayment for the
next three months shouldnt and doesnt set aside the fact that I dont think he was treated
fairly here.
As an aside, and to be clear this doesnt change the outcome of the complaint, that as a
result of the pandemic the FCA had put in place some temporary measures to help people
who were impacted by for example being on furlough. But I dont need to say more than this,
because overall, Im satisfied the outcome that Im reaching is consistent with the approach
that is outlined in CONC.
In October 2020 a similar situation arose. Mr G had told MoneyBoat he was still on furlough
and explained he couldnt afford to pay more than £35 per month. MoneyBoat asked for an
income and expenditure form to be completed  which I think was a reasonable request at
the time. Mr G did this and returned it to MoneyBoat within a few hours.
It was at this point, when there was communication between MoneyBoat and Mr G about his
income and expenditure form that it applied a £15 late fee, it isnt clear why MoneyBoat has
done this because the notes are clear in explaining that MoneyBoat was asking for further
information from Mr G in order to establish what he could afford per month.
At this point in time, I dont consider it reasonable or fair to have levied a late fee onto the
account given the history of repayment plans and what was currently under discussion with
Mr G about his monthly repayment.
In summary, MoneyBoat knew of Mr Gs financial problems fairly early on after loan 3 was
advanced. I agree, initially that it treated him fairly by agreeing to a payment plan. However,
despite knowing of Mr Gs financial problems which seem to have started with his partner
falling ill and then made worse by the pandemic MoneyBoat continued to apply charges to
the outstanding balance. I accept, given the wording of the terms and conditions that
MoneyBoat couldve done this.
But, given the wording in CONC and the requirement to treat Mr G fairly and with
forbearance I dont consider the extra interest and charges added to be fair or in any wayhelpful to Mr G  these extra charges have increased his overall indebtedness during a time
of financial hardship.
In effect, MoneyBoat has penalised him for needing a repayment plan and therefore asking
him to pay even more to it. I dont think is fair or right to have done this. I think what wouldve
been fairer, in the circumstances of this case, to have capped Mr Gs total cost to
MoneyBoat as outlined in the credit agreement for the third loan. So, any amount paid above
and beyond that should be refunded.
I also consider, given what Ive seen in the notes and the way that Mr G was treated by
MoneyBoat that there has been a level of distress and inconvenience caused. Especially, in
July and October 2020 when knowing Mr G was already having problems  because he was
on a repayment plan and then being told he was furloughed the only solution that
MoneyBoat offered was to extend a repayment amount Mr G had told them was
unaffordable.
Its clear that given everything that was going on Mr G wouldve been having a difficult time
and the help and support offered by MoneyBoat didnt in my view entirely help the situation.
Mr G says hes been treated unfairly and I agree with him, not just that I do feel that hes
been caused additional distress and inconvenience as a result and Ive outlined below what I
think MoneyBoat should pay in recognition of that.
Im intending to partly uphold Mr Gs complaint and Ive outlined below what MoneyBoat
needs to do in order to put things right for him
Response to the provisional decision
Both Mr G and MoneyBoat were asked to provide anything further for consideration as soon 
as possible but no later than 19 May 2022. 
Neither Mr G or MoneyBoat responded to the provisional decision and as the deadline for a 
response has now passed, I see no reason to delay in sending this final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no new arguments or comments have been provided, I see no reason to depart from the 
findings that I reached in the provisional decision. I still think MoneyBoat didnt treat Mr G 
fairly or with forbearance once it was made aware of his financial difficulties. 
Ive outlined below what MoneyBoat should do in order to put things right. 
Putting things right
In order to put things right MoneyBoat should carry out the following;
refund any interest, fees and charges applied to the loan above the total amount 
Mr G was contracted to pay.
To the refunded amount MoneyBoat should add 8%* simple interest from the time of 
the overpayments became due to the date of settlement.
Pay Mr G directly £100 for the distress and inconvenience this matter has caused.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires MoneyBoat to take off tax from this interest. MoneyBoatmust give Mr G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, Im upholding Mr Gs 
complaint in part.
Evergreen Finance London Limited should put things right for Mr G as direct above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman