DRN-3135832
The complaint
Mr D complains that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him a packaged bank account. 
What happened
Mr D had had a bank account with Lloyds for many years. This was a normal free account 
until, at some point in or before 2001, it was changed into a Select packaged bank account. 
When the Select account started, it would have cost £4 a month. Benefits included free car 
breakdown cover, and preferential rates on loans, as well as a cheaper overdraft facility 
(interest free up to £50); and some other minor benefits. 
In 2006 the account was changed to a Gold packaged bank account. When it started, the 
standard monthly cost was £10 per month. Benefits included worldwide travel insurance, 
breakdown cover, mobile phone insurance and a cheaper overdraft facility (interest free up 
to £100). 
Mr D has said he needed a personal loan some time before 2001, and that Lloyds told him 
that changing to a packaged bank account would speed up his loan application. He was 
desperate for a loan because he needed a car to get to his shift work. He says he was 
guided to take the packaged bank account, but now he has realised what a waste this 
product was. 
One of our adjudicators looked at the evidence and said they thought the complaint shouldnt 
be upheld. Mr D didnt agree, and so the matter has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On our website, weve set out our approach to the sale of packaged bank accounts. Ive 
kept that approach in mind when considering this case.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
If Lloyds did suggest Mr D had to take the packaged account to speed up his loan, that 
would have been misleading and wrong. But I would need reasonable evidence that this 
probably happened.
A significant problem is that this all happened more than 20 years ago for the sale of the 
Select account, and about 16 years ago for the Gold account  and it wouldnt be 
surprising if someone didnt remember everything that happened so long ago. So it 
wouldnt be fair to rely only on what they now remember. To be fair, Id need reasonable 
evidence before deciding that Lloyds probably misled Mr D  and I dont have that 
evidence. 
And there were elements of the Select account that may have attracted Mr D  in 
particular the breakdown cover for his car, but also the possibility of using a cheaper 
overdraft or getting a cheaper loan (as Mr D had taken a loan from Lloyds in the past). So 
I cant say Mr D could only have taken the Select account as a result of being misled 
about his loan application being speeded up. 
And because of those potential benefits, I cant say that Lloyds recommendation of the 
Select account was inappropriate  and it would have been up to Mr D to decide if the 
convenience of the account benefits was worth the monthly cost. 
Notes on the Lloyds system record that there was a discussion with Mr D about changing 
to the Gold account in February 2006, including that he was made aware that there would 
be an initial discount in the monthly fee, but that this would rise to £10 in May 2006. The 
note says that various information documents about the account were sent to him too. 
I think its likely Mr D had enough information to understand the choice he was making. 
And I think the recommendation by Lloyds to upgrade to the Gold account was again an 
appropriate one. There were several benefits Mr D could potentially have used  again, it 
would be up to Mr D to decide if he would make enough use of the benefits to justify the 
monthly cost. 
I know Mr D has raised a query about some travel transactions on his account from 2006 
and 2007, but that doesnt affect the question Im looking at  which is whether there was 
a mis-sale.
Overall, I dont have enough evidence to decide that these accounts were mis-sold. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2022.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman