DRN-3577463
The complaint
Mrs A complains about Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) placing restrictions on her account and 
how she was treated when she tried to withdraw funds from her account.
In making her complaint to this service, Mrs A was represented by a family member. 
References to Mrs A include her representative.
What happened
Mrs A had a current account with Lloyds. In May 2021, Mrs A went to a Lloyds branch to 
make a large cash withdrawal. Mrs A was accompanied by her husband, who staff observed 
helped her with her PIN. Given the size of the cash withdrawal (£9,000) staff followed Lloyds 
procedures and asked Mrs A the reason for wanting to withdraw the sum. The staff thought 
Mrs A was reluctant to provide a reason and because they couldnt have the request verified 
independently, they declined the request. Mrs A contacted her daughter (who was abroad at 
the time) to help her, as she had power of attorney (POA) for her affairs. Her daughter tried 
to transfer £5,000 to her account through the online banking facility. But the transfer wasnt 
accepted, and Lloyds then applied a block to the account.
Mrs As daughter contacted the bank and was told Mrs A would need to attend the branch in 
person to have the block lifted. Mrs A and her daughter attended the branch the following 
month when a further attempt to withdraw the £9,000 was made. Staff spoke to Mrs A and 
asked her about the attempt to transfer £5,000 the previous month but werent persuaded by 
her answer (that she was happy for her daughter to do things). Mrs A was then spoken to by 
Lloyds fraud team staff, who said Mrs A told them she didnt know about the attempted 
£5,000 transfer (or gave a clear reason for wanting to withdraw £9,000).
The branch staff then became concerned for Mrs As welfare and invoked Lloyds protocol in 
these circumstances, so they contacted the police. The police attended the branch and 
spoke to Mrs A and her daughter. They were told the withdrawal was to settle a car loan for 
the daughter, so asked to see evidence for this. The police then made further enquiries, 
visiting Mrs As home later that evening.
Unhappy at what had happened Mrs A complained to Lloyds. She was unhappy at how she 
(and her daughter) had been treated by Lloyds during both visits to the branch and (her 
daughters) call. She thought Lloyds actions had been disproportionate and unreasonable 
and she hadnt been able to access the funds in her account (and the account was still 
blocked). She felt very distressed at what had happened.  
Lloyds didnt uphold the complaint. In their final response they said the POA hadnt been 
registered with them until the beginning of July, so before that date Mrs A (as the account 
holder) had to carry out transactions. Lloyds set out how Mrs As daughter could activate the 
POA and have the block on the account lifted. On what had happened with the branch visits 
and Mrs A wanting to make the withdrawal, Lloyds apologised for the distress the situation 
had caused. They said when customers wanted to make a large cash withdrawal, branch 
staff had to ask questions about the reason for the withdrawal, as part of their procedures to 
prevent customers falling victim to scams, intimidation or fraud. This was why the withdrawal 
request was declined when Mrs A and her husband first visited the branch. 
Regarding the second branch visit, Lloyds referred to what happened and said because staff 
became concerned for Mrs As welfare, they followed Lloyds protocol, which led them to 
contact the police. Lloyds said theyd acted correctly, but appreciated the situation had 
caused distress to Mrs A. In recognition of this, Lloyds offered to send Mrs A some flowers.
Mrs A then complained to this service, unhappy at Lloyds response. She didnt think it was 
helpful and her account was still blocked. She didnt think she had to tell Lloyds the reason 
for requesting the withdrawal. She was also unhappy at still not being able to activate the 
POA, despite making a further visit to the Lloyds branch. She said the experience had been 
very distressing and wanted compensation for the distress caused (and the inconvenience of 
not being able to access her account). 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, concluding Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably 
given the information they had at the time of the attempted withdrawals. The POA hadnt 
been registered with Lloyds, so staff had to deal with Mrs A as the account holder. Given 
concerns about the initial withdrawal request (where Mrs A was helped by her husband) and 
the subsequent attempt to make an online banking transfer, the investigator understood why 
Lloyds staff had concerns (and put a block on the account). The investigator also thought it 
reasonable for Lloyds to ask about the reason for such a large cash withdrawal, and for them 
to follow their process where they had concerns (calling the police). It also wasnt for this 
service to tell banks what security processes they should have in place to protect customers.
Mrs A disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman review 
the complaint. While she understood the need for Lloyds to have procedures, it was the way 
they handled the situation she was unhappy with and the distress from what she considered 
an unnecessarily long and drawn-out process. She couldnt access her account for about six 
months, and she felt suspicion had been cast on her during that time. She didnt think it was 
Lloyds business what the withdrawal was for, and thought the time, effort and emotional 
distress of what happened meant she should be compensated (over £1,000).
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered very carefully what Mrs A has told us about her circumstances, including her 
health and other vulnerabilities. I also recognise it was upsetting to be questioned in what 
she felt was a distressing way by Lloyds staff. I can also understand her distress (and that of 
her daughter) of having the police called to the branch and visiting her home, particularly as 
she didnt think shed done anything wrong and was only trying to access the funds in her 
account. This has been at the forefront of my mind when reaching this decision and I hope 
what Ive said makes clear how Ive reached this decision. 
There are several aspects to Mrs As complaint, which Ive considered in turn. First, theres 
the issue of Mrs A not being able to make the cash withdrawal requested, initially when 
accompanied by her husband on the first visit to the branch (May 2021) and then a second 
time when accompanied by her daughter (June 2021). Between these visits there was the 
attempt to transfer funds to her daughters account. 
Looking at what happened in turn, I think it was reasonable for Lloyds staff to ask Mrs A the 
reason for the cash withdrawal when she first visited the branch. The sum was significant 
(both the amount and as a proportion of the balance on the account at the time  some three-quarters). And as a cash withdrawal, I would have expected branch staff to ask about 
the reason for the withdrawal. As they thought Mrs A was reluctant to provide a reason (and 
was observed to have help from her husband with her PIN) I think that would have raised 
reasonable concerns by branch staff. Based on this, I think Lloyds acted prudently and 
reasonably in declining the request.
Turning to the subsequent attempt to transfer funds from Mrs As account to her daughters 
account (for a smaller, but still significant amount), coming so soon after the attempted cash 
withdrawal, I think it was reasonable for Lloyds to have declined the transfer and put a block 
on the account. I recognise Mrs As point that her daughter had a POA over her affairs  but 
at that point it hadnt been registered by Lloyds. So, only Mrs A could make transactions on 
the account. So, Ive concluded Lloyds acted reasonably in putting a block on the account. In 
the circumstances, I also think Lloyds acted reasonably (when Mrs As daughter contacted 
them) in telling Mrs A she would need to attend the branch in person to have the block lifted.
On the second visit to the branch, I think it was reasonable for staff to talk to Mrs A (as the 
account holder) and ask her about the attempt to transfer £5,000 the previous month. As 
they werent persuaded by her answer (that she was happy for her daughter to do things) I 
think it was reasonable for Mrs A to then be spoken to by Lloyds fraud team staff, who said 
Mrs A told them she didnt know about the attempted £5,000 transfer (or gave a clear reason 
for wanting to withdraw £9,000). 
I appreciate Mrs As view it isnt Lloyds business what the withdrawal was for  but I dont 
agree. I think its reasonable to have asked about it, given the potential for it to have been a 
scam or fraud (particularly given Mrs As vulnerability her daughter has described).
In the circumstances, I think it was reasonable for branch staff to invoke the Banking 
Protocol. Ive looked at the Protocol, which has been agreed between financial sector 
organisations, Trading Standards and the police as an initiative to protect customers from 
being the victim of scams and frauds. It applies to any customer looking to make a 
transaction that is out of character and staff believe could be the victim of fraud or scam. The 
Protocol sets out factors that might indicate potential abuse, looking at them together with 
the circumstances of the visit, I think the branch staff acted reasonably in following the 
Protocol, including talking to the customer alone and (if still are suspicious) calling the police.
In terms of the actions of the police, my role isnt to question the actions of the police in 
responding to Lloyds staff invoking the Protocol. Its an operational matter for the police what 
actions they took and how they made their enquiries. Mrs A, when making her complaint to 
Lloyds, stated she thought the police acted reasonably. When they spoke to Mrs A and her 
daughter at the branch and were told the withdrawal was to settle a car loan for the 
daughter, so asked to see evidence for this.
 
Taking all these points into account, I think Lloyds acted reasonably in questioning the 
reasons for the cash withdrawal and subsequently invoking the Banking Protocol and 
following the process it sets out. 
Mrs A is also unhappy at what she feels is an unnecessarily long and drawn-out process. 
She couldnt access her account for about six months, and she felt suspicion had been cast 
on her during that time. Looking at the sequence of events set out above, I think Lloyds 
acted reasonably about the potential cash withdrawal. I also think it was reasonable for them 
to ask Mrs A to follow up on the POA when it was registered by Lloyds at the beginning of 
July. When making her complaint to this service, Mrs A said she was unhappy at still not 
being able to activate the POA, despite making a further visit to the Lloyds branch. As this 
specific issue hasnt (as far as Im aware) been the subject of a separate complaint to Lloyds (or response from them) I havent considered this aspect further. But Lloyds case notes dont 
refer to a further visit (but they do refer to the account block being lifted in September 2021). 
Taking all these points into account, Ive concluded Lloyds acted reasonably towards Mrs A 
in the particular circumstances of the case. While Ive concluded they acted reasonably, 
including invoking the Banking Protocol that led to the involvement of the police, I recognise 
that the events would have been distressing for Mrs A (and her daughter). Lloyds also 
recognised this in their final response. I appreciate why Mrs A feels differently and has asked 
for financial compensation. But given my conclusion that Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably, 
I dont think thats appropriate in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision not to uphold Mrs As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman