DRN-4251265
The complaint
Miss A complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard failed to engage with 
her when she tried to advise it of her change of address. She further complains that when 
she asked for her account to be closed Barclays failed to notify her of a balance due and as 
a result her credit score was affected.
What happened
In late 2022 Miss A contacted Barclays by iMessage to advise it of a change of address but 
she was unable to get through. She decided to close her account. She was advised not to 
bother about the change of address as the account would be closed. She was also advised 
that her final direct debit payment had been taken. The account was closed but Barclays 
failed to advise Miss A there was still an outstanding balance. She was notified by text in 
January 2023 that her payment was overdue. She called into her local branch and the 
branch manager offered to close the account and pay her an additional £75 compensation. 
She declined the offer.
In responding to her complaint Barclays said it would refund the £12 late fee and credit £50 
to her account. It advised her that her credit file wouldnt be affected.
Miss A monitored her credit file and noted that the marker for her late payment was still on 
file.
On referral to this service our Investigator proposed that Barclays pay compensation of £250 
(including the £62 already refunded) and arrange with the Credit Reference Agencies 
(CRAs) to ensure that any late markers are removed.
Barclays said it has done this and paid the balance of £188 to Miss A. She insists though 
that her credit report is still showing the late payment marker. She has requested an 
Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
change of address
I see that Miss A tried to register the change of address by iMessage but was unable to get 
through. She could however have done this in other ways. I dont think that Barclays was at 
fault for failing to register her change of address.
However when she asked for her account to be closed I think at that stage Barclays should 
have taken details of her change of address, rather than telling her there was no point in 
doing it. As Barclays will be well aware, loose ends may need to be tidied up after closure of 
an account, as happened here.
closure of the account
I think Miss A was given the wrong information concerning what she owed in order to close 
the account. She had just paid the £30 direct debit but there was still a £32 balance 
outstanding which she was not told about. So when she received a text in January advising 
her that the payment was late I can understand that she was distressed by this. She felt she 
needed to attend her branch to make sure her complaint was heard.
Barclays refunded £50 and the £12 late fee to Miss A. It said it was arranging to remove the 
marker but by May, Miss A noted that as she was monitoring her credit report, this was not 
done. 
Our Investigator proposed that Barclays pay a further £188 and manually update her credit 
record to remove any markers for late payment. I think that it is fair and reasonable for 
Barclays to do this.
Barclays has told us it has updated her credit record. It has also paid the £188 
recommended. Miss A says that the removal of the marker is still not showing on her credit 
file. It can take around eight weeks for the record to be updated. If her credit file is still 
showing late markers she should provide that evidence to Barclays (through our Investigator 
if she wishes).
Im aware that Miss A has had her credit score affected by this and she believes this will 
hinder her chances of getting a mortgage or other credit. However as she hasnt been in the 
process of applying for mortgage or other credit I cant take that into account. Although 
I appreciate that this has caused her anxiety.
I am aware that Miss A has had to purchase subscriptions to get her credit score and record. 
Though there are free options so I wont ask Barclays to pay this.
I think the Investigators proposals (which Barclays accepted) are fair and reasonable. 
Miss A has been put through considerable inconvenience by Barclays errors which took 
time to sort out. As it remains satisfied that it has done what it can in respect of updating her 
record it should send Miss A evidence of this so she can take it up with the relevant CRAs.
Putting things right
Barclays should pay Miss A a total of £250, as it has paid this it  doesnt need to make any 
further payments.
It should also arrange to remove any markers for late payment from her credit record. As it 
says it has done this it should provide evidence to Miss A about this.
Barclays should further arrange with Miss A to update her address on its records and to 
send her any statements she requires. 
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard to provide 
the remedy set out under Putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 September 2023.
 Ray Lawley
Ombudsman