DRN-3763382
The complaint
Ms C has complained Santander UK plc didnt refund money for fraudulent transactions 
made on her credit card.
What happened
In December 2021 whilst she was at the gym, Ms Cs locker was broken into and her 
belongings stolen. This included credit and debit cards as well as her mobile phone and 
personal belongings.
Shortly after this happened Ms C was able to call Santander and cancel her cards. She was 
told there were two transactions made on her debit card and a transaction made on her 
credit card had been rejected.
Santander refunded losses on Ms Cs current account but didnt refund £1,150 along with a 
small transport cost charged to her credit card. Ms C brought her complaint to the 
ombudsman service.
Our investigator asked Santander to reconsider this situation and pay Ms C some 
compensation for their error. Santander agreed to refund the payments made and give Ms C 
£100 for the trouble caused.
Ms C felt this was inadequate compensation. Despite asking Santander to consider 
increasing the compensation to Ms C, Santander wouldnt do so. Ms C feels strongly 
Santander didnt deal with her case well and further compensation should be payable. Shes 
asked an ombudsman to decide her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I believe Santander should pay Ms C more and Ill explain why.
Firstly theres no doubt Mr C was a victim of a crime. This must have been distressing. And 
whilst this isnt in itself Santanders fault, it is clear to me they made errors at the time this 
occurred which I believe added to Ms Cs distress.
Santander provided incorrect information to Ms C at the time she notified them of her debit 
and credit cards being stolen. They told her theyd rejected a credit card transaction for 
£1.150.
In fact this wasnt the case and Ms Cs credit card was debited this amount. To all intents 
and purposes this was the only transaction on Ms Cs Santander credit card account just 
before Christmas last year. Despite refunding money to her current account, it took 
Santander eight months to correct their error and refund money to Ms Cs credit card 
account (Im presuming this has now been done). This is contrary to the Payment Services 
Regulations which requires banks to refund customers whove been a victim of fraud 
promptly.
Santander has offered £100 compensation to Ms C which they believe is in line with what is 
usual in these types of cases. They dont dispute a mistake was made.
Putting things right
I believe compensation of £250 will be fairer. I say this because of the difficulty Ms C had in 
getting Santander to sort things out. This should have been a fairly straightforward case 
where Ms C had been a victim of fraud and needed reimbursing and this was done. I dont 
really understand why this wasnt the case here.
This fraud happened on Ms Cs credit card so either Ms C paid upfront to settle a debt that 
wasnt hers or this remained outstanding on her credit card account over a period of months 
and attracted interest. This wont have had an adverse impact on her credit record but if 
Ms C is someone who normally pays in full, I can understand why she would have been 
additionally distressed.
Im asking Santander to pay Ms C £250 compensation for the distress caused in not 
refunding her for fraudulent transactions.
Im satisfied that Santander has already had an opportunity to provide comments about this 
type of compensation when our investigator first raised this with them.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is to instruct Santander UK plc to:
Refund Ms Cs credit card for the two disputed transactions of £1,150 and £5.80, if 
not been done already;
Rework Ms Cs credit card account to ensure no fees or charges have accrued 
because of those two transactions;
If Ms C repaid £1,155.80 to her credit card account when payment was due on 
16 February 2022, add 8% simple interest a year to that amount from the date she 
paid until the date of settlement; and
Pay Ms C £250 for the trouble caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2022.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman