DRN-3081256
The complaint
Mr B complains about U K Insurance Limited (UKI) in relation to a claim he made under the 
legal expenses part of a Home insurance policy.
UKI is the insurer and so is responsible for the claim, although the policy is branded under a 
different name. For clarity I will refer to UKI throughout.
What happened
Mr B became involved in a dispute with a sole trader concerning some service provided and 
paid for. He sought insurance cover for the legal costs in pursuing the matter against the 
trader.
After initially saying the type of claim was covered by the policy UKI later withdrew cover. 
This was because panel solicitors instructed by UKI, an independent legal firm, gave an 
opinion that the claim didnt enjoy prospects of success, namely the prospect of successfully 
recovering the amount of money Mr B sought to recover from the trader.
Mr B was unhappy that cover had been withdrawn and he didnt feel hed been given 
freedom of choice with regards to the appointed solicitors.
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think UKI had acted unfairly. 
She explained that the policy required there to be reasonable prospects of success of 
obtaining a successful judgment and recovering losses or other legal remedy. UKI was 
entitled to decline Mr Bs claim because panel solicitors said there werent reasonable 
prospects of recovering losses or enforcing an award. 
And she said while Mr B was unhappy with the legal representative handling his claim, his 
matter was overseen by a solicitor which was acceptable, particularly as the claim was low 
value.
On freedom of choice she said this right arises from the point that legal proceedings need to 
be started, i.e. when negotiations have failed, and its been decided by the solicitors involved 
that its necessary to start court proceedings to progress the legal case. Before that stage, 
the insurer can choose which solicitor to appoint for advice and assistance. And as Mr Bs 
cover had been withdrawn before initiating legal proceedings freedom to choose didnt arise.   
Mr B disagreed with the investigator and in summary said;
- He wasnt given a freedom of choice to choose his own solicitors from the outset. 
- The legal representative dealing with his case was incompetent
- Hes raised issues with the Legal Ombudsman
- Months were wasted and so Trading Standards couldnt take criminal action
- The claim could have been pursued through the small claims track.
The matter has been referred for an ombudsman to reach a determination.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances I need to take into 
account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of 
practice and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. 
For the sake of clarity, Ive considered all the points Mr B has raised but intend to focus on 
those relevant to the complaint dispute. 
Prospects of Success
The policy does cover the type of contract dispute Mr B had with the sole trader. But there 
are further considerations that UKI must be satisfied of before a claim is progressed. The 
first of these is that UKI and the appointed representatives (here the panel solicitors) must 
agree that the proposed claim has reasonable prospects of success for the duration of the 
claim. And in short this means that for civil cases (like Mr Bs) there is a better than 50% 
chance that Mr B will;
- Obtain a successful judgment
- Recover losses or obtain other legal remedy UKI agrees to, including an enforcement 
of judgment. 
These terms are common in legal expenses policies. They mean insurers dont have to meet 
costs for claims that are unlikely to be successful or where the costs are too high compared 
to the value of the claim. I dont think this is unfair. Court action can be expensive. A 
privately paying customer wouldnt want to pay the costs of a court case if advised its 
unlikely to succeed and it wouldnt be reasonable to expect an insurer to.
Its not always the case that a fully qualified lawyer will review a claim, it might, as in this 
case be a paralegal or trainee solicitor. So, I think its only fair that where a legal opinion is 
being proffered in a case like this that its reasonable to expect that such handling is 
overseen by an appropriately qualified lawyer. Indeed, this is common practice in legal firms 
to enable the development and eventual qualification of future lawyers.
Mr Bs claim was directly overseen by a solicitor in the civil litigation team and so even if the 
main claim handler wasnt fully qualified, Im satisfied Mr Bs claim has been considered by 
an appropriately qualified lawyer. 
The solicitor reached a view that the claim didnt enjoy reasonable prospects of success on 
the back of a report, which concluded that the prospects of recovering the amount sought by 
Mr B (less than £2,000) was unlikely as potential defendants had no available equity and it 
wouldnt be cost effective to pursue. Its apparent that letters of claim were sent along with 
follow-ups to several addresses, but this did not result in the making of any payment. It was 
because of this advice that UKI didnt provide cover. 
Since UKI relied on the legal advisers opinion that there were no longer reasonable 
prospects of successfully recovering Mr Bs losses, and no property or equity such that could 
be used to enforce a judgement, Im not persuaded UKI acted outside the policy terms or 
unfairly. Even though Mr B may have initiated proceedings personally it doesnt follow that 
its reasonable to expect UKI to instruct lawyers to conduct proceedings given the legal 
advice it received that there are no reasonable prospects of successful recovery.
Freedom of choiceThe policy makes it clear that where court proceedings are necessary, or there are conflicts 
of interest, Mr B can choose a law firm to act. But before that stage, so when UKI instructed 
solicitors simply to give a view on the prospects of success, Mr B had no freedom to choose. 
Our usual approach is that freedom to choose arises when legal proceedings need to be 
started. Not all disputes end up in court and some will conclude pre-litigation before court 
proceedings are necessary. For example, a letter before claim setting out the dispute isnt in 
my view part of formal court proceedings. Its a formal notification of a dispute where one 
party usually requests specific redress from another to obviate legal proceedings. A dispute 
can be resolved at this stage and so even though panel solicitors sent such a letter I dont 
consider that to trigger Mr Bs freedom to choose a solicitor.
And while Mr B asserts there was a conflict of interest as UKIs panel solicitors are part of 
the wider UKI group I disagree. The panel solicitors are a distinct company and separately 
regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority. Where Mr B has concerns about the legal 
firms conduct, he can take those issues to the Legal Ombudsman. Im not persuaded that 
any conflict arose or was apparent in this case.
Other matters
Mr B believes a delay in dealing with the matter prejudiced Trading Standards ability to take 
criminal proceedings against the parties he was in dispute with. First, Im not persuaded 
there was any undue delay  it was around five months duration from claim initiation to the 
withdrawal of cover based on the findings of a financial recovery report that the defendants 
had no apparent financial means, such that recovery of losses or enforcement of judgement 
would be likely. 
The policy covers, among other things, contract disputes and specified criminal defence 
matters. The policy doesnt cover Trading Standards prosecutions or any referrals to Trading 
Standards. So, Im not persuaded that it would fair or reasonable to hold UKI at fault or liable 
for any issue Mr B might have wanted Trading Standards to pursue.
Mr B also points to comments he says came from Trading Standards that one of the 
proposed defendants had said theyd received the solicitors letters and was waiting for the 
matter to go to court and would be bound by the judges decision. Even taking this at its 
height doesnt mean Mr B would successfully recover the amount he claimed. It gives no 
indication as to solvency or ability of the defendants to actually pay any judgment given. 
Summary
I appreciate Mr B is disappointed that UKI withdrew cover, but Im not persuaded UKI acted 
unfairly or outside the policy terms in doing so. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint against U K Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2021.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman