DRN-4262453
The complaint
The estate of Mr T complains that Santander UK Plc did not give the estate sufficient 
information about the mortgage following Mr Ts death, particularly about the interest that 
would be charged.
What happened
Mr T had a mortgage with Santander with a fixed interest rate of 1.94% until 2 April 2022. 
After that it reverted to Santanders standard variable rate (SVR).
On 31 August 2021, Mr T sadly passed away. On 20 September 2021, Santander wrote to 
Mr Ts brother stating that it would need a grant of probate or letters of administration. It also 
said that the mortgage was payable in full and that interest will continue to accrue.
On 11 May 2022, Mr Ts mother, Mrs T, was appointed executor of his estate. The estate 
complains:
The letter dated 20 September 2021 was too vague about the interest that would be 
applied  it did not state the interest rate or that it could change.
Santander added interest to the mortgage before the grant of probate was in place. That 
was unfair as the estate could not sell the property before this was in place.
It was only when the estate asked for a redemption statement that it found out that the 
mortgage had reverted to SVR and the interest rate had increased a number of times. 
Santander should have told the estate when the interest rate changed. A new interest 
rate product could have been agreed had the estate been informed of the end of the 
fixed rate.
Santander did not do enough to help the estate. It could have frozen the interest, agreed 
a payment holiday or done something else to help manage the debt.
Santander should remove any interest applied before probate was granted and rework 
the mortgage balance with the original fixed rate of 1.94%. The interest is making it likely 
the property will be in negative equity when it is sold. 
This matter is causing Mr Ts family an immense amount of financial stress and worry. 
And it has not dealt with them fairly or in a professional way.
The investigator did not think the complaint should be upheld. 
The estate did not accept what the investigator said. It made and reiterated a number of 
points, including:
The initial communication was vague  it gave no indication of what rate would be 
charged, when it would be charged or that it would change.
Santander has not and is still not telling the estate about any changes to interest rates. 
The annual statement was sent in August 2022, more than a year after Mr T passed 
away. That is unacceptable. And it only came about because a redemption statement 
had been requested.
The estate knew there was a mortgage to redeem and the property was on the market 
as soon as possible. The estate does not want the debt written off. Santander has been 
deceitful, solely to achieve extra profits and to make money. It should apply a fairer 
amount of interest.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear what Mr Ts family have been through. I dont doubt the amount of distress 
and upset this matter has caused them at what was already a very difficult time. 
Id note that the eligible complainant here was Mr T. The estate has the legal authority to 
bring a complaint on behalf of Mr T following his death. But I dont have the power to 
compensate the executor or Mr Ts family for things that Santander did in relation to the 
estate or the impact on them personally. I can only consider any financial loss to the estate if 
I were to find that was fair and reasonable in the individual circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point is that Santander is entitled to apply interest to the mortgage until it is 
repaid  and it was entitled to seek repayment of the mortgage upon Mr Ts death. I 
appreciate that the property could not be sold until a grant of probate was in place, but that 
would not prevent Santander applying interest.
I consider the September 2021 letter was clear both that the mortgage needed to be repaid 
and that interest would be applied until it was repaid. It was for the estate to query what the 
interest rate was if it was unsure about it.
Santander has explained that when a borrower dies, it does not expect payments from the 
estate. The missed payments are added to the mortgage balance. The balance is then 
repaid when the property is sold. This does not seem unreasonable, bearing in mind that the 
balance was due and payable  and it is not out of line with my experience of what other 
lenders do in these circumstances. 
I understand the estates position that Santander could have done more to help. But Im 
afraid the reality is there is little more Santander could have done. I say that as when the 
fixed rate expired the mortgage reverted to the SVR or as Santander call it a follow on rate. 
It would not be fair for me to say that the mortgage should continue on the fixed rate once it 
had ended. When lenders give fixed rates, their funding is fixed for the duration of the fixed 
rate. It would not be fair for me to say that a lender should continue to offer such a fixed rate 
after it had expired. It is likely that would cause the lender to suffer a loss.  
The executors responsibility is to wind up the estate. They cant enter into new contracts on 
behalf of the estate. And it is likely they would need to do that when arranging and agreeing 
to a new mortgage product. Further, any fixed rate product would likely have an early 
repayment charge. That would not be appropriate bearing in mind the property was up for 
sale. So I cant see there was any alternative for the estate than for the mortgage to revert to 
SVR  and that might be the right thing in any case, bearing in mind the mortgage balance 
was due to be repaid. I can see the estates point that Santander could have done more to let them know the 
interest that was being charged. Again, there was some onus on the estate to check if it 
wasnt sure about that. And Santander did send annual statements. But even if Santander 
did tell the estate about the changes to interest rates, I dont think it would have made any 
difference to the estates overall position.
I say that because, Ive already found the estate could not arrange a new interest rate 
product. So the mortgage would always have reverted to SVR after 2 April 2022. And as far 
as I am aware the estate did not make any payments to the mortgage  even when they 
found out about the interest that was applied. It follows that it is less likely that they would 
have made payments had Santander told them about the interest. The balance would have 
been the same as it is now. So Santander has not caused the estate any financial loss.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr T 
to accept or reject my decision before 21 August 2023.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman