DRN-4139782
The complaint
Mr A complains HSBC UK Bank Plc forced him to take out a loan to repay his overdraft.
What happened
Mr A had an HSBC business account with an overdraft. In April 2007, he says HSBC 
threatened to take him to Court unless he took out a loan to consolidate his overdraft debt.
Following our involvement, HSBC has said Mr A was offered a loan as he was struggling to 
stay within his overdraft limit. They also explained it was unlikely they would have threatened 
to pursue Mr A legally for his overdraft debt, as their normal process is to pass accounts to 
their internal debt collectors if there are arrears.
Mr A says the lending was inappropriate because in 2021 HSBC offered him £50 and 
refunded some interest on the loan in recognition of their previous actions. However, HSBC 
said they had carried out a widespread review of how they previously handled accounts in 
debt and compared it with how they would do so now  and that is why they offered Mr A 
£50. Regarding the refund of interest, they explained this was paid because theyd noticed 
mistakes in the way interest and charges had been applied to loans like Mr As. 
Our investigator looked into Mr As concerns but didnt think his complaint should be upheld. 
He explained that he was persuaded offering Mr A loan in 2007 was the right thing to do. 
Thats because Mr As bank statements suggested he was struggling to keep on top of the 
interest and charges being applied to his account. Our investigator also said he wasnt 
persuaded HSBC had threatened legal action because when Mr A fell into arrears with his 
loan, the account was passed to HSBCs internal debt collectors which is in line with the 
policy they had explained.
Mr A disagreed with our investigator, so his case was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, Im not upholding Mr As complaint. I know this isnt the 
outcome he hoped for, but Ill explain my reasoning below.
Weve received limited information from either party to show us what happened in early 2007 
when Mr A took out his loan. However, I dont consider this to be surprising or unreasonable 
given the time thats passed. But it has meant Ive had to base my decision on the evidence 
we do have  and determine what I consider most likely to have happened.
Ive seen copies of Mr As bank statements that cover the period from mid-November 2006 
to mid-April 2007. These have shown me Mr As account was overdrawn by more than 
£13,000. Ive seen that while Mr A was crediting his account with around £210 a month, the 
interest and charges being applied exceeded £300 a month, meaning his overdraft debt was 
increasing. This pattern continued until the loan payment was credited to the account and 
cleared the overdraft balance in April 2007.
Given the activity on the account and the fact HSBC has told us Mr A had exceeded his 
overdraft limit, I dont consider offering Mr A a loan was the wrong thing to do. Having a loan 
to consolidate debt can often make repaying what is owed more manageable. And having 
seen Mr As loan statements, it appears he was able to manage his loan repayments of 
around £215 per month. This was a similar amount to what Mr A was paying towards his 
overdraft. Therefore, I consider its most likely that this loan was affordable for Mr A until his 
circumstances changed in 2011. 
As mentioned above, we have limited information on what was discussed in April 2007. So, 
Ive not seen any evidence to support Mr As point about being threatened with Court action. 
I appreciate Mr A feels very strongly about this point. However, on balance, Im not 
persuaded HSBC said theyd take Mr A to Court if he didnt take out a loan to repay his 
overdraft. I say this because when his loan fell into arrears, Mr A wasnt threatened with 
legal action. Instead, his loan account was passed to HSBCs internal debt collector  and 
the same thing happened with Mr As credit card. Therefore, Im persuaded its most likely 
HSBC would have managed Mr As overdraft in a similar way if he hadnt consolidated his 
debt with the loan complained about.
Ive taken onboard what Mr A has said about HSBC giving him a £50 goodwill gesture and 
refund of interest in 2021 following a review of their historic management of his loan. While 
I agree HSBC offered these payments to Mr A, Ive not seen anything to persuade me this 
happened because giving him a loan wasnt appropriate for his circumstances  or because 
he was coerced into taking out the loan. Ive seen the letters HSBC sent Mr A about this, and 
Im satisfied they clearly explained why the £50 award and refund of interest were offered. 
Therefore, while I understand Mr A feels strongly about what happened, this point doesnt 
change my mind. 
Given the above, I dont consider HSBC needs to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about HSBC UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2023.
 
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman