DRN-3953101
The complaint
Mr S complains about the advice given by Pension Advice Specialists Limited (PASL) when 
it advised him to transfer his defined benefits (DB) occupational scheme to a personal 
pension. Mr S complains that he incurred an initial adviser fee when he was told this 
wouldnt be the case. He also complains that the proceeds were placed in a single fund 
which invests in ethical areas. He thinks this wasnt good advice, the transfer proceeds 
should have been placed in a range of funds and he hadnt requested an ethical investment. 
What happened
Mr S approached PASL in 2021 to discuss his pension and retirement needs. He had a DB 
scheme with a transfer value of £623,321. In November 2021, PASL advised Mr S to 
transfer his pension benefits into a personal pension and invest the proceeds with Royal 
London in its RLP Sustainable Diversified Trust. 
Mr S complained in 2022 to PASL. He complained about what he said was the initial adviser 
fee, the one fund approach and the ethical nature of the fund used. He said the fund had 
lost money recently and this was due to the lack of diversification. He was advised that he 
could easily change the investments, but this has proven not to be the case. He felt that 
there was a conflict of interest given the complaint, compliance and director functions were 
held by the same person
PASL partially upheld Mr S complaint. It said that the fees and charges werent clearly 
disclosed to Mr S at the time of sale. Whilst he wasnt charged an initial adviser fee he did 
pay the yearly advice charge all at once at the start of the plan. This could have been 
confusing and could have seemed like it was an initial fee. So, it agreed to refund this. 
In respect of the advice, it said that the investment that the personal pension used was a 
multi-asset class fund. Because of this, it was well diversified within itself. And the 
correspondence showed that Mr S had been fully aware of this fund and how it invested, he 
had asked questions about it and considered the answers, before investing. This included 
that the fund invested in sustainable areas. It didnt uphold this part of Mr S complaint
Mr S referred his complaint to our service. An Investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He 
said that there wasnt necessarily a conflict of interest due to the person who was 
responsible for the complaint having other functions within the business. And PASLs internal 
complaint structure wouldnt affect how the Financial Ombudsman Service would look at a 
complaint anyway. The initial adviser fee had been refunded and so the Investigator didnt 
look at this part of Mr S complaint. 
Our Investigator went on to say that he didnt think the fund was unsuitable for Mr S and he 
was given full information about it at the time of sale. Mr S confirmed he was happy to 
proceed after considering the information about the fund PASL had provided. 
Mr S disagreed, and said that he didnt think it was it suitable for only one fund to be used, 
especially when it is in a specialist sector, that is its an ethical fund. It wasnt sound advice 
and he had raised this with PASL and been resisted. It didnt matter that he was a 
professional client and an experienced investor, as the advice was still not right for him. He 
says he felt time pressured but didnt want to stop the process in case the transfer value 
dropped. 
The Investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. 
And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my conclusions 
on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to have happened 
based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Was there a conflict of interest?
Mr S has said that at PASL one person is a Director, Head of Advice and Head of 
Compliance. He thinks that this may mean that his complaint hasnt been looked at properly. 
Having looked at the correspondence this doesnt show that this is the case. And, this 
wouldnt affect any consideration of Mr S complaint at the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
We do investigate complaints independently here. 
The initial adviser fee.
PASL has agreed that the documentation it supplied wasnt clear in some respects about the 
fees and charges. The suitability letter does explain that Mr S wont be charged an initial 
adviser fee. But he did pay £4,677.28 in charges when the investment started. This was an 
upfront payment of the ongoing commission charge for the first year. This is explained in the 
initial documentation, but PASL accepts that it could have been clearer about this. And so, it 
has refunded this fee. 
I think this is a reasonable way to resolve this part of Mr S complaint. So, I wont look into 
this any further. 
The issues Mr S has raised about the fund that was used in the DB transfer and the advice 
process.
Mr S hasnt complained about the advice to transfer the DB scheme itself. Its clear he 
wanted to do this, and his reasons why are well documented. Hes not said that moving his 
DB transfer value to a personal pension was unsuitable for him. So, I wont look at the 
overarching advice he was given to do this. 
Its relevant to note here that Mr S is an experienced investor. He had a very high recorded 
attitude to risk. And he had significant assets, so he did have some capacity for loss. He also 
was employed in an occupation that would have given him experience about investment risk 
in an advisory capacity. He should, of course, still receive suitable advice. But its reasonable 
that suitable advice encompassed his personal experience, knowledge and tolerance to risk 
based investments. As would be the case for anybody else.Mr S has specifically complained that that the fund used wasnt right for him. This is because 
it isnt diversified enough and he didnt want an ethical fund. 
The recommendation for the investment link was to invest into the RLP Sustainable 
Diversified Trust. This is a single fund, but it does diversify both in different sectors and 
geographical areas. It also invests in a range of types of investments such as cash, fixed 
interest areas and equities and so on. 
PASL have described the fund as a multi asset fund which means it is set up to have a 
broad spread of risk within it, and it is intended to be used as a single investment. As PASL 
has said this gives the benefit of an ease of administration and lower charges, when 
considered against a range of more specialist funds or individual investments. Given this, I 
dont think the advice was unsuitable due to how the fund invested. 
Mr S also complains about the fund investing in ethical areas. This does seem to be a 
general fund that invests in more sustainable investment areas, rather than a specialist 
ethical investment fund. And whilst Mr S didnt specifically ask for a sustainable investment, 
again, I dont think this automatically makes the recommendation unsuitable. PASL has said 
the investment was chosen for several reasons, despite its sustainable status.
And the fund has a medium risk rating which matches with the level of risk that Mr S said he 
wanted to take for his transferred-out benefits. It is a longer-term investment and Mr S only 
had a few years before he wanted to think about retirement, but there is nothing to say he 
wanted to access all, or the majority of, this fund in the near future. And his complaint is that 
he should have been advised to use different longer-term investments rather than shorter 
term ones. 
Taking all of this into account, I think the recommended investment was suitable for Mr S.
Mr S has complained about the process that PASL has followed when it gave him advice. He 
says that he felt time pressured, and he wasnt provided with clear enough information. He 
says that some of the information was sent by email rather than by post as he preferred. 
Mr S was provided with information about this fund selection in October 2021, well before 
the advice was formally given. It wasnt always sent by post as he wanted but Mr S was 
provided with the information electronically. He was provided with full documentation about 
the advice in good time for him to consider it before he needed to fully decide about the 
transfer. 
So, its reasonable to say that Mr S would have understood the investment risk of the fund 
and the risks attached to transferring his DB scheme into it. He would also have understood 
the processes that financial advice should follow. And I think these were followed here. 
And Mr S did consider the fund choice, he raised several questions before the transaction 
was finalised and some of these were about the risk and diversification of the fund. 
PASL had responded to these points, and Mr S gave confirmation he was happy to proceed 
by replying to say the questions had been answered and that there was no further action 
required. He doesnt seem to have objected to the advice at the time. I think he could have 
done this if he didnt want to proceed.  
Mr S says that he felt time pressured, but this seems to be because he was aware that the 
transfer value would expire, and he wanted to proceed with the value it had. PASL wouldnt have had any control over this. This is partly a constraint of any DB scheme transfer and is 
one of the risks of it. So, I cant say this is due to the actions of PASL. 
Having looked at everything I think PASL provided reasonable information to Mr S and its 
clear he considered and understood it at the time. I dont think PASL acted unfairly by 
proceeding with the transfer on this basis.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr S complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2023.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman