DRN-4264648
The complaint
Mr N has complained on behalf of his late mothers estate. He complains that Equiniti 
Financial Services Limited (Equiniti) delayed the sale of 1,000 Lloyds Banking Group 
shares and hasnt provided him with a copy of the lost share certificate. He wants 
independent receipt or proof of the sale of the shares. He says he has been caused 
unnecessary stress as a result. 
What happened
Mr Ns mother died in February 2015. The estate held 1,000 Lloyds Banking Group PLC 
Ordinary shares. Mr N provided Equiniti with the probate for the estate and it was registered 
on 10 February 2022. In April 2022 he asked about the current status of the estates shares. 
He also asked for a copy of its transaction history including dividends from 2009. Mr N didnt 
hold the share certificate for the holding.
Equiniti was sent a Postal Share Dealing Form (PSDF) in order for him to sell the shares 
which he was to complete in his role as executor of the estate. The PSDF had a built-in 
indemnity so that shareholders could sell the holding without the need to first obtain a 
replacement certificate.
While Mr Ns late mother lived in the UK, Mr N lived abroad, and he questioned whether he 
was able to use the PSDF. 
Mr N completed the PSDF and the shareholding was sold on 5 September 2022. A cheque 
for £319.20 was issued on 7 September 2022 because the payment couldnt be made direct 
to the estates bank account. 
Mr N wanted a copy of the share certificate in order to verify the authenticity of the number 
and value of the shares. Equiniti wasnt able to provide this as it had been surrendered upon 
sale. It said Mr N had agreed to this by signing and return the PSDF.
Mr N complained to Equiniti. It responded on 11 March 2022;
The late Ms V  Mr Ns mother  had held Halifax shares but was taken over by 
Lloyds and there was a share consolidation. 
Mr N had been advised about a letter of indemnity and was sent the PSDF if he 
wanted to sell the shares and was given detail about completing the form. 
Mr N wasnt happy with the way his complaint had been handled. Equiniti responded again 
on 21 April 2022 it said;
It provided a full transaction of the accounts shareholding fee of charge. 
It provided a breakdown of all the corporate actions that had taken place on the 
account from 2009.
It provided a breakdown of all payments made from the account since 2009 and 
refunded an administration fee of £40.00.
It was unable to identify any shortfalls in its performance. 
It apologised if Mr N was made to feel his concerns werent taken seriously.
Mr N wasnt satisfied with the outcome and brought his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. Our investigator who considered the complaint said;
For certain aspects of Mr Ns complaint Equiniti Financial Services Limited was 
acting in its role as registrar  Equiniti Limited  and which were unregulated 
activities. These included share certifications, share allocation, dividend processing 
and shareview access (to the account). Because of the rules that apply she couldnt 
consider those aspects of Mr Ns complaint.
She could consider the complaint about the share dealing as that was a regulated 
activity of the regulated arm of Equiniti Group. 
She concluded that once the PSDF sale instruction was received by Equiniti it 
handled the matter as expected and within a suitable timeframe. There wasnt any 
evidence that Equiniti had done anything wrong. 
Mr N had had to chase Equiniti for responses to his queries about the sale 
instruction, but we couldnt award compensation for any inconvenience as Mr N was 
acting in his role as executor.
Mr N had questioned Equinitis practices and wanted assurance it treated customers 
fairly and with transparency. That wasnt something this service could consider as 
that was role of the regulator. 
Mr N didnt agree. He said;
He was seeking basic business ethics.
Equiniti had sold the estates shares but refused to provide him with a copy of the 
stock transfer certificate.
Equiniti didnt give him with a certified form of receipt to provide evidence of the 
actual worth of the shares for the beneficiary. 
Our investigator clarified that this service didnt have the power to investigate some of Mr Ns 
complaint points. She couldnt consider a complaint about a business acting as registrar and 
detailed what those matters included. A stock transfer form was a registrar activity  it didnt 
relate to the selling of the shares. She would ask Equiniti for a copy of the stock price on the 
date of sale. 
In turn Equiniti provided a share sale advice  the contract note  detailing the sale. And it 
confirmed that there wasnt a share certificate as the holding was sold via the share dealing 
service upon receipt of the PSDF form. Mr N could have requested a certificate prior to the 
sale from the registrar. 
Mr N didnt agree. He said it wasnt a contract note without any reference number or 
signatories of both parties. He couldnt understand how the shares were sold when he didnt 
have a share certificate. 
The investigator clarified that the issuing of a share certificate was dealt with by the registrar 
and was an unregulated activity which couldnt be considered by this service. The contract 
note didnt need to be signed. It was a business decision to charge for a share certificate.
Mr N didnt agree. He said he wanted a transparent, reasonable, and fair investigation. Another of our ombudsman considered the jurisdiction of the complaint  which points we 
could and could not consider. He issued his decision and concluded that this service could 
only consider the complaint relating to the sale of shares against the business and points 
linked to this. 
As the merits of the complaint about the sale of the shares remain unresolved, it has been 
passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After doing so, I have reached the same conclusion as the investigator and broadly for the 
same reasons. Ill explain why. 
As the jurisdiction about what elements of the complaint has already been decided by my 
fellow ombudsman, I wont be considering those points any further. I will only be considering 
Mr Ns complaint about the sale of 1,000 Lloyds Banking Group shares. 
As Mr N didnt hold the share certificate and the ability to sell the shares via the Postal Share 
Dealing service was offered by Equiniti. The PDSF was sent to him in early 2022 to 
complete and it was received by Equiniti on 4 September 2022. Equiniti sold the shares on 
the next day and the settlement proceeds of £319.20 were sent to Mr N on the following day. 
So clearly there werent any delays in the shares being sold and settled once Equiniti 
received the completed PDSF with the sale instruction. 
There were delays between the form being sent to Mr N and it being returned. This was 
because Mr N was concerned that the PSDF wasnt correct. He had dual nationality and the 
form was for UK residents. Equiniti has explained that while the death of Mr Ns mother had 
been formally registered, he was only noted as the executor legally appointed to deal with 
the shareholding. His late mother remained the registered shareholding and she had lived in 
the UK. 
Mr N also raised some queries about the number of shares held, impact of corporate actions 
etc which I think was understandable as he wanted to ensure that he was selling the correct 
number of shares. He was acting as executor to the estate of his late mother and had a 
responsibility to the beneficiary. But any responses to those questions were given by Equiniti 
acting as registrar  as Equiniti Limited  and not Equiniti Financial Services Limited. 
So, Equinitis role was limited to the sale of the shares and I cant agree there were any 
delays in those shares being sold once the instruction to do so was received. It follows that I 
dont think that Equiniti has done anything wrong. 
Mr N has been given the share sale advice  the contract note. The contract note details the 
shareholding sold, the number shares, the share price, total sale proceeds, and trade and 
settlement date etc. Mr N doesnt think it is a valid document. He says its not signed by the 
parties and doesnt have a legal proof of the settlement reference number  its just a piece 
of paper. But, and like the investigator I am satisfied that the contract note complies with the 
regulations as laid down by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) with reference to trade 
reporting for clients.
Those regulations say that a business must promptly provide the client with the essential 
information concerning the execution of the order. And I am satisfied all of that information is 
contained within the share sale advice that Equiniti has provided. Taking all of the above into account I am satisfied that Equiniti acted as it should have done 
when carrying out the sale transaction for Mr N. And I cant find any evidence of wrongdoing 
or that Equiniti hasnt acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr N when executing 
the trade on his behalf and has provided proof of that sale.  
Because of this, I dont uphold the complaint. 
No doubt Mr N will be disappointed with the outcome, but I hope I have been able to explain 
how and why I reached the decision that I have. 
My final decision
For the reasons given I dont uphold the complaint made on behalf of the estate of the late 
Ms V. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Ms V 
to accept or reject my decision before 30 August 2023.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman