DRN-1644336
 
The complaint
Miss G says Provident Financial Management Services Limited trading as Satsuma lent to 
her irresponsibly. She says that she was in financial difficulty at the time and she had to 
reborrow to repay the loans. She thinks it was wrong for Satsuma to lend to her in these 
circumstances.   
What happened
This complaint is about two instalment loans Satsuma provided to Miss G between August 
2016 and July 2017. Some of the information Satsuma has supplied about the loans is in the 
table below. 
loan number date startedamount 
borrowedterm payments date ended
1 02/08/2016 £400 52 weeks £15 07/08/2017
2 31/07/2017 £1,000 12 months £166 28/07/2018
Our adjudicator didn't uphold the complaint. Miss G disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. 
She said that she had no option but to use high interest loans and she feels she was taken 
advantage of. As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Satsuma needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss G 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Gs complaint. Ive decided not to uphold Miss Gs 
complaint and Ive explained why below.
Why I think Satsumas checks were proportionate for loans 1 and 2 
For loan 1 Miss G needed to repay around £15 a week. For loan 2 this increased to just over 
£165 a month. 
Ive seen a record of the information Miss G provided when she completed her loan 
application. Miss G said she had a monthly disposable income of over £600. Satsuma used 
a reduced disposable income figure, of around £300, to assess the affordability for loan 1. 
This is because it found out that she had other outgoings and debt from the credit 
checks that it did. But even after this, the information Satsuma had still showed that Miss G 
could afford the repayments.  
I havent seen any further information that shows its likely Satsuma was made aware of any 
financial problems Miss G mightve been having. Or anything that wouldve prompted it to 
investigate her circumstances further. So I think it was reasonable for Satsuma to rely on the 
information it obtained.
So overall, in these circumstances, I think the assessments Satsuma did for these loans 
were proportionate. So I think Satsumas decisions to approve loans 1 and 2 were 
reasonable and Im not upholding Miss Gs complaint about them. 
I can see that Miss G feels very strongly about this and Im sure my decision doesn't give her 
the outcome she wanted. Im sorry about that and I hope it doesn't cause her any undue 
distress. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 April 2020.
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman