DRN-1649602
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy that The Society of Lloyd's settled his motor accident claim that he says 
wasn't his fault. And that it didn't tell him the outcome.
What happened
Mr D was involved in an accident in August 2016. He says that his insurer, Lloyd's, didn't tell 
him that a claim had been made. He's said that he told Lloyd's that the accident wasn't his 
fault and that there was a witness. But he said that Lloyd's hadn't taken the witness' details. 
And he's unhappy that Lloyd's settled a claim that he's sure he wasn't responsible for.
Lloyd's says that it told Mr D about the claim and that, due to the lack of evidence, it would 
be settling it. It says that Mr D did provide it with details of the witness. But on contacting 
him, the witness hung up once he was told what the call was about. Faced with that reaction 
and the lack of evidence available, Lloyd's settled the claim as it was entitled to do under the 
terms of Mr D's policy.
Our investigator looked into Mr D's complaint. He thought that Lloyd's hadn't acted unfairly or 
unreasonably when settling the claim. But he did think that Lloyd's could've kept Mr D better 
informed about the outcome. He considered that Lloyd's should pay Mr D £100 for the 
trouble and upset this had caused him.
Neither Mr D nor Lloyd's agreed with our investigator. So the matter was passed to me for 
review. In advance of this final decision, I issued a provisional decision to the parties in 
which I told them I didn't intend to uphold Mr D's complaint. I didn't think that Lloyd's had 
done anything wrong and I also didn't think that it needed to pay him £100 compensation.
Lloyd's responded to say that it agreed with my decision. I didn't hear back from Mr D.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Taking into account the response from Lloyd's and that I've not heard anything further from 
Mr D, I don't see any need to change my provisional findings, which I confirm are now my 
final findings as follows:
'Mr D says that he didn't give the details of the witness to Lloyd's. But Lloyd's has a note of a 
telephone call from early January 2017 in which Mr D provided the witness' details. Lloyd's 
followed that up using the witness' mobile number that Mr D had given it. But on the first 
attempt there was no answer and on the second, the witness hung up. So I have found that 
Lloyd's did make reasonable efforts to follow up with the witness.
I completely appreciate why Mr D is so upset that this accident has been described as a fault 
claim. He thinks that he didn't cause the accident. And that may well be right. But it's not for 
me, when dealing with his complaint, to determine who was at fault for the accident. That's not something that we do here at the service. What we do look at is whether the insurer has 
acted unfairly or unreasonably in reaching the decision that it has on the claim.
In cases where it is one party's word against the other and, like here, where there are no 
cooperating independent witnesses, unless there's clear evidence from the damage caused 
as to who was at fault, then insurers often have little choice but to take a commercial 
decision about whether to fight the claim. Here, Lloyd's decided that it didn't have sufficient 
evidence to defend this. From what I've seen, I can't say that it acted unreasonably in 
reaching that decision.
When an insurer has to pay out on a claim and can't recover its money from any other party, 
that means the incident is known as a 'fault' claim against the policy holder. That doesn't 
mean that Mr D caused the accident, it's just that Lloyd's couldn't defend it and ended up 
out-of-pocket.
Lloyd's has provided us with its file which shows that Mr D was kept advised by Lloyd's that it 
was likely to settle the third party's claim. I know that Mr D doesn't think that Lloyd's told him 
what it was doing. But in response to a number of telephone calls back in September 2016, 
it's recorded that it did tell Mr D what was happening. And it sent Mr D a letter on 10 
November 2017 in which it indicated he had 8 years no claims bonus and that the claim was 
still reserved at around £11,000, although at that point it had not been finally settled. So I've 
found that Mr D was more likely than not kept sufficiently informed.
Lloyd's wrote to Mr D's insurance broker in July 2018 to confirm that the claim had been 
settled. Given this, it was surprising that the broker enquired in October 2019 about how the 
claim had been settled. But I'm satisfied that Lloyd's had made it aware of the outcome prior 
to that.
So I'm afraid that I can't say that Lloyd's has treated Mr D unfairly or unreasonably during 
this claim. The claim took a long time to settle. But that was, as I understand it, due to delays 
by the third party and it's representatives and the need to obtain medical reports in relation 
to the third party's apparent injuries.
I do empathise with Mr D, as I understand why he feels hard done by, particularly given he's 
sure he wasn't at fault. But insurers are entitled to settle claims in the way that they see fit, 
and that's often controversial when it's one person's word against the other. In the end, not 
all claims are worth the cost of fighting (and potentially losing), particularly if the amount 
claimed isn't too significant.'
My final decision
For the above reasons, it's my final decision not to uphold Mr D's complaint against The 
Society of Lloyd's and I don't require that it do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2020.
James Kennard
Ombudsman