DRN-2275281
The complaint
Mr A complains about how HDI Global Speciality SE dealt with and settled a claim he made 
under his home insurance for storm damage.
Mr A is represented by his wife in bringing this complaint. But for clarity  Ill refer to all 
submissions as being made by him directly.
What happened
Mr A holds a home insurance policy, which is underwritten by HDI Global Speciality SE 
(HDI). When his policy was incepted a copy of the policy terms and schedule were made 
available to him.
On 26 February 2020 Mr A contacted HDI to explain that hed noticed his shed roof had 
sustained irreparable damage and had partially collapsed. He thought this had happened 
following three consecutive storms earlier that month.  
HDI appointed a surveyor, (V), to attend Mr As property in order to assess and determine 
the cause of damage to his shed roof. Vs surveyor visited Mr As property on 4 March 2020 
and photographed the damage to his shed roof. But Mr A said no one informed him of the 
outcome of Vs site visit. So, he had to chase HDI for information about his claim had been 
approved. 
On 11 May 2020 Mr A contacted HDI to query how his claim was progressing. During this 
telephone call he found out that HDI had repudiated his claim. It said V had said Mr As shed 
had a large amount of well-established vegetation on its roof, which would add weight on top 
of the roof. It also said the weight of this foliage would be more when wet from rain. V 
thought the roof had been damaged as a result of age-related wear and tear, which was 
excluded by Mr As policy. But Mr A disputed this and said his shed was well maintained and 
the foliage was cut back on a quarterly basis. So, he complained about how his claim had 
been handled and assessed.
When HDI responded to Mr As complaint, it told him that Vs surveyor said theyd informed 
him of their findings during their site visit. And it said, having consulted weather records from 
around the time Mr A said hed noticed the damage to his shed, the weather didnt meet its 
policy definition of a storm. It therefore stood by its decision to repudiate Mr As claim. 
Mr A wasnt happy with HDIs response to his complaint and he thought the service hed 
experienced had been poor. He maintained that Vs surveyor hadnt informed him of their 
decision during their site visit. And he thought HDI had unfairly assessed his claim. So, he 
referred his complaint to our service for an independent review. 
Our investigator looked into what happened. But they didnt recommend upholding Mr As 
complaint. They thought that HDI had acted fairly in repudiating this claim. And they thought 
the apology that it had provided Mr A sufficiently recognised the delay hed experienced in 
finding out his claim had been declined. So, they didnt think HDI needed to do anything 
more. But Mr A asked for his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A has sent our investigator some very detailed submissions about his complaint. I want to 
assure him Ive read and considered everything that both he and HDI have said when 
reaching my decision. I havent referred to all the points Mr A has raised as Ive focused on 
what I feel are the key issues of the case. I hope Mr A wont take that as a discourtesy. My 
approach reflects the informal nature of our service.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here, I 
must base my decision on the balance of probabilities. 
My role is to assess whether I think HDI made a mistake, or treated Mr A unfairly, in how it 
dealt with the claim he brought for damage to his shed roof. And in reaching a decision 
about this Ive considered everything Mr A and HDI have said, Vs opinion on the cause of 
damage and photographs taken of the shed and its roof.
Mr A would like HDI to cover the damage his shed roof sustained because he believes it was 
caused by adverse weather. His policy with HDI provides cover for damage caused by a 
range of perils that might happen. These are specific one-off events and include storm, for 
example. But, for a claim to be successful, Mr A would have to show that the damage hes 
claiming for was caused by one of the perils listed in his policy.
There are three conditions that need to be met before this service would say a claim for 
storm damage should succeed. Those are:  
1. Is there evidence that there was a storm around the date of the damage?
2. Is the damage consistent with what we would normally consider storm damage?
3. Was the storm the main cause of the damage?
I have re-assessed Mr As complaint and all the evidence with these three questions in mind. 
The answer to all three questions needs to be yes for this service to be able to recommend 
that a storm complaint is upheld.
In weighing up the first question, I can see that Mr As policy defines the word storm to be 
strong winds of 41 knots/47 mph or more, sometimes accompanied by rain, hail or snow. 
Heavy or persistent rain alone does not constitute storm unless the downpour is torrential 
(25 mm/1 inch or more of rain over a one hour period, or a proportionate amount over a 
shorter time).
Mr A believes storms Ciara and Dennis caused the damage to his roof. And he knows this 
happened prior to 26 February 2020 because this is when he became aware of it. Mr A told 
our investigator that, prior to discovering the damage to his shed roof, hed last been inside 
his shed in early February 2020. Based on the photographs Ive seen of Mr As shed, Im 
satisfied it wouldnt have been possible for him to see the damaged roof simply by looking at 
the structures exterior. I say this because the damage would have been masked by the 
extensive well-established foliage thats resting on top of the roof. I therefore accept the 
reasons why Mr A said he didnt find out about the damage until the end of February.
Like our investigator, Ive considered weather records during the month of February 2020 to 
see whether it meets HDIs storm definition. I can see that wind speeds of 71 mph are 
recorded on 8/9 February, which is when storm Ciara hit. And there were speeds of 58 mph recorded on 15/16 February, which was when storm Dennis was prevalent. This persuades 
me that the weather recorded in early and mid-February meets HDIs definition of a storm. 
So, Im satisfied I can answer question one affirmatively.
Turning to question two, Ive thought about whether the damage claimed is consistent with 
damage a storm typically causes. As Ive already mentioned Mr As shed roof partially 
collapsed. Our service typically sees this type of damage following a storm. Im therefore 
satisfied that I can answer this question affirmatively.
I now need to consider whether the storm was the main cause of the damage in this 
instance. Vs opinion is that a one-off weather incident wasnt the main cause of the damage. 
Instead it thought the damage Mr A reported was due to age related wear and tear, which 
had been contributed to by the substantial vegetation resting on the roof.  
As Ive already mentioned, the shrubbery on the roof is well-established. Mr As told our 
service he prunes it regularly. But, based on the evidence Ive seen, I think the photographs 
taken of the shed roof support Vs opinion on the cause of damage. I say this because Im 
satisfied the weight of the vegetation will have added significant weight and strain to the roof. 
I think this has been the case for a number of years. So, its likely this will have caused the 
roof structure to weaken over time.
In the overall circumstances of this complaint, Im persuaded the most likely cause of the 
collapse of Mr A shed roof is age related wear and tear. I dont think the adverse weather he 
experienced in February 2020 caused the damage he reported to HDI.  
HDIs policy booklet makes it clear that loss or damage caused by age related wear and tear 
or anything that happens gradually is specifically excluded under Mr As insurance policy. 
This is in common with most home insurance policies because insurance is intended to 
cover the unforeseen. And something wearing out or requiring maintenance isnt unforeseen. 
As Im not satisfied Mr As shed roof was damaged as a result of a one-off weather event, I 
cant fairly tell HDI to settle his claim. And because Im persuaded the damage was due to 
age related wear and tear, I cant say HDI acted unfairly in repudiating Mr As claim based 
on a wear and tear policy exclusion. 
Finally, Ive considered Mr As comments about the delay he experienced in finding out 
about the outcome of his claim. As our investigator told Mr A theres no obligation for an 
insurer to communicate a claim outcome in writing. Instead, it need only to tell a policyholder 
what decision its reached.
In this case, its clear there was miscommunication between V and HDI. I say this because 
HDI thought V had informed Mr A regarding the outcome of his claim during its site visit. I 
think if V had informed Mr A it was recommending a repudiation of his claim hed have 
complained to HDI about how it was intending to settle his claim sooner and I dont think 
hed have chased HDI in the way that he did. While I can see Vs report said its surveyors 
findings have been delivered to the customer in full I dont think that happened here. 
I recognise that it must have been frustrating for Mr A to have to chase HDI for information 
about how it intended to settle his claim. This, inevitably, caused a delay in him finding out 
that his claim had been repudiated.  So, Ive thought carefully about whether an award of 
compensation is justified here. 
When deciding what potential compensation to award I must take two things into account: 
financial loss as a result of any business error and non-financial loss, including distress and 
inconvenience.Ive thought about whether Mr A suffered a financial loss as a result of what happened. But I 
havent seen any evidence that he incurred a financial loss as a result of the delay in finding 
out his claim had been repudiated. In those circumstances, it wouldnt be fair or impartial of 
me to tell HDI to pay financial loss or compensation for something that didnt happen.
Ive gone on to consider whether an award of compensation is appropriate to reflect the 
trouble and upset Mr A said he was caused by the delay he experienced. 
When considering awards for non-financial loss there isnt a set formula that we use to 
calculate awards for particular errors. Its my role to consider what impact a business 
actions have had on the consumer and to decide, within guidelines set by our service, 
whether compensation would be appropriate in the circumstances. 
I recognise Mr A had to chase HDI to understand how his claim was progressing. It wasnt 
until over 2 months after he reported his claim that he found out it had been repudiated. I can 
understand how disappointing and inconvenient this all was for Mr A. And I acknowledge this 
could have been avoided had V informed him of its opinion during its site visit in March 2020.
Our service isnt here to punish businesses and, to put things right, Id have asked HDI to 
apologise for what happened here. Its already done this and, while Mr A may disagree with 
me, Im satisfied that this fairly recognises the impact this all would have had on him. In the 
overall circumstances, Im not persuaded that what happened warrants an award of 
compensation here. I therefore wont be asking HDI to do anything further.
I realise Mr A will be disappointed with this decision. But this now brings to an end what we, 
in trying to resolve his dispute with HDI informally, can do for him. Im sorry we cant help Mr 
A any further with this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2021.
 
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman