DRN-3405510
The complaint
Mr S complains about the suitability of the advice he received from Lighthouse Advisory 
Services Limited (Lighthouse) to transfer two pensions into a new personal pension plan 
(PPP) in 2011. Mr S says he wasnt made aware of the charges that would be taken from his 
pension funds on transferring  which he says could have added up to about £10,000, and 
will end up being more than he would have been charged if he had kept his main pension  
with his previous employer. 
He also complains that he lost the ability to take 40% tax free cash from the employers 
scheme after he transferred, because he had protected tax free cash above the 25% which 
he will now receive on retirement.
What happened
In April 2011 Mr S met with Albyn Associates Financial Management LLP, an appointed 
representative of Lighthouse [referred to as Lighthouse throughout this decision], to discuss 
his retirement planning  amongst other matters. It was noted that Mr S held benefits in a 
stakeholder plan and a contracted out money purchase (COMP) arrangement from a 
previous employer which were valued at £108,666.79 in total. It was noted that Mr S wanted 
to combine the plans as he wasnt happy with the existing providers and thought he could be 
better off by transferring.
Lighthouse recommended that Mr S transferred both plans into a new flexible PPP  
invested into a balanced fund - up to his 65th birthday. The charges were noted as a 3% 
initial adviser charge with a 1% annual fund management charge. But 0.6% (for the size of 
Mr Ss plan) was rebated to the fund as part of the overall terms. The transfer of the first plan 
completed in July and the second in September 2011.
In July 2019 Mr S was making enquiries of all his plans as part of an exercise to establish if 
he held any PPI policies. When he received documents relating to his pension plan and 
became aware of all the costs that had been taken, he complained about the earlier advice 
hed been given by Lighthouse. In particular he said that hed lost an entitlement to protected 
tax free cash of 40% because of the transfer, and he wasnt made aware that the adviser 
would receive commission  from his investment - for the advice
Lighthouse didnt uphold the complaint. It made the following points:
It acted in good faith when it was told by the ceding pension scheme in 2011 that 
there was nothing to suggest Mr S was entitled to more than the standard 25% tax 
free cash.
But a subsequent review by the provider had found that there might have been errors 
in the information it previously provided around tax free cash calculations. It was now 
understood that Mr S had been compensated with redress of over for £20,000 for the 
loss of protected tax free cash by the previous provider. Therefore, Lighthouse 
thought that Mr S had been put back into the position he would now be in had he 
been correctly informed that he was entitled to protected tax free cash in 2011.
It thought that the suitability report that was issued in July 2011 set out clearly the 
charges that applied to its advice. It said that in addition the providers illustration 
noted that, we will pay your financial adviser commission on the starting level of 
contributions of £3,260.01 immediately. So it thought its advice charges had been 
fully disclosed to Mr S.
But it said its investigation into Mr Ss complaint had taken too long to complete and 
recognised this would have caused Mr S some degree of upset  so it offered £100 
as compensation for the impact that had. 
Mr S was unhappy with the outcome, so he brought his complaint to us where one of our 
investigators looked into the matter. The investigator thought the issue of the protected tax 
free cash had already been resolved and even if Mr S remained unhappy with the amount of 
redress he received that was a matter for him and the previous provider to resolve.  But he 
also thought that Lighthouse had disclosed its advice costs and it was reasonable for 
Lighthouse to make changes to Mr Ss pension arrangements  primarily because of a 
change in his attitude to risk (ATR), for which it was entitled to charge advice fees. So he 
thought Lighthouse didnt need to do anything further than its offer of £100 for the delay in 
investigating Mr Ss complaint.
Mr S didnt agree making the following points;
At no point in the process did the adviser tell him that he would need to pay for the 
advice. The suggestion was that the advisers company would cover his costs. 
He wasnt made aware that any costs would be taken from his own pension pot.
He felt this was mis selling of the transfer. 
He wasnt made aware of any cooling off period or advised to seek further advice 
before going ahead. 
We hadnt investigated all the facts involved, as he believed he would have been 
better off financially by remaining in his COMP scheme. 
The investigator explained that, taking into account the loyalty bonus, it would seem that 
Mr S paid lower overall ongoing charges within the new plan  even when including the initial 
advisory charge. So, he thought Lighthouses advice demonstrated that Mr S would most 
likely be better off by transferring. He remained of the view that the charges had been 
explained to Mr S and that they werent deducted without him being made aware. 
The investigator also provided Mr S with an explanation of the various ways a firm might 
charge for its advice both before and after the retail distribution review of 2012. 
But Mr S didnt accept the outcome and asked for his complaint to be referred to an 
ombudsman  so it was passed to me for review.  
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision I said that Mr Ss complaint shouldnt be upheld. I made the 
following points in support of my findings:
This decision related solely to the advice Mr S was given to transfer his two existing 
plans to a new PPP. 
Lighthouse wasnt responsible for any loss of protected tax free cash as the other 
provider had accepted it didnt provide correct information and had paid Mr S 
compensation for its error. If Mr S didnt think the compensation was correct, he 
should direct his complaint to that provider.  It was reasonable that Mr S should expect to pay for this service  either directly or 
indirectly to Lighthouse from his investment. As he wasnt asked to pay directly he 
should have expected to pay in another way. I accepted Mr S had no recollection of 
being made aware of any charges, but I thought Lighthouse had made him aware 
through other forms of communication.
The client agreement, suitability report and product illustration all made references to 
some form of fee that Lighthouse would receive. And the illustration was specific 
about the different charges which might be applied and outlined they would be taken 
from the fund. 
Mr S had said he wasnt made aware of the charges verbally, but he was provided 
with sufficient documentation which made the charges clear.  I would have expected 
Mr S to have queried the charges if he had any problems with them or was unclear 
how they worked.
Lighthouse didnt have an agreement to deduct ongoing charges so it was unclear 
how it could have taken a further £10,000 from Mr Ss plan for ongoing fees. But I 
thought there had been some confusion over a number of illustrations issued by the 
pension provider  which set out a number of different scenarios, one of which 
involved fund based commission. But I was satisfied that the 3% initial charge was 
the only charge that had been implemented by Lighthouse.
I didnt think Lighthouse had unlawfully taken deductions from Mr Ss plan because it 
had simply requested fees which had been agreed for the work involved. Mr S was 
referring to the situation whereby benefits from a pension cant be accessed until a 
policyholder is age 55.
But I had also considered the overall suitability of the advice as Im able to do under 
our inquisitorial remit.  I noted that Mr S wanted to see if he could get the annual 
management charge on his COMP reduced or whether he could enjoy lower charges 
outside of the scheme. Lighthouse had demonstrated that its recommendation could 
 based on the regulators assumed growth rates  provide Mr S with a significantly 
higher fund value than his existing plans. So it seemed reasonable to put that 
recommendation forward to him. There were also other factors which underpinned 
the suitability of the advice to transfer. 
I also concluded that had Mr S been aware of the charges involved  which he 
disputed, then it was likely he would have accepted the recommendation in any case 
because it demonstrated that a transfer might be in his best interests. 
I didnt comment on Lighthouses offer of compensation as it was about the way the 
complaint was handled  which wasnt within the scope of our jurisdiction. I said it 
was up to Mr S to decide if he wanted to accept the offer.
Responses to my provisional decision   
Lighthouse didnt want to make any further submissions and it confirmed it didnt have any 
further evidence relating to the 3% initial commission which Id asked it to look into. But Mr S 
didnt agree. He reiterated that at no time had the matter of commission been discussed. He 
said he only learnt of the commission that had been deducted when he was reviewing some 
PPI policies and inadvertently discovered that the level of funds he held in his previous two 
pension policies didnt match which what he should have held in the new PPP. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the complaint, and taken into account Mr Ss further points, I see no reason to depart from my provisional decision. Ive noted how strongly Mr S continues to feel about 
this matter and I have some sympathy for his position here  but I havent seen any 
persuasive evidence to suggest that Lighthouse did anything wrong which Ill explain.
The protected tax free cash
Mr S has made no further comment on the matter of the protected tax free cash he believed 
he may have lost the opportunity to access when he transferred the proceeds of the COMP 
to the new PPP. Its not in dispute that the previous provider gave incorrect information to 
Lighthouse and that it has paid Mr S redress for that error. So I cant say Lighthouse is 
responsible for what happened with the protected tax free cash, and as I said previously 
Mr S should revert to the other provider if he has reason to believe the redress calculation 
was incorrect.
The commission and charges
Mr S says that at no point were the commission and charges that applied to the plan 
explained to him. He says he always assumed the new PPP provider or Lighthouse would 
pay the adviser and he only realised that wasnt the case when he reviewed the plan more 
recently. He said its current value didnt reflect what should have been transferred from the 
original plans.
As I said previously, Im unable to confirm what was discussed between Mr S and the 
adviser at the time  although I dont dispute Mr Ss assertion that the matter of commission 
wasnt discussed. However, as Mr S says that he assumed charges would be met by 
Lighthouse or the product provider, Ive taken into account that he understood some costs 
would be involved for the transfer. And I dont think it was reasonable for Mr S to assume 
that the other parties should pay for a service that was provided to, and benefitted him. I 
dont think its reasonable for him to expect the transfer to be conducted by Lighthouse at no 
cost to himself  which, as he wasnt asked to pay directly, ought to have alerted him to 
expect some deduction of fees from his pension fund to pay for the advice.  
But, even if I am wrong in my assumption, I would have expected Lighthouse to have 
provided some documentation of its costs within the paperwork it would have provided to 
Mr S in 2011  and Im satisfied that it did. Lighthouses client agreement explained that 
payment options would be set out in the keyfacts document, and its suitability report 
confirmed that any remuneration would be shown in the product illustrations for the new 
PPP. So I think Mr S would at the very least have been alerted to the fact that costs would 
be applied and wouldnt be met by Lighthouse itself.
And the illustration made a number of references to fees. The first page confirmed 
commission of 3% will be paid and the section which explained the charges in more detail 
noted charges we take from the fund and that there was a financial adviser charge from
the fund built up by your transferred non-contracted -out contributions of 3%. Confirmation 
was also noted of a yearly fund management charge on all the funds selected of 1%. The 
initial commission charge was also confirmed in monetary terms (£3,260.01) elsewhere in 
the illustration.
So I think it was clear both that the fees would be deducted from the pension fund and were 
for the services provided by Lighthouse in conducting the transfer. I know Mr S says these 
charges werent explained verbally to him, but I think they were set out within the 
documentation he would have been provided with  which I think ought to have alerted him 
to that fact and allowed him to query the charges if they werent what he was expecting or if 
they were coming from a source he wasnt expecting them to be taken from. Ive not been able to confirm Lighthouses written instruction to the PPP provider for the 3% 
initial fee, but Im satisfied theres no dispute that ultimately this was the fee that was 
applied. Mr S has referred to overall costs of £10,000 being taken from his fund over its 
term, but I think this was confusion caused by a number of different illustrations being 
prepared in advance of the final recommendation. 
But again, Im satisfied the ongoing fund based commission that was noted in some 
illustrations wasnt adopted going forward and its been confirmed that that no ongoing 
charges were taken from the fund. So while I understand Mr Ss frustration about the 
charges that he thought might be applied, these costs didnt actually materialise. In any case 
the more illustrations Mr S was provided with, regardless of their accuracy, ought to have 
made him more aware that costs were involved with the transfer and that he should question 
them if he wasnt sure of how they worked. 
The suitability of Lighthouses advice 
Regardless of whether Lighthouse had explained its commission charges to Mr S it still had 
a duty to provide him with suitable advice  especially as in his complaint submission Mr S 
spoke about being mis sold the PPP and being worse off financially as a result. So Ive gone 
onto consider the overall suitability of the advice to transfer the two existing pensions to a 
new PPP. 
Although Lighthouse suggested Mr S wanted to seek out lower charges on his COMP as he 
was no longer an employee  as well as looking at the possibility of a lower charging plan 
elsewhere, it believed he was unhappy with his existing providers and wanted a better 
service elsewhere. In my view, while these are factors that should be considered when 
considering a transfer, the overwhelming reason for such a transfer was if Mr S was likely to 
be better off financially, and in this case I believed Lighthouse demonstrated that was likely 
to be the case. 
An illustration of what could expected from the two existing plans at age 65 using the 
regulators mid-range assumed rates of return, was £316,600. Whereas the new PPP, 
including the fees that would be applied, would provide £387,000 at the same age and using 
the same assumed rates of growth. So I think Lighthouse was able to show that it was likely 
Mr S would be better off financially at age 65 if he transferred. 
Lighthouse also said that the new PPP would be better aligned to Mr Ss correct attitude to 
risk  and it could be auto rebalanced to ensure it remained aligned. And while these 
wouldnt have been compelling reasons to transfer on their own, they were additional 
positive factors to consider alongside the main financial advantage to transferring. 
So while Mr S has maintained that he wasnt made aware of any commission payments that 
Lighthouse would receive from advising him to transfer his existing pensions  or that any 
payments would be taken from his pension fund  I think Mr S would have transferred 
regardless as he would more likely than not have followed the advice that he would be better 
off by transferring regardless of any commission costs.
 
Of course that would have been based on what was known at the time of the 
recommendation and Mr S will no doubt say that he has ended up in worse financial position 
following the transfer. But thats with the benefit of hindsight and the unfortunate 
consequence of lower than expected investment performance in subsequent years. 
Lighthouses advice was based on what was known at the time and its analysis was 
conducted using the regulators prescribed assumed rates of growth which were used across 
all illustrations at the time. Im not persuaded by Mr Ss assertion that he would have remained in his COMP and tried to obtain lower charges going forward as theres no 
evidence that would have happened or that he would have been better off by remaining 
within the scheme.   
Summary 
Ultimately here I think Lighthouses advice didnt seem unsuitable in the circumstances and I 
think Mr S would most likely have followed it as being in his best interest even if he was fully 
aware of all the costs involved. But I also believe that Lighthouse did provide sufficient 
information and warning about fees in its documentation. I think Mr S ought to have known 
fees would be taken from him or his pension fund to pay for the advice or at the very least 
that he should have questioned such fees and their workings if he was unsure. So I dont 
think Lighthouse needs to do anything further here.
My final decision
For the reasons that Ive given I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint. Its for Mr S to contact 
Lighthouse if he wants to accept its offer of compensation for the delay in responding to his 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2022.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman