DRN-2396237
The complaint
Mr A and Miss P complain that TSB Bank plc acted unfairly and unreasonably when dealing 
with their mortgage application and shouldnt have given it to them due to the state of the 
property. They want TSB to gift them money to repair their property.
What happened
Mr A and Miss P were first time buyers and bought a property in 2019 with the help of a 
mortgage from TSB. They had a free mortgage valuation, and didnt get a survey to save 
money. The mortgage valuation mentioned the property had suffered structural movement 
but said it was long standing in nature and there was no need for specialist reports. The 
valuer confirmed that the property was suitable for a mortgage. The valuation wasnt seen by 
Mr A and Miss P until after they owned the property and complained.
Once Mr A and Miss P moved in and there had been a period of lengthy storms (which 
seems to have caused the drains to collapse), they said that they discovered that there were 
various serious issues with the property. Both parties arranged for surveys and specialist 
reports to be carried out after the purchase. Mr A and Miss P said that TSB offered Mr A and 
Miss P a loan to cover the repair costs and accepted fault verbally. They wanted money as a 
grant as Mr A and Miss P didnt want to repay a mortgage and a loan.
Mr A and Miss P complained to TSB. It said that it hadnt made a mistake. It said that the 
mortgage valuation was only a valuation and not a survey, and was only for TSBs use to 
check the property was suitable for a mortgage.
Mr A and Miss P complained to us. TSB explained that it had checked the property was 
stable and safe and no urgent repairs were required, and gave Miss P informal advice about 
how to proceed with her insurers. It added that it had not offered a loan and had refused to 
increase the mortgage. 
The investigators view was that TSB wasnt at fault. She said that TSB during the mortgage 
application process told Mr A and Miss P that they would have to pay for a survey, while it 
would cover the costs of a basic valuation. The investigator noted that the valuation 
mentioned the structural movement and said the risk of future movement was acceptable, 
and the valuer was an expert. She thought that it was fair and reasonable for TSB to rely on 
the professional advice it received. The investigator didnt accept that TSB had said that the 
mortgage shouldnt have been sold to Mr A and Miss P as this conflicted with the evidence.
Mr A and Miss P disagreed. They said the insurer was now investigating and theyd replaced 
some of the windows. They asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key point to bear in mind is that financial businesses arent experts in property matters 
and valuations. Whether or not the valuer was incorrect in his advice, if he was an 
independent suitably qualified expert, TSB isnt responsible. But it is responsible for its own 
actions.
When Mr A and Miss P applied for a mortgage to buy the property of their choice, they told 
this service that they didnt pay for a survey to save money, which in hindsight they felt was 
a mistake. But TSB gave them information about what the basic valuation covered, its 
purpose and that the customers would have to pay for a survey, so it wasnt TSBs fault that 
only a basic mortgage valuation was carried out.
A basic mortgage valuation is for the use of the lender only. As the valuation in this case 
says, This is not a building survey but it is a valuation solely for mortgage purposes. You 
must not assume that if defects are not mentioned in the report, all parts of the structure are 
free from defect, nor if some defects are mentioned, that there are no others. Moreover 
services have not been fully tested. It is highly recommended that you obtain your own full 
report from an independent surveyor to protect your own interests.
Mr A and Miss P didnt see the valuation before purchase as it wasnt for their use. They 
chose to proceed without any advice about the state of the property. TSB is entitled to rely 
on expert professional advice, such as that it received in this case, when deciding if a 
property was suitable for mortgage. As the investigator has pointed out, the valuer 
specifically mentioned the possibility of structural movement but advised the property was 
suitable. I cant say that TSB acted unfairly or unreasonably in relying on this professional 
advice and offering the mortgage.
After completion, there was a period of unusual weather patterns and storms. When Miss P 
contacted it, TSB acted fairly and reasonably in my view in paying for another expert to carry 
out a full building survey to check the property was safe and remained good security. 
Building surveys tend to pick up every possible problem. The one obtained for this property 
does outline a number of serious issues, but it doesnt say the property is so unsafe, the 
family should leave. TSBs conclusion that the property is stable and safe is fair and 
reasonable based on the evidence before it. 
Given the evidence before me, I think its unlikely that TSB said that it shouldnt have offered 
the mortgage or offered a loan. TSB has been consistent in saying that it relied upon the 
valuers advice and that it had refused to increase the mortgage as the loan to value ratio is 
high (and its security should be able to pay the mortgage if necessary). It has treated the 
borrowers sympathetically and made suggestions and taken action to assist them.
Financial businesses are not required to give or lend money; they have lending policies and 
use their own commercial judgment. I havent found TSB to be at fault so theres no grounds 
for me to require compensation is paid.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Miss P to accept or reject my decision 
before 12 February 2021.
 
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman