DRN-3024947
The complaint
Mr B says U K Insurance Limited (UKI), trading as Privilege Insurance, unfairly cancelled his 
car insurance policy from the start and declined a claim he made on it.
Mr Bs complaint had been brought by his representative. For convenience, Ill refer only to 
Mr B in this decision.
What happened
Mr B applied for the policy in 2020 via a price comparison website. During the application 
process Mr B indicated, when asked, that he hadnt committed any driving offences or had 
any fixed penalty notices in the last five years. UKI started the policy on that basis the 
following month.
Several months later, Mr B told UKI he wanted to claim on the policy as his car had been 
stolen. It came to light at that time that hed been given six penalty points for a driving 
offence in the five years leading up to the application. UKI found that Mr B had recklessly 
misrepresented the facts in answering the relevant question as he had. Because, it said, it 
wouldnt have offered Mr B any cover had he answered the question correctly, it declined the 
claim and cancelled the policy from the start. It offered to refund Mr Bs premiums to him.
Unhappy with UKIs decision, and its response to his complaint, Mr B brought the matter to 
us. One of our investigators looked into the complaint but didnt recommend that it should be 
upheld. The investigator was persuaded that the information relating to Mr Bs penalty points 
had been recklessly misrepresented to UKI and that it was fair for UKI to respond as it did. 
Mr B didnt agree with the investigators findings. He said hed already provided his driving 
licence number as part of the application process and reasonably believed UKI would use 
those details to check for any points on his licence. More than that, Mr B said the price 
comparison website promoted its use of a service whereby UKI would use his licence details 
to check for itself his driving records and information automatically rather than having to 
input all the information yourself, risking making a mistake and invalidating your policy. 
  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally by the investigator, it was passed to me to 
review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Its not in dispute that Mr Bs application for the policy included a misrepresentation. Mr B 
says he inadvertently replied that he hadnt committed any driving offences or had any fixed 
penalty notices in the last five years. In fact, hed got six penalty points within the five-year 
period.
That being the case, Im satisfied that information was misrepresented to UKI and that the 
Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) applies. 
Under CIDRA, Id need to consider whether theres been a qualifying misrepresentation. 
That means Id first need to consider if Mr B took reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation to UKI. Mr Bs already accepted he answered the relevant question 
incorrectly. However, he says this likely wasnt a qualifying misrepresentation as per CIDRA. 
Thats because CIDRA gives examples of things that may need to be taken into account in 
deciding whether theres been a qualifying misrepresentation and that these favour Mr B in 
the circumstances. For instance, he says the explanatory material on the price comparison 
website regarding the driving licence checks that would be carried out was unfair and 
misleading. 
I understand Mr Bs point here, but he was nevertheless asked a clear question about driving 
offences and fixed penalty notices. Notwithstanding the driving licence details hed provided, 
or the information that Mr B says he was given as to what checks would be carried out, I 
dont believe it was reasonable in this case to have indicated that there were no driving 
offences or fixed penalty notices. 
Indeed, the information provided by the price comparison website that Mr Bs brought to our 
attention goes on to say:
Do I have to tell my insurer about my driving convictions?
Youll only need to declare any driving convictions if theyre unspent 
You shouldnt be tempted to hide or lie about your convictions, as doing so will void 
your car insurance.
I think this left little doubt as to the importance of declaring any unspent driving convictions.
To consider whether theres been a qualifying misrepresentation, I must also look at whether 
UKIs shown that, without the misrepresentation, it wouldnt have entered into the contract at 
all or would have only done so on different terms. Im satisfied that UKIs shown that it 
wouldnt have offered Mr B the policy had it known about his driving record. Its provided a 
screenshot of its underwriting tool showing that a declaration of six penalty points  as Mr B 
accepts he had  would have led to the application being declined.
UKI believes Mr Bs misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless as opposed to careless. 
That means it believes Mr B knew the misrepresentation was untrue or misleading, or didnt 
care if that was the case. That would also mean he knew that the matter to which the 
misrepresentation related was relevant to UKI, or didnt care if it was relevant. In the 
circumstances, I think on balance it was fair for UKI to conclude Mr Bs misrepresentation 
was deliberate or reckless. As Ive said, Mr B was asked a clear question, and I think UKI 
made it clear to him that the information was relevant to it. 
I dont believe it was reasonable to have believed there was no need to fully and accurately 
answer the specific question despite having already provided driving licence details. 
According to CIDRA, where the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless  as 
I believe it was in this case  the insurers entitled to avoid the policy (cancel it from the start) 
and need not consider a claim made on it or return the premium to the consumer (unless its 
unfair for the insurer to retain it). UKI also sets out its right to take such action in certain 
circumstances in its policy terms and conditions. I gather that, although Mr Bs policy was cancelled and his claim declined, UKI chose to return the premium to Mr B. Given my 
findings on the nature of the misrepresentation, I dont believe Mr Bs been treated unfairly in 
this regard.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 December 2021.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman