DRN-4509512
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as T, complains about QBE UK Limiteds (QBE) handling of its 
claim for damage to its vehicle following an attempted theft. 
Mrs D, who is a director of T, brings the complaint on Ts behalf. For ease of reading, Ill 
refer to all comments and actions of Ts broker and Mrs D, as being those of T. 
Any reference to QBE includes its agents.
What happened
As both parties are familiar with the circumstances of this complaint, Ive summarised them
briefly below.
T took out a motor fleet insurance policy. In June 2023, its vehicle was damaged following 
an attempted theft. T made a claim on its policy.   
QBE was notified of Ts claim on 5 June 2023. Upon accepting the claim, QBE arranged for 
the vehicle to be collected. The vehicle was later moved to an appointed garage, but due to 
the nature of the damage, the garage was not able to carry out the repairs and the vehicle 
needed to be booked in with a dealership for repairs. This was arranged but the vehicle 
wasnt delivered on time and therefore there was a delay in rebooking the vehicle. QBE said 
the parts required for the repair werent available for at least 18 months and there was no 
reasonable timescale for the repairs to be completed. 
T complained that QBE delayed settling its claim. It said that as a result of the delay, it has 
been left without a vehicle, and incurred additional expenses in hiring a replacement vehicle 
while awaiting repairs to completed. T would like QBE to refund the hire costs in full and also 
the cost associated with collecting and insuring the hire vehicle.
QBE considered Ts complaint and accepted that there was around two months delay at the 
start of the claim which could have been avoided. In light of this, QBE offered to pay T two 
months worth of hire cost, as well as a payment of £250 for their poor communication and 
service. This offer was made after the complaint was referred to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. 
After much consideration, in November 2023 QBE offered to write off Ts vehicle and settle 
Ts claim. T accepted QBEs settlement for its vehicle. However, it remains unhappy with the 
offer made by QBE for the additional expenses it incurred as a result of delays and poor 
service. 
Our investigator looked at what happened and he upheld Ts complaint. In summary, he 
concluded that in the circumstances, it would have been reasonable for QBE to have settled 
Ts claim sooner. The claim was made at the beginning of June and according to the 
timescales provided by both parties, he thought the claim should have reasonably been 
settled within three months. He therefore recommended that QBE reimburses T for the hire 
cost from 5 September 2023 to 10 November 2023, when the claim was settled. He also 
said QBE should pay towards the cost of insuring the hire vehicle during this time. He 
considered the compensation offered by QBE for the poor communication and service and 
he was satisfied that the £250 payment was reasonable. 
QBE didnt agree. In summary, they felt they had done enough to put things right and didnt 
think it was fair to say the claim shouldve been settled within 3 months. They explained that 
they wouldnt normally write off a vehicle unless the repair costs were 70% or more than the 
value of the vehicle, which wasnt the case here. But as a gesture of goodwill, they made an 
exception in Ts case in order to put things right, which they felt was reasonable. The 
investigator considered QBEs response, but he wasnt persuaded that in the circumstances 
QBE did enough, he therefore remained of the opinion that his offer for resolving the 
complaint was fair. 
QBE didnt agree with our investigators findings, so the complaint was referred to me.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain why. 
Ive read and carefully considered everything T and QBE have said. However, my findings 
focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not all the points raised. I dont mean 
any discourtesy about this, but it simply reflects the informal nature of this service.
Id like to start by clarifying that as T has accepted QBEs offer of £24,500 in settlement for 
the vehicle, Im not making a finding on this aspect of the claim. T remains unhappy with 
QBEs handling of the claim and their offer towards the additional costs it incurred, my 
decision therefore focuses on whether QBE has done enough in this respect. 
T said by the time QBE settled their claim it had been without a vehicle for almost six months 
and therefore incurred additional expenses as a result of arranging a hire vehicle and the 
cost for insuring it during this period. 
Due to the nature of the damage and the difficulty in getting the required parts there was a 
delay in repairing the damage. QBE accepted that there were some avoidable delays (up to 
two months) at the beginning of the claim. They also said their communication and service 
couldve been better. QBE offered to pay T £2,320 as a gesture of goodwill towards the hire 
costs of the replacement vehicle because of their delays, and a further £250 for the poor 
communication and service. I have taken all of this into consideration and thought about 
whether QBE has done enough to put things right. 
QBE offered T £250 for their poor communication and service during the claim. I appreciate 
this period was frustrating for T who was inconvenienced by having to contact QBE and go 
back and forth with its broker. However, I think the £250 compensation QBE paid in 
response to its complaint about this, was fair and reasonable.
The main outstanding issue is with the additional costs incurred by T in hiring a replacement 
vehicle. T's policy doesnt provide cover for a hire vehicle and therefore this wasnt arranged 
by QBE. However, I appreciate that due to the length of time T was left without a vehicle, it 
had to hire a replacement. QBE accepts that there were delays and their communication and 
service failed at times, but they dispute the length of the delays and the impact of them. 
QBE was notified of Ts claim on 5 June 2023. QBE said the part needed for the repairs could take up to 18 months to arrive. T wasnt willing to wait this long without its vehicle. 
QBE therefore proposed a few solutions to T, but in the end QBE decided that the fairest 
option was to write off the vehicle and pay T the market value for its vehicle. The claim was 
settled on this basis by QBE on 10 November 2023. T says the claim could reasonably have 
been settled two months after it was made. 
As the investigator explained in his view, claims of this nature where the insurer is relying on 
a third party to carry out the work, may result in a period where the insured is left without 
their vehicle, especially when the policy doesnt provide cover for a replacement, as is the 
case here. Therefore, Im satisfied that T would have always incurred some expenses in 
respect of a replacement vehicle during the claim.  
QBE said due to the nature of the damage, only a limited number of garages were able to 
repair the vehicle. QBE chased for regular updates but the garage in question wasnt 
forthcoming with a quote for the repair or a timeframe to get things resolved. 
Having thought about everything very carefully, Im satisfied that it was QBEs responsibility 
to ensure that the claim was settled within a reasonable timeframe and that its not fair to 
leave T without a vehicle with no reasonable timeframe of when to expect the vehicle to be 
repaired and returned. Im satisfied that there were avoidable delays in handling this claim, 
which has also been accepted by QBE. 
While I appreciate the availability of parts was beyond QBEs control, I agree with our 
investigator that if things had progressed as they should have, three months was a 
reasonable timeframe for QBE to collect and inspect Ts vehicle, as well as explore options 
on how to settle the claim. If this has happened, T would have received the settlement for its 
claim sooner and wouldnt have incurred additional expenses in hiring a replacement vehicle 
for as long as it did. 
Ultimately, I think it would have reasonable for Ts claim to have been settled by 5 
September 2023 (three months from the date of notification), but a reasonable settlement 
wasnt made until 10 November 2023. QBE should therefore reimburse T for any costs 
towards hiring the replacement vehicle from 5 September 2023 to 10 November 2023. I 
agree with the investigator that it would be appropriate to round this up to 10 weeks.  
T said that as a result of hiring a replacement vehicle, it incurred additional costs in collecting 
and insuring the vehicle. I agree with our investigator that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to 
ask QBE to cover the cost of collecting the vehicle because as Ive said above, I think T 
would have always incurred this expense as it needed a replacement vehicle. But I do think 
QBE should reimburse T for any additional expenses in insuring the hire vehicle for the 
additional 10 weeks. 
Putting things right
QBE should, on receipt of appropriate evidence from T, cover the costs of the hire vehicle 
and any associated costs with insuring it for 10 weeks. 
I note that QBE has already made an offer towards the cost of hiring a replacement vehicle, 
in the sum of £2,320, so it can deduct this amount from the final settlement figure. 
My final decision
My final decision is QBE UK Limited should pay T the cost associated with hiring a 
replacement vehicle for 10 weeks as outlined above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2024.
 
Ankita Patel
Ombudsman