DRN-3414742
The complaint
Mr V complains about Tesco Personal Finance PLC and the information they provided in the 
run up to closure of his current account. 
What happened
Mr V held a current account with Tesco, which had a £0 balance from July 2019. On 2 
August 2021, Tesco wrote to Mr V and explained their intention to close all current accounts 
they provided by 30 November. And within this, they explained Mr V would be able to switch 
his account to another bank, or close it, before this date.
Mr V then received an e-mail from Tesco in September and October, reminding him of the 
accounts impending closure. And within the e-mail sent in October, it explained any 
customers wishing to switch their account had until 15 November to use the Current Account 
Switch Service. 
Mr V then tried to switch his account to another bank, who Ill refer to as H, to make use of 
their switching incentive of £125. But as Mr V tried to do this after the 15 November, he was 
unable to do so. Mr V was unhappy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Mr V didnt think Tesco had made it reasonably clear that he only had until 15 November to 
switch his account. He thought Tescos written correspondence, and their website, failed to 
give adequate notice of this deadline and so, he thought they were responsible for his 
inability to make use of Hs switching incentive. So, he wanted Tesco to compensate him for 
the £125 he felt he wouldve received had the switch taken place.
Tesco responded and didnt agree. They thought theyd given customers a reasonable 
amount of time to arrange for an account switch if thats what they wanted to do. And they 
thought theyd made the switch deadline clear in the e-mail they sent in October. So, they 
didnt think they were responsible for the switching incentive Mr V felt hed lost out on and 
so, they didnt think they needed to do anything more. Mr V remained unhappy with this 
response, so he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. While he understood Mr Vs 
point of view, he thought Tesco had made Mr V reasonably aware of the deadline for his 
account closure and account switch. So, he didnt think Tesco needed to do anything more.
Mr V didnt agree. And he emphasised his belief that Tesco had failed to adequately 
highlight the necessary deadline dates in the correspondence they sent to him and on their 
website. So, he maintained his view that Tescos failure had led to him missing out on his 
switching incentive and he wanted to be compensated to this amount. As Mr V didnt agree, 
the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr V. I appreciate Mr V 
intended to switch his account to make use of the switching incentive offered by H. So, when 
Mr V was informed he was unable to do so, and this was because hed missed a deadline he 
didnt think hed been made aware of, I can understand why Mr V would be unhappy and 
hold Tesco responsible for this. But for me to say Tesco have acted unfairly, and so should 
compensate Mr V for the switching incentive he couldve received, Id need to be satisfied 
they failed to make him reasonably aware of the account switch deadline. And failed to give 
him reasonable time to arrange for a switch to take place. And in this situation, I dont think 
thats the case. 
Mr V doesnt dispute that Tesco made him reasonably aware of their decision to close the 
current accounts they provided to customers. And Ive seen the letter they sent to him 
directly in August 2021, which I think makes it reasonably clear his account was due to close 
on 30 November. So, Im satisfied Tesco gave Mr V reasonable time to decide what he 
wanted to do with the account as he had over three months to do so.
But I am aware there was a deadline of 15 November to arrange for a switch to be 
processed. And Mr V doesnt think Tesco highlighted this adequately in the correspondence 
they sent to him, or on their website. 
Ive looked at the correspondence Tesco sent to Mr V in August, September, and October. 
And I can see the 15 November deadline was only reference in the October 
correspondence, so I can understand why Mr V may feel as though Tesco couldve done 
more.
But its my role to decide whether I think Tesco made Mr V reasonably aware of the 
deadline. Im not looking for Tesco to provide a faultless service. And I think Mr V was made 
aware of the 15 November deadline in the e-mail he received in October and this allowed Mr 
V more than two weeks from this e-mail to arrange for a switch to take place before the 
deadline. 
While I recognise Mr V may not have read the e-mail in its entirety, I dont think this is the 
responsibility of Tesco to ensure. All I would expect is that Tesco have clearly explained the 
switch deadline in a reasonable amount of time, which allowed Mr V the chance to arrange 
for a switch if he wanted one. And I think they have done so on this occasion. Because of 
this, I dont think it would be fair for me to hold Tesco responsible for the switching incentive 
Mr V lost out on. And so, I dont think they need to do anything more.
I understand Mr V wont agree with this. And I appreciate Tesco couldve included the 
deadline in their correspondence sent in September as well, to further emphasise this date. 
But Tesco have explained this deadline wasnt included in correspondence sent to 
customers with a zero balance as they assumed it was unlikely these customers would want 
to switch their account. And having thought about this, I dont think that is an unfair 
assumption to make. In Mr Vs situation, I can see he hadnt used his account in almost two 
years. So, I dont think it was unreasonable for Tesco to assume Mr V didnt rely on the 
account and so, on the balance of probability, was unlikely to need to process a switch. 
And in any event, Mr V had from August to arrange for a switch to be processed. I think it was Mr Vs decision to wait until near the end of the closure deadline to process a switch 
and I think its fair for me to conclude that this has also had a part to play in him missing the 
switch incentive.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Vs complaint about Tesco Personal 
Finance PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 May 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman