DRN-4365790
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Ms complaint is about a mortgage they have with Preferred Mortgages Limited. 
They are unhappy with the recent increases in the interest rate they have been paying and 
have questioned why it has gone up in line with Bank of England Base Rate (BEBR) 
increases, when it didnt go down in line with them in the past. They suspect the lender of 
profiteering at their expense.
In addition, they dont consider that they have been treated appropriately as Mr M falls under 
the Regulators definition of a vulnerable customer. They have said they feel trapped 
because Preferred is a closed book lender and so cant offer them a new interest rate 
product. As they believe Preferred is a member of a large banking group, they question why 
they cannot be provided with a new product to help make the mortgage more affordable. 
In settlement of the complaint Mr and Mrs M would like Preferred to do something with their 
mortgage that would make it more affordable, such as reducing the interest rate, or 
extending the term. Alternatively, they would accept some breathing space on the condition 
it didnt adversely affect their credit files. Mr and Mrs M would also like an apology for the 
stress it has put them through by placing them in a position where they have had to raise a 
complaint. 
Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage is administered by a third-party administrator, however, as it does 
so on behalf of Preferred, I have referred to Preferred throughout as it is the business 
responsible for the matters complained about.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M took out their mortgage with Preferred in 2007 following advice from an 
independent mortgage broker. It was for £85,000 over a term of 25 years, and on an 
interest-only basis. A fixed interest rate product was attached to the mortgage until 
1 June 2009. The mortgage offer set out:
After 1st June 2009, the interest rate that will apply for the remaining term of the mortgage is 
a variable rate which is 3.70% p.a. above LIBOR (currently 5.53% p.a.), giving a current rate 
payable of 9.23% p.a.
Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage reverted to the variable interest rate detailed above in 2009. 
On 21 November 2022 Preferred responded to a complaint about the interest rate being 
applied to the mortgage as it hadnt changed in line with BEBR. Mr and Mrs M had also 
expressed concern about the recent increases in the interest rate and their ability to cope 
with the higher payments, especially in light of Mr Ms medical situation. The complaint was 
not upheld.
Preferred responded to a further complaint in a letter of 3 July 2023. This related to the 
interest rate and it not having reduced in line with BEBR. It also raised the issue of the lack 
of availability of new interest rate products and the support available due to rising payments 
and the fact that Mr M was a vulnerable customer. The complaint was not upheld.
Mr and Mrs M werent happy with the response they received and referred the complaint to 
this service on 30 June 2023. 
When we informed Preferred, it said that the aspects of the complaint relating to the interest 
rate not changing in line with changes to BEBR and the support provided had been 
addressed in its letter of 21 November 2022. As these complaints hadnt been referred to us 
within six months of that letter, Preferred believed we could only consider those issues from 
22 November 2022.
Mr and Mrs M explained that they had not pursued the interest rate and support elements of 
their complaint following the November 2022 final response letter because of a temporary 
deterioration in Mr Ms medical situation. As such, he hadnt been in a position to contact us 
or pursue the complaint further.
One of our Investigators looked into our jurisdiction to consider the complaint. He concluded 
that we were only able to look at the issues relating to the interest rate being charged and 
the support available to them from 22 November 2022. The investigator went on to consider 
the merits of the parts of the complaint that fell within our jurisdiction. He explained that 
Preferred was a closed book lender and not a part of the banking group Mr and Mrs M 
thought it was. As such, Preferred was unable to provide new interest rate products or a 
transfer to a lender that could. In relation to the interest rate, he explained why the rate had 
not followed BEBR and concluded Preferred had done nothing wrong in it not doing so. As 
for the matter of Preferred providing Mr and Mrs M support, the Investigator explained what 
would be expected in relation to potential financial difficulties and Mr M being a vulnerable 
customer. The Investigator didnt think Preferred had done anything wrong in this regard. He 
didnt recommend the complaint be upheld.
Mr and Mrs M didnt accept the Investigators conclusions. They reiterated that Mr M wasnt 
able to refer the complaint following the November 2022 final response letter due to his 
medical situation. In relation to the merits of the complaint, they asked how the Investigator 
could conclude the lender was still active, as in their mind an active lender would be able to 
help, support and not put blocks in place to receiving help. They said they believed that 
Preferred asking to go through their finances with them was so that it could use the data to 
take advantage of them, and raise the interest rate further. Mr and Mrs M said that their 
mortgage payment had tripled since February 2022 and asked how this could be considered 
as treating them fairly. They questioned the impartiality of the Financial Ombudsman Service 
and asked that the complaint be referred to an Ombudsman if the Investigator couldnt 
change his conclusions.
I issued a decision setting out our jurisdiction on 13 October 2023 in which I confirmed we 
could only consider:
Whether Preferred managed and applied the interest rate fairly since 22 November 
2022. 
The support available to Mr and Mrs M since 22 November 2022 due to their monthly 
payments increasing and in light of Mr Ms vulnerability.
The assistance Preferred ought to have provided to Mr and Mrs M due to it being a 
closed book lender.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will address each complaint point in turn.Whether Preferred has managed and applied the interest rate fairly since 22 November 2022
It is not unusual for the interest rate on a mortgage to track what is called a benchmark rate, 
such as BEBR. When tracking the benchmark, there will be what is called a margin. This is 
the amount above the benchmark rate that is applied to the mortgage, for example BEBR 
plus 2%. In the case of Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage, it tracked LIBOR and the margin was 
3.7%. Preferred has provided information to us about LIBOR rates and the interest rate it 
then charged Mr and Mrs M. It appears that Preferred applied interest rates to their 
mortgage as it said it would and in line with the terms and conditions of the mortgage. 
Since LIBOR information has ceased to be available, the interest rate has been determined 
by a synthetic LIBOR rate, calculated in line with the Regulators guidance. Our Investigator 
highlighted the mortgage condition that allowed Preferreds to change the benchmark rate, 
so I wont repeat it here. Having considered Preferred actions, I am satisfied that when it 
altered the benchmark rate being used, this was in line with what the mortgage contract 
allowed, and it was a reasonable decision to use the benchmark it did. In addition, Preferred 
did what it should have in keeping Mr and Mrs M informed about the change.
Mr and Mrs M seem to think that had Preferred applied the changes in BEBR to their 
mortgage, the interest rate applied to their mortgage would have been lower. While the 
LIBOR rates were not identical to BEBR, they started to reduce around the same time and at 
times were actually lower than BEBR. The reason the interest rate being applied to their 
mortgage didnt go below 3.75% at its lowest, was because of the 3.7% margin, which 
Mr and Mrs M accepted at the time they took the mortgage out.
The support available since 22 November 2022 
The Regulator has recently issued guidance to lenders for supporting borrowers who are 
struggling to make their monthly payments due to recent interest rate rises. This provides for 
relaxed affordability requirements for interest rate product switches, temporary changes to 
an interest-only basis for borrowers with a repayment mortgage and extensions to the 
mortgage term. As has been confirmed, Preferred doesnt have any interest rate products to 
offer Mr and Mrs M. The other two options wouldnt affect their monthly payments as their 
mortgage is already on an interest-only basis and so a term extension wouldnt alter the 
amount they needed to pay.
As such, the options available to Preferred to assist Mr and Mrs M would be its normal 
forbearance measures, that it would offer to any borrower who was, or would soon be, in 
financial difficulties. The first step to Preferred being able to offer assistance would be for it 
to establish what Mr and Mrs Ms situation was, so that it could explore what it could do to 
assist them. This would involve them telling Preferred about their financial and, if 
appropriate, wider circumstances. While Mr and Mrs M are uncomfortable to have such a 
conversation, it is necessary to ensure their lender understands their situation fully so that it 
can establish what the problem is, how long it is likely to last and what, if anything, it can do 
to assist. Preferred has offered to complete such an assessment and I cant find it at fault for 
wanting to do so. 
Mr and Mrs M have highlighted that Mr M would be considered a vulnerable customer due to 
his health. Preferred would need to take that into account when dealing with Mr M and for it 
to make reasonable adjustments in line with the Equality Act 2010. This would require 
Preferred to ensure Mr and Mrs M had equal access to the services it provides. What it 
doesnt require Preferred to do is to change its lending policy (or apply it differently) or 
provide them with interest rate concessions that would not be available to other customers. 
In other words, the requirement to make reasonable adjustments does not mean that a 
person with a protected characteristic receives a more favourable outcome than someone without that characteristic.
As I have said, Mr and Mrs M have asked that the interest rate charged on their mortgage be 
adjusted. This may be something that could be considered as a forbearance measure if they 
are in financial difficulties, but their circumstances would need to be assessed to establish if 
it was the most appropriate option.
The assistance Preferred ought to have provided to Mr and Mrs M due to it being a closed 
book lender.
Initially I would confirm that the business that administers the mortgage on behalf of 
Preferred is part of a large banking group, but Preferred is not part of that group. As such, 
that large banking group cannot change the terms and conditions associated with the 
mortgage, provide new interest rate products to Preferred customers or provide for a switch 
of mortgage to an active lender within its group. 
Preferred stopped actively lending in 2008. This means that it no longer lends money or 
borrows money in order to provide preferential interest rate products. It was a commercial 
decision on the part of Preferred to close its book of lending and it is not something the 
Financial Ombudsman Service would, or could, interfere with. 
Mr and Mrs M believe the mortgage contract entitles them to new interest rate products. 
Having reviewed the terms and conditions of their mortgage I can confirm that is not the 
case. However, what Preferred did have to do is explain to eligible customers that there had 
been changes made to the affordability requirements placed on lenders when assessing 
applications for new borrowing. In other words, to make them aware that even if it had not 
been possible for them to move to a new lender in the past, the changes might mean that 
they could then do so. While I havent seen any evidence Preferred provided this explanation 
to Mr and Mrs M, it is clear that it recommended they seek independent financial advice 
about the options available to them. In addition, Mr and Mrs M have confirmed they have 
recently looked into re-mortgaging, so if they didnt receive a full explanation, it does not 
appear they have been disadvantaged.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs M to accept or reject my decision 
before 21 November 2023.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman