DRN-4199362
The complaint
Mr and Mr F complain that Barclays failed to remove markers for expired debts contained in 
their IVAs and as a result they lost out on a mortgage for the proposed purchase of a new 
home. They also said they had to pay a higher interest rate on a remortgage because 
Barclays continued to fail to remove the markers. Im aware that the compensation payments 
were made individually though for convenience I shall refer to Mr and Mr F throughout as 
joint complainants.
What happened
In November 2016 Mr and Mr F set up IVAs as a joint application. The debts in the IVAs 
included several credit card/current accounts from Barclays. The IVAs were successfully 
paid up in May 2022. Mr and Mr F then wanted to purchase a new home but this fell through 
as they were refused a mortgage. They discovered that on their credit reports Barclays had 
continued to report a debt as outstanding despite it having been included in their IVAs. 
Barclays admitted being at fault and arranged to remove the reporting of the debt from the 
credit records. It paid £200 compensation for the inconvenience caused.
In early December 2022 Mr and Mr F wanted to remortgage as their fixed term mortgage 
was due to expire in February 2023. They applied to their current mortgage provider and 
were provisionally accepted. Their broker advised them that Barclays were offering a far 
more preferential rate. As their credit records had been updated they applied to Barclays but 
were rejected. They raised a complaint again with Barclays and were advised that a loan 
continued to be reported on its internal database. This was removed but Mr and Mr F had to 
proceed with the other mortgage provider.
Mr and Mr F then applied for a current account but were again rejected, as another debt 
continued to be reported. Barclays has now fully updated its records. 
In respect of the inconvenience caused Barclays paid Mr and Mr F a further £450 and made 
an additional payment of over £490 towards their costs of a subscription to a credit agency. 
It said it wouldnt however pay any extra interest on their mortgage.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service our Investigator said that Barclays had paid 
reasonable compensation. She didnt think it should pay the difference in interest on their 
mortgage as it wasnt possible to determine that the application would have been successful 
if the erroneous information wasnt present.
Mr and Mr F didnt agree, pointing out that the adviser at Barclays had told them that the 
marker on Barclays database was likely to be why their mortgage application was rejected. 
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think Barclays had clearly erroneously kept reporting to the credit agencies that certain 
debts were still outstanding for Mr or Mr F. Once the IVAs were fully paid up in May 2022, 
any remaining debts should have been removed from the credit agencies database. This 
was not done, though I cant say that their mortgage application in August 2022 would have 
been successful as I havent been informed of the reason why it was rejected. The IVAs 
commenced on 10 November 2016. So they would have continued to be reported on 
Mr and Mr Fs credit files until 10 November 2022. Indeed its likely, from what Barclays tells 
us, that any mortgage application to it with the IVA still on the record, would have been 
rejected.
However I understand that the application to Barclays for a remortgage was made on 
2 December 2022. At that stage the IVAs should have dropped off Mr and Mr Fs credit 
records. 
Barclays has now provided further evidence as to why the application was turned down at 
that stage as the IVAs would have been removed. It has provided that evidence in 
confidence, so I cant disclose it to Mr and Mr F. However it appears that Barclays declined 
the application for reasons of affordability and past history. Im satisfied that the markers for 
the old loans were not relevant in respect of its reject of the application. As our Investigator 
pointed out, different mortgage providers would have different criteria for lending so the fact 
that another such provider was prepared to offer a mortgage doesnt mean that the 
application to Barclays should have been successful. So I cant find Barclays responsible for 
paying any interest in respect of Mr and Mr Fs remortgage. 
Mr and Mr F decided to proceed with the mortgage they had already been approved for in 
principle. I can understand that decision, as they wanted to fix the rate before it expired in 
February 2023. I bear in mind that repeat mortgage applications can affect the credit score.
In respect of the compensation for distress and inconvenience I think that Barclays total 
payment of £650, together with the payment towards their credit agency subscription, is 
reasonable.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 September 2023.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman