DRN-2256737
The complaint
Mr P complains he had to make a trip to the UK because Metro Bank PLC (Metro) failed to 
carry out his written instructions to make various payments from his bank account. 
What happened
Mr P sold his house in the UK and moved to Cyprus and received a letter from Metro saying 
that as he was a non-resident, he would need to close his bank account. Mr P sent two 
letters by recorded delivery with instructions to Metro, requesting a number of transfers to 
various banks to close his bank account. Mr P says that neither letter was actioned so he 
made phone calls to Metro to enquire how this could be resolved but was unable to get 
through to his branch, so the operatives sent emails to his branch to arrange a return phone 
call. Mr P says he never received any response from his branch or any other options 
regarding how these payments could be made from his bank account, so on the advice of 
his cousin took the decision to come over to the UK to sort out the transfer requests in 
person. 
This caused considerable expense and inconvenience and as Mr P says he suffers from 
health issues he asked his sister to come with him for support.  Mr P wants Metro to cover 
the cost of the expenses he incurred and for the inconvenience the matter has caused 
him.Metro have accepted that they made errors here and apologised for the inconvenience 
caused and while initially didnt offer any compensation have subsequently offered Mr P 
£200.
Mr P was not happy with their response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the information available and upheld Mr Ps complaint. He felt 
that Metro had several opportunities to have suggested alternative arrangements to organise 
the payments Mr P has requested but failed to do so. The investigator says that Metro 
should refund Mr P for the cost of the flights and hotel accommodation for both himself and 
his sister. This sum would be in addition to the £200 offered by way of compensation for the 
inconvenience caused.
Metro were unhappy with the investigators view and didnt feel they needed to refund Mr P 
for the cost of visiting the UK as there was no evidence to support this was the only purpose 
behind his visit. Metro have asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision.
When considering this complaint, I have looked at whether Metro could have done more to 
help Mr P complete his transfer requests and if there was a need for him to personally visit 
the branch to sort the matter out. 
I can understand that Mr P would have been inconvenienced when Metro failed to carry out 
both written and verbal requests to make the transfers from his bank account. 
What happened here was Mr P received a letter from Metro asking him to close his bank 
account as he was not a UK resident. This is a condition of having a bank account with 
Metro in the UK and I cant see they have done anything wrong in requesting this. Following 
this letter Mr P then wrote to Metro bank in August 2019 asking them to make various 
payments to bank accounts to facilitate this and spread the risk of holding all of his funds 
with one bank. 
This wasnt actioned and because Mr P hadnt heard from Metro, he wrote the same 
instructions again in a letter via a courier service with a signature required upon receipt. This 
letter was signed for in branch but as the manager was away on holiday it was kept for him 
for his return. From the information I have seen, and acknowledged by Metro, the first letter 
in August 2019 was overlooked by the branch and the second letter in September wasnt 
actioned when the manager returned from leave. 
Mr P then made phone calls to Metros call centre and on both the calls I have listened to, 
Metro were unable to get through to his branch or carry out his request for the transfers to be 
made and importantly didnt provide Mr P with any other options to resolve the problem other 
than to email his branch to call him.  Metro have accepted that Mr P never received any 
returned calls. 
Mr P says because of the  large sums involved and the time that passed, he was left with no 
other option other than to visit the UK to sort matters out. Mr P suffers from health issues 
and asked his sister in Cyprus to accompany him.  He also arranged to meet with his cousin 
who was in the UK at that time and was able to assist him as Mr P isnt as financially 
sophisticated and needed his help. From what I have seen, when Mr P visited the branch he 
was told the manager was unable to see him even though an appointment had been made 
previously. As a result, it took several hours until the matter was resolved, and the payments 
sent. Mr P says that Metro should refund him the costs incurred as a result of his visit in 
addition to the £200 inconvenience payment offered, following his later complaint. 
Metro have objected to the investigators view supporting most of Mr Ps complaint.  Metro 
didnt feel  they should have to cover the costs of his expenses to visit the UK and say that 
there is nothing to show this was the only purpose of his visit and in any event dont feel they 
should cover the cost of his sisters travel and accommodation expenses. Metro have said 
they feel their offer of £200 to compensate Mr P for the inconvenience caused is reasonable. 
I have carefully considered what Metro say here and they have offered a fair sum to 
compensate Mr P for the inconvenience but thats not the only issue here. I have looked at 
whether Mr P had other options available to him, what is important here is apart from Metro 
not actioning his previous instructions, on more than one occasion, they failed to offer any 
other alternative solutions to him when he called to ask what was happening with the 
payments. Even after Mr P was told emails were sent to his branch requesting they call him, 
this never materialised and I can understand that given it had been almost six weeks from 
his original instructions, he was left with little other option than to come over to the UK to 
deal with the transfers - after all there were considerable sums involved here. 
As far as what expenses should be covered, Metro says that there is nothing to show his 
visit to the UK was the main or only purpose of his visit and furthermore his sister didnt need 
to accompany him as his cousin was in the UK and joined him when visiting the branch. I can understand what Metro are suggesting and while they may not agree, Mr P visited the 
UK and lodged in a low-cost hotel near to the branch returning a couple of days later, back 
to Cyprus. I am satisfied, this shows, on balance the trip was primarily to sort out the issue 
with his bank transfers. It is worth mentioning again fairly significant sums were involved 
here and this would have been of a concern to Mr P. 
As regard to covering his sisters travel costs, what is important here, is from the detailed 
explanation provided to this service by Mr Ps cousin, Mr P suffers from a medical condition 
which causes him confusion and stress at times. 
Mr P moved to Cyprus to live close to his sister, whom he is partly reliant, and only travelled 
back to the UK for a few days to deal with the payment problems. Mr Ps cousin says he was 
reluctant to go and was persuaded by the fact his sister would accompany him. I have no 
reason to doubt he suffers from this medical condition  and in the circumstances its not 
unreasonable for his sister to have accompanied him on the trip to provide support. 
If Metro feel that this medical condition needs confirmation,  we understand that Mr P would 
be willing to undergo a medical examination. 
I would say the refund should only extend to basic costs of the flights and accommodation 
and not any other expenses, other than taxi fares from the airport if receipts can be made 
available. Metro have suggested they have no evidence to support these expenses, but I 
have seen copies of the invoices for the hotel and flights and these should be made 
available to Metro if they wish to see these.
As I have said above,  if Metro wish for a medical examination to support Mr Ps medical 
condition then they should arrange this with Mr P and at their cost. In the meantime,  they 
should pay the bulk of the costs apart from his sisters element of flight and accommodation, 
until this is received. While Metro will be disappointed with my decision, I support the 
investigators view they should cover the hotel accommodation and basic flight costs, without 
luggage for both Mr P and his sister. 
If Mr P is able to locate any taxi expenses receipts from the airport these should also be 
covered. This is in addition to the compensation offered of £200 for the inconvenience 
caused. 
Putting things right
I instruct Metro Bank PLC to refund Mr P and his sisters basic airfares and hotel 
accommodation costs, following his trip to the UK in September 2019. 
On top of this they should pay a further £200 by way of compensation for the trouble and 
upset caused. 
My final decisionMy final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I instruct Metro Bank PLC to refund Mr P and his sisters basic airfares and hotel 
accommodation costs, following his trip to the UK in September 2019. On top of this they 
should pay a further £200 by way of compensation for the trouble and upset caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2020.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman