DRN-2691546
The complaint
Miss N has complained about the level of service provided by AA Underwriting Insurance 
Company Limited (AA) with regard to provision of a courtesy car following her claim on her 
motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Miss N took out a motor insurance policy with AA in early 2019. She was involved in an 
accident in November 2019 for which Miss N was not at fault. The third party was not 
insured, however AA confirmed that even though there was no insurance company from 
which to recover its costs, Miss N would not lose her No Claim Discount or be required to 
pay her policy excess.
Miss N was informed that she had access to AA car hire but initially she didnt feel safe to 
drive. She was advised to get back in contact when she felt she needed a vehicle and AA 
said they would set it up for her.
Miss N complained to AA about what she referred to as a series of failings in provision of a 
hire car. Miss N was informed that she would receive a hire car in the same category as her 
own car. The first car supplied caused discomfort to her back, and she felt that it was not in 
the same category as her own. Miss N rejected the car a few days later.
A replacement car was arranged by AA the same day. Miss N rejected this car as she 
considered that it was too large. A third hire car arrived the following day, however on AA 
advice, Miss N rejected this also as another vehicle had been allocated to her. A fourth car 
arrived two days later which was a much-appreciated upgrade, although it remained unused 
whilst arrangements were being made to hand over the keys.
During settlement of Miss Ns insurance claim, the last hire car was collected, in error, by the 
hire company earlier that it should have been. AA acknowledged that Miss N had been 
without a hire car for a period when she had been entitled to one. It therefore supplied a 
further hire car for a period of 14 days and the vehicle was finally reclaimed mid-February 
2020.
Miss N stated that she had left a number of items in the car, comprising of three car mats, a 
length of fabric, a small nylon suitcase and a garden bag. This list was subsequently 
changed by Miss N with two of the items not being mentioned but with the addition of 
sweets. The hire company stated that after checking the car, nothing had been left in it. 
Miss N feels that the company is responsible for a theft and seeks compensation for her 
experiences generally in relation to the hire cars and for her losses. AA has rejected this 
claim and Miss N has therefore made a complaint to this Service.
The Services investigator looked into Miss Ns complaint and concluded as follows; 
Based on all the information I have been given, I am satisfied AA have dealt with your
complaint fairly and I'll explain why.
You were unhappy with the type of courtesy car you received from AA I am satisfied they 
offered you a suitable car, that was in line with your terms and conditions so I don't think 
they have been unfair doing this. .also made an error collecting your courtesy car early. To 
try and accommodate this error and attempt to put you back in the same position you would 
have been in, AA offered you a vehicle for the time you would have missed out... I think 
AA has acted positively and sympathetically doing this and you accepted this offer
Whist I understand losing personal possessions can be difficult, as this is an error of [the hire 
company] and not AA, I am unable to say they are to blame.
The Investigator revisited this view following further representations by Miss N, however, 
having considered the evidence, his view didnt change.
Miss N was unhappy with the outcome of her complaint and the matter has therefore been 
referred to me to make a final decision in my role as Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on all the evidence, I dont consider that AA have treated Miss N unfairly or 
unreasonably in this case and Ill explain why. The starting point in considering whether an 
insurer has acted fairly and reasonably is the policy terms and conditions. I've checked the 
policy, and it says:
Additional benefit  Courtesy car
An AA Comprehensive Car Insurance policy means that following an accident, you will be 
provided with use of a standard courtesy car while your car is undergoing repair, subject to 
the repair being carried out by your insurer-approved repairer.
It also says:
A courtesy car is not available in respect of total loss claims or where the vehicle is stolen 
and unrecovered
In the circumstances, AA didnt need to provide a courtesy car at all as Miss Ns car had 
been treated as a total loss. It nevertheless decided to provide a courtesy car under Miss Ns 
policy and, having opted to do so, Miss N would have had some level of expectation that AA 
would honour its usual terms. This does have an impact however on my overall assessment 
of whether AA has treated Miss N fairly and reasonably. I consider that its been fair and 
reasonable in provision of courtesy cars in all the circumstances.
Bearing the above in mind, as the first cars supplied to Miss N would be classed as standard 
courtesy cars, Im satisfied that AA offered a suitable car that was in line with the terms and 
conditions of Miss Ns policy. Even if I thought B was required by the policy to provide a car 
however, Id have concluded that it had done so fairly and reasonably. I therefore cant say 
that AA acted unfairly or unreasonably in this respect. To the contrary, Im satisfied that AA 
went above and beyond what was required.
Again, bearing the above in mind, Miss N stated that an error was made by one company in 
collecting a courtesy car earlier than expected. To make up for this, AA arranged another vehicle for the time Miss N missed out on a vehicle (14 days). I consider that AA has acted 
positively and sympathetically in doing this and Miss N accepted this offer. Im satisfied that 
AAs actions were extremely fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Finally, Miss N said that when her vehicle was collected, she had personal possessions 
which had been left in the courtesy car. This is in dispute and Miss M has not been 
consistent regarding the items which were left in the car. AAs hire company say there was 
nothing left in the car. I accept its possible there were some small items left in the car, but I 
havent seen any persuasive evidence to show that AA has done anything wrong and I 
consider that its done everything within its power to respond to this part of the complaint. Im 
therefore satisfied the AAs actions were fair and reasonable in this respect also.
I appreciate that this will come as a disappointment to Miss N, however looking at all the 
facts and evidence in this case, I cannot say that AA has acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
this matter.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont intend uphold Mr Ns complaint and I dont direct AA 
Underwriting Insurance Company Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 May 2021.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman