DRN-3804069
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy with the way Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) dealt with his
claim under his home emergency policy.
What happened
In February 2022 Mr L contacted RSA to report that his boiler had broken down. RSA
arranged for their agents to deal with the claim. They sent an engineer to assess the fault
and found the boiler to be beyond economic repair as the cost of repair was greater than the
policy limit. Under the terms of his policy RSA offered Mr L a £500 contribution towards a
new boiler which Mr L accepted. The engineer also found a fault with the water pump. Mr L
was advised that if the water pump still didnt work after his new boiler was installed, the
pump would be dealt with as a separate fault.
Mr L was then told by telephone and email that the water pump was not a separate issue
and would not be covered. Mr L queried this with RSA who sent an email on 10 March 2022
confirming that the pump and boiler were two separate issues. They said that as it was not
clear what the fault with the pump was, if Mr L replaced his boiler and the pump was still not
working, he could log another claim and the pump would be dealt with.
Mr L had his new boiler installed on 11-12 March 2022. He also had the water pump
replaced at the same time. Mr L asked RSA to refund the £210 which he had paid for the
pump, but this was declined.
Mr L complained to RSA as he said he had been told that the water pump would be dealt
with as a separate fault. He was also unhappy with the service hed received and that hed
been given conflicting advice in relation to the pump.
RSA said that although the water pump was separate from the boiler, it formed part of the
boiler system and as the boiler was beyond economic repair, the policy wouldnt cover the
cost of replacing the pump. RSA did, however, accept that there was some confusion
regarding whether the pump would be covered under the policy and offered Mr L £100
compensation for the poor service he received.
Mr L brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt think the complaint should
be upheld. He said that the water pump was part of the boiler system and didnt think that it
should be dealt with as a separate claim. He thought the £100 compensation for poor
service was fair. Mr L didnt agree and asked for his complaint to be considered by an
ombudsman. He said he had relied on RSAs email of 10 March 2022 when he had the
water pump replaced and that the pump should be treated as a separate claim.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 2 November 2022. I said:
Mr L doesnt take issue with the fact that his boiler was deemed to be beyond economic
repair. His complaint is that RSA should have refunded the cost of the water pump having
told him that it could be claimed for separately.
RSA say that as the pump was part of the boiler system and as the boiler was beyond
economic repair, they wouldnt replace the pump. However, I dont think this is a fair
approach. Regardless of whether the pump is part of the boiler system or not, Mr L was told
in the email of 10 March 2022 that if, after installing a new boiler, the water pump needed
replacing, Mr L could treat it as a separate claim. Ive seen a copy of the email and I think its
clear.
The day after receiving this email Mr L had his new boiler and water pump installed. I dont
think it was unreasonable for Mr L to rely on what RSAs email said. Mr L didnt follow the
procedure that RSA suggested, ie logging the water pump as a separate claim, but again I
dont think this was unreasonable. He had been advised the pump was faulty by RSAs
engineer and by his own tradesman - and didnt want to wait and find himself without heating
at a time of year when the weather was cold. Whilst this didnt give RSA an opportunity to
review the claim, they had already inspected the pump and concluded it was faulty - and
indicated they would deal with it separately. I dont think it was fair for RSA to then decline
the claim.
In all the circumstances, I think it fair and reasonable for RSA to refund the cost of the
replacement water pump and pay Mr L £210. As Mr L was without the benefit of the money,
he should also be paid interest at 8% from the date he paid for the pump to the date of the
refund. Mr L has already sent RSA a copy of his receipted invoice which Ive seen.
Ive considered the issue of compensation for distress and inconvenience. RSA accept that
their service was below standard and offered Mr L £100 compensation for the poor service
and conflicting information he received. I think this is fair. Its not clear whether this has
already been paid, and I would be grateful if RSA or Mr L would confirm the position.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr L accepted my decision and confirmed that he has already received the £100 
compensation.
RSA said that they dont dispute that Mr L was incorrectly told that the water pump would be 
dealt with as a separate job. They say that regardless of their error the pump needed to be 
replaced and as this was part of the overall system which was beyond economic repair, their 
decision not to cover the cost was correct. They added that their error was considered in 
their award of compensation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at RSAs comments carefully, but theyve not provided any new information that 
changes my mind. Mr L acted on the incorrect advice he was given and replaced the water 
pump believing that the cost would be covered as a separate claim. I dont think it fair for 
RSA to then decline the claim. 
RSA say they took the error into account when considering their award of compensation. 
However, I think that their error was more than just poor service as Mr L relied on it when he 
paid to replace the pump, and so its fair that it is dealt with separately. My award of £100 
compensation for distress and inconvenience reflects the poor service Mr L received.
Bearing all the above in mind, Im upholding this complaint for the reasons given in my provisional decision.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to:
pay £210 to Mr L plus interest at 8% from the date he made payment for the pump to 
the date RSA make payment to him; and
pay £100 compensation for distress and inconvenience  which has already been 
paid.
If RSA considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr L how much its taken off. It should also give Mr L a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2022.
 
Elizabeth Middleton
Ombudsman