DRN-2613729
The complaint
Mr W complains Starling Bank Limited (Starling) cancelled the wrong debit card after he 
reported transactions on his account which he didnt authorise. This resulted in further 
unauthorised transactions.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Its not in dispute Starling cancelled the wrong debit card at first. Mr W had already 
requested a replacement card before contacting Starling through livechat. It was 
this replacement card that was cancelled instead of the card in question. 
Although the transactions Mr W originally reported were refunded by the retailer 
within two days, there were further unauthorised transactions on the original card. 
Had Starling checked it had cancelled the correct card, its unlikely there would have 
been further unauthorised transactions.  
Im pleased to see all the transactions in question have been refunded. I also 
understand Mr W didnt incur any additional interest or charges as a result of 
Starlings error. But the matter doesnt end there.
Mr W was understandably distressed to find out further transactions were attempted 
on the card which he thought had been cancelled. Some of the transactions were 
declined, but a few  adding up to around £230  were approved. Starling has said 
MasterCard, the card scheme, doesnt allow disputes to be raised until the 
transaction has been processed by the retailer. That may be the case, but Mr W 
didnt have access to the funds while the approved transactions were waiting to be 
processed. And although they were reversed by the retailer while they were still 
being processed, this took a week. 
Mr W has said he wants Starling to pay him the total amount of unauthorised 
transactions plus compensation for the distress caused. I dont think its reasonable  
and it wouldnt be fair of me  to ask Starling to provide him with a refund given 
Mr Ws already received this directly from the retailer. But I do think an award for 
distress and inconvenience is warranted here.
Mr W hasnt given details or provided evidence of the impact on him for not having 
access to the funds for a week. But I think he was inconvenienced during this time. 
Hes said he spent time contacting the retailer directly to get his money back. I think 
this was unnecessary trouble he was put through because of Starlings initial 
mistake. So, its right Starling recognises this.
I dont think £50 compensation that Starlings already offered goes far enough in 
recognising the trouble and upset Mr W was put through. Having given this some 
thought, I consider the investigators recommendation of £100 to be fair 
compensation in the circumstances. 
For these reasons, I uphold this complaint.  
Putting things right
To resolve Mr Ws complaint, Starling Bank Limited should pay Mr W £100 for the distress 
and inconvenience this matter has caused him.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I uphold this complaint against Starling Bank Limited and require it to 
pay Mr W compensation in accordance with what Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 April 2021.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman