DRN-4470683
The complaint
Miss A says that after she made a claim on her motor insurance policy Advantage Insurance 
Company Limited didnt ensure the repaired parts of her car matched the rest.
What happened
The passenger-side door and rear panel of Miss As car were damaged in an accident. 
Although she was happy with the quality of the repairs to the damaged parts, she noted that 
Advantages repairer had replaced the stripes on the door and the panel. As the remaining 
stripes on the car had faded with age / weather conditions, the new stripes were obvious. So 
Miss A wasnt happy with the cars appearance and feared its value had reduced. Advantage 
disagreed. It said it wouldnt replace anything not related to the accident or the repair. 
One of our investigators thought Advantage had put Miss A back in the position she was in 
before the accident, as the damage to the car had been repaired. He thought if Advantage 
replaced the remaining stripes it would amount to betterment. Miss A said the original stripes 
hadnt needed to be replaced, but as the repairer had chosen to do so, the only way to get 
the car back to its pre-accident condition would be for all the stripes to be replaced. 
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review. I issued a 
provisional decision upholding Miss As complaint. In summary, I said the following: 
We couldnt dispute the view of Advantages repairer that the damage to the panel 
meant replacing it (and hence the stripe) or pulling out the dents (which would have 
damaged the original stripe and required a new one). So even if the door could have 
been fixed without damaging its stripe, the adjoining stripe wouldnt have matched.
Insurers arent generally required to repair or replace non-damaged parts, but we 
look at what seems fair and reasonable in each case. Sometimes, if replaced parts 
dont match original parts, we require an insurer to do more than the policy sets out.
Advantage says the colour of the new stripes will fade in time, but the original stripes 
had already faded, so theyre unlikely ever to match the new ones. As the car is a 
limited-edition model, and the stripes were part of the original specification, potential 
buyers are likely to be particular about its appearance.
It wouldnt be fair for Advantage to pay the full cost of replacing the remaining stripes 
(as theyre non-damaged parts). But in this particular case it would be reasonable for 
it to contribute 50% of that cost. It wouldnt amount to betterment, as the car should 
be returned to its pre-accident state visually.   
I asked the parties to comment on my provisional findings. 
Miss A said the cost of the additional new stripes would be high. She said thats why 
Advantage hadnt replaced them. Advantage then obtained a quote for replacing the 
remaining stripes (£583.72, of which £291.86 would be its 50% contribution). Miss A said 
she wasnt prepared to pay the other half towards repairs that werent completed properly in 
the first place. She pointed out that the premium shed paid was based on the cars make 
and model - and that shed had to pay a £500 excess already.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The premium Miss A paid Advantage covered her car for various perils, including accident 
damage. And she agreed to the £500 policy excess, which is payable on every claim.
I think Advantage did what it was required to do under the policy, by repairing the damage to 
the car to a good standard. But in this case I think it should do more than the policy requires. 
Theres no evidence that the cars value has declined as a result of the new stripes, but I can 
see why Miss A doesnt like the way it now looks. I also think its more likely than not that 
potential purchasers of this particular car will be more concerned than average about its 
appearance. Non-matching stripes may limit its appeal. 
We think asking an insurer to do more than its required to do under the policy is appropriate 
in some circumstances, and I think thats the case here. But I dont think it would be fair and 
reasonable to require Advantage to pay the full cost of the replacement stripes. Our 
approach is that where it seems reasonable that non-damaged parts should be replaced, an 
insurer should only be required to make a contribution to the cost, not to pay all of it. 
As Miss A doesnt think a 50% contribution from Advantage towards the replacement of the 
remaining stripes is sufficient, I know shell be disappointed with my final decision. But I dont 
think it would be fair and reasonable to require it to do anything more than that. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss As complaint. I require Advantage Insurance 
Company Limited to pay 50% of the cost of the remaining replacement stripes for her car.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 December 2023. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman