DRN-2928481
The complaint
Mr L complains about U K Insurance Limiteds (UKI) handling of a legal expenses 
insurance claim. He believes delays from UKI led to him not being able to instruct other 
solicitors to pursue an injury related claim.
What happened
Mr L contacted UKI in early 2020 about a potential claim arising from an incident dating back 
to October 2017. This meant the limitation period was due to expire in October 2020. UKI 
didnt get back in touch with Mr L with its decision until August 2020. 
Mr L believes this delay meant hes been unable to instruct other solicitors to take his case 
on. In support of this hes provided emails from solicitors saying the limitation period was too 
close and so they couldnt help.
UKI accepted it had delayed giving Mr L a decision that his claim wasnt covered by the 
policy. UKI did pay £250 compensation for the stress and inconvenience caused by the 
delay.
Our investigator looked at Mr Ls complaint but didnt recommend that UKI should do 
anything else. He said UKI had given poor service and the compensation was a fair amount. 
But he wasnt persuaded that the solicitors who said they wouldnt take his case on because 
of the impending limitation expiry was something UKI should reasonably be held responsible 
for. The investigator pointed out the if solicitors thought he had reasonable prospects of 
succeeding with his injury claim, they or indeed Mr L could still have lodged a claim at court 
before the limitation period expired.   
Mr L requested an ombudsman decide the outcome of his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of this complaint centres on whether UKI should be held responsible for effectively 
preventing Mr L instructing solicitors to take his case on before the limitation period for his 
potential injury claim expired. 
Mr Ls insurance claim was clearly not within policy coverage as it related to an injury that 
developed gradually over time, and this is specifically excluded by the policy. There is no 
dispute that UKI delayed issuing its decision on whether Mr Ls legal expenses claim would 
be covered, leaving just two months before the limitation period for making the claim expired. 
UKI acknowledged the stress and inconvenience caused and Im satisfied £250 is a fair 
reflection of that delay. It meant Mr L had to try and instruct solicitors in a limited timeframe 
and that was undoubtedly stressful and inconvenient.
However, protective proceedings can be issued that stop the clock for limitation period 
purposes and its not apparent why Mr L wasnt so advised by the solicitors he enquired with 
once UKI had declined the claim. 
While UKI did delay giving its decision, Mr L was in contact with other solicitors at least two 
full months before the limitation period was due to end. Protective proceedings could have 
been issued and so Im not persuaded that UKI is reasonably at fault for other solicitors 
deciding not to take on Mr Ls claim.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint against U K Insurance Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2021.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman