DRN-3494268
The complaint
The estate of Mrs P complains that Unique Insurance Services Limited failed to accurately 
disclose her health history in her life assurance application. Because of this, the insurer has 
declined the death claim due to misrepresentation. 
The complaint has been brought by Mr P, the husband of Mrs P.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here.
In April 2014 Mrs P set up a life assurance policy through Unique Insurance. The policy 
provided £80,000 of life cover over a 28-year term for premiums of about £14 per month.
Mrs P sadly died in February 2021. So, Mr P made a claim under the policy but it was 
declined by the insurer. They said Mrs P misrepresented her health when she applied for 
cover as she didnt accurately disclose her medical history. Because of this, the insurer 
avoided the policy, declined the claim and refunded the premiums paid. 
Mr P complained to Unique Insurance about this. He said if any of the information provided 
to the insurer wasnt correct it was because Unique Insurance hadnt asked the relevant 
questions at the time, or they failed to pass it on. 
Unique Insurance didnt respond to the complaint and so Mr P asked the Financial 
Ombudsman to consider it. In short, our investigator said:
Unique Insurance hadnt responded to his requests for information and so hed 
reached his opinion based on the available information. This included information 
provided by the insurer. 
As he wasnt present at the time, he couldnt be sure what was discussed when the 
application was completed. 
The insurer did however send Mrs P a copy of her application and asked her to 
check the information was correct. And if it wasnt, then she should let them know. 
The letter also asked Mrs P to sign and return the declaration provided confirming 
whether any changes or not had to be made. 
Although the insurer doesnt have a copy of the declaration available, theyve 
confirmed the policy couldnt have been set up if it wasnt returned. 
The purpose of the letter from the insurer was to give Mrs P an opportunity to check 
whether there were any mistakes in the application. On balance, he thought it was 
more likely that the letter was received by Mrs P and that she returned the 
declaration.
So, he didnt think Unique Insurance could be held responsible if Mrs Ps application 
included inaccurate information about her health history.
Mr P disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide. He said the letter from 
the insurer was most likely lost at some point as his wife wouldnt have lied about her health.
Before I go on to explain the reasons for the decision Ive reached, I want to clarify that Im 
only looking at the actions of Unique Insurance here. So, I wont be commenting on the 
insurers decision to decline the claim. Thats been considered as a sperate complaint by the 
Financial Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise it will have been a very difficult time for Mr P following his wifes passing and so I 
want to reassure him that Ive given this matter careful consideration. But, from what Ive 
seen, I dont think I can fairly conclude Unique Insurance is responsible for the 
misrepresentation the insurer relied upon to decline the claim. This is for similar reasons to 
our investigator, Ill explain why. 
Unique Insurance hasnt responded to the Financial Ombudsmans request for information 
relating to this complaint. And so, I havent seen anything to show what was discussed 
between Mrs P and Unique Insurance when the policy was set up. Because of this, I cant be 
sure whether  as part of the application process  Mrs P accurately disclosed her health 
history to Unique Insurance or not. 
The insurer has however provided a letter, dated 17 April 2014, sent to Mrs P that says:
What we need you to do now
Weve taken the following details form your application and any other information we 
asked for. It is important that you check the information carefully to make sure weve 
recorded it correctly, and you must tell us in writing if anything is incorrect, has 
changed or changes before the cover starts on your plan. 
If you need to make any changes, please write the correct information in the relevant 
section of the pack and return it to us immediately, together wither the signed 
declaration, in the enclosed prepaid envelope. If we receive any changes from you, 
well write to confirm that we have updated our records and, if necessary, explain 
how this affects your application.
If you dont need to make any changes please sign the declaration at the end of this 
pack and return it to us using the enclosed prepaid envelope.
I think the letter made it sufficiently clear to Mrs P that she needed to check the information 
in the application was correct. And, if it wasnt, it set out how she could let them know. The 
letter also gave the following warning:
The consequences of incorrect or incomplete information
Please take reasonable care to answer all of the questions honestly and to the best 
of your knowledgeIf you havent answered the questions correctly the plan may be 
cancelled, or its terms may be changed, or a claim may be rejected or not fully paid. 
Cancelling a plan means that no over or other benefits will be provided.From this, I also consider the importance of ensuring the information was correct was made 
clear too. And so, if Mrs P felt Unique Insurance hadnt accurately captured her health 
history in the application then she couldve raised it at the time with the insurer (or Unique 
Insurance).  
The insurer has confirmed the policy wouldnt have been set up without the signed 
declaration form being returned. Unfortunately, they dont have a copy of it. Ive therefore 
considered Mr Ps point that the insurers letter, or the declaration, was most likely lost.
Given the letter was correctly addressed and most mail is successfully delivered, I think its 
more likely than not that it was received by Mrs P. And if Mrs P returned the declaration with 
changes to the application information, I wouldve expected the insurer to have some record 
of this. Further, in the event the declaration sent by Mrs P wasnt received by the insurer, 
then I think it wouldve been reasonable for Mrs P to have contacted the insurer if shed 
informed them of changes and not received a response. 
I know Mr P will be disappointed by this outcome but I dont think theres enough to show 
Unique Insurance is responsible for the misrepresentation the insurer relied upon to decline 
the death claim. This is because I cant be sure Unique Insurance failed to accurately 
disclose Mrs Ps health history in the application. Mrs P also had the opportunity to correct 
the information but, from what Ive seen, failed to do so. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs P 
to accept or reject my decision before 1 November 2022.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman