DRN-2252573
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy that NewDay Ltd lent to him irresponsibly. He wants NewDay Ltd to refund 
all interest and charges he has paid together with 8% simple interest.
What happened
Mr C was accepted for a credit card by NewDay Ltd in August 2015 with a limit of £250. The 
following credit limit increases were then applied:
Date November 2015 March 2016 March 2017 August 2017
Credit limit £900 £1,150 £2,050 £3,150
 
Mr C complained to NewDay Ltd, he said they shouldnt have increased his credit limit 
between November 2015 and August 2017 because he had only been making minimum 
payments towards his account. Mr C said NewDay Ltd didnt carry out sufficient checks 
otherwise they wouldve seen he had late payment markers and defaults on his credit file. 
He said they also shouldve picked up that he had taken out other credit including payday 
loans and catalogue accounts with arrears. Mr C said, in order to cover the costs of this 
credit account, he became reliant on payday loans to meet his everyday costs.  
NewDay Ltd responded to the complaint and said, when making a decision to offer credit, 
they consider information a consumer supplies on the application and also information from 
credit reference agencies. They said they regularly review how consumers are using their 
card along with how they are managing their other credit commitments. They said their 
records showed there werent any arrears, defaults or payday loans appearing on Mr Cs 
credit profile at the time of the increases. NewDay Ltd didnt uphold the complaint.  
Our investigator looked into things for Mr C. NewDay Ltd told us a letter was sent to Mr C 
prior to each increase giving him the option to opt out, which he didnt. NewDay Ltd said the 
account was paid in full and closed in May 2019 but, while it was active, they werent notified 
of any financial difficulties. 
Our investigator felt NewDay Ltd hadnt acted unfairly or unreasonably in increasing Mr Cs 
credit limit on all four occasions. Mr C disagreed so the matter has come to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr C will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
NewDay Ltd needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that they didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that they shouldve carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr C could repay the credit in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure.
 
The first point Ive addressed is whether I think NewDay Ltd carried out reasonable and 
proportionate checks. Section 5 of the Consumer Credit (CONC) sourcebook, in place at the 
time, outline that the assessment that NewDay Ltd needed to complete shouldve been 
dependent on, and proportionate to, a number of factors  including the amount and cost of 
the credit and the consumers borrowing history. CONC also provides guidance on the 
sources of information NewDay Ltd may have wanted to consider as part of making a 
proportionate assessment. It then gives examples of factors a firm must consider and refers 
to whether the information the firm has is sufficient and whether to obtain additional 
information from the customer and any other sources of information to use. 
      
NewDay Ltd is free to decide how to set its lending criteria but they should complete 
proportionate checks to ensure borrowing is sustainable. In this case, I can see that NewDay 
Ltd, when applying the credit limit increases, considered information including how Mr C was 
performing on this account, any financial difficulty or affordability indicators and whether 
there were arrears reported by any other external creditor. Then in March 2016, which 
applies to the three later increases, they also started considering whether there were any 
active payday loans. I think the checks carried out by NewDay Ltd were reasonable and 
proportionate as they took into account a number of factors. And, the checks carried out 
were the type I would reasonably expect because they would help NewDay Ltd not only to 
build a picture of Mr Cs financial situation, but also to assist in determining whether he could 
repay the credit in a sustainable way. 
The next point Ive considered is whether NewDay Ltd made a fair lending decision bearing 
in mind the information gathered and what they knew about Mr Cs circumstances. To help 
decide this, Ive looked at how Mr C was handling his account. The credit limit increases 
were made between November 2015 to August 2017. I can see regular payments were 
made with no late fees being charged in this period. The monthly payments being made 
were also higher than the interest payment for that month. This shows that the payments 
were going towards the capital and not just the monthly interest which had accrued. 
When the credit limit increases were applied, I cant see theres a pattern here showing Mr C 
using the additional facility immediately. Where a consumer starts using the extra facility 
straightaway, that might be taken with other factors to suggest a strong reliance on the extra 
borrowing to service other debts or to generally make ends meet. That however isnt the 
case here. Additionally, I cant see that Mr C was consistently spending excessively or in a 
manner which wouldve led NewDay Ltd to have any concerns. On occasions when Mr Cs 
monthly retail spend was high, this was followed up by a higher monthly payment to ensure 
his account was well managed. For example, in July 2016, Mr Cs retail spend on his card 
was over £150 but the following month he paid £250 towards the balance. And again, in July 
2017, his retail spend was over £300 but the following month he made a payment of £560. I 
think this demonstrates Mr C was managing his account well and in a manner which 
reasonably led to NewDay Ltd increasing his credit limit. 
Generally, Mr C managed his account within his credit limit. There are three occasions 
between November 2015 to August 2017 where he went over his limit and an over-limit fee 
was charged. On these occasions, however, Mr C had gone over his limit by small amounts, 
the highest being £22.12, and on all three occasions Mr C brought his account back below his limit the following month. So, I dont think this alone is a factor which ought reasonably to 
have led NewDay Ltd to not offer the credit limit increases. 
      
Ive also looked at other factors which NewDay Ltd took into account at the point the credit 
increases were applied. NewDay Ltd received information from credit reference agencies 
which showed Mr C didnt have any payday loans or any arrears with another credit provider. 
Borrowing from a number of other lenders in the form of payday loans and evidence of 
numerous arrears can point towards financial difficulty. This might also demonstrate that a 
consumer wont be able to repay any further borrowing without undue difficulty, while being 
able to meet other commitments and without having to borrow further. So, its important to 
take these factors into account when deciding whether a consumer can sustainably repay 
any credit. I think NewDay Ltd have acted reasonably in taking this information into 
consideration and have acted fairly in deciding to increase the credit limits.
  
I can also see that on each occasion a credit limit increase was applied, NewDay Ltd wrote 
to Mr C to offer the increased limit. They gave him the opportunity to think about the increase 
and whether to accept it. The letters said the new credit limit would be available to Mr C no 
later than 40 days from the date of the letters. But if he wanted the increase immediately, 
then he can contact NewDay Ltd. They also gave Mr C an option to opt out if he didnt want 
the limit increased. NewDay Ltd say that, on three occasions out of the four, Mr C contacted 
them in response to say that he wanted the limit increased. And, on the other occasion, they 
didnt hear back from Mr C to say he didnt want the limit increased so it was automatically 
increased. So, bearing this in mind and without any information to suggest that the increases 
would be unaffordable, its difficult for me to say that NewDay Ltd should have done anything 
differently here. Whilst the increases did mean that the limit rose considerably from the point 
the card was taken out, NewDay Ltd have demonstrated that they carried out proportionate 
checks and there was nothing else to suggest Mr C might have struggled to maintain the 
borrowing. 
I note Mr C says that his credit file shows adverse information which shouldve led NewDay 
Ltd to not offer the credit limit increases. But nothing Ive seen suggests NewDay Ltd needed 
to make any checks beyond those they carried out. The checks carried out by a lender need 
to be reasonable and proportionate. And, what constitutes reasonable and proportionate in 
one case might not necessarily satisfy the test in another case. So, in some cases, if there is 
evidence to suggest a lender shouldve had wider concerns, then we might say they needed 
to carry out further checks and perhaps have asked for a credit file. In this case, I havent 
seen any information which I think shouldve led NewDay Ltd to ask for Mr Cs credit file or 
even request any further information beyond that which they did.   
Mr C has referred to other cases which our service has looked into for him, these being 
cases against other firms. Mr C says a number of these were upheld and we asked the firms 
to remove information from his credit file. Mr C says this is relevant to this complaint 
because his credit file needs to be considered in its unaltered form to determine what 
NewDay Ltd wouldve seen had it considered his credit file at the time of the increases. Ive 
taken this into account but this doesnt change my view as Ive concluded that it wasnt 
reasonable or proportionate for NewDay Ltd to ask for Mr Cs credit file. 
In summary, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint in this matter as I feel NewDay Ltd carried out 
reasonable checks and made a fair decision to lend.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2021.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman