DRN-3024440
The complaint
Mrs G complains John Paton (Insurance Services) Ltd incorrectly calculated her outstanding 
balance after her insurance policy was cancelled.
What happened
In October 2019 Mrs G renewed her taxi insurance policy. It was arranged by John Paton. 
She paid for it via a finance agreement. In May 2020 the policy was cancelled. John Paton 
said Mrs G had an outstanding balance of £297.82 to pay. 
Mrs G felt this was too much. She calculated it should be about £88.00. John Paton didnt 
accept that. It explained its calculations to Mrs G. It said it had deducted a policy premium 
refund, provided by the insurer, from the amount outstanding on the finance agreement. It 
had added its cancellation fee of £25.00. Overall this left a balance of £297.82. Mrs G still 
didnt accept that so came to this service.   
 
After our investigator became involved John Paton provided a new reduced outstanding 
balance of £171.82. It said it and the insurer have waived their cancelation fees of £25.00 
and £56.00 respectively. And the finance provider had removed default and cancellation fees 
totalling £45.00. Mrs G still felt the outstanding balance was incorrect and unfair.   
Our investigator said he didnt think John Paton was charging Mrs G for anything it shouldnt 
be. He didnt recommend it do anything differently. Mrs G didnt accept his view, so the 
complaint was passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to require John Paton to do anything differently.
Mrs G feels the outstanding balance should be about £88.00. Ive considered everything 
shes said but Im not persuaded John Paton is incorrectly or unfairly asking her to pay 
£171.82. 
John Paton has its calculations to show why it feels that amount is outstanding. They seem 
fair and reasonable to me. Its provided information on the premium refund provided by the 
insurer. Once the insurers cancellation fee is included the premium seems to have been 
refunded on a pro-rata basis. John Paton seems to have applied that to outstanding balance 
fairly. 
John Paton says Mrs G made six payments towards the finance. Mrs G has said she made a 
seventh payment. But based on the information provided Im not persuaded she did make 
this payment successfully. I cant say John Paton has used an incorrect or unfair outstanding 
finance figure for its calculations. The finance provider has waived some fees. John Patons 
reduced the outstanding balance in line with these. Its also waived its own cancellation fee.   
Overall based on what Ive seen I cant say John Paton has unfairly or incorrectly calculated 
Mrs Gs outstanding balance. I understand this will come as disappointment for her but Im 
not going to say its treating her unfairly by asking her to pay £171.82. 
The original outstanding balance was higher. If it was calculated unfairly, I cant say that was 
John Patons fault. The insurer and finance provider reduced the outstanding balance by 
waiving fees. I cant find in a complaint against John Paton, the broker, that those fees were 
applied unfairly. John Patons also waived its cancellation fee. That fee was set out in 
documentation provided to Mrs G when she took out the cover. I cant say it was applied 
unfairly in the circumstances of this case. 
Mrs Gs said she felt pressured by John Paton to pay the outstanding balance. I havent 
seen anything to persuade me John Paton applied unfair pressure or acted unreasonably 
when trying to recover the debt.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mrs G complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2021.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman