DRN-1745818
The complaint
Mr E complains that Automobile Association Insurance Services Limited (the AA) didnt allow 
him to suspend his breakdown membership for a second time. He said this left him paying 
for two sets of cover, one of which he didnt need.
What happened
Mr E held breakdown cover with the AA for several years. In 2017, he bought a new car 
which also came with AA breakdown cover leaving him with two memberships in place.
In April 2017, Mr E contacted the AA and asked it to suspend his existing membership until 
September 2019. The AA agreed to do this and confirmed it in writing.
The AA wrote to Mr E again in August 2019 to remind him his policy would be re-starting the 
following month. It also explained that he still had cover in place that was paid for up until 
January 2020, and that this would now be the new policy renewal date. 
The membership re-started in September 2019 as initially agreed and, shortly after, Mr E 
contacted the AA again to request a further suspension. But this time his request was 
declined. He was told this wasnt possible as his membership could only be suspended once 
during each period of cover. 
Mr E said this was unfair, because it left him with two policies running at the same time. He 
also thought the remaining time the AA said was left to run on his policy was incorrect. So, 
unhappy with the AAs response, he brought his complaint to our service.
An investigator considered Mr Es complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He said he 
thought the AA had made it clear within the policy terms that he was only allowed to suspend 
his membership once in each cover period, and he was satisfied that the remaining time left 
on the membership was correct. So, he didnt think the AA had done anything wrong. 
Mr E said he still felt he shouldnt have to pay for two policies at the same time. So, unhappy 
with the investigators findings, he requested a final decision. And the case has come to me, 
as an ombudsman, to decide. 
Since then, Mr E has also said hes unhappy he wont get a refund if he cancelled his policy. 
But it doesnt appear he has complained to the AA about this directly, so I wont be 
addressing this element of the complaint in my decision. If he wants to pursue this matter, 
then he needs to raise this with the AA directly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Part of the terms and conditions set out in Mr Es policy state  
For Members with Annual Cover or 2-year Cover, if during the course of the Cover 
Period your circumstances change so that the Member temporarily does not require 
AA membership Breakdown Cover, you may suspend Your Membership no more 
than once in each Cover Period, for a period of at least 90 days but for no more than 
5 years, if:
1) the Member is living abroad, or
2) the Member has cover from another provider, or
3) the Member has access to AA Breakdown included with a new car purchase, or
Mr Es existing membership for the period in question started on 26 August 2016. And it was 
suspended at his request on 21 April 2017 until 1 September 2019, after he got additional 
AA breakdown cover as part of a new car purchase.  So as his circumstances matched 
point 3 above; and his request to suspend his policy was for less than the maximum five 
years allowed; Im satisfied the AA was right to approve his initial suspension request.
The terms and conditions of Mr Es membership also clearly state that, You may suspend 
Your Membership no more than once in each Cover Period. So when Mr E made a second 
request for his policy to be suspended in September 2019, I dont think it was unreasonable 
for the AA to decline his request. This is because a second suspension wasnt an option 
under his membership within the same period of cover. So, I wont be instructing the AA to 
do anything further in this regard.
Mr Es also said he was unhappy with the amount of time he was told was left on his 
membership at the point it re-started. Ive looked at the letter the AA sent Mr E in 
August 2019. It explained that his membership would re-start on 1 September 2019 and 
would run until his new renewal date of 8 January 2020 - which Ive calculated as 129 days. 
Prior to Mr E suspending his membership on 21 April 2017 his cover had been in place since 
28 August 2016, which Ive calculated as 236 days. And when added to the 129 days 
mentioned above, means the total period of cover the AA provided under that years 
membership was 365 days. So Im satisfied the period of cover set out in the AAs letter of 
August 2019 was correct, and therefore Im not upholding this element of Mr Es complaint. 
Mr Es also said he didnt receive the August 2019 letter. So Ive thought about what impact 
this may have had. But the August letter simply confirms what was agreed in both the call in 
April 2017, and the letter that followed it. Both the April call and letter confirmed the date that 
Mr Es policy would re-start (and subsequently re-started on). And as Mr E was only ever 
allowed one suspension in each policy term, I dont think that failing to receive this letter, as 
Mr E states, has made any difference in the circumstances of his case. 
I appreciate Mr E is unhappy he had two AA memberships running at the same time. But I 
cant fairly hold the AA responsible for Mr E obtaining a second membership when 
purchasing a new vehicle, when he already had cover in place.
So for the reasons above, I dont think the AA were wrong to decline Mr Es request for a 
second suspension, as this is not something that is available under his membership. And Im 
satisfied that the remaining days showing on Mr Es policy at the point it re-started were 
correct. So, while I appreciate this may come as a disappointment to him, for the above 
reasons I wont be upholding Mr Es complaint. My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Es complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 September 2020.
 
Brad McIlquham
Ombudsman