DRN-2972730
The complaint
Ms S is unhappy with the way Lloyds Bank PLC treated her when they blocked some of her 
payments in July 2019. Shes also complained that they gave her incorrect information about 
the call recordings they hold about her.
What happened
On 19 July 2019, Ms S attempted to transfer £25,000 from her Lloyds account to a different 
bank. However, the payment was blocked as Lloyds system flagged it as a potential security 
risk. In the first instance a fraud adviser asked Ms S some questions by telephone. But she 
was then asked to visit her local branch so they could verify her identity.
The branch adviser accepted Ms Ss identification documents and then called Lloyds fraud 
team. After a short discussion, the fraud adviser then asked to speak with Ms S directly so 
he could ask her some final questions to verify the payment. It was only then the payment 
was processed. 
On 20 July 2019, Ms S attempted to make a further £25,000 payment. This payment was 
also flagged and blocked by Lloyds security system. However, it was released after Ms S 
had a conversation with a different fraud adviser. During this call, Ms S said she was very 
unhappy about the way shed been treated the day before. She said the branch adviser was 
unsupportive and unhelpful. And the second fraud adviser made her feel like a criminal. 
The adviser then apologised for the upset shed experienced and offered her £25 
compensation. Ms S declined this offer and said she wanted the fraud adviser to realise he 
shouldnt speak to customers in the way that he did. She also said £200 would be a fair 
amount to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience she experienced. 
On 21 July 2019 Ms S made a third £25,000 payment which was also blocked until she 
discussed it with Lloyds fraud team. She then made a fourth large payment on the following 
day. 
After speaking to Ms S, a complaints manager sent her a final response dated 23 July 2019. 
He said he was sorry Ms S had experienced some upset and he also explained the 
importance of Lloyds security procedures. He also acknowledged an error had taken place. 
As he said the second fraud adviser Ms S spoke to on 19 July 2019, relied on a note that 
had been added by the first fraud adviser in error. The note said Ms S  had no knowledge of 
£25,000 being moved around and this wasnt correct. To say sorry for this error £100 was 
then credited to Ms Ss account.
In September 2020, Lloyds reconsidered the complaint as Ms S said she remained unhappy. 
She also raised some complaint handling issues which Lloyds investigated. As a result, her 
account was credited with £300 additional compensation. Lloyds also sent her another final 
response, which said this extra compensation was to reflect the overall poor service shed 
received from them.
In October 2020, Lloyds sent Ms S a further final response. This letter included an apology 
for providing her with incorrect information about the availability of some call recordings. The 
letter also said theyd previously logged some of her complaint points incorrectly. To say 
sorry for these errors, they credited Ms Ss account with £105 compensation. 
An investigator at our service considered the merits of Ms Ss complaint but didnt uphold it.  
She agreed Lloyds had made some mistakes but didnt think they needed to do anything 
more to put things right. 
Ms S didnt accept the investigators opinion and sent our service a detailed letter in 
response. I wont list all her comments here. But in summary, she said Lloyds hadnt fairly 
considered or compensated her for all the errors theyd made. She also said £795 additional 
compensation would be fair.
A second investigator then considered things. However, as she also didnt think any 
additional compensation was warranted, and Ms S didnt agree, Ive considered the 
complaint afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im satisfied Lloyds have already provided Ms S with a reasonable 
resolution to her complaint. So, I wont be directing them to do anything more. Ill explain 
why.
Ms S has raised several points in response to our investigators opinion. I have carefully 
reviewed each of these, but I wont address all of them in my decision. Ill focus on the points 
I think are central to the outcome of the complaint. I also mean Ms S no discourtesy by 
summarising and simplifying the background section of this decision in the way that I have. 
Lloyds security procedures
Banks and building societies have an obligation to try and keep their customers accounts 
safe and prevent fraudulent transactions. As Ms S is aware, they have developed 
sophisticated systems to help them do so. Sometimes they identify and block legitimate 
payments that a customer wants to take place. They can also ask customers to provide 
additional documentation and attend a branch if they remain concerned. This can cause 
distress and inconvenience to a customer  but it doesnt necessarily mean they have acted 
incorrectly.
I do appreciate that Ms S found Lloyds security procedures upsetting and frustrating. They 
were also inconvenient as she was asked to visit a branch. Lloyds have said these steps 
were necessary as her £25,000 payment was flagged as being unusual and a potential 
security risk. I dont think this was unreasonable as it was a large payment. I also agree with 
Lloyds that it stood out compared to her usual banking activity. So, Im satisfied Lloyds acted 
fairly by relying on their terms and conditions, and internal security procedures by delaying 
this initial £25,000 payment until they were satisfied it was genuine. Im also satisfied they 
acted fairly by initially blocking the additional large payments Ms S made on the following 
days, as they also stood out for similar reasons. 
Ms S has said it took around an hour and a half for her initial £25,000 payment to be 
processed and this was excessive. I appreciate this was much longer than she was expecting. However, given the size of the payment and the potential for harm  I respectfully 
disagree. I also note that Ms S hasnt demonstrated any financial loss as a result of the 
delay in her payment being processed. 
Customer service from the branch adviser
Ms S has said she shouldnt have been asked additional security questions when she 
attended the branch as the purpose of this visit was just to provide her identification 
documents. I appreciate Ms S found this questioning upsetting and she also felt unprepared 
as she didnt expect this to happen.
I dont know what questions the branch adviser asked Ms S. However, I would reasonably 
have expected at least some questions to be asked. This is because the adviser was 
discussing Ms Ss account and verifying her identity. I also think its likely any questions that 
were asked were ultimately intended to keep Ms Ss account safe. 
Ms S has also said she didnt feel supported by the branch adviser and was made to feel like 
a liar. I do appreciate that being asked security questions can feel intrusive and isolating. 
However, I think its likely any upset the adviser caused here was unintentional due to the 
nature of the conversation. In any event, I note Lloyds have apologised for any upset the 
branch advisers manner may have caused Ms S and taken this into consideration when 
they credited her account with compensation. So, Im satisfied this was a reasonable 
response to this concern. 
Customer service from the fraud adviser
Ive listened to the call Ms S had with Lloyds fraud adviser while she was in branch. Ms S 
has said the adviser was very unprofessional and caused her considerable upset.
Ms S is likely to strongly disagree with me. However, having listened to this call, Im satisfied 
the adviser was professional throughout and was genuinely trying to help. Ms S was already 
upset at the start of the call and this may have meant the call didnt get off to the best start. 
However, the adviser remained polite and explained why he needed to ask her some 
additional questions. 
There were also a few occasions where Ms S refused to let the adviser speak or explain 
what he was trying to do. I also note that as the conversation progressed, Ms S accused the 
adviser of being childish, arrogant and argumentative. I appreciate these comments likely 
stemmed from Ms Ss frustration with the situation. But I dont think they were called for or 
reflective of the advisers behaviour. So, while I appreciate the reasons Ms S found this 
conversation upsetting - I dont agree the adviser was deliberately trying to make things 
difficult for Ms S or cause her upset. 
That said, Lloyds have accepted the adviser in this call did make one unintentional mistake. 
Specifically, he relied on a system note that a colleague had added to Ms Ss account in 
error, before she visited the branch. As mentioned above, this note unfortunately contained 
incorrect information as the colleague had misheard something Ms S had said. As a result of 
this mistake, the second adviser asked Ms S some additional questions which could have 
been avoided - if this miscommunication hadnt taken place. Im therefore satisfied Lloyds 
did the right thing by apologising and compensating Ms S for this mistake. 
System error and call recordings 
Ms S has said she was put to further trouble, when she tried to make one of her additional 
large payments using internet banking. As when she first tried to make the payment, she 
was presented with an error message which said she couldnt proceed due to the time of 
day. Its unclear what happened here. However, as Ms S was subsequently able to make the payment after speaking to Lloyds - Im satisfied this issue didnt have a significant or long-
lasting impact.         
 
Lloyds have accepted they gave Ms S some incorrect information. Specifically, they told her 
they hadnt retained the call recordings that related to her initial complaint and this wasnt the 
case. I would reasonably expect Lloyds to provide accurate information when they are asked 
about the information they hold about their customers. I would also expect them to say sorry 
for any mistakes of this nature and consider making a compensation gesture as they did 
here. 
Ms S has said this error had a big impact as it caused her to worry about her ability to make 
a successful complaint to our service. I do understand this worry, but I also note that one of 
Lloyds complaint handlers told her, this wouldnt be the case as our service considers all the 
circumstances. Its unfortunate Ms S didnt believe the adviser as the information she gave 
was correct. In any event, Ms S has now had her complaint considered by our service. So, 
Im not satisfied Lloyds needs to do anything more to resolve this issue. 
Compensation 
I appreciate Ms S has tried to attribute individual amounts of compensation for each mistake 
Lloyds made. However, my role is to consider the overall impact of Lloyds actions and 
decide if they should reasonably increase the compensation theyve already paid. I dont 
punish a business for making mistakes and I dont use compensation calculators or anything 
of that nature to decide awards.
In reaching this decision, Im not trying to diminish the upset Ms S experienced because of 
this matter. I know she feels very strongly about it and this complaint has been long lasting 
for her. But having considered everything in the round ( excluding the complaint handling 
issues) Im satisfied Lloyds have already paid her a fair amount of compensation to reflect 
the distress and inconvenience they caused her. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied Lloyds Bank PLC have already provided Ms S 
with a fair and reasonable resolution to her complaint. So, I dont direct them to do anything 
more. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2022.
 
Claire Greene
Ombudsman