DRN-2340853
The complaint
Mr R has complained that Ageas Insurance Limited unfairly declined a claim he made under
his car insurance policy.
What happened
In April 2019 Mr R reported an incident through his broker to the insurer, Ageas. He said he
was leaving a relatives home and the floor mat under the brake and accelerator pads got
stuck. Mr R said he leaned forward to adjust the floor mat but as he did so, must have had
his foot on the accelerator. As he looked up, he said it was too late to do anything and he hit
his relatives car head on in their driveway.
Both Mr R and his relative made a claim for their vehicles against Mr Rs policy.
Ageas investigated the claim. It obtained reports from an independent engineer who
inspected both cars involved in the incident. The engineer reported moderate to heavy
damage to both cars. He concluded that the damage was consistent with a collision between
the cars.
Ageas arranged for Mr R to be interviewed and also discussed the incident with the other
driver. Both parties provided photos of the location, of the cars at the storage unit they were
recovered to from the driveway, and aerial shots of the driveway. Taking all of the
information into account, Ageas wasnt satisfied that the damage to both cars could have
happened as described. So in September 2019 it told Mr R that it rejected his claim. In
September 2019 it rejected the claim as it didnt feel the damage to both cars had happened
in the way it had been described.
Mr R asked us to look at his complaint. Our investigator thought there were inconsistencies
in the information provided to show the incident had happened as described. So he thought
Ageas had reached its decision to reject the claim in a reasonable way.
Mr R didnt agree. I issued a provisional decision on 3 August 2020. I thought Ageass
decision not to meet Mr Rs claim because it didnt believe the incident had happened as
described was reasonable. But I thought it hadnt been clear as to whether it had treated the
claim as a fraudulent claim. And if so, it had failed to tell Mr R this and it should have. In my
first provisional decision, I asked Ageas to clarify how it had recorded the claim and
depending on the answer, I would consider whether its actions warranted a compensation
award for Mr R. This is because there are potentially serious consequences for a consumer
when an insurer records as a claim as fraudulent.
Ageas confirmed that it hasnt added a fraudulent marker externally against Mr R. But it has
done so internally for its own records.
Mr R says the incident happened as he described it. Hes very disappointed that his claim
hasnt been met.
I issued a second provisional decision on 12 October 2020. As Ageas hadnt added an 
external fraudulent marker against Mr Rs record, I thought it had acted reasonably. So I 
didnt intend to uphold the complaint. 
Neither party replied to my second provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I havent received anything further since my second provisional decision, my final 
decision is along the same lines. 
Its not for us to determine how or if an accident happened, instead we look closely at expert
evidence to determine what is most likely to have occurred.
I think from the circumstances described and the investigators report that Ageas decision to
decline the claim on the basis the incident didnt happen as described was reasonable.
However, Ageas first told us that it relied on the exclusion under the section Fraud where
the policy says:
We will not pay any claim and all cover under the policy will end from the date you
(or anyone acting for you): make a false or exaggerated claim or support your claim
with forged or fraudulent documents or evidence.
From the information provided by Ageas, I couldnt see that it had told Mr R it alleges the
claim is fraudulent. However, Ageas told us it had applied a fraud marker against Mr Rs
record. So in my first provisional decision, I said I didnt think this was reasonable for Ageas
to do unless its clearly explained to Mr R that it is relying on a fraud exclusion and that it
intended to apply a fraud marker.
An insurer should tell a consumer if its applied a fraud marker due to the serious impact the
marker can have on a customers ability to obtain insurance. So in my first provisional
decision, I thought Ageas should write to Mr R explaining either that it intends to leave the
marker and so explain why it has rejected his claim on the basis of fraud  or that it has
rejected his claim as the incident didnt happen as described and remove the marker.
However, Ageas has since clarified that it hasnt applied a fraud marker externally against Mr
Rs record. It can apply an internal marker if it wants to. This wouldnt be unusual if an
insurer makes a commercial decision not to offer insurance to a consumer in future.
Ageas wrote to Mr R on 4 September 2019 and said:
We confirm we have now completed our investigations and must advise you we are
repudiating the claim as we do not feel the damage has occurred to the vehicles as
suggested.
So Ageas concluded that it was unable to validate Mr Rs claim.
I understand Mr R doesnt agree and that hes very upset about Ageas decision. But it is for
Mr R to prove he has a valid claim. He can make a Subject Access request to Ageas if he
wants to see what Ageas holds about the incident.As Ageas hasnt applied a fraud marker externally against Mr Rs record, I think it acted
reasonably. So Im not asking Ageas to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2020.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman