DRN-2722927
The complaint
Miss H has complained that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited unfairly
refused to pay her claim for vet fees for her dog under her pet policy.
What happened
Miss H bought this accident only pet policy for her dog on line on 9 July 2019. On 30
December 2019 the vet history said she took her dog to the vet because he had vomited
several times and had diarrhoea. Miss H said this was because he had eaten a horn dog
treat. Her dog didnt get better on a bland diet and so she went back to the vet the next day.
The vet x-rayed her dog and performed a laparotomy. He didnt find any foreign object, so
the vet concluded Miss Hs dog was suffering from secondary gastroenteritis.
Miss H claimed the vet fees from Red Sands. Red Sands said as there wasnt accident her
claim wasnt covered. Miss H complained but Red Sands wouldnt change its stance. So,
Miss H brought her complaint to us.
The investigator thought it should be upheld but Red Sands didnt agree. Therefore, Miss Hs
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 12 March 2021 and I said the following: 
The policy Miss H decided to buy has very limited cover as it only covers claims 
arising out of an accident. The documents that were available at the time she 
decided to buy this policy, show that its clear Red Sands explained the cover 
available as under What is type of insurance? it said the following:
Our Accident Only pet insurance policy will only provide cover for injuries 
sustained in an accident. You wont be covered for any illnesses and there 
are no additional benefits to this policy.
Pet insurance is sold on whats called an non advised basis. This means that Red 
Sands had no duty to advise Miss H if this was the best policy for her circumstances. 
Its only duty is to ensure details of the cover was provided to allow Miss H to make 
up her own mind as to what type of cover she wanted. 
As Red Sands has indicated, Miss H answered a series of questions in her 
application and at the end of the questions the document says the following:
You've chosen an Accident Only policy for [name of dog]. This policy meets 
the demands and needs of someone wanting help paying vet bills for 
accidents, but not for illnesses unless they were caused by an accident.
So, Im satisfied Red Sands did enough to explain the limitations of this cover 
provided by this policy which Miss H chose for her dog. I dont accept consequently 
that Miss H didnt know this was an accident only policy.
Turning now to Miss Hs claim, on the claim form signed by Miss H on 1 January 
2020, it appears she wrote that the condition started on 29 December 2019 on the 
basis her dog swallowed a foreign object. The next part of the form completed by 
Miss Hs vet says the diagnosis of the condition is vomiting with clinical signs 
beginning on 30 December 2019. Miss H has indicated the person in the vet who 
completed that part of the form made a mistake describing the vomiting. However, 
the vet history says the following for 30 December 2019:
History  or two days ago. [name of dog] vomited several times and noticed 
stripes of fresh blood, since then been fine. A bit of diarrhoea yesterday, not 
eating as always. A bit off colour, not been worried since an year, now seems 
to that he getting better given chicken and rice.
On 31 December 2019 the vet history said:
OR no improvement from yday. Hasnt vomited but seems painful, very 
lethargic & not himself. D+++ hasnt had a solid poo.
So, I dont think there was any mistake made describing the fact that Miss Hs dog 
had been vomiting.  But Red Sands sought clarity from Miss Hs vet, and he said the 
following:
[Name of dog] was seen by myself on 31/12/2019 for a revisit for vomiting 
and diarrhoea. The owners informed me he had eaten a bone/horn prior to 
this. He had shown no signs of improvement in the 24 hours following his 
initial exam. Due to his clinical signs, history and examination finding a high 
temperature and pain on abdominal palpation it was decided to perform 
further investigations to rule out a blockage caused by the bone/horn that he 
had eaten. X-rays were performed and as gas distension of intestinal loops 
were seen which are consistent with a foreign body, an exploratory 
laparotomy was performed. On ex-lap no foreign body was found however 
there were enlarged mesenteric lymph nodes. Based on this I suspect the 
ingestion of the bone/horn had causes a secondary gastroenteritis and he 
was treated accordingly.
Theres no mention that the initial vomiting was caused by the ingestion of a foreign 
body. Miss H said this happened after the original vomiting and before the treatment 
carried out on 31 December.
On the basis of this vet history however, I dont think Red Sands did anything wrong 
in declining to pay Miss Hs claim. This is because no evidence of any swallowed 
object was found in the laparotomy done on Miss Hs dog.
Red Sands duty under the policy is to do as follows:
...pay up to the benefit amount as specified in your schedule for costs or 
treatment recommended and administered by a vet, for your pet, as a result 
of an accident or injury subject to the applicable policy limits, excess and if 
applicable depending on your pets age, a co-payment.
The cause of the vet treatment costs must be as a result of an accident or injury and 
I dont consider there is enough evidence on the balance of probabilities that there 
was an accident or injury here. It was most likely a vomiting illness issue possibly 
brought about eating a dog treat, as there is no evidence of the dog swallowing a 
foreign object, as it wasnt found. Had Miss Hs dog suffered a tearing in his bowel or a bowel torsion from the ingestion of this dog treat, my decision might have been 
different but instead I consider Miss Hs dog suffered an illness, mostly likely due to 
the treat. Thats not accidental and thats not an injury.
So, I dont consider the definitions of accident and injury as laid out in the policy have 
been met. These are as follows:
Accident means a sudden, unforeseen, and unintended event causing injury 
to your pet and
Injury means damage to one or more parts of your pets body as a result of 
an accidental cause.
Eating a dog treat is not an accident and it was obviously intended the dog would eat 
a dog treat. And there was no injury as result of eating the dog treat merely an illness 
of vomiting and diarrhoea.
Miss H was understandably disappointed with my provisional decision. She said she called 
Red Sands before the surgery on her dog and she was told she was covered. She also said 
the vet wouldnt have performed the surgery if he thought it was a simply an infection. She 
maintained her dog had swallowed something he shouldnt have which was consequently an 
accident.
Red Sands didnt have anything further to add but did find and produce a copy of the call 
recording Miss H had with them which she had mentioned.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive now listened to that call recording carefully. The adviser first explained the cover of the 
policy meaning that it covered issues resulting from an accident only. The issue couldnt be 
pre-existing or an illness as this policy only covered accidents. Miss H asked the Red Sands 
adviser if her dog had eaten something outside or inside would that be covered. The adviser 
said the dog had eaten something accidentally they would look to cover it if it had been 
eaten accidentally. Miss H went on to explain her dog was in vet being examined and she 
wasnt yet sure of the outcome.
 
I dont consider the Red Sands adviser confirmed Miss Hs claim was going to be covered, 
rather she confirmed that if the issue was accidental Red Sands would look to cover it. I 
consider thats appropriate and it didnt lead Miss H to think her claim would be covered 
before Red Sands assessed in the usual way.
 
The vet history confirms the following as I already detailed above:
[Name of dog] was seen by myself on 31/12/2019 for a revisit for vomiting and 
diarrhoea. The owners informed me he had eaten a bone/horn prior to this. He had 
shown no signs of improvement in the 24 hours following his initial exam. Due to his 
clinical signs, history and examination finding a high temperature and pain on 
abdominal palpation it was decided to perform further investigations to rule out a 
blockage caused by the bone/horn that he had eaten
I remain of the view that the eating of a dog treat cant be considered an accident and that 
furthermore there was no injury from this eating of the dog treat. My final decision
So, for these reasons its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 April 2021.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman