DRN-3600693
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy with Usay Business Limiteds (Usay) actions during the sale and renewal of 
his policy. 
What happened
In March 2020 Mr Cs private medical insurance was up for renewal. He took out a new 
policy through Usay.
Following the policy inception, unfortunately, Mr Cs late wife was taken ill with cancer and 
she was referred to a London clinic. Mr C made a claim on the policy for her treatment. But 
the insurer declined to pay the full cost because the hospital wasnt covered under his policy. 
So Mr C had to pay a 40% co-payment to cover the cost of the treatment. 
Unhappy that he wasnt aware his policy didnt cover the London facility, Mr C contacted 
Usay. They said he was told during the sale there were different hospitals lists and he had 
agreed to the list of hospitals closest to where he lived  this didnt include London facilities. 
Mr C said Usay told him his policy could be updated with the London hospital list at renewal 
at the end of March. But he says Usay didnt do it. He contacted Usay on numerous 
occasions for confirmation the change had taken place. 
On 9 April Usay confirmed they had actioned his request to amend the hospital list. But then 
when Mr C contacted the insurer himself to check his policy had been updated, the insurer 
said they hadnt received a request to add the London hospital list. The insurer then carried 
out the request and the policy was updated on 14 April 2021. Mr C was unhappy with the 
time it took Usay to action his request and their lack of communication during an already 
difficult time.
Our investigator looked at what had happened and said she didnt think Usay had acted 
unfairly during the sale or at the renewal. Mr C disagreed. In summary he said 
He wasnt aware some locations were excluded under his policy. 
It was only when his insurer refused to authorise the treatment that this issue came 
to light.
He thought the mention of the hospital list was to show that the insurer has many 
hospitals and specialised facilities, not that not all facilities werent included in his 
cover.
He believed he was being asked if he had a preference for the location of treatment 
facilities. So his response of not interested meant he had no objection or preference 
on hospital so he didnt see the point of going through the list of the facilities. Not that 
he wasnt interested if there was a restriction on the facilities 
He disputed receiving the illustration of benefits document and said he had only 
received the policy summary - in which there is no mention of the restriction on 
hospitals 
The case has now been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The sale of the policy 
The relevant industry rules say the seller of a policy must ensure it provides clear, fair and 
not misleading information to a consumer. 
Having carefully considered everything, on balance Im satisfied Usay acted fairly and 
provided clear information about the policy and its benefits during and after the sale of the 
policy. Ive explained my reasons below.  
I think Usay did enough to make Mr C aware there were different hospital lists 
available. The advisor asked if he wanted to hear about the other hospital lists, but  
Mr C said no, he wasn't interested. Hes explained he said this because he thought 
the hospital list was to show the insurer had lots of facilities. He didnt realise it was 
because there were restrictions on the location of hospitals he could use. But this 
isnt something I can fairly hold Usay accountable for. 
Its not unusual for a private medical insurance policy to have different hospital lists - 
not all private facilities are covered with all insurers. Unfortunately, if Mr C believed 
he was automatically covered for treatment at any hospital, then that was an 
incorrect assumption. Usay specifically asked if he wanted or needed access to any 
particular hospitals and he said he didnt. They asked if he just wanted something 
nearby and accessible, and Mr C said yes.  I wouldnt expect Usay to have done 
anything further here.
Ive also taken into account that during the call, it seems Usay sent Mr C the 
illustration of benefits and the relevant hospital list he had taken out. Usay asked him 
to look at the hospital list to talk him through it, but he said it was neither here nor 
there. Had Mr C looked at this document as Usay had requested, he wouldve seen 
the hospitals that were covered under his policy and that London hospitals werent 
listed and therefore not covered. 
M C has said he didnt receive the list of hospitals during the call. But it appears that 
before Mr C purchased the policy, he was also sent the list of the hospitals that were 
covered, along with the illustration of benefits. And Mr C confirmed on the call he had 
received these documents. So Im persuaded Usay did provide the relevant 
information to Mr C and it wouldve made him aware that the hospital list only 
included a specific list of designated hospitals. 
I dont dispute that London facilities werent discussed during the sale, but they didnt 
need to be. I want to be clear - its not that London hospitals are excluded under Mr 
Cs policy, its that he didnt pick a hospital list that included London facilities. Im 
satisfied Usay provided clear information that there were different hospital lists 
available to Mr C, and asked him to read this information. So I dont think Usay 
treated him unfairly and on balance, I dont think there is more I would reasonably 
expect them to have done. 
The renewal Mr C is also unhappy about what happened at his renewal, so Ive carefully considered this. I 
acknowledge the amendment to his policy didnt happen before his renewal date. But 
ultimately, Im satisfied Mr Cs renewal amendment was processed reasonably and he didnt 
suffer any detriment because it happened during the cooling off period. Ill explain why. 
Mr Cs policy was scheduled for renewal on 29 March so he contacted Usay on 26 
March to request a quote to include the London hospital list. Usay sent the renewal 
quote with the London hospital list included to Mr C that same day. So I think Usay 
intended to put in place Mr Cs request. 
On 9 April Usay confirmed to Mr C that his policy had been updated with the new 
hospital list, and they sent a letter the same day confirming the policy had renewed 
with the agreed amendment. I appreciate it therefore mustve been alarming for Mr C 
when he called his insurer and was told they hadnt received a request to add the 
London hospital list. 
I understand why Mr C believes this meant Usay hadnt done what they needed to do 
at their end, and hes unhappy the policy wouldnt have been updated if he hadnt 
contacted the insurer himself. But I havent seen evidence to support this. The 
evidence shows that Usay did send Mr Cs request to amend his policy to the 
administration department on 9 April. But as this was done late in the afternoon on a 
Friday, the request was sent to the insurer the next working day on 12 April. Which I 
dont think is unreasonable.
I know why it was important for Mr C to ensure his hospital list had been updated in 
time for his renewal on 31 March, and this would have caused him worry during an 
already difficult time. So I can appreciate it mustve been frustrating that the update 
didnt actually take place until 14 April. However, it appears there was 
miscommunication with Usay waiting for Mr C to confirm if he wanted to proceed with 
the increased premium with the London hospital list added, or if he wanted to see a 
different quote. So Im not persuaded Usay caused unfair delays. 
I acknowledge it mustve been stressful for Mr C having to chase and follow up the 
amendment with Usay. Im mindful that Mr C was aware there was a 21-day cooling 
off period, so he knew there was still time to make the amendment after his renewal 
date (I note he refers to the cooling off period himself in his reminder to Usay on 9 
April) so this should have provided reassurance.
Following the amendment, Usay backdated Mr Cs policy renewal to 31 March 2021. 
So whilst it wouldve been best for the amendment to have been actioned quicker, 
and I do think Usays communication couldve been better at times, Im satisfied Mr C 
wasnt disadvantaged in the way it was actioned in the end.
To summarise, Im persuaded Usay did enough to make Mr C aware there were other 
hospital lists available before he took the policy out. And any delays at renewal didnt impact 
Mr C to the extent that Usay needs do something to put things right.  
I understand this is disappointing, but there arent any reasonable grounds upon which I 
could fairly ask Usay to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 April 2023.
 
Georgina GillOmbudsman