DRN-3259447
The complaint
Mr S complains that MBNA Limited didnt process a payment holiday for him on his credit 
card account; when he says this had been previously agreed.
What happened
Mr S says he got in touch with MBNA to let them know that he needed to move his payment 
due date from the 14th of the month to the end of the month  this was to give him more time 
to get paid before his next repayment became due on his credit card account.
Mr S says he made a payment of £696.47 on 4 May and then a £1,000 payment on 9 May. 
And he says he let MBNA know he was struggling and re-mortgaging his property so he 
couldnt have his credit file affected. 
Later, Mr S says he contacted MBNA again, and asked for a payment holiday, which he says 
was accepted at the time. But he later got a text message from MBNA saying that the 
payment was due. He says he contacted MBNA about this, but they couldnt find any record 
of the conversation that took place about the payment holiday.
Mr S says he made a number of calls about the issue  and was passed around different 
departments. He says he was promised a call back which also didnt happen.
Mr S says that he was later called by a complaints manager from MBNA, who confirmed that 
he was given incorrect information on the phone and that it would usually need 25 days 
notice to change a payment date. It also explained that his credit file had been impacted by 
the missed payment too. 
Mr S says he has been extremely upset by his experience with MBNA. He says hes 
currently undergoing treatment for a serious illness, and he was also in the process of re-
mortgaging his house, so it was very important to him that he didnt have any negative 
information on his credit file.
MBNA responded to Mr Ss complaint and upheld his concerns. It explained that it shouldnt 
have told Mr S that he could have another payment holiday, because he had recently just 
had two for around six consecutive months in total. However, it said it would allow him to not 
make payments for June 2021  August 2021. It also added that Mr S was given misleading 
information on the phone about his next payment due date, and because of this, it removed 
the late payment marker from his credit file, and it explained that his credit file wouldnt be 
impacted by the missed payments in July and August too. It also explained that it would 
always report any missed payments to the credit reference agencies, even if these were due 
to ill health. To say sorry, it offered Mr S £250.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ss complaint, while they empathised with Mr Ss situation, 
and agreed that MBNA did make mistakes, they thought that MBNA had already done 
enough to put these things right. And so, they didnt think MBNA needed to do anything 
more for Mr S.
Mr S didnt agree. He didnt think that the £250 was enough to compensate him for the 
distress he had been through as a result of what he says MBNA did wrong, especially when 
taking into account his ill health and the fact he was trying to re-mortgage his property at the 
time. 
Because Mr S didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision on the 
matter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In reaching my conclusion, I dont wish in any way to downplay or disregard the situation Mr 
S has found himself in. Ive no doubt that everything he has been through has been truly 
horrible. And Im sure the fact that he now feels he has been treated unfairly by MBNA has 
made an already bad situation worse.
But being independent means, I have to take a step back and consider what both parties
have said. And I have to look to see if MBNA has acted fairly and reasonably when
dealing with Mr S. 
Firstly, Ive listened to the call Mr S had with MBNA about the change to his payment date. I 
can hear that Mr S requested this to be changed for the end of the month, and he was told 
by the representative that this would take effect from 3 June 2021  the call happened on 30 
May 2021. I can also see that Mr S was sent communication on 1 June 2021 from MBNA 
which confirmed the payment date had been changed, however a payment would still need 
to be made by the payment due date on the current statement. 
MBNA then sent Mr S an email on the 8 June 2021 to confirm a payment was due. And it 
sent him a text message on 15 June 2021 to confirm that the payment was overdue. Another 
text message was sent to Mr S on 2 July 2021 to confirm that the payment was still overdue. 
Given that a payment had been missed, MBNA reported this information to the credit 
reference agency  which is what it is required to do. So based on what Ive said above, I 
wouldnt normally find that MBNA did anything wrong when it reported this information to the 
credit reference agency.
However, Mr S says that he was told by MBNA, sometime towards the end of May or at the 
start of June, that he could have a third payment holiday  which would mean he wouldnt 
have to make a payment to the account, and this wouldnt impact his credit file. MBNA has 
no record of the call Mr S says he made. MBNA has searched its systems for incoming 
phone calls from Mr Ss contact number to try and find a record of the call taking place, but it 
hasnt been able to find this. Normally, even when the call itself isnt recorded, there is some 
record of the call taking place, or contact notes added to its system. But there isnt in this 
case. So it does make it difficult to know what happened. 
It appears that MBNA has accepted that Mr S called and was told he could have an 
additional payment holiday. And that this information wasnt correct because he had already 
had two payment holidays and it wouldnt normally provide him with another one, even after 
taking into account his health issues. 
Given that MBNA has accepted that the call took place, and it likely provided him with 
incorrect information, this leads me to accept that it shouldnt have reported the missed 
payment to the credit reference agency. Generally, in these situations, where incorrect information has been reported to the credit reference agency, this service would ask MBNA 
to remove it to put the credit file back in the position it would have been in, and I can see that 
it has done this. 
I can also see that MBNA agreed to honour the third payment holiday, even though this isnt 
something it would normally offer - nor can it trace any record of offering. So again, I think 
MBNA has been fair to Mr S by agreeing to this. 
MBNA has offered Mr S £250 to say sorry for the things it accepted it got wrong. And I think 
this is enough. I appreciate that Mr S has been through an incredibly difficult time  with his 
health and re-mortgaging his property. But I have seen that MBNA has done what it could to 
try and put these things right for Mr S, and quickly. It has also gone outside of its normal 
process when it allowed Mr S a third payment holiday. 
I understand that Mr S feels he should receive more compensation because MBNA cant find 
a record of some of the calls, he says hes made. In order to help MBNA try and find these 
calls, our investigator asked Mr S for information about the calls, but unfortunately Mr S 
didnt have this due to the length of time thats passed, which is understandable. 
From the calls we do have, I agree that some of these have been lengthy. But based on 
everything Ive heard during these calls, while they might have been inconvenient, I can hear 
that everyone he spoke was trying to help and find a way to resolve the issues he had. 
In any event, even if MBNA were able to locate the other calls Mr S has referred to, I dont 
think this would change my opinion on the outcome of this complaint. I say this because 
MBNA has already put right Mr Ss credit file and allowed the payment holiday. I think £250 
is fair compensation for the inconvenience of him having to contact MBNA on numerous 
occasions. 
Mr S has said that the missed payment marker on his credit file has had a big impact on him 
being able to get a mortgage. He says that as a result of MBNAs actions, his mortgage 
application was delayed, and he has had to pay a standard variable rate of interest, which is 
a higher rate than what he could have got. 
Mr S has been able to show this service information that confirms his credit score was 
impacted by the missed payment. However, I can also see that MBNA rectified this issue 
relatively quickly. 
While I appreciate that Mr S feels that the missed payment being reported has directly 
impacted him being able to get a mortgage, or a mortgage at a better rate, Im not 
persuaded this is the case. I say this because mortgages can be declined, delayed or 
interest rates differed for a number of reasons. I dont think it would be fair for me to say that 
the sole reason for the problems Mr S says he faced in getting a mortgage was as a result of 
the short time the missed payment showed on his credit file. Because of this, I dont think it 
would be fair of me to find that the marker on Mr Ss credit file caused the issues with his 
mortgage that he has told us about.  
It follows that I wont be asking MBNA to do anything more for Mr S. And I think the £250 
MBNA has already agreed to pay Mr S, alongside the additional actions it took to honour the 
payment holiday and remove the adverse information from his credit file are enough to settle 
this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2022.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman