DRN-4370513
The complaint
Mr T, through a representative, says Everyday Lending Limited (ELL), trading as Everyday
Loans, irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
Mr T took out two instalment loans from ELL. Loan 1, in March 2020, was for £3,000 over 24
months. The monthly repayments were £215.01 and the total repayable was £5,160.24.
Loan 2, in June 2021, was for £5,000 over 36 months. The monthly repayments were
£279.75 and the total repayable was £10, 071. It was used in part to settle loan 1. There is
an outstanding balance.
Mr T says he managed to repay loan 1 but was having financial difficulties. ELL then kept
pressuring him to take out another loan. He says it knew he had payday loans but gave loan
2 anyway, without him having to pay these off. He says ELL is now harassing him to repay
loan 2, contacting him continuously and threatening to visit his home. This is impacting his
mental health. Mr T asks for all interest and fees he has paid to be refunded, with interest.
ELL says its checks for both loans were reasonable and proportionate and showed Mr T had
the disposable income to sustainably make his repayments.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ts complaint. He said ELLs checks were proportionate
and did not show there was a risk Mr T would be unable to sustainably repay the loans. He
also found ELLs conduct during both the sale of loan 2 and the subsequent collections
activity once Mr Ts account fell into arrears to be appropriate.
Mr T asked for an ombudsmans review. He said the investigator had not really addressed
the problem and he disagreed with the findings. He said they showed bias. He said the loans
were unaffordable, but did not provide any specific details about what part(s) of the
assessment disagreed with.
I reached a different conclusion to the investigator so I issued a provisional decision to give 
everyone a chance to comment. An extract follows and forms part of this final decision. I 
asked both parties to reply by 4 October 2023.
Extract from my provisional decision
I can see ELL asked for some information from Mr T before it approved the loans. It asked
for details of his income and checked this. It asked for copies of recent bank statements and
a payslip. It completed an employment check. It estimated his living costs using national
statistics and added a buffer to cover unexpected costs. It also checked Mr Ts credit file to
understand his existing monthly credit commitments and credit history. It asked about the
purpose of the loans: loan 1 was to repay credit card debt and for property repairs, loan 2
was to settle a loan and to purchase a car.
From these checks combined ELL concluded Mr T could afford to take on the loans as he
would have £1,668.05 monthly disposable income left after taking on loan 1 and £759.76
after loan 2.
I think these checks were proportionate but I am not currently persuaded that ELL made fair
lending decisions based on the results of its checks.
It seems ELLs decisions to lend focused solely on its pounds and pence affordability
calculations. But it was required to do more than this, it needed to be certain the loans would
not cause Mr T any financial harm and that he would be able to repay them sustainably  so
without borrowing to repay or suffering some other adverse financial consequence over the
term of the loans. It was not enough to rely on somewhat theoretical calculations when it had
sight of Mr Ts current account information that suggested he was struggling financially - and
did not have the level of disposable income it had calculated. ELL was required to respond
to all the information it gathered.
Loan 1
ELL has told us it reviewed Mr Ts bank statements from the two months prior to his
application. It could not provide copies but Mr T was able to send them in. I find these show
the kind of signs of financial instability that often indicate pending financial difficulties  such
as a persistent reliance on an overdraft facility, multiple returned direct debits and paying
daily overdraft fees. Mr Ts account was never in credit in the two months ELL would have
reviewed. There was also evidence he was using payday loans. So I think there were clear
signs that Mr T was struggling to manage his money. He told ELL this loan was to clear
credit card debt and for property repairs. So he was not planning to repay his overdraft. This
would have meant ELL knew he would most likely be repaying its loan whilst using his
overdraft facility  so in essence, borrowing to repay.
ELL pointed out that the credit check showed Mr T was up-to-date on all his active credit, but
from the evidence available I think its reasonable to conclude Mr T was struggling to keep
on top of all his debts and was only doing so by continually borrowing to repay. In the
circumstances ELL ought to have realised that extending more credit to Mr T was not
responsible.
It follows I find ELL was wrong to give loan 1 to Mr T.
Loan 2
My findings are the same for loan 2 as they are for the first loan. The bank statements ELL
had sight of at this time show Mr Ts was still persistently reliant on his overdraft. And he had
made no inroads into reducing this reliance. He was also using payday loans and,
increasingly, buy now pay later plans. Mr Ts current account was in credit for only a day or
two after his payday each month.
The credit check showed he now had around £3,000 of overdraft across his different current
accounts and many of his credit cards and mail order accounts were at, or close to, their
limit. This time the loan was taken out to repay a payday loan and for a car. So again, this
meant ELL knew Mr T would most likely be repaying its loan whilst using his overdraft facility
 so in essence, borrowing to repay.
It should have been clear to ELL that Mr T was in a cycle of debt and was reliant on credit so
it ought not to have increased this reliance.
ELL points out that Mr T had made his repayments on time and in full for loan 1, but it does
not know how he did this and whether it was in a sustainable way so this does not change
my conclusion.It follows I find ELL was wrong to give loan 2 to Mr T also.
Did ELL act unfairly towards Mr T in some other way?
I dont think that it did. Mr T said the sale of loan 2 was aggressive and the collections
activity since he went into arrears has been threatening. From the available evidence 
which I understand is not complete  I have not found that was the case. I think ELL moved
forward with loan 2 as Mr T indicated he wanted to do so. It therefore followed up to request
the information it needed to progress his application.
With regards the collections activity, at that time Mr T had a contractual duty to repay the
loan and once his direct debit had been cancelled and it struggled to contact him, I think it
was reasonable for it to set out what might happen next. I cant see it made excessive or
inappropriate contact.
I then set out what ELL would need to do to put things right.
Both parties replied before the deadline. Mr T accepted the outcome. ELL said whilst it did 
not agree with all the reasoning, it would agree to take the remedial action I had requested.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has submitted any new evidence or specific points for me to consider, I 
have no reason to change the findings or outcome set out in the provisional decision.
It follows I find ELL should not have given loans 1 and 2 to Mr T. 
Putting things right
It is reasonable that Mr T repay the capital he borrowed as he has had the benefit of that
money. But he has paid interest and charges on loans that should not have been given.
So ELL should:
For loans 1 and 2 add up the total amount of money Mr T received and deduct the
repayments he made from this amount.
If this results in any overpayment this should be refunded to Mr T along with 8%
simple interest (calculated from the date the overpayments were made to the date of
settlement)*.
If this results in there being an outstanding capital balance ELL must agree an
affordable repayment plan with Mr T.
Remove any adverse information from Mr Ts credit file once any outstanding capital
balance has been repaid.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires ELL to take off tax from this interest. ELL must give Mr T a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I am upholding Mr Ts complaint. Everyday Lending Limited (ELL), trading as Everyday
Loans, must put things right as set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman