DRN-2198796
The complaint
P, a limited company, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) did not credit an 
international payment to its currency bank account.
What happened
A customer of P based abroad sent it a payment of $5,541.51 on 2 March 2020. The 
senders bank used a correspondent bank and then an intermediary bank sent the payment 
to HSBC. P contacted HSBC because it had not received the money and its customer said it 
had sent it. HSBC said that it did not have the payment instruction and having contacted the 
intermediary sent the payment back on 21 April 2020. The money was later received by P on 
29 April 2020 and it thinks that HSBC had the payment all along and did not process it 
correctly. P says that this has damaged its relationship with its customer and also wants 
compensation for loss of interest and the inconvenience.
Our investigator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said that HSBC had 
been contacted by the intermediary on 17 March 2020. But that HSBC had told it that it did 
not have the account details to complete the payment. HSBC said that the payment that had 
later been received had a different reference number and was not the same one. It did not 
have any further contact about the payment from the other banks involved. She thought that 
it had tried to resolve the issue.
P did not agree. The director said that the details on his bank statement were the ones used 
by the sender to make the payment. He did not think that the senders bank had set out how 
the payment should be routed as that was up to HSBC. He was sure the sender would check 
the payment details. He says he has details of the further enquiries made to HSBC and to 
show that the payment was never returned.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator gave time for P and HSBC to respond to her view and provide any further 
points or information for me to consider. I appreciate the frustration of the director that this 
payment was not received for P as expected. As set out above there were four effectively 
distinct banks involved in this payment as is often the case with international payments. That 
shouldnt be something that P needs to be troubled with as thats an arrangement those 
banks have come to. And I am looking at what the receiving bank HSBC did to see if it made 
a mistake.
From the evidence its provided Im satisfied that HSBC did not have the details it needed to 
credit the payment to Ps account. I can see it asked for these details several times. And that 
there is no record of any response. It would fairly here be the responsibility of the sending 
bank to make the payment instruction correctly and to ask that the payment be traced and if 
necessary recalled if it was not received. Id expect all the subsequent banks involved to co-
operate with that process. But Im clear that HSBC did not receive any further details or 
queries. Ive seen evidence that it sent the payment back.
I cant say what happened to that returned payment after it left HSBC and it may be that one 
of the other banks involved rectified any deficiencies with it before it was returned. Even if 
that did happen and as P says it was never credited back to the senders account I dont 
think thats something I can hold HSBC responsible for. It processed a credit to Ps account 
when it had the full details. So, for the reasons Ive given I dont have a basis to find that 
HSBC made a mistake or should compensate P for any costs or losses it says it incurred.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2020.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman