DRN-2457939
The complaint
Miss M complained because Metro Bank Plc recorded a fraud marker against her name, with 
the fraud prevention agency CIFAS.
What happened
Miss M opened an account with Metro Bank in June 2018. On 2 January 2019, £5,000 was 
paid into Miss Ms account with Metro Bank. The same day, Miss M spent £3,000 and 
£2,000 at two different locations.
Shortly afterwards, Metro Bank was contacted by another bank, to say the £5,000 credit had 
been fraudulent. The other bank told Metro Bank that one of its customers had been tricked 
into paying the money. That customer had said that she and Miss M had met online, formed 
a personal relationship, and then Miss M had tricked her into transferring £5,000 for 
electrical goods.
Metro Bank wrote to Miss M on 8 January 2019 to say that it was no longer able to continue 
as her banker, and the account would be closed within 7 days. It didnt give a reason, but 
isnt required to. Miss M didnt respond.
In late September 2019, Miss M rang Metro Bank. Shed found out that Metro Bank had 
recorded a CIFAS marker for fraud against her name. She said she hadnt been involved in 
fraud, and complained.
Metro Bank didnt uphold Miss Ms complaint. It told her that another bank had notified Metro 
Bank that the £5,000 paid in on 2 January 2019 had been fraudulent. Miss M said she hadnt 
been involved in fraud, so Metro Bank advised her to report it to the police to investigate. 
Metro Bank said that once the police had concluded their investigations and provided 
documents to say they believed Miss M had been a victim, it would review the fraud marker.
Miss M wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. She said the £5,000 had been a 
genuine transaction, and had come from a truck shed sold. Miss M told our investigator that 
a friend had told her about a business opportunity abroad, for which Miss M wanted to buy a 
truck from that country. The friend had sent her photos of a truck, and it had been delivered 
to a port in the UK. Miss M hadnt seen it before she paid for it. When she and her partner 
went to collect it, it had a lot of damage so it wasnt suitable to send abroad. Shed asked the 
friend for a refund, but hed said Miss M would have to sell it herself. 
Miss M sent in a document which she said was an invoice from when shed bought the truck 
in December 2018. This document is dated 12 December 2018, has a UK address from the 
purported seller, and a UK style vehicle registration number. 
Miss M said that shed sold the truck to the person whod sent the £5,000 credit to her 
account. This person was the cousin of a friend. Miss M provided a copy of what she said 
was the senders bank account statement, showing the payment to Miss M among other 
transactions.
 
Miss Ms Metro account statements show that throughout the months when shed had the 
Metro Bank account, there had been a pattern of other large credits which periodically 
credited her account  for example on 16 August 2018, 1 October 2018, and other dates.  As 
with the £5,000 credit on 2 January 2019, Miss M had taken the money out the same day, 
each time leaving a very small balance in the account. 
Miss M told our investigator that these other credits were group contribution savings which 
she co-ordinated.
There isnt a debit from Miss Ms Metro Bank account in December 2018 for the £5,000 
which she said she paid for the truck. When the investigator asked about this, Miss M said 
shed bought the truck in cash, which shed taken out of an account with another bank, in 
two lots.
This service obtained information about Miss Ms account with the other bank. There were 
no matching large cash withdrawals before the time when Miss M said shed bought the 
truck. The other bank had also taken the decision to close Miss Ms account, which had 
happened in 2019.
The investigator upheld Miss Ms complaint. She said it was reasonable in the circumstances 
for Metro Bank for have closed Miss Ms account. But she didnt think Metro Bank should 
have put a CIFAS marker against Miss Ms name. She thought Metro Bank should have 
spoken to Miss M before recording the marker, because the payment had genuinely been 
from a sale of a truck. So the investigator thought that Metro Bank should remove the CIFAS 
marker and should pay Miss M £100 compensation.
Metro Bank didnt agree. It raised multiple points, including:
- Any vehicle sale would be registered by transfer of ownership from one party to 
another, evidenced on the V5C document. Metro bank asked for copies to prove that 
Miss M had bought the truck, and had then transferred it to the person shed said 
shed sold it to;
- Metro pointed out that the transactions on Miss Ms account were typical for the 
account activity of a mule account;
- Miss M had provided no evidence or information about the group contributions 
savings which shed said the large credits came from;
- And Miss M had generally taken those large credits out of the account instantly, 
either by money transfer or through retail merchants. This wasnt consistent with 
savings;
- Metro Bank disagreed with the investigator when shed said that the funds were 
genuine, because Miss M had provided what shed said was a copy of the senders 
bank statement. Metro Bank explained that its common for fraudsters to be able to 
obtain such documentation, and it didnt prove a transaction wasnt fraudulent; 
- The other banks customer hadnt withdrawn her claim that the money sent had been 
fraudulent;
- Miss M hadnt challenged the closure of her Metro Bank account. If Miss M had been 
maintaining her account in line with its terms and conditions, Metro Bank believed 
shed have challenged the closure.
My provisional decision 
I issued a provisional decision on this case. Before doing so, I considered all the available 
evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint.  CIFAS marker  how it works
CIFAS is a fraud prevention agency. It maintains a large database, in order to protect 
financial organisations and their customers against fraud. Member organisations contribute 
their own cases and can search the database. CIFAS and its members are responsible for 
the quality, protection and lawful use of the data. There are eight Principles in place. 
The principle which relates to the standard of proof for entries reported to CIFAS is Principle 
4. This sets out that:
Cases filed to the National Fraud Database must be supported by evidence and meet the 
four pillars of the Standard of Proof.  The Standard of Proof is:
1. That there are reasonable grounds to believe that a fraud or financial crime has been 
committed or attempted;
2. That the evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police;
3. The conduct of the subject must meet the criteria of one of the case types;
4. In order to file, the member must have rejected, withdrawn or terminated a product 
on the basis of fraud unless the member has an obligation to provide the product or 
the subject has already received the full benefit of the product.
All subjects involved that meet the standard of proof must be filed to the National Fraud 
Database. 
In my provisional decision I went on to consider whether Metro Bank had sufficient grounds, 
in the light of this requirement, to record a marker against Miss M.
CIFAS marker and Miss Ms account
As the CIFAS principles set out, members must file the details of subjects  in other words, 
individuals  who meet the standard of proof. Its not optional.
Here, Metro Bank had closed Miss Ms account on the basis of fraud (point 4) and the 
alleged conduct does fall into one of CIFAS case types (point 3). So I looked in detail at 
points 1 and 2  whether Metro Bank had reasonable grounds to believe a fraud or financial 
crime had been committed or attempted, and whether the evidence was such that Metro 
Bank could confidently report the conduct to the police.
Id seen the notification sent to Metro Bank by the bank from which the disputed £5,000 
payment was sent. This was categorised as a scam and shows that the sender claimed 
shed been persuaded to transfer the money for electrical goods.
But I accepted that the evidence considered by Metro Bank was wider than the notification 
from the other bank:
- Miss Ms account had a pattern of large incoming payments, all with immediate 
withdrawals. Metro bank had explained that this type of pattern is typical when 
fraudulent funds are involved. And although it could be innocent, I wasnt persuaded 
by Miss Ms explanation, when she was asked about them, that these payments were 
group contribution savings.  She didnt provide any evidence to support this, or 
explain any more about the nature of these savings. And she immediately took out 
the money for retail or money transfers, which werent savings purposes. So I could 
understand why Metro  viewed these transactions and the circumstances 
surrounding them as it did. 
- Miss M didnt query Metro Banks 8 January closure of her account. She did nothing 
until the end of September, nearly nine months later when shed found out that the 
CIFAS marker was affecting her. While there could be reasons behind this delay, it 
does seem strange for a customer not to contact the bank quickly when the bank 
closes an account  especially if they have been using it for legitimate purposes and 
still need access to it.
- I agreed with Metro Bank that its common for fraudsters to provide evidence of a 
senders purported bank statement. And as the sender of the payment hadnt 
withdrawn her claim against Miss M, it seemed unlikely that person would have 
willingly given Miss M such a document. So the fact Miss M had this document 
doesnt automatically mean that Metro should have put its concerns to one side. 
- I didnt find Miss Ms account of the truck purchase and sale persuasive. She said it 
came from abroad, but I consider the purported invoice for buying it shows some 
inconsistencies with what Id expect to see. On the Companies House website, the 
UK firm allegedly selling the truck to Miss M has a different address from that on the 
invoice.  The Companies House website also gives the firms Nature of business 
as Wholesale trade of motor vehicle parts and accessories. While its in the same 
kind of industry, this clearly isnt the same as the import and retail sale of trucks.
- I also noted that when Metro Bank asked Miss M to provide V5C vehicle documents 
to show the sale and purchase were genuine, she didnt do so. These would be 
available for any registered transfers of ownership, to and from Miss M.
- Miss M also gave conflicting evidence about how she paid for the truck. When 
challenged that there was no applicable debit from her Metro account, Miss M said 
she paid for it by cash from another bank account. But as Ive set out above, we 
obtained statements for Miss Ms account  which was also closed  and they didnt 
show any such withdrawals.
Taking all these factors into consideration, my provisional decision was that Metro Bank had 
more than enough evidence to meet the CIFAS standards of proof. So it had reasonable 
grounds to indicate that Miss M had committed a fraud or financial crime, and that the 
evidence was clear, relevant and rigorous such that Metro Bank could confidently report 
Miss Ms conduct to the police. CIFAS requires members to report such fraud. So I found 
that Metro Bank didnt do anything wrong when it recorded a CIFAS fraud marker against 
Miss Ms name.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Miss M, nor Metro Bank, replied to the provisional decision. Ive reconsidered all the 
available evidence and arguments. Having done so, I consider my original conclusions were 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint and I do not uphold Miss Ms 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept or reject my decision before 20 January 2021.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman