DRN-2703620
The complaint
Mr W says James Hay Administration Company Ltd (James Hay) was wrong to pay certain 
invoices from the cash balance of his Self-invested Personal Pension (SIPP) in respect of 
commercial property he held within it.
Mr W says James Hay failed to provide him with copy invoices and didnt take due care with 
regard to certain property management issues, resulting in his SIPP incurring costs it wasnt 
properly liable for and failing to secure revenue it shouldve benefited from.
What happened
I understand that in 2002 Mr W was advised to open a SIPP. James Hay was the SIPP 
provider as well as being sole trustee and administrator. As administrator, it acted principally 
as the receiver and transmitter of member instructions. Mr W was the sole member of the 
plan and entitled to benefits flowing from it.
Upon commencement of Mr Ws SIPP an in-specie transfer of commercial property was 
made to it. This comprised various parcels or units of storage and office space. James Hay 
as the trustee became the legal owner of the property. I note this was sold in October 2017 
and is no longer held by the SIPP. I understand the SIPP itself remains open.
In April 2017 Mr W complained to James Hay about how his SIPP had been managed. He 
was concerned about how certain invoices had been paid without his prior sight. In 
particular, he identified discrepancies between payments being made to the council for 
business rates and what he believed was actually due. He says James Hay and its 
appointed managing agent, CBRE, had failed to carry out their duties effectively.
In June 2017 James Hay responded to Mr W saying it was his responsibility as SIPP 
member, to liaise with the local council about business rates, for example when units 
became vacant. It said it wasnt obliged to obtain his prior authority when settling invoices 
from the SIPP funds as it was acting in the best interests of protecting his property 
investment, one of its duties as the trustee.
Exchanges continued and Mr W raised further concerns, including about the leases and 
vacancy of the commercial property units. James Hay suggested to him it carry out an audit 
review of the invoices paid by his SIPP and that as this would fall outside of CBREs core 
duties it would cost £150 per hour plus VAT which would be deducted from the SIPP funds. 
However, it stated that should the audit reveal any maladministration then the costs would 
either be waived or reduced. Mr W agreed for the audit to proceed.
After further to and fro between Mr W, CBRE and the council, the final audit findings were 
provided in March 2019. James Hay said this determined Mr Ws SIPP hadnt paid any rates 
to the local council for any period outside of its liability and didnt show maladministration. 
James Hay says it decided not to charge its audit fee due to the length of time the review 
had taken.
In early 2020 Mr W raised concerns about CBREs audit findings. He pointed out that as a 
result of the review his SIPP has been reimbursed for certain substantial fees previously 
paid. He maintained other issues relating to rates, rent and leases remained unresolved and 
that James Hay and/or CBRE should engage with the council to secure satisfactory 
resolution.
James Hay told Mr W it wouldnt take the matter any further because the final audit 
concluded the position on invoices had now been settled. It did however say that neither it 
nor CBRE were business rate specialists and that he might want to commission independent 
expert advice. And it directed him to the local council as it was best placed as the rating 
authority to answer any of his outstanding concerns.
James Hay provided Mr W with renewed referral rights to this Service in its final response 
letter to him of 11 February 2020 due to the length of time it took CBRE to complete its 
investigations. Mr W brought his complaint to us and amongst other matters said:
I wish to reiterate, from my records over the years there were constant failures by both 
James Hay and CBRE to provide me with copies of invoices etc., and in particular the 
business rate invoicesI would have vetted and approved the invoices for payment 
however, failure to provide me with the above information prevented me from carrying out 
my responsibilities as Sole Member of the S.I.P.P
James Hay had full control of the leases and as sole legal owners of the property, to 
implement a duty of careto ensure member(s) comply with their responsibilities and 
monitor accordingly and deal with any queries if and when they arose which would have 
avoided the lengthy review to secure eventual refunds
I have found this matter frustrating, irritating and unnecessary as I expected a S.I.P.P. 
Scheme to run smoothly and free from aggravation to enhance and enjoy a happy and 
peaceful retirement, this has not been the case. I have been shabbily treated
The investigator considered this case and recommended it shouldnt be upheld. Mr W 
disagreed and so his complaint has been passed to me to review and for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Wheres theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, 
my role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, 
whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised by both parties. Thats 
deliberate; ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses 
and their customers. While Ive taken into account and considered all submissions, 
including information provided subsequent to the investigators views, Ive concentrated my 
findings on what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Turning to the scope of the respective responsibilities of James Hay, its property 
management agent and Mr W as the SIPP member  these are set out in documents which 
he wouldve been provided with at commencement of his SIPP and at appropriate intervals 
thereafter. Ive not seen that receipt of such information was a matter of debate.I note that there was a change of property agent in 2009 when CBRE was appointed. And 
that the substantive outstanding issues Mr W has identified relate to the period from 2011. It 
follows the most relevant documentation for me to consider comes from this period onwards.
For example, James Hays commercial property purchase guide set-out the following 
condition about ongoing expenses (bolding is my emphasis):
At all times, it is your responsibility to ensure sufficient liquid funds are held in the 
SIPP property account to meet ongoing liabilities. These can include, but are not 
limited to, the mortgage, SIPP fees, and if the property becomes vacant, rates, insurance, 
maintenance, security, marketing costs, etc. If there are costs due from the SIPP that cannot 
be met the property is at risk and we may be forced to sell the property against your wishes. 
You will be the main point of contact for any creditors.
In a document titled CBRE Core Duties, in respect of invoices it noted:
Professional Fees/Works - We ensure the work has been completed and approve invoices 
for payment by James Hay and we liaise with members where appropriate.
Although Mr W is sole member of the SIPP, the commercial property was owned by James 
Hay. It wasnt under an obligation to consult with him about every payment made. Of course, 
it owed him a duty of care and had to act in the best interest of his plan. I think this extended 
to making payments promptly and so avoiding the risk of penalties for late payment, debt, or 
litigation.
The same document set out the core services CBRE would provide for James Hay and 
which would be covered by members standard fees. These were largely transactional 
services such as rent demands and collection, invoice approval and insurance 
administration. The leaflet also identified the services that could be provided by the property 
agent, but which would attract additional fees at £150 per hour. This included matters related 
to property leases, such as new lettings, renewals, assignments and breaks.
The commercial property in Mr Ws SIPP had a number of unit and there were different 
tenants taking on different parts of the premises at different times. So, I can see how 
keeping on top of matters related to the leases was important.
James Hay says that whenever a property or unit became vacant then it would send SIPP 
members a vacant property notice, to let them know what they had to do. Ive seen an 
example it says Mr W wouldve received on a number of occasions, it included the following 
instructions (bolding is my emphasis):
As your property will soon be vacant you as the SIPP member need to do the following 
ESSENTIAL steps:
Notify the Local Council/Rating Authority that the property is now vacant and ask 
them to send all rate demands to James Hay, c/o CBRE Limited
Business Rates for vacant properties will be paid from your SIPP account, from expiry of the 
lease.
It is your responsibility as the SIPP Member to notify the local Rating Authority of the 
date when the lease expired and ask them to apply Empty Rate Relief and to re-address 
rate demands to James Hay Pension Trustees
You may wish to consider seeking to appeal the level of Rateable Value applied to the 
propertyIn addition, you may wish to appoint a Rating expert to provide detailed 
advice on whether savings can be made on the amount of vacant Rates payableI note that when James Hay responded to Mr Ws complaint in June 2017, it suggested hed 
not met some of these obligations. For example, it identified thered been notification by a 
tenant of an early break in a lease it hadnt been made aware of. Im also aware Mr W says 
that because he didnt receive proper notification of invoices, he wasnt able to fulfil his 
responsibilities.
From what Ive read, the terms of Mr Ws SIPP set out the extent of James Hays duties as 
trustee. It was obliged to pay invoices received in relation to the commercial property to 
protect the pension investment. I believe it did so in good faith based on its understanding of 
the tenancies position at the time.
So, Im not satisfied that James Hay was acting unreasonably, unfairly, or beyond its 
authority at the time it paid the debated invoices. I think this was judgement it was entitled to 
make. Its important to note, as the sole trustee and owner of the commercial property, it had 
a responsibility to administrate Mr Ws SIPP in line with its terms and conditions. 
When Mr W raised his complaint in April 2017, both parties couldnt come to an agreement. 
Matters rumbled on for a few months before James Hay agreed to commission CBRE to 
conduct an audit of the disputed payments. Its significant that by the end of this process in 
March 2019, it had identified the need for reimbursement of substantial funds to Mr Ws 
SIPP for fees paid by it that werent due. This certainly vindicates Mr Ws action in trying to 
get to the bottom of the transactions on his plan.
James Hay concluded in March 2019 that the position on Mr Ws SIPP had been 
regularised. However, Mr W didnt agree with CBREs final position on the audit of fees paid 
by his SIPP. Broadly, despite the refunds due, he thought his SIPP had still incurred costs it 
wasnt liable for and that certain revenue due wasnt collected from tenants. He wanted 
James Hay to take this up with the council.
The outstanding differences between the parties are essentially questions concerning 
appropriate liability for business rates and mitigation, and matters relating to leases. This 
service has no remit to make any assessment of the validity of rate charges, or comment on 
matters related to leases. And we cant join third parties to a complaint.
James Hay proposed the CBRE audit in an attempt to resolve matters. It also concluded that 
it wouldnt be right to charge Mr W for this work, which was extensive and potentially billable 
by CRBE at £150 per hour. It says this was because the work took so long to conclude. 
Although, Id observe it would also have been somewhat contentious given the review 
activity resulted in the uncovering fees paid which ultimately werent proper to his SIPP.
Nevertheless, on balance, I think James Hay has done enough to get to the bottom of the 
issues raised by Mr W. It says he could commission independent specialist business rates 
advice and approach the council as rating authority about his outstanding concerns. Given 
CBREs final conclusion on the matter and the fact that any further work by it would in any 
case be chargeable, this seems to be a reasonable suggestion. But clearly I cant advise him 
what to do.
Finally, I note that in responding to one of the investigators communications, Mr W 
broadened the concerns he was raising. For example, he told us:
There was no mention of myself as a future member being involved in core or onerous 
duties etc. as all matters and responsibilities would be between the S.I.P.P. provider and the 
Property Managers.Had the aforementioned been the case with no previous experience or expertise I would not have entered into such an agreement and would have withdrawn my 
interest to seek choices at retirement and/or the Open Markets Options.
In conclusion, I believe I was miss sold a S.I.P.P. Pension Scheme
As the investigator noted, the matter of the suitability of Mr Ws James Hay SIPP isnt 
something I can consider in this complaint. Thats because it was the responsibility of his 
financial adviser in 2002 to have provided him with appropriate recommendations. In doing 
so it shouldve taken into account his circumstances, objectives, attitude to risk and the 
options available to him. 
In recommending a SIPP, the provider and his investment choices, Mr Ws financial adviser 
shouldve provided some assessment of the associated pros and cons of holding 
commercial property in his plan, including what his responsibilities would be.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive already set out, Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 August 2021. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman