DRN-3130320
The complaint
Mr I has complained about the amount Admiral paid to settle third party claims made against 
his car insurance policy with it. 
What happened
Mr I bought a car insurance policy with Admiral. In January 2018 he was involved in an  
incident with another vehicle which he was at fault for  having collided with another vehicle 
while proceeding from a side road. It came to light that Mr I had been driving under a 
provisional licence unsupervised at the time of the incident. This led to the claim not being 
met under the policy by Admiral. This decision isnt part of Mr Is complaint and isnt in 
dispute.
Admiral received and dealt with third party claims as a result of the incident in accordance 
with its obligations under the Road Traffic Act 1988 (RTA) and with Mr Is agreement. 
Having settled the third party claims, in February 2021 Admiral contacted Mr I to recover the 
costs of the claim from him. Mr I complained to Admiral about the settlement amount, for the 
way it had handled the claim and its failure to keep him updated. 
In April 2021 Admiral upheld Mr Is complaint in part. It accepted it had failed to keep him 
informed while it was dealing with the third party claims. And it acknowledged that some 
correspondence had crossed with Mr Is. Admiral also accepted that there was a difference 
in the date and time of the claim. But as the other details relating to the incident were 
consistent, it was satisfied it had correctly dealt with the claim. 
For its failings Admiral paid Mr I £200 compensation. 
However, Admiral said it had settled the third party claims on the best terms possible. And it 
explained that it couldnt provide Mr I with all of the information he wanted to see about the 
third parties and their claims in line with data protection rules. 
Mr I remained unhappy and asked us to look at his complaint. Our investigator thought 
Admiral had dealt with the claim reasonably. 
Mr I didnt agree. In summary Mr I isnt satisfied that Admiral has addressed all of his 
concerns about the third party claims. Mr I wants Admiral to answer a series of questions he 
has about the claim. 
So as Mr I doesnt agree, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr Is strength of feeling about the fact that Admiral hasnt answered his 
specific questions about the claim. It isnt for me to insist Admiral do so  but Im able to 
consider whether Admiral dealt with the third party claims in a reasonable way  and 
whether it treated Mr I fairly when doing so.
Specifically, Mr I didnt agree with the following comments in the investigators view; 
I have reviewed the details of the court proceedings on this case and Admiral 
disputed the claimants vehicle hire cost, the claimed amount was initially £6,600, 
there were defence costs involved of £378 taking this matter to court however doing 
so, the vehicle hire cost were settled at £3000.
Mr I says that as far as he is aware, the car hire costs were negotiated without the need for 
court action. I asked Admiral for clarification in line with the Judgment order dated 31 July 
2019. Admiral confirmed that one of the two third party claimants didnt accept its settlement 
offer for their personal injury claim. This resulted in court action and a Judgment. Admiral in 
its breakdown of costs to Mr I confirmed defence costs of £378. It says this was a fee it paid 
to its solicitors to negotiate the original hire car costs being claimed for. The defence costs 
under the injury claim that proceeded to court was £192  due to one of the two claimants 
not accepting Admirals initial personal injury offer. 
For the part of the claim that was settled in court, I cannot provide comment or go behind the 
Judgment order. I appreciate that there has been some confusion caused by the 
investigators view as the Judgment order did not relate to car hire costs and I apologise for 
this to Mr I. But Im satisfied with Admirals breakdown of costs provided to him.
I appreciate that Mr I is of the view that as the incident date and time provided by the third 
party claimants was a day apart from the date he provided, this is therefore significant. 
Admiral accepts that it failed to notice this while it was investigating the claim. But having 
reviewed the claim again when Mr I raised his complaint, Admiral is satisfied that the other 
details about the circumstances of the incident are consistent and therefore its decision 
remains unaffected by this failing. I agree with Admirals response here, having reviewed the 
information provided by both parties about the incident. But I can understand why Mr I raised 
his concern - as I think Admiral should have clarified the date and time of the incident much 
sooner. 
Mr I says the third parties lied about the number of people in their vehicle. I understand Mr I 
says this shows that the claim is based on lies. I cant see that Mr I has been prejudiced by 
Admirals decision to settle the claims it received. Admiral received claims from two third 
parties  but Mr I says there were more than two occupants in the third partys vehicle.
Mr I asked if Admiral checked the third party was insured at the time of the incident. I asked 
Admiral to clarify this  and it has confirmed it did check and found valid insurance in place 
with the Motor Insurance Bureau. However, the third party didnt claim through their insurer - 
and so Admiral had no requirement to contact them. And this didnt prevent Admiral from 
considering the claims it received as it was obligated to do so under the RTA.
Mr I is unhappy with the amount of costs in relation to car hire from the third party. I can see 
that Admirals legal representatives disputed their claim here as excessive and negotiated a 
reduction in these costs by approximately half. The dates for car hire exceeded the date 
Admiral offered settlement for the third partys vehicle as a total loss. So I think this part of 
the claim was properly investigated by Admiral and its solicitors. Admiral explained that its unable to provide Mr I with details of the third party to him in line 
with data protection rules. But it provided Mr I with the information it was able to when he 
made a Subject Access request. 
I think Admiral failed to keep Mr I updated of the third party claim  and so I can understand 
his upset when he heard from Admiral in February 2021  as this was over three years after 
the incident. For its communication failings, Admiral paid Mr I £200 compensation. I think this 
amount is fair and in line with awards we give for similar circumstances. 
Overall I think Admiral properly investigated the claim and received reasonable evidence 
from the third parties in support. Where it wasnt satisfied with the third party claim costs, it 
challenged them. The outcome was either a negotiated reduction in the settlement  or an 
order from the court. 
I understand Mr I will be very disappointed with my decision. But I think Admiral acted 
reasonably when it dealt with the third party claim it received. And so Im not asking it to do 
any more. And this means I think Admiral can look to recover the claim costs from Mr I. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 January 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman