DRN-3678730
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy about Lloyds Bank PLCs response when he asked it to accept a reduced 
offer and freeze interest.
What happened
Mr C experienced a change in his financial circumstances and wrote a letter to Lloyds asking 
it to accept a reduced payment and freeze interest. He enclosed details of his income and 
outgoings in his letter.
Mr C didnt receive a response from Lloyds, despite contacting them for an update. He 
raised a complaint.
In response, Lloyds apologised for not responding and said it should have provided better 
service. It credited £50 to Mr Cs account. It advised Mr C that it had placed his account on a 
30 day hold and refunded £119.91 interest. Lloyd advised Mr C that its process was to 
discuss a customers current position over the phone once income and expenditure details 
had been completed online. It provided Mr C with details of the number to call and advised 
him that no payment arrangement would be put in place as it needed to discuss Mr Cs 
proposals with him.
Unhappy that Lloyds hadnt agreed a payment arrangement, Mr C brought his complaint to 
this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said she was satisfied that Lloyds had put 
right any errors it had made and that freezing interest on the account was as much as it 
could do until Mr C contacted them (or asked someone to contact them on his behalf) to 
discuss a suitable repayment plan.
Mr C didnt agree. He said hed asked Lloyds to contact him by email or by post because 
speaking on the phone made him feel anxious. He said other creditors had reached 
agreement with him without him having had to speak to them on the phone.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds has acknowledged that it didnt respond to Mr Cs letter and has paid compensation 
in recognition of this service failure. I think this is a fair and reasonable resolution to this 
aspect of the complaint.
I can see that when Lloyds wrote to Mr C, it advised him that it needed to speak to him on 
the phone before it could agree a payment arrangement. 
Mr C has said that he didnt want to speal to Lloyds on the phone because he suffers from 
anxiety. Hes asked Lloyds to contact him by email or letter.
Lloyds has said it needs to speak to Mr C on the phone for two reasons. Firstly, because it is 
required to read out a regulatory script, and secondly, because the income and expenditure 
form provided by Mr C shows a deficit, so it needs to speak to him about affordability before 
an arrangement can be put in place.
Taking everything into consideration, I think Lloyds has provide a reasonable explanation for 
why it needs to speak to Mr C on the phone. I also think Lloyds has tried to make reasonable 
adjustments for Mr C by sending him a third-party authority so that he can nominate 
someone to speak to Lloyds on his behalf. Lloyds has also signposted Mr C to organisations 
who will be able to provide him with support.
In the circumstances, I dont think Lloyds has acted unfairly or unreasonably by asking Mr C 
to call before it can agree a payment arrangement.
I appreciate that Mr C has told this service that other creditors have accepted his payment 
proposals without him having to call them. However, Im only able to look at the 
circumstances of this particular complaint, and as Ive said above, I dont think Lloyds has 
acted unfairly or unreasonably. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman