DRN-4275263
The complaint
Mr V complains that Lift Financial Limited (Lift) unfairly continued to take fees from his 
pension plan from April 2014. He feels that hes been paying for advice that he didnt receive 
for the eight years from 2014 to 2022. 
Mr Vs pension plan was set up when Lift was known by a different name. But Ill only refer to 
Lift in my decision.
What happened
Mr V joined his employers group personal pension (GPP) plan in 2009. Although the 
provider of the GPP has now changed, Ill refer to it as provider S, and to the employer as 
business B. 
Lift said it managed business Bs Staff Pension Scheme  the GPP plan  before business B 
decided to move this provision in-house in 2014.
Lift said that at the time, GPPs were generally arranged on a commission basis. And that in 
2006, business B had chosen to set up the scheme on a commission basis - Lift would 
receive 1% of all initial and transfer contributions into the scheme as well as 0.25% fund-
based commission. 
Lift also said that the fees it received from the business B pension scheme were a 
contractual arrangement between it, provider S and the scheme provider for the services 
provided to business B. It said these included setting up and administering the scheme, 
including joiners, leavers and help with payroll. So this wasnt for services provided by Lift to 
the individual employees. It said that this arrangement remained in place until business B 
decided to move this provision to another provider in 2014.
Lift said that at this point, business Bs contributions to the scheme stopped, although 
members could continue to make contributions into the scheme if they wished.
Lift said that it provided every new employee of business B with individual financial advice 
when they joined the GPP, as part of the original agreement and charging structure agreed 
with business B. And that this was effectively free to individual employees, as its costs were 
covered by the consultancy charging structure it had agreed with business B. 
Lift met with Mr V in 2009. It wrote to him in December 2009 to confirm what itd discussed 
with him in respect of him joining the GPP. The letter said that Lift had been appointed by 
business B: to provide personal advice and guidance on the staff pension scheme. It also 
included a copy of its Retail Client Agreement. This stated the following under Services to 
be provided:
With regards to investments which we have arranged for you, these will not be kept under 
review, unless agreed with you, but we will advise you upon your request. 
It also contained a declaration which said:
I have read and understood the terms laid out in this agreement & the related 'Key facts' 
documents and have chosen for [name] to be remunerated by;
Payment of a fee.
Payment by commission (or product charges).
Payment by a combination of commission and fee.
Mr V was also provided with a new joiner pack which stated the following:
How much will my financial adviser receive?
FEES
Adviser's Initial Fee
£1.00 of each regular payment. equivalent to 1.00%. The same basis of Adviser's Initial Fee 
will apply to all future regular payments.
Adviser's Fund-Based Fee
0.25% each year of the encashment value of the fund. 
Mr V complained to Lift when he realised he was still paying it 0.25% each year in 
September 2021. 
Lift said that the charging structure that was in place was part of the original policy terms 
agreed when the business B scheme was originally setup in 2006. It said that it could be 
switched off, but that Mr V would have to instruct his scheme provider directly to arrange 
this.  
Lift said that the legacy charging structure still applied to Mr Vs account because it had been 
in force before 31 December 2012 when the Retail Distribution Review (RDR) came into 
force. It said that although RDR had removed the ability for an insurance company to pay an 
initial or ongoing commission to an adviser firm as part of the product charges, it only 
impacted new accounts.
Mr V asked Lift how it could justify the charging structure if he could simply turn it off. Lift 
said there were rules in place, referred to as the sunset clause, whereby existing payments 
to advisers were allowed to continue after 1 January 2013, as these were contractually 
agreed arrangements setup before that date.
Mr V felt that Lift shouldve notified him of the ways to cancel this commission, in the 
absence of providing any ongoing advice. Lift acknowledged what Mr V had said. But felt 
that as there was no agreement between him and it for an ongoing advice service, thered 
been no obligation to provide such a service, so there couldnt have been an absence of 
ongoing advice. It repeated its point that the payments received by Lift were part of the 
original contractual arrangement between it and business B, which it said it remained entitled 
to receive.
Mr V asked Lift for a copy of the contract between it and business B. But Lift said this 
couldnt be provided for commercial reasons. It has, however, provided a copy for this 
service.
Mr V wrote to the in-house pensions team at business B in October 2021. It told him: In 2014 the decision was taken to move away from provider S and to cease the 
advice/charging structure so that fees were more transparent. He felt that this meant that 
Lifts agreement with business B was cancelled in 2014. As this was some time after the 
implementation of the RDR, he wrote to Lift in October 2021 to ask it to confirm why itd 
continued to charge the advice fee. 
Lift replied to Mr V on 3 November 2021. It said that itd never taken anything from his 
pension other than the fees agreed when the plan was originally set up, and that it was 
contractually entitled to receive these fees. It said that the arrangement had remained 
unchanged despite the fact that business Bs contributions had ceased in 2014. 
Lift acknowledged how strongly Mr V felt about the issue. And said it was willing to refund  
on an ex gratia basis - the fees paid to it since April 2014, when business Bs contributions 
ceased. It said this amounted to £3,351.10. Lift also said that Mr V would need to contact his 
provider directly to turn the fees off going forwards. 
Lift said that as it couldnt refund payments directly back into Mr Vs account, the amount 
offered represented the fees hed paid, if theyd been credited to his account, less an 
allowance for the tax he wouldve had to pay when the money was withdrawn from the 
pension.
Mr V asked Lift to provide him with a calculation. Lift did so. Mr V didnt think Lift shouldve 
taken his tax-status into account in its calculations. Lift said it had followed the standard 
method for calculating compensation when refunding personal pension fees. 
Mr V felt that the implementation of the RDR had made the contractual terms invalid. But 
even if they were valid, he felt Lifts calculation was inaccurate. 
In a final attempt to conclude the complaint, Lift said it was willing to increase its without 
prejudice offer to £3,750 to account for the additional commission payments made to it, 
together with an additional ex-gratia amount of £200. 
Mr V brought a complaint about Lift to this service in March 2022. He said in 2014 business 
B had moved away from the requirement for Lift to act as an adviser and to cease the 
charging advice structure. He said hed retained his pension within the GPP, which had 
since changed providers. But hed noticed on his statement that he was still paying 0.25% 
fund-based commission for advice. Mr V said he hadnt received any advice from Lift since 
2014. 
Mr V said that Lift had provided regular financial services to him in 2010, 2011 and 2012. He 
said this included investment advice and pension tax advice, all of which he felt was financial 
advice. He felt that Lift seemed to be taking a view that despite offering a comprehensive 
financial advice service it was only the schemes administrator. He said Lift had continued to 
offer these advisory services to business B clients without contacting him. And that Lift had 
contacted him for the first time shortly after hed lodged his complaint. 
Mr V felt that after the implementation of RDR, there was a material change in the 
organisation of the scheme which resulted in Lift no longer performing any of the functions it 
had claimed it was paid for. He didnt think this was correct. 
Lift issued its final response to the complaint on 9 July 2022. It didnt think itd done anything 
wrong. It repeated its point that the RDR hadnt prevented existing arrangements from 
carrying on under the sunset clause. It said that the continuation of the 0.25% annual fund-
based commission after 2014 had allowed it to continue to deal with former business B 
scheme member queries without having to charge employees and ex-employees on an explicit individual basis. 
Lift also said that it was contractually entitled to receive the 0.25% charge. And it was 
therefore under no obligation to provide Mr V with any service for the 0.25% charge.
Our investigator asked Mr V if he could provide copies of any statements hed received that 
showed the charges he was querying. 
Mr V provided this service with statements from 2010, 2014, 2017 and 2020. The 2010 
statement stated: Units are deducted monthly to meet the cost of the Advisers Fund Based 
Fee of .25% each year of the fund value. The 2014 statement didnt note fees. 
The 2017 and 2020 statements both contained the following note about the Adviser fund-
based fee:
The fund based fee is 0.25% of your plan value that you agreed to pay your financial 
adviser each year. You can increase or reduce the amount of these fees, or, if you are no 
longer receiving an on-going service from your adviser, stop payments. 
You should talk to your financial adviser to confirm what will happen if you do change these 
fees.
Our investigator didnt think that the complaint should be upheld. He didnt consider that Lift 
had acted unfairly by continuing to receive commission. He said that although the RDR had 
stopped ongoing commissions after 1 January 2013, it didnt apply retrospectively to 
schemes taken out before it. So he felt Lift had acted within the original agreement when it 
continued to take commission after 2014. 
Our investigator also said that the retail client agreement he considered Lift had given to Mr 
V in 2009 said that investments wouldnt be kept under review unless agreed with the 
customer. But that advice could be provided at the customers request. He felt this showed 
that Lift didnt have a contractual requirement to provide advice in order to continue receiving 
commission.
Mr V didnt agree with our investigator. He made the following points:
It was inappropriate that Lift wouldnt allow him to see the contract between it and 
business B. He felt he needed to have sight of the contract for a fair outcome to be 
achieved.
He said that although the provision of advice from Lift was an optional part of the 
service, the ongoing charges of 0.25% were mainly to cover managing business Bs 
pension scheme, so a scheme member didnt benefit from a reduction in ongoing 
fees if he or she didnt take any advice. 
He felt that the agreement between Lift and business B was cancelled in 2014. And 
that this meant that the legal document through which Lift was claiming commissions 
had expired two years after the implementation of the RDR. He felt that this was a 
material change to the service offering which had occurred after the RDR was in 
force. So he didnt believe that Lift could continue to utilise those provisions. He also 
argued that the agreement was effectively a service agreement to run the pension 
scheme. So felt that the RDR provision should apply to his trail commission.
Mr V also felt that the compensation Lift had offered shouldnt have allowed for his 
tax status. As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. I agree with our investigator that Lift didnt act 
unfairly by continuing to receive commission after April 2014. 
Mr V considers that the fund-based fee of 0.25% shouldve stopped when business Bs 
contributions into the GPP stopped in 2014. He feels hes been paying for advice that he 
didnt receive between 2014 to 2022.
Ive thought carefully about what Mr V has said. But I dont agree that the fund-based fee 
shouldve stopped in 2014. Ill explain why. 
The information provided to Mr V at the outset
The new joiner pack Mr V was provided with set out the advice services that Lift would 
provide to him as a member of the GPP. This included advice about contributions, risk 
profiling, asset allocation and assessment of legacy pensions.
Mr V was also provided with a members guide produced by provider S for the GPP. Page 21 
of this guide explained that an advisers fund-based fee could be applied. And that this fee 
could be reduced or stopped at any time.
Im satisfied that the evidence shows that Mr V was given clear and not misleading 
information about what fees Lift would receive. And that Lift provided detailed information 
about what services it would provide for those fees. Im also satisfied that Lift provided Mr V 
with assistance both when he first joined the scheme, and at several later dates before 
business Bs contributions to the scheme stopped.
But Mr Vs complaint isnt about the fees he initially paid, its about the fact that the fees 
continued to be deducted after Lifts contractual obligations to business B ceased in April 
2014. So Ive gone on to consider what shouldve happened at this point. 
What shouldve happened when business Bs contributions to the scheme stopped?
Lift said that when business Bs contributions to the scheme stopped, members could 
continue to make contributions into the scheme if they wished. It said that the fee 
arrangement remained unchanged despite business Bs contributions ceasing in 2014. So it 
continued to take the 0.25% Adviser fund-based fee.
Mr V felt that, as hed had no further assistance from Lift since 2014, he shouldnt have been 
paying the 0.25% annual Adviser fund-based fee. He said that when business B moved its 
pension provision in-house in 2014, it moved away from the requirement to have Lift as an 
adviser, so the charging structure shouldve ceased. He said that before 2014, a number of 
Lifts independent financial advisers had provided him with regular financial services, which 
included investment advice and pension tax advice. So he felt Lift had given him financial 
advice before 2014. 
Mr V said that the extent of the free service Lift had provided up to 2014 was at odds with 
his experience. And that his current pension provider had Lift listed as his Financial Adviser. 
He felt that after the implementation of the RDR there was a material change in the organisation of the pension scheme which had led to Lift no longer performing any of the 
functions it had claimed to be paid for. So he didnt think it was right that it should continue to 
receive payments after the RDR as it hadnt provided him with any services. 
Lift said that the fees had been fully disclosed to Mr V when he enrolled into the scheme. 
And that it had never been contractually obliged to provide an ongoing advice service to 
individual employees in order to receive the fund-based commission payable. But that 
despite this, it had provided Mr V with help whilst hed been a member of the scheme. It also 
acknowledged that it had been noted as Mr Vs Financial Adviser on his new pension 
providers paperwork. It said this was because it had been the Financial Adviser for the 
entire business B scheme, not Mr V individually.
Lift also said that it was each individual employees decision on whether to join business Bs 
pension scheme. And that it didnt provide individual financial advice to employees as part of 
this joining process.
Although Lift has argued that it wasnt ever Mr Vs Financial Adviser, Im not persuaded that 
it wasnt. Im satisfied that Lift did provide Mr V with advice in respect of his joining the GPP. 
And Im also satisfied that it further provided him with advice about his investments and 
pension contributions. 
As I noted earlier, I consider that Lift provided clear information to Mr V about the charges 
that would apply to his pension, including the Advisers fund-based fee of 0.25%. Lift told this 
service that it received an initial commission - for providing this service to business B - of 1% 
of all contributions and transfers paid into the scheme, and 0.25% fund-based commission. It 
said that these commissions were added to the product charges and agreed with business B 
as its preferred method for paying for Lifts- service.
Im satisfied from the evidence that the fund-based advisor fee and initial fee on 
contributions were commission payments. The new joiner information pack recorded that the 
initial fee was to pay for the scheme administration on behalf of business B, and the adviser 
fee to pay for advice to members of the GPP.
As part of its original agreement with business B, Lift agreed to provide advice to its 
employees that were members of the GPP. So Im not sure why Lift continues to argue that 
the adviser fee was only to provide services to business B, when the evidence both Lift and 
Mr V have provided shows that it also provided members with advice. I acknowledge that the 
advice provided was limited. And that deeper advice might incur additional fees. But Im 
satisfied that Lift did provide Mr V with financial advice.
The adviser fee of 0.25% provided for advice to be given to Mr V. But I dont agree that this 
means that no commission shouldve been taken from Mr Vs pension after he stopped 
receiving any advice from Lift. Ill explain why. 
When Mr V joined the GPP, Lift was allowed to take commission from his pension in the way 
that it set out it would do. And although the fund-based adviser fee wasnt described as 
commission, Im satisfied that in essence that is what it was, as it was a fee that was paid to 
Lift on an ongoing basis. Although Mr V thinks it shouldnt be allowed to have taken 
commission from his pension after 2014, as it didnt provide him with any advice after that, I 
dont agree. I say this because before the RDR rules came into force, it wasnt wrong for 
advisers to take ongoing commission from a pension such as Mr Vs. And the COBS rules 
that applied when the RDR rules were implemented allowed businesses like Lift to continue 
to accept commission payments on transactions executed prior to 30 December 2012. 
The information Ive seen doesnt indicate that Lift contractually undertook to provide ongoing annual reviews or that Mr V requested them. And specifically, the copy of the retail 
client agreement that Lift has provided and which it says wouldve been provided to Mr V 
says that investments wont be kept under review unless agreed with the customer. But that 
advice could be provided on the customers request. So, I dont think Mr V wouldve been led 
to believe that he could expect Lift to provide him with ongoing annual reviews. And just 
because Mr V didnt ask for any advice from Lift after 2014, doesnt mean that it was wrong 
for Lift to take the adviser fee until Mr V cancelled it. 
The information provided to Mr V in the members guide explained that the advisers charge 
could be cancelled. I understand that Mr V started to question why this fee was still being 
taken in 2021. Lift explained he would have to discuss this with the current provider of his 
pension. From what Ive seen, Mr Vs post-2014 pension statements, and the information he 
was provided with at the time he joined the pension scheme, made this option clear. I say 
this because the members booklet provided by provider S stated:
You can reduce or stop the Advisers Fund Based Fee at any time. 
And both of the post-RDR pension statements Mr V has shared with this service stated:
You can increase or reduce the amount of these fees, or, if you are no longer receiving an 
on-going service from your adviser, stop payments. 
Therefore, although I acknowledge that Mr V didnt realise he had the option to stop paying 
the Advisers fund-based charge until 2021, I cant fairly hold Lift responsible. 
Im satisfied that the annual 0.25% Adviser fund-based fees that Lift received were 
commission payments for advice provided to employees. And that the initial 1% charge on 
contributions was for the administration of the GPP on behalf of business B. The nature of 
the arrangement seems to be a series of deferred commission in respect of the original 
advice Mr V received rather than a large one-off payment. 
Therefore, although I consider that Lift couldve been clearer to Mr V in how it has described 
the service it provided to him, Im of the view that Lift was entitled to continue to take 
commission payments from Mr Vs pension, after the RDR rules came into being. So I dont 
uphold the complaint. 
I acknowledge that Mr V would like to see Lifts agreement with business B. I understand 
why hed like to. But I cant fairly ask Lift to share this document with Mr V given its 
commercial nature, despite it being several years old. And, having reviewed the relevant 
sections of the agreement, Im satisfied that Lift has acted in line with it.
I also acknowledge that Lift made Mr V a without prejudice offer as a gesture of goodwill to 
refund the charges taken since 2014. Mr V has told this service that he doesnt think it was 
reasonable for Lift to take his tax status into account in its calculation. 
As Ive found no evidence that Lift unfairly continued to take the Adviser fund-based fee from 
Mr Vs pension after 2014, I cant reasonably ask Lift to reconsider the calculation method it 
used for its offer. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 September 2023.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman