DRN-4344762
The complaint
Mr O complains that Erudio Student Loans Limited unfairly terminated his student loan.
What happened
Mr O had a student loan made up of various accounts, one of which was administered by 
Erudio. In 2018, the loan was subject to six months arrears before a deferment application 
was approved. A rollback for three months of arrears was applied by Erudio. From that point, 
the loan remained three months in arrears and Erudio sent Mr O regular Notices of Sums in 
Arrears. 
Mr O continued to apply for deferment across all his loans via the Student Loans Company 
(SLC) each year. Last year, deferment period was due to come to an on 19 August 2022 but 
Erudio has explained it didnt receive notice that SLC had approved a new deferment. As a 
result, when the deferment period ended, payments became due on the Erudio loan. 
Mr O has told us that he applied to SLC to complete a new deferment before the existing 
deferment ended on 19 August 2022 but the application wasnt received. Mr Os told us he 
wasnt aware there were no new deferment arrangements in place.
Erudio has explained that because Mr Os loan carried existing arrears of three months at 
the end of the deferment period in August 2022 it was quickly identified as being at risk of 
terminating. Erudio issued a Notice of Default to Mr O on 23 September 2022, when the loan 
was four months behind. Mr O has explained he didnt receive the Notice of Default Erudio 
sent him. 
A Termination Letter was sent to Mr O on 22 October 2022 explaining the loan had been 
terminated and that the full balance of £4,550.97 was due within seven days. Mr O contacted 
Erudio and raised a complaint. Mr O went on to make another deferment application via SLC 
which was approved in November 2022. Mr Os explained that another business that 
administers other parts of his student loans agreed to backdate the deferment by three 
months. But Erudio refused on the basis Mr Os loan with it had already been terminated. 
Erudio issued a final response but didnt agree it had acted unfairly or made a mistake. An 
investigator at this service looked at Mr Os complaint. They thought Erudio had followed the 
correct steps when terminating Mr Os loan and didnt uphold his complaint. 
Mr O asked to appeal and said it was unfair that the failure of SLC to receive and process 
his initial deferment application had impacted the termination of his loan with Erudio. Mr O 
also said he first became aware of the status of his loan when he received the Termination 
Letter but by that time it was too late to do anything. Mr O said Erudio shouldve applied the 
arrears rollback to his loan account and reinstated it when the deferment application was 
approved by SLC in November 2022. As Mr O asked to appeal, his complaint has been 
passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to assure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under. 
Mr O has raised questions concerning the existing arrears on his loan with Erudio. Erudio 
has explained that in 2018 six months of arrears built up before the next deferment period 
was approved. But when the new deferment application was approved, a roll back was 
applied reducing the arrears by three months. That meant Mr Os loan was three months in 
arrears from that point. Mr Os pointed out the terms dont require repayment of arrears 
whilst the loan is subject to deferment. Whilst thats the case, Erudio was obliged to send Mr 
O regular updates about the position of his loan. And I can see that regular Notices of Sums 
in Arrears have been sent to Mr O as required notifying him of the position of his loan and 
existing arrears. 
I think its fair to add that Erudio has provided a copy of a contact note following a call it had 
with Mr O in October 2021. It shows that on 29 October 2021 Mr O discussed the status of 
his account and the arrears position. Im satisfied the phone note shows Mr O was aware 
that his loan was three months in arrears at that time and that a payment was required to 
bring it up to date. 
Mr Os told us that he applied to SLC to defer his student loans in good time. But no 
deferment application was received and processed by SLC so Erudio wasnt told about a 
new deferment period. I understand Mr O thought hed taken the necessary steps, but Ive 
not seen anything that shows he the new deferment period was confirmed by SLC or Erudio 
before the end of the existing period. So I cant say Erudio acted unfairly when payments 
became due on the loan in August 2022. 
Mr Os added that he didnt receive the Notice of Default from Erudio so wasnt aware of the 
status of his account. Like the investigator, Ive checked the Notice of Default and can see it 
was correctly addressed, in line with the details we hold for Mr O. Im satisfied the Notice of 
Default was sent to Mr O as claimed by Erudio and wouldve most likely been received. 
In response to the investigator, Mr Os pointed out his deferment application was approved 
by SLC in November 2022 and that the other business that administers his student loans 
agreed to backdate arrears by three months. I take Mr Os point, but by the time SLC 
received and approved Mr Os deferment application his loan with Erudio had already been 
terminated. When the loan was terminated the terms ceased to apply which meant Mr O was 
no longer eligible to defer repayments. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr O but Im satisfied Erudio sent him regular notice of the arrears for 
the loan from 2018 and discussed the missed payments in October 2021. I havent found 
anything that shows Erudio made a mistake or treated Mr O unfairly by taking the decision to 
terminate the loan when further arrears built from August 2022 and no deferment was 
confirmed by SLC. Im very sorry to disappoint Mr O, but as Im satisfied Erudio fairly 
terminated the student loan Im not telling it to do anything else. My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Os complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman