DRN-2360627
The complaint
Mr G on behalf of G complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc unfairly closed Gs account without 
any notification of that decision and also complains that he hadnt received the money from 
the account.
What happened
Mr G says HSBC asked him to complete a safeguarding review form which he says is not 
written clearly or easy to complete. He says he attended a HSBC branch for help and says 
he was told his account would be reopened. Mr G says he found out in late 2019 that his 
account had closed but he didnt receive any letters from HSBC about that. In summary Mr 
G says he has spent hours speaking to HSBC about this issue and was denied access to his 
money over the Christmas period. He would like compensation for his loss of earnings and 
for the delay in him receiving his money.
HSBC says its safeguarding forms need completion and are a regulatory requirement. It 
says it told Mr G in April 2019 that a review would be carried out and sent him another letter 
telling him he had until 17 July 2019 to complete the form and the account would be closed if 
it was not completed. HSBC says it gave Mr G notice that Gs account would close on 15 
September 2019 and it spoke to Mr G on 13 August 2019 to explain again that the form 
needed completing. It says a decision to close the account was again made but on 11 
October 2019 agreed to allow Mr G further time to complete the safeguarding form. HSBC 
says Mr G didnt complete the form and so closed Gs account. It accepts Mr G didnt receive 
the cheque for the account balance and has paid compensation for that and paid 8% interest 
on that balance.
Mr G brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought HSBC had sent Mr G a number of letters about the account closing and the need for 
the safeguarding form to be completed which had not been completed. The investigator said 
she couldnt hold HSBC responsible for Mr G not receiving those closure letters and that it 
gave Mr G a reasonable time period to complete the form.
Mr G doesnt accept that view and disputes receiving the closure letters. He says he would 
like HSBC prosecuted and maintains the account was closed without notice.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that HSBC has dealt fairly with this 
complaint and hasnt made a mistake. I appreciate that Mr G on behalf of G will be 
disappointed by my decision.
Im satisfied that HSBC is entitled to ask its customers to compete such safeguarding forms 
and must do so to comply with its regulatory obligations. It is not role to decide if such 
requirements are necessary or in what form they take place. I can see that the investigator 
has explained to Mr G that we are not HSBCs regulator and I also make clear that its not 
our role to prosecute a business as Mr G suggests.
I can see from HSBCs records that it told Mr G that he would need to complete the safe 
guarding form and that his account would close if he did not complete it. Im satisfied Mr G 
must have been aware of that as I can see that he called HSBC about the form and has told 
us that he attended a branch for help completing it. So, Im satisfied that by July to August 
2019 Mr G would have been aware that there was a risk Gs account would close and that 
he ought reasonably to be aware that the form needed completing.
I can see from HSBCs records that a number of letters were sent to Mr G about the 
importance of the form being completed and telling hm that the account would close if it was 
not. I can also see that letters were again sent to Mr G in October and November 2019 
telling him the account would close unless the form was completed, and that information 
would be clearly visible on his online banking screen. 
I appreciate Mr G says he didnt receive those letters and was unaware his account would 
close. But Im satisfied the letters were sent and I cant fairly hold HSBC responsible for that 
as it isnt involved in the delivery of the mail. I think in any event, even if Mr G didnt receive 
the letters, he ought to have been aware that the account would close if he didnt complete 
the safeguarding form and that issue hadnt gone away. I find that Mr G didnt complete the 
form and so I think he ought reasonably to have been aware that the account would close in 
those circumstances.
I have listened to a telephone call between the parties in around October 2019 in which 
HSBC told Mr G that it would reinstate his account. Im satisfied HSBC said it would send Mr 
G a new account card and that Mr G asked if he could continue to use internet banking 
which he was told he could. Im satisfied it was made clear to Mr G on a number of 
occasions that this was an extension to the decision to close the account and he had 30 
days to complete the safeguarding form to which I find Mr G accepted. I also find HSBC told 
Mr G that a banner would appear on the online banking page telling him to complete the 
form and that it was made clear the account would close unless it was done. 
So, Im satisfied that even if Mr G didnt receive any of the closure letters and was unaware 
his account would close, that he was clearly told on more than one occasion during that call 
that the account would close unless he completed the form. I dont think Mr G ever 
completed that form and so I find HSBC acted fairly in those circumstances by closing the 
account. I appreciate that would have caused G inconvenience, but I think that could have 
been avoided by the completion of the form. I make clear to Mr G that in any event we cant 
consider the impact on him but only on G as the account is in its name and we could not 
award compensation for distress caused to Mr G even if I though HSBC had made a 
mistake.
Overall, I find Mr G was told by HSBC that his account had been reinstated and an extension 
given to the closing of that account to allow the completion of the safeguarding form. I find 
HSBC fairly extended the time period for submitting the form on a number of occasions but 
acted in line with agreed account terms and conditions by closing the account. Mr G doesnt 
ask us to look at the compensation level he received from HSBC for the delay in receiving 
the cheque for the account funds, but I think such compensation is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances and think HSBC fairly paid interest on the amount.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman