DRN-4069925
The complaint
Mr W complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (t/a Audi Financial 
Services) (AFS) paid a parking fine instead of forwarding it to him to deal with. He says he 
wouldve contested the parking fine. He wants AFS to refund the charge and pay him 
compensation for the inconvenience its caused.
Mr W is represented in his complaint. For ease of reading, any reference to Mr W refers to 
the testimony of both Mr W and his representative.
What happened
Mr W entered into a hire agreement in September 2021 for a term of 48 months. In 
November 2022, in respect of the car listed on the hire agreement, a third party sent a 
penalty notice for a parking violation to AFS. Mr W told us
AFS paid the parking fine and then wrote to him to advise that it was charging him for 
the parking fine and adding a £25 administration charge;
he expected AFS to simply forward the penalty notice directly to him  it shouldnt 
have paid the fine  this wouldve given him the opportunity to challenge it with the 
third party;
AFS paid the penalty notice earlier than it needed to do, and in doing so, hes lost the 
opportunity to contest the fine.
AFS rejected this complaint. It said that the payment of fines was covered in the terms and 
conditions of the finance agreement signed by Mr W. It explained that it was the owner of the 
car and would always attempt to transfer liability for these types of charge to the hirer, in this 
case Mr W, but in this instance, transfer of the liability wasnt possible  the penalty notice 
made it clear that the owner of the car would be held liable for payment of the fine.
AFS explained that Mr W could still dispute the penalty notice directly with the third party, 
and in the event he were successful, the issuing authority would refund AFS and it, in turn, 
would refund Mr W.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and said he didnt think it should be upheld. He 
explained that the penalty notice for a parking violation at a railway station made it clear that 
the owner of the car  AFS  would be held liable for payment of the penalty. And he noted 
that AFS had provided Mr W with a letter of authority so that he could dispute the penalty 
notice should he wish to do so. Our investigator concluded that there wasnt anything else he 
could ask AFS to do in this matter.
Mr W disagrees so the complaint comes to me to decide. He says not only did AFS pay the 
penalty, but it paid it early, and this is something it hadnt done previously.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered all the evidence and testimony from both Mr W and AFS afresh, Ive 
reached the same conclusion as our investigator and for broadly the same reasons. Ill 
explain why.
Mr W was supplied with a vehicle under a hire agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement which means were able to look into complaints about it.
Under the terms of the hire agreement, although Mr W is the hirer of the car, AFS is the 
owner of it during the term of the agreement. The penalty notice issued by the third party to 
AFS states DVLA records indicate that you [AFS] were the registered keeper of the vehicle 
on the date of the offence. You are legally liable for this offence as the owner even if you 
were not the driver at the time. And the notice goes on to state that non-payment of the 
penalty could result in a fine of £1,000 following a successful prosecution. Im, therefore 
satisfied that AFS could be held liable for non-payment of the penalty notice, and I dont 
think it was wrong for AFS to have paid it.
The terms and conditions of the agreement also say You must pay all license fees, taxes, 
insurance premiums, fines and other payments associated with the Vehicle. So Im also 
satisfied that having paid the penalty notice, AFS was acting fairly in passing on this charge 
to Mr W.
Mr W is unhappy that AFS paid the fine so quickly, he says it paid it earlier than it needed to 
do so. And this is the case. But in paying the fine early, it was able to reduce the amount of 
the penalty by more than 40% and, by extension, the amount it passed on to Mr W. So, I 
dont think early payment of the penalty was unreasonable.
Finally, Ive considered Mr Ws point that in paying the fine, AFS has removed Mr Ws 
opportunity to dispute it with the third party. But I dont agree. I say this because Mr W 
couldve disputed the penalty notice after it had been paid. And AFS provided him with the 
relevant letter of authority as I wouldve expected it to do. And had a challenge to the penalty 
notice been successful  and theres no guarantee it wouldve been  the issuing authority 
wouldve provided AFS with a refund and it, in turn, wouldve provided a refund to Mr W.  
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied that AFS acted fairly when it paid the penalty 
notice and I dont think it needs to do anything more. I know Mr W will be disappointed with 
the outcome of his complaint, but I hope he understands why Ive reached the conclusions 
that I have. It may be that Mr W can still appeal the penalty notice, and if he wishes to do so, 
he should contact the third party directly with the letter of authority provided by AFS.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2023.
 
Andrew MacnamaraOmbudsman