DRN-3553105
The complaint
Mr C says HDI Global Specialty SE unfairly rejected his household insurance claim for a 
damaged television. He also complains about the overall way the claim was handled. For 
ease of reading, reference to HDI will include their agents.
What happened
Mr C has a home insurance policy with HDI. He claimed for a near £5,000 television, saying 
it had been damaged by accident in June 2021. It was said to have been gifted to him just a 
few months earlier.
HDI arranged for the television to be inspected as part of the claim validation. Theres a 
dispute over whether it was ever collected, Mr C says it was but HDI said it wasnt. In any 
event, HDI went on to consider the claim and eventually rejected it. They said there were 
several discrepancies, particularly in relation to whether Mr C owned the television.
That said, HDI offered Mr C £150 compensation because they thought they could have 
handled the claim better than they did. Mr C didnt think that was enough and he still wanted 
them to replace his television, so he brought his case to our service.
An investigator here looked into the matter. They said there was enough doubt around the 
claim for HDI to have rejected it. And they felt the £150 in relation to claim handling was fair.
Mr C didnt agree, he said he thinks HDI lost the television and  but for that happening  
proof of ownership wouldnt have been an issue. He also says they asked for proof of 
purchase of the television in the form of a bank statement, which he provided. Mr C feels 
HDI have moved the goalposts.
Agreement couldnt be reached so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to begin by explaining that while Ive considered everything provided to me, I wont be 
going into every detail of this matter. Ive focussed on what I think are the important points in 
reaching a balanced decision. This isnt intended as any discourtesy to either party, rather it 
reflects the informal nature of our service.
While I am upholding Mr Cs complaint that is only in relation to the compensation already 
offered. I will deal with the key issues of this case in explaining why.
collection of the television
HDI has said that the television was due to be collected on 14 June 2021, but when the 
engineer called Mr C to say he was on his way, Mr C told him it had been collected the week 
before. HDI maintain that the television hadnt been collected because their tracking systems 
didnt show any of their collection vehicles arriving at Mr Cs address.
Despite this, HDI continued to consider the claim. That was fair for them to do and while I 
appreciate Mr Cs but for argument, I think its likely further claim validation wouldve been 
required due to other discrepancies. So even if HDI did collect the television, and then lost it, 
this hasnt prejudiced Mr Cs claim. Although for completeness, Im not persuaded HDI ever 
collected the television due to the lack of any records confirming as such.
claim validation
HDI say the television in a photograph Mr C provided doesnt match the model he claimed 
for (although Mr C says thats because he modified it). Because of this HDI carried out 
further checks that suggested Mr C may have criminal convictions  which couldve affected 
the decision to give him the policy in the first place.
However, Mr C later provided evidence which satisfied HDI to continue the claim validation. 
It was reasonable for HDI to have explored the issue of criminal convictions and while it took 
some time, I dont intend to make any award for that.
Mr C says it was difficult to provide proof of purchase due to the television being a gift. 
Nevertheless, he managed to obtain a bank statement showing a purchase in the region of 
the televisions value.
HDI reviewed the bank statement Mr C provided, but they didnt think it was sufficient as it 
doesnt show what was purchased. Given its value, and recency of the item being bought, 
they felt it was reasonable to ask Mr C to obtain a copy of the receipt from the retailer  
which he did not. HDIs request was fair, bearing in mind that it was an expensive purchase 
and was said to have been bought from a well-known retailer.
Mr C also provided photographs of a damaged television that he says were taken at the time 
of the claim. HDI reviewed those and noted one had meta-data but that the meta-data 
appeared to have been removed from the other one. The meta-data can be useful in 
showing when and where a photograph was taken, so without it there can be doubt as to 
whether the photos are what theyre purported to be. HDI have said they havent been 
provided with a satisfactory explanation for the removal of data, or with a copy of the original 
photograph showing the missing data.
This is important because HDI have said the background of one of the photos appears to 
show it was taken in a high-rise building, with another high-rise building visible through the 
window. That doesnt match Mr Cs property, which was a two-story house, nor does it 
appear consistent with the surrounding area. HDI say that Mr C hasnt provided a 
satisfactory explanation for that either. HDIs interpretation of the photographs is fair.
Overall, I am satisfied that HDI were reasonable in their rejection of Mr Cs claim. They had 
several reasons to doubt that Mr C owned the television he claimed for, and despite asking 
for further evidence and for discrepancies to be explained Im satisfied theyre fair in saying 
those concerns remain.
compensation
While I appreciate this claim was ongoing for longer than would normally be expected, I 
consider the main reason for that to be Mr Cs inability to provide suitable explanation and/or 
evidence to support his claim. I agree that HDI couldve handled things more efficiently, but I 
wont be asking them to pay any more than the £150 already offered.discrimination
I note during the claim, Mr C accused HDI of racial profiling. But HDI say they could find no 
evidence of that, and based on what Ive seen theyve treated him the same as they would 
any customer in the same circumstances. I also note that Mr C appears not to have provided 
HDI with anything to support his allegation.
subject access request
In closing, Mr C has said HDI withheld information despite him having made a subject 
access request. Im unaware of any reason how that could have contributed to poor claim 
handling or the claim rejection, so it doesnt warrant further consideration by me in this case.
Mr C can raise concerns he has about this with the Information Commissioners Office.
My final decision
It is my final decision that I uphold this complaint. I require HDI Global Specialty SE to pay 
Mr C the £150 compensation previously offered  unless they have already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2022.
 
Will Weston
Ombudsman