DRN-3376631
The complaint
Mr M, on behalf of R complains that Oakwood (Insurances) Ltd misrepresented their ability 
to source competitive insurance cover over the last 15 years.
What happened
R has been taking out commercial insurance cover through Oakwood since 2005. Mr M says 
that each year Oakwood has told him theyve reviewed Rs needs and confirmed theyre 
providing the best available insurance cover.
During the pandemic Mr M discovered a similar business was paying a significantly lower 
annual premium than R for commercial insurance. Mr M then approached this business 
insurers who agreed to cover R for almost £3,000 less. Because of this Mr M feels that lower 
premiums were available to R for the preceding years and as such Oakwood should 
compensate it for this. Mr M also wants Oakwood to be compelled to make it clear in their 
renewal notices that they might not always be in a position to access price competitive cover 
and that clients should seek alternative quotations elsewhere to ensure their premiums are 
reasonable.
Our investigator considered Rs complaint but concluded that it shouldnt be upheld. She 
said that Oakwood had acted unfairly in offering the insurance it had and that this Service 
couldnt compel a business to tell potential policyholders they could find cheaper cover 
elsewhere.  R doesnt agree so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding Rs complaint. Ill explain why.
Rs complaint is essentially that Oakwood were misrepresenting the services they were 
providing and that they should have explicitly told R it could find cheaper cover elsewhere. 
Having reviewed everything both parties have provided, Im satisfied that Oakwood didnt 
represent that they could obtain the cheapest cover on the market- certainly Mr M hasnt 
suggested that was the case. Rather he says that Oakwood should have been explicit they 
might not be able to find the cheapest cover. Insurance pricing is a vast and complex area. 
Brokers such as Oakwood often have access to a limited pool of insurers from which they 
can obtain quotations for policies. They might not always be able to access the most 
competitive prices, but equally they might also be able to obtain a better level of cover for 
their policyholders than other cheaper providers on the market. So, whilst I appreciate Rs 
preference might be a cheaper policy, it might be getting a reduced level of cover as a result 
of this. 
This appears to be the case in Rs most recent renewal. The cover hes found isnt like for 
like. It doesnt for example seem to cover the business for the same risks. The contents 
cover for example only extends to £1,000 whereas Oakwoods quotation covers contents up 
to £87,000. Thats a significant difference, should Rs contents be damaged. And whilst Mr M 
might not think its useful, Oakwoods policy provides terrorism cover whereas the policy hes 
sourced does not. And the cover Mr M has sourced seems to be based on a much lower 
turnover figure than what was used in the Oakwood quotation. If the turnover Mr M has used 
for R isnt correct then that is likely to impact negatively on any claim that might be made at a 
later date- to the extent that he might find R isnt covered for what its claiming for. 
Alternatively, if the figure hes stated is correct then arguably the onus wouldve been on R to 
ensure it gave Oakwood accurate information on which to run a new quote.
I know Mr M feels strongly that brokers should make it clear to potential policyholders that 
they could find cheaper insurance elsewhere. As the investigator explained, we cant compel 
a broker do this in a commercial context; were not a regulator. As long as theyve given 
clear, fair and not misleading information when offering insurance, we wouldnt generally 
take issue with the cost of a policy theyre offering. In Rs case I can see that Oakwood did 
make clear the level of cover it was offering together with the policy premium. It was up to R 
to decide whether it wanted to look elsewhere and compare that policy with other levels of 
cover- as it indeed did- when deciding whether to take the insurance. And the fact that it 
didnt do so in earlier years isnt something I can say Oakwood are responsible for. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Rs complaint against Oakwood (Insurances) 
Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2022.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman