DRN-4091545
The complaint
Mrs B complains that she was not given clear information about credit card accounts in her 
name held at Barclays Bank UK Plc. Shes unhappy with the collections activity that has 
taken place regarding these accounts and the defaults that were subsequently registered.
What happened
Mrs Bs complaint regarding these accounts has been ongoing for some time, and both 
parties are familiar with the background so I dont intend to go into further detail about it 
here. But I do consider it important to clarify exactly what this decision will be looking at.
Another ombudsman here issued a decision regarding our jurisdiction to consider Mrs Bs 
complaint on 7 March 2023. In that decision they confirmed that we are only able to consider 
the following points:
- The collections activity carried out by Barclays regarding Mrs Bs credit card 
accounts  including the defaults that were subsequently registered
- Whether Barclays held an incorrect telephone number for Mrs B and the impact of 
that.
One of our Investigators looked into these complaint points and, overall, felt that Barclays 
had treated Mrs B fairly and that the defaults were therefore reasonable. Mrs B disagreed, 
so her complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
The points detailed above are the only issues I will be considering in this decision, I may 
though refer to other issues Mrs B has complained about to help explain my findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator and for the same 
reasons. 
I appreciate that Mrs B feels Barclaycard should have frozen the accounts when she asked 
for bank statements to show how the balances on the credit cards had accrued. Mrs B was 
unsure of the validity of all of the credit accounts Barclays was pursuing her for, and she 
wanted clarification before she made any payments or agreed a way forward.
But Ive seen no evidence to show that such a freeze on the accounts was agreed. Theres 
notes to suggest that a short term freeze on collections activity was agreed for 30 days, but 
nothing to show that any long term agreement to freeze the accounts was in place. Mrs B 
says she was told she did not need to make any payments until her concerns had been 
sorted out, but the notes Ive seen do not support that. 
And Barclays continued to send regular letters to Mrs B, at the correct address, which set 
out what was happening with the accounts and what steps she needed to take to avoid a 
default. I acknowledge that Barclays does appear to have held an incorrect phone number 
for Mrs B for a period of time, but that was corrected by early 2016, and even if some calls 
were made to an incorrect number, then the volume of written correspondence means that 
Mrs B would still have been aware of what she needed to do. 
I understand that Mrs B says she was waiting for full details of the accounts so she could 
make payments, but information about how to make payments was included on the letters 
that were sent to her. And the contact notes Ive seen  which were recorded at the time and 
which Im therefore satisfied more likely reflect what was discussed  do not suggest that 
Mrs B discussed any repayment plans with Barclays on the occasions when she spoke with 
it.
I also need to bear in mind that Mrs B raised a complaint with our service in 2016 regarding 
whether the accounts Barclays was pursuing her for were legitimate. We issued our findings 
on that complaint in July 2016, and followed this up with a further clarification in early 
September 2016, confirming that we were satisfied the accounts did belong to Mrs B and 
that she was therefore responsible for them. The default notice regarding one of the credit 
card accounts was issued around the same time and the default notice on the other account 
was issued around a year later. So Mrs B would have been aware on receiving the default 
notices that we were satisfied she was responsible for these accounts. 
And given that Mrs B did not then repay the balances as required under the default notices, I 
do not consider it was unreasonable for Barclays to default them. 
Overall, Im satisfied that Barclays took the necessary steps to make sure Mrs B was aware 
of the outstanding balances on these accounts and of what she needed to do to repay those 
balances. I acknowledge that some incorrect contact information was held on Barclays 
records, but I do not agree that affected Mrs Bs ability to understand the status of these 
accounts or to repay them.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2023.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman