DRN-4211750
The complaint
Mr B complains that True Potential Wealth Management LLP (TP) gave him unsuitable 
advice to transfer his With Profits (WP) pension with another provider. 
What happened
Mr B had a pension with a provider Ill refer to as provider A. He said that he had originally 
taken out a personal pension with a different provider over 30 years ago to contract out of 
SERPS. He said hed never made any personal payments into the pension. 
Mr B said that in either 2001 or 2002, he began receiving financial advice from a local 
adviser. He said that hed been advised to move his personal pension from his then provider 
to provider A. And, although he was apprehensive about this advice, given he was happy 
with the performance of his original provider, he felt obligated to change his pension to 
provider A. He said this was because the adviser had been attentive, and Mr B hadnt paid 
him for his services as he felt hed received commission. 
Mr B said that provider A had turned out to be a very good provider. And that because his 
pension funds were invested in a WP fund he also received a bonus each year. He also said 
that between 2002 until January 2022, when his pension was with provider A, he didnt 
receive any correspondence from his adviser. 
Mr B said that his original adviser called him on the 15 December 2021 to let him know that 
he was now working for TP. He said the adviser mustve gained access to his pension fund 
information, as he talked about it during the call. He said the adviser then asked him if he 
would consider moving his pension from provider A to TP. The adviser also wrote to Mr B on 
16 December 2021 to let him know hed started working with TP, and that it would be taking 
over the servicing of Mr Bs investments. 
Mr B said he told the adviser that hed never thought about moving as he was happy with his 
pension where it was. He said he reminded the adviser to consider that he was now aged 60 
and that he would retire soon. He said he also mentioned that hed been with provider A for 
20 years and his pension was due to mature in around seven more years. But he said the 
adviser gave him all the positives about moving to TP. And said he would send Mr B a link 
with a video which would give him an insight into TP. Mr B said he told the adviser that he 
would think about it. And that he would contact him in a couple of weeks.
The adviser sent Mr B an email with the TP brochure on 15 December 2021. He said this 
explained more about its support and technology and how this would give Mr B more control 
over his investments. Mr B replied the following day to say he would read over the 
documents over the next few days. But would probably have more time over the Christmas 
period to make a decision. 
Mr B said that on 21 December 2021, he received an email from his original adviser with a 
link to the TP video. He said he watched the video. And on 6 January 2022, he said he sent 
the adviser an email with a series of questions about transferring his pension.
The adviser responded to each of Mr Bs questions on 8 January 2022. He also emailed Mr 
B on 12 January 2022 to tell him that TP had released a new step-by-step guide that day to 
help clients with their transfer. He shared this guide with Mr B. And suggested what else he 
might want to do if he did decide to transfer. 
Mr B decided to transfer his pension from provider A. But he had some difficulty with the 
administration of the transfer. He exchanged emails with his adviser in January 2022 about 
the difficulties he was having and the frustration it was causing him. The adviser said he 
would help Mr B.
In January 2022, Mr B transferred his WP pension from provider A to TP. He invested his 
pension funds into the True Potential Cautious Plus portfolio provided by True Potential 
Investments.
In September 2022, Mr B complained to TP as he felt hed been given unsuitable advice to 
transfer his pension. He said hed realised after a couple of months that the value of his 
pension had fallen from nearly £89,000 to £82,000. Mr B said he became very concerned 
about the situation as hed never experienced any kind of drop in the 20 years hed been 
with provider A. He said he called TP about his concerns and was told that the present 
financial climate had affected everyone's pension.
Mr B also said that hed spoken to both Pension Wise and Moneyhelper. And that theyd 
both said that by moving to the type of pension he had with TP from his WP fund with 
provider A, he wouldve been exposed to the current financial crisis. But he wouldve been 
protected if hed stayed with provider A. He said theyd questioned why he wouldve been 
given such advice. He also said that Moneyhelper had felt hed been cold-called. And that he 
should never have been advised to move out of a WP fund at that stage of his life.
TP issued its final response to the complaint in November 2022. It didnt think it had given Mr 
B any advice. So it didnt think it had done anything wrong. It made the following points:
The transfer from provider A had been arranged on a non-advised basis, after a 
Digital Direct Marketing Offer. TP occasionally put such offers to existing, newly 
joined clients or potential new clients where their adviser was joining TP. But only if 
the client held comparatively similar policies to the ones offered by True Potential 
Investments. It said this was why such offers could be conducted on a non-advised 
basis.
To access such an offer, a client would access an email on their Client Website, 
through a unique link. Clients would have to log in using their own log in details to 
review the transfer offered on a non-advised basis. TP said the first page a client 
would then see when reviewing the direct offer stated: Your financial adviser has not 
assessed your individual circumstances to enable individual financial advice to be 
provided in respect of this transaction, nor whether your existing investments are 
higher charged than those available from True Potential Investments. This offer is 
designed for investors who wish to make their own investment decision - If you are 
unsure of whether this is suitable for you, you should contact your financial adviser 
and request a personal recommendation.
TP said that Mr B then ticked a box to confirm that he accepted the terms and 
conditions and had read the above statements. So it felt that hed been aware that 
the offer was made on a non-advised basis. It also said it had no record that hed 
asked his adviser for a personal recommendation. So it felt it hadnt provided him 
with any advice. But asked Mr B to provide such evidence if he had any. TP also said 
that the fact that no initial advice charge had been levied on the transfer was evidence that the extensive work required to advise a client hadnt been carried out. 
TP acknowledged that Pension Wise and Moneyhelper told Mr B that a transfer 
shouldnt have been considered. But said that the transfer had taken place on a non-
advised basis. This was different from the circumstances when Mr B had spoken to 
both Pension Wise and Moneyhelper, as hed discussed the advantages of his 
previous WP fund with them. and said that he wouldnt have agreed to the transfer if 
hed had this information in January 2022. 
TP said it had clearly stated during the transfer process that the financial adviser hadnt 
assessed Mr Bs individual circumstances. And that the offer was designed for investors who 
wished to make their own investment decisions. It said it had provided Mr B with information, 
including fund factsheets which showed he wouldnt be investing in a WP fund if he 
transferred.
TP acknowledged that there had been email communication about the transfer 
between Mr B and its adviser. But felt that its adviser had only provided factual 
information when Mr B had asked for it. It said he hadnt made any recommendation. 
And that there was no evidence that the adviser had provided Mr B with advice within 
the email exchanges.
Mr B was unhappy with TPs response. So he brought his complaint to this service in 
January 2023. He felt that TP hadnt acknowledged that its adviser had discussed the 
transfer with Mr B on the phone and had advised him to go ahead with it. He also felt TP had 
failed to acknowledge that the adviser had helped him to complete the online application, 
which he said he had guided him through, from start to finish.
Mr B said that although there was no initial charge, he had apparently agreed to an ongoing 
charge of 0.5% each year. He said that he understood from provider A that the adviser 
hadnt received any commission from his pension. But he still strongly believed that the 
adviser had put his own interests before Mr Bs when he convinced him to carry out the 
transfer. 
Mr B felt that if hed been given the proper information and advice at the time, he wouldnt 
have transferred away from the WP fund with provider A. This was because he felt his 
pension with provider A carried no risk and was protected. He also felt that due to his age 
and how close he was to retirement, he shouldnt have been contacted about a potential 
transfer.  
Mr B told this service how distressing hed found the whole situation. He also said that 
provider A had given him a valuation of his pension as of 2 September 2022 if hed not 
transferred. He said this was £89,729.31. And that the value of his TP pension on the same 
date had been £82,831.34. He wanted TP to compensate him by matching the projected 
investment he wouldve received if hed stayed in the WP fund with provider A until its 
maturity date of his 67th birthday.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He felt that the process TP had 
followed simply provided factual information without any pressure or obligations to continue. 
He didnt believe there was any requirement to accept the initial offer. He said that a risk 
warning had been prominently displayed at the start, and during the process. And that it had 
been necessary for Mr B to confirm that hed understood the terms and conditions. Our 
investigator felt that the information TP had given Mr B, including the fund fact sheet, was 
balanced, clear and sufficient for him to make an informed decision, without the need for 
advice.Our investigator acknowledged that Mr B felt TP had advised him to transfer, but didnt feel 
that any advice had been provided. He felt it had been Mr Bs decision to proceed on a non-
advised basis with the transfer. He also felt the fund Mr B had been offered by TP was 
comparatively similar to the WP pension Mr B had held before. He said this was because 
the cautious risk profile and the composition of the holdings within the investment portfolio 
reflected a choice made by a cautious investor. 
Mr B didnt agree with our investigator. He made the following points:
- He still felt the adviser had cold-called him. And that hed then highlighted all the 
advantages of transferring his pension to TP. He said hed been apprehensive about 
making the transfer, but that the adviser had put his mind at rest when hed answered 
all of his queries. Mr B said hed specifically asked the adviser for his advice and had 
put his trust in his experience as a financial advisor.
- Mr B said hed had a series of problems with the transfer. And that the adviser had 
said: "we would do it together". He said hed logged onto the link. But that the adviser 
had told him what to do as he went through the questions. Mr B also said that the 
adviser asked him if he wanted to read all the terms and conditions or just carry on. 
He said he just agreed, as he wanted the transfer completed, but it was under 
duress. 
- Mr B said that the adviser had told him to go ahead with the transfer despite knowing 
it wasnt practical or logical to move from provider A. He felt the adviser had only 
done so for his own benefit and the 0.5% payment he would receive.
- Mr B didnt agree with our investigator that there was no guarantee with a WP 
pension, or that the TP pension was a like for like. 
- He also said he was really disappointed that the telephone conversations hed had 
with the adviser werent available. He felt they would show that the adviser had 
convinced him to make the transfer. 
- Mr B felt that hed lost a considerable part of his pension due to the unsuitable 
advice. And said hed spent many hours preparing his complaint. He also said his 
mental health had been affected. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it for largely the same reasons as our investigator. I 
can see that Mr B feels very strongly about his complaint, so I know my decision will be 
disappointing. Ill explain the reasons for it.
I want to acknowledge that Ive carefully considered all of Mr Bs testimony, and the 
documentary evidence both he and TP have provided. I understand that TP doesnt have 
access to any telephone recordings. And I can see why this is disappointing for Mr B. But 
without the recordings, I cant know what exactly was said between Mr B and the adviser 
during the December 2021 and January 2022 calls. 
I first want to give a brief background to WP funds as I will need to refer to this later in my decision. 
WP funds
WP funds used to be the most common way of investing in a pension in the 1980s and 
1990s. They were generally thought to be more cautious than an investment which was 
linked directly to the rise  or fall  in the value of particular assets, such as shares. This was 
because the insurer took on some, but not all, of the risk of providing the benefits to the 
consumer. 
Rather than passing on all the investment growth or reductions to policyholders, the insurer 
either promised them a certain annual pension, or a fund value, in return for the contributions 
they were expecting to receive. So, a WP fund was a bit closer to the type of guaranteed 
pension people mightve expected to get from a workplace pension they joined in the 1980s 
and 1990s, but it wasnt fully guaranteed.
WP funds, including Mr Bs, could often be reduced by the provider if the consumer wanted 
to transfer to another provider before their selected retirement age. A Market Value 
Reduction (MVR) might be used to reduce their fund value. 
I next considered whether Mr B couldve fairly been considered to hold a comparatively 
similar policy with provider A to the one TP offered him. I needed to do this in order to be 
able to assess whether it was fair for TP to have contacted him about its offer.
Did Mr B hold a comparatively similar policy with provider A to the one TP offered him?
Mr B said that due to his age and how close he was to retirement, he shouldnt have been 
contacted about a potential transfer. He also felt that his WP pension with provider A carried 
no risk and was protected. Mr B also felt that his adviser had access to all the information 
about his pension fund with provider A. 
TP said that it provides offers to existing, newly joined or potential new clients when an 
adviser joins it, as was the case here. And that it only provides such offers to clients who 
hold comparatively similar policies. It said that Mr Bs adviser had joined it on a restricted 
adviser self-employed basis in October 2021. An introductory letter was then sent to Mr B on 
16 December 2021. TP said that the offer was clearly optional. 
TP said it only had limited information about Mr Bs history with the adviser. It said that in 
cases like Mr Bs where an offer was sent to someone who wasnt an existing client, it would 
only be provided with basic information about the individual by the adviser such as their 
contact information for the offer to be sent to. 
I need to decide if the Cautious Plus Portfolio fund TP offered Mr B when it contacted him 
was comparatively similar to his WP investment with provider A. 
I agree with our investigator that although these are very different products, they both have a 
cautious risk profile and a similar composition. And Im satisfied that both would be suitable 
for a cautious investor. 
Therefore Im satisfied that the fund Mr B was offered was comparatively similar to his WP 
investment. 
I acknowledge that Mr B didnt agree with our investigator that there was no guarantee with a 
WP pension, or that the TP pension was comparatively similar. But I dont agree.I say this because Mr B has shared with this service some of the information provider A sent 
him about the WP fund he was invested in with it. This information stated: Its important you 
know the final bonus is not guaranteed and will depend on investment conditions at the 
time. So Im satisfied that Mr B knew, before he brought his complaint to this service, that 
his WP fund wasnt guaranteed and could fall in value. As I noted earlier, WP funds were 
thought to be more cautious than investment directly linked to the value of particular assets, 
but that didnt mean they were guaranteed. And Mr Bs previous pension allowed provider A 
to apply an MVR, which meant it wasn't ever guaranteed to increase as Mr B said he 
expected. 
I acknowledge that Mr B considered that as his adviser knew how old he was and how close 
his retirement was, he shouldnt have been contacted. But I dont agree.
I say this because TP has confirmed that it didnt base its offer to Mr B on his history with the 
adviser. Instead, it only had basic information about him. It did contact Mr B to make him an 
offer, but that offer was entirely up to him to accept or reject, depending on his own 
circumstances. Overall, Im satisfied that it was fair for TP to have contacted Mr B about its 
offer. 
I next considered how the offer to transfer was communicated to Mr B. I also considered 
whether it was made clear that the transfer would be carried out on a non-advised basis.
Were the communications TP sent Mr B clear?
Mr B felt the adviser had cold-called him. And then highlighted all the advantages of 
transferring his pension to TP. He said hed trusted his experience as a financial advisor. He 
also felt that the adviser had told him to go ahead with the transfer despite knowing it didnt 
suit his circumstances.
Mr B said hed logged onto the link TP had provided for the offer. But that his adviser had 
told him what to do as he went through the questions. Mr B also said that the adviser had 
asked him if he wanted to read all the terms and conditions or just carry on. He said he just 
agreed, as he wanted the transfer completed, but it was under duress. But he acknowledged 
that he had ticked a box stating: I have read and understood the terms and conditions  
and wish to proceed. 
TP provided this service with screenshots of the offer it sent Mr B. It said that he wouldve 
had to use a unique link to accept the offer. It said: only the client could complete this 
application as it would require them to use the unique link provided in the email sent to them, 
as well as requiring them to log into their own personal Client Site, for which the adviser 
would not have held a password for.
The information TP provided showed that there was an initial warning for potential customers 
which said:
Transferring a pension might not be right for everyone. Before deciding whether to transfer, 
please refer to the information below. If you decide to proceed, its a simple process to 
transfer your pension. 
TP said that once Mr B had decided to accept the offer, he wouldve seen the following risk 
warning at the start of the process:
Your financial adviser has not assessed your individual circumstances to enable individual 
financial advice to be provided in respect of this transaction, nor whether your existing 
investments are higher charged than those available from True Potential Investments. This offer is designed for investors who wish to make their own investment decision  If you are 
unsure of whether this is suitable for you, you should contact your financial adviser and 
request a personal recommendation.
TP said this clearly showed that the adviser hadnt assessed Mr Bs individual 
circumstances. And that the offer was designed for investors who wished to make their own 
investment decisions. It said it had provided Mr B with information which showed he wouldnt 
be investing in a WP fund if he transferred.
TP said Mr B wouldve been given opportunities to have asked for help during the process. 
And he had been required to confirm that hed read and understood the terms and conditions 
before proceeding. It also said that Mr B wouldve been presented with possible portfolios to 
transfer into, including the Cautious Plus Portfolio.
This fund was summarised as being for investors who:
...want exposure to a select group of investment partners and the potential for greater 
returns, whilst remaining within the Cautious risk profile.
TP said that the relevant fund factsheet wouldve been automatically uploaded to its system 
based on which investment portfolio a client had selected. So, after Mr B had chosen the 
Cautious Plus Portfolio, its fund factsheet wouldve been generated to view. 
The fund factsheet for this fund also confirmed the objective as:
to provide investors with a way to achieve their investment goals. The Portfolio offers 
exposure to a select group of investment partner and range of risk profiles (Defensive to 
Aggressive) whilst remaining within the Cautious risk profile.
TP also said that as Mr B had confirmed hed read and understood the terms and conditions, 
it felt hed been aware that the offer was made on a non-advised basis. It also couldnt find 
any evidence that hed asked his adviser for a personal recommendation. It felt this showed 
hed not been provided with any advice. 
Ive reviewed the terms and conditions TP provided Mr B. These stated the following:
Non-Advised Investments and Pensions
Any Direct Marketing Offer, either by post or online, which was initiated by True Potential 
Wealth Management sending you an offer, will only have an ongoing advice fee.
From what Ive seen, Im satisfied that TP made it clear that the transfer would be carried out 
on a non-advised basis. I can see that Mr B felt that he was given advice about his transfer, 
but Ive not seen any evidence that this was the case. 
I say this because I consider that the questions Mr B asked his adviser in his 6 January 2022 
email show that he had carefully considered the transfer. And then tried to find out if it was in 
his best interests. From what Ive seen, the adviser than provided factual information to help 
Mr B make an informed decision on whether or not to transfer.
The terms and conditions clearly explained that any direct marketing offer would be non-
advised. And Mr B confirmed hed read the terms and conditions. Other risk warnings 
provided through the application process also confirmed this. 
I acknowledge that Mr B felt that the adviser had responded dishonestly when hed told him the current value of the final bonus that would be included in his transfer value, rather than 
telling him that this bonus would probably be worth a lot more if he stayed with provider A 
until the maturity date. But Im persuaded that Mr B wouldve already understood how WP 
funds worked anyway, as he provided this service with WP information from provider A. I 
also dont think the adviser couldve known what might happen to final bonuses with provider 
A in the future, or whether or not it would need to apply an MVR. Therefore Im satisfied he 
couldnt reasonably have told Mr B that he would definitively get more if he stayed with 
provider A. 
I also acknowledge that Mr B felt that hed been made to accept the offer under duress, but 
Ive seen no evidence of that.
While Im satisfied that TP made it clear during the transfer process that the transfer would 
be carried out on a non-advised basis, I went on to consider whether TP gave Mr B advice to 
transfer his pension from provider A during that process. 
Was advice given during the transfer process?
Mr B said hed had a series of problems with the transfer. And that the adviser had said: "we 
would do it together". He said the adviser had told him what to do as he went through the 
transfer process. But that TP had failed to acknowledge that the adviser had helped him to 
complete the online application. 
Mr B also felt that TP hadnt acknowledged that its adviser had discussed the transfer with 
him on the phone and had advised him to go ahead with it. 
TP acknowledged that there had been email communication about the transfer between Mr 
B and its adviser. But said that its adviser had only provided factual information, not a 
recommendation. 
As I noted earlier, Mr B asked his adviser a number of questions in his 6 January 2022 
email. And the adviser responded to each of them on 8 January 2022. Subsequent emails 
between Mr B and the adviser make it clear that the adviser didnt yet know what Mr B had 
decided. For example, in his 12 January 2022 email, in which he alerted Mr B to a step-by-
step guide that had just been produced, he stated:
Im not sure if youve had a look at True Potential or not..
So Im not persuaded that the adviser had advised Mr B to transfer before this point. I 
consider that this email shows that the adviser had provided, and continued to provide, 
information which Mr B was considering. 
Ive read all of the emails between Mr B and his adviser between 12 January 2022 and 19 
January 2022, when the adviser said to Mr B: well do it together.
I can see from these emails that Mr B was having a frustrating time trying to set up his 
transfer. He said in his 17 January 2022 email to his adviser: I am finding it very difficult to 
transfer my pension to True Potential, I will phone you tomorrow after work.
From this point on, Im satisfied that Mr Bs adviser simply tried to help him to process the 
decision Mr B had made to transfer. 
I say this because the adviser told Mr B on 19 January 2019 that his account had been 
reset. When Mr B told him he was still having problems, the adviser said he would get it 
sorted. The adviser then emailed Mr B and said:The account was fully locked out [name] and the password resets wouldnt have worked -
[name] has now unlocked and sent a new activation.
From what Ive seen, Mr B was struggling to complete the process so the adviser simply 
helped him with the administration of the set up. Ive seen no evidence that the adviser gave 
advice, or coerced Mr B into setting up the transfer. So I cant fairly say that the adviser gave 
Mr B any advice during the transfer process. 
I appreciate that this process has caused Mr B significant upset and Im sorry that hes been 
through a difficult time. I can see that he felt hed been given advice to transfer by a person 
hes trusted in the past, and that he now believes that hes lost out because of this. So I 
understand why hes been upset by this complaint. But Ive not seen any evidence that Mr B 
was advised to transfer. Nor have I seen any evidence that he was put under pressure by 
the adviser to transfer. 
Therefore, I cant fairly say that TP has done anything wrong. And I dont uphold the 
complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2023.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman