DRN-3725806
The complaint
Mrs R is unhappy that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Ltd declined a claim she made on her 
income protection policies.
What happened
Mrs R held two income protection policies with Aviva Life & Pensions UK Ltd. She returned 
to work from maternity leave in 2020. After shed been back at work for a few months she 
became absent from work due to work and home related stress. 
She claimed on her income protection policies, but the claims were declined on the basis 
that her absence wasnt due to medical reasons. Mrs R appealed the decision to decline the 
claims, but Aviva maintained their decision. Unhappy, Mrs R complained to our service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and didnt uphold the complaint. She didnt 
think it was unreasonable for Aviva to decline the claims based on the policy terms and the 
available evidence. She also didnt think Aviva had discriminated against Mrs R based on 
the claims data theyd provided. The investigator concluded that the circumstances didnt 
meet the policy definition of incapacity. 
Mrs R didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to review the complaint. In summary she said 
that she had a letter from a doctor confirming that the reason for her absence wasnt simply 
related to her difficulties in arranging childcare and she was unfit to work. She didnt think 
Aviva had done enough to get a proper diagnosis from her GP and highlighted that the GP 
reports show she was suffering from anxiety and stress. So, I need to make a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Aviva has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
The policy terms and conditions say that in order to make a successful claim on the policy 
Mrs R must first meet the definition of incapacity. The policy says: 
If the illness or injury to which your claim relates occurred whilst you were in paid 
occupation and if the suited occupation definition does not apply we will treat you as 
being incapacitated if, and for as long as, you are unable, because of illness or injury 
to perform the material and substantial duties of your own occupation and you are 
not carrying our any other occupation. 
Your own occupation means the paid occupation at the time of the commencement 
of the membership and that you were carrying out at the time your illness or injury 
occurred. 
Material and substantial duties is defined as: 
The main tasks and duties which are normally required for the purposes of a paid 
occupation and which cannot be reasonably omitted or modified. 
Im sorry to hear that Mrs R had such a difficult time when returning to work. Its clear that 
the pandemic, together with her personal circumstances, made things very challenging for 
her. I have a great deal with empathy with what shes told us about how she was feeling. 
However, Im not upholding this complaint because: 
I dont think it was unreasonable for Aviva to conclude that the main barrier to Mrs R 
returning to work was her circumstances, in particular because her childcare 
arrangements which were complicated by the impact of the pandemic. Ill explain 
why. 
The information provided in support of the claim consistently suggests that its most 
likely Mrs Rs childcare arrangements and juggling her work and parental 
responsibilities were what led her to be absent. For example, the Occupational 
Health Report (dated November 2020) said that Mrs R was unlikely to return to work 
until her childcare issues were resolved. And the GP notes from around the time 
Mrs R first became absent from work reflect say that Mrs R was, understandably, 
struggling to juggle everything and had no additional help. The notes also refer, in 
summary, to the wider circumstances surrounding the pandemic as having impacted 
on the support available to Mrs R. 
Aviva referred Mrs Rs case to their Chief Medical Officer (CMO) who concluded 
there was no medical or psychological reason why a full recovery could not be seen. 
She said the index cause of absence is her inability to cope with work and managing 
as a new mother this is not a material capacity or capability issue regarding purely 
work. It wasnt unreasonable for Aviva to rely on this opinion when declining the 
claim. 
Mrs R has provided a letter from her GP, dated October 2021, which says that she 
was absent from work due to psychological stressors and depressive symptoms 
unrelated to her childcare. But that letter is dated a year after she first became 
absent. And the GPs comments dont reflect the notes made at the time. So, I dont 
think its unreasonable to place less weight on this evidence. And, in any event, the 
GPs letter is just a few lines and doesnt explain why Mrs R was unable to complete 
the material and substantial duties of her insured occupation. 
Ive taken into account what Mrs R has said about Aviva discriminating against her 
due her being female and experiencing difficulties with her mental health. Its not our 
role to say whether a business has acted unlawfully or not  thats a matter for the 
Courts. Our role is to decide whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. In 
order to decide that, however, we have to take a number of things into account 
including relevant law and what we consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. So although its for the Courts to say whether or not Aviva has breached the 
Equality Act 2010, were required to take the Equality Act 2010 into account, if its 
relevant, amongst other things when deciding what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of the complaint. 
In this particular complaint, Ive thought whether or not Aviva has acted in a fair and 
reasonable way in all the circumstances of the complaint. Aviva has provided claims 
data to Mrs R showing that in 2020, the year she became absent, the second most 
claimed for condition was mental health. And Ive seen no evidence that suggests 
Mrs R was treated unfairly because of her sex or due to the fact shed recently given birth. I think Aviva has considered the medical evidence and concluded that Mrs R 
doesnt meet the policy definition of incapacity. And I think its fairly and reasonably 
reached that conclusion. 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2022.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman