DRN-3283375
The complaint
Mrs L complains that Mercedes-Benz Financial services UK Limited trading as Mercedes-
Benz Finance (MBFS) didnt assist when she asked for help with her monthly payments due 
to being impacted by the coronavirus pandemic (Covid-19). Mrs L also complains about the 
charge to voluntarily terminate her agreement, and about end of contract charges MBFS 
asked her to pay for damage to the vehicle. 
What happened
In December 2018 Mrs L acquired a used car through a hire purchase agreement with 
MBFS. The agreement ran for 48 months, so was due to end in December 2022. 
In March 2020 Mrs L contacted MBFS to let them know shed been financially affected by 
Covid-19, and she asked for a payment holiday. 
In April 2020 MBFS let Mrs L know they might be able to offer her a payment holiday and 
asked her to confirm how long shed like one for, so that they could give her a quote. Mrs L 
asked for a quote for a three-month payment holiday. 
MBFS say they sent offers of a payment holiday to Mrs L in March and May 2020. These 
offers set out how the payment holiday would affect Mrs Ls payments for the rest of her 
agreement period and asked her to confirm if she wanted to accept the offer. MBFS say they 
didnt receive a response to these offers, and so no payment holiday was granted. 
Mrs L says she didnt receive any communication from MBFS offering her a payment 
holiday. She contacted MBFS in January 2021 to let them know she was struggling 
financially as a result of Covid-19, and so she wanted to hand the car back. 
MBFS sent Mrs L information on how to voluntarily terminate the agreement, and said shed 
need to pay a shortfall of £6,058.92. Mrs L paid this sum in March 2021, and the vehicle was 
collected and inspected that month. 
Following the inspection, MBFS sent Mrs L an invoice for £900.69 for damage to the vehicle 
outside of the vehicle return standards. 
Mrs L complained to MBFS in March 2021 about the payment holiday never being granted, 
the invoice for damages and about the shortfall required to voluntarily terminate the 
agreement. 
MBFS provided their final response to Mrs Ls complaint in April 2021. They said the 
damage charged for was outside of the vehicle return standards, so the £900.69 remained 
payable. They said Mrs L could raise her concerns about her financial difficulties with 
another department. They didnt address the shortfall calculation or the payment holiday. 
MBFS didnt uphold Mrs Ls complaint. 
Unhappy with MBFSs response, Mrs L brought her complaint to this service for 
investigation. She said MBFS ignored her requests for a payment holiday, she didnt know 
how the shortfall amount had been calculated, and she was unhappy with the invoice for 
damage to the vehicle. Mrs L said shed like a refund of the shortfall payment and for the 
invoice for damage to be cancelled. 
Our investigator gave her view that the damage recorded when the vehicle was collected 
was clear, and outside of the vehicle return standards, so it was fair for MBFS to charge for 
it. She said the agreement was clear in terms of the cost to voluntarily terminate, and the 
shortfall had been correctly charged by MBFS. 
Our investigator said that MBFS had sent emails to Mrs L offering her a payment holiday, but 
these had been sent to the wrong email address. She didnt think Mrs L had received these, 
and so MBFS didnt provide support to Mrs L to help her manage her account. Our 
investigator recommended that MBFS pay Mrs L £300 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused, but she thought Mrs L was likely to have still chosen to end the 
agreement early, so she didnt ask them to do anything more. 
MBFS accepted our investigators recommendations. 
Mrs L didnt agree. She said if MBFS had given her a payment holiday, shed have had time 
to arrange her finances in order to continue making monthly payments. Instead, she was 
forced to terminate the agreement, and so shed like the £6,058.92 refunded. Mrs L said the 
agreement wasnt explained to her, and she didnt know about the charge for early 
termination, or that the vehicle would be inspected when it was collected. 
As an agreement cant be reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It seems to me there are three things to consider in respect of Mrs Ls complaint:  
1. Did MBFS support Mrs L in managing her account when she was financially 
impacted by Covid-19? 
2. Was the charge for voluntary termination fair, and was Mrs L provided with 
information about this charge in good time? 
3. Was the end of contract charge applied by MBFS for damage to the vehicle fair? 
Financial difficulties
Mrs L first asked MBFS for assistance with financial difficulty due to Covid-19 in March 2020. 
There was no specific guidance relating to Covid-19 at that time, but there were existing 
forbearance rules and guidance that businesses are expected to follow. These are set out by 
the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) in the Consumer Credit sourcebook (CONC), which 
can be found online. CONC 7.3.4 states, A firm must treat customers in default or in arrears 
difficulties with forbearance and due consideration.
The FCA released specific guidance relating to motor finance agreements and Covid-19 in 
April 2020. That guidance said, A firm should grant the customer a payment deferral for 3 
months unless the firm determines (acting reasonably) that it is obviously not in the 
customers interests to do so. MBFS say they offered Mrs L a payment holiday in March 2020, and again in May 2020. Mrs 
L said she never received these offers. 
Ive seen the emails sent by MBFS making the offer of a payment holiday, and I can see 
they were sent to an incorrect email address. So, Im satisfied that Mrs L didnt receive them.
As Mrs L didnt receive an offer of a payment holiday when she asked for it, Im satisfied that 
MBFS didnt provide the appropriate support to Mrs L to help her manage her account whilst 
she was in financial difficulty as a result of Covid-19. 
Mrs L has said she thinks this was a deliberate attempt by MBFS to limit her access to 
support, and they had corresponded with her on numerous occasions with the correct email 
address. I havent seen any evidence that this was the case. The emails were sent by MBFS 
in response to the request made by Mrs L. This was an unprecedented time for businesses 
as well as for consumers, and as a service weve seen many payment holidays granted in 
similar circumstances. So, I think its more likely to have been a mistake or human error, 
rather than an attempt to deliberately avoid setting up a payment holiday for Mrs L. 
Ive gone on to think about whats most likely to have happened if Mrs L received the offer of 
a payment holiday from MBFS. 
Mrs L has explained that as a company director, her income reduced to nothing during 
Covid-19, and she was entitled to little support elsewhere. So, I think its likely that Mrs L 
wouldve accepted the first payment holiday offered by MBFS if shed received it. This 
wouldve covered her April, May, and June 2020 payments. 
The FCA issued updated guidance to firms in July 2020. That guidance set out that, Where, 
after an initial payment deferral, and at any time before their first payment is due, a customer 
indicates they remain in temporary payment difficulties and cannot resume full payments 
immediately, a firm should offer a full or partial payment deferral to reduce payments for a 
period of 3 months to a level the customer indicates they can afford. If the customer is in 
temporary payment difficulties but is unable to afford any payments, the firm should offer 
them a full payment deferral where this is in the customers interests.  
Mrs L has explained that she continued to struggle to make her payments, and I think its 
likely that she wouldve asked for, and MBFS wouldve given, a further three-month payment 
holiday. This wouldve covered Mrs Ls July, August, and September 2020 payments. 
Once a six-month payment holiday had been granted, there was no obligation for firms to 
offer any additional immediate temporary relief in the form of deferred payments. Mrs L was 
able to continue to make her payments, albeit with some difficulty. So, I think its likely that 
Mrs L wouldve needed to resume her payments in October 2020 at the latest. These 
payments wouldve been higher than her payments before the payment holidays, as the six 
months she hadnt paid would need to be paid back over the remaining term of the 
agreement. 
Mrs L has explained that she was still in financial difficulty as a result of Covid-19 in January 
2021, and thats why she asked to terminate the agreement at that time. I appreciate that 
Mrs L has said that if shed had a payment holiday, she wouldve been able to rearrange her 
finances and wouldnt have needed to terminate the agreement early. Its difficult to say what 
wouldve happened had one or two payment holidays been granted. But, all things 
considered, I think its likely that Mrs L wouldve still opted to terminate her agreement when 
she did, due to her ongoing financial difficulty at the time. Our investigator recommended that MBFS pay Mrs L £300 compensation. Mrs L has tried to 
arrange a payment holiday on a number of occasions and received no response from MBFS. 
This has added distress and inconvenience to an already difficult time for Mrs L. Overall, Im 
satisfied that MBFS should pay Mrs L £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. 
Mrs L said she cancelled her direct debit instruction when she received no response from 
MBFS, in the hope they would contact her. Its not clear if MBFS have recorded any adverse 
information on Mrs Ls credit file as a result of this. But I dont think Mrs L wouldve taken this 
action if MBFS had provided the support it shouldve, so any adverse information that has 
been reported should be removed. 
Voluntary termination
Mrs L said the charges for ending the agreement early werent explained to her at the outset, 
and the amount charged didnt seem to match with the value of the car. 
The terms of the agreement set out that Mrs L can end the agreement early, under 
Termination: your rights It says: 
You have a right to end this agreement. To do so, you should write to the person you make 
your payments to. We will then be entitled to the return of the vehicle and to half the total 
amount payable under this agreement (£23,357.96).
When Mrs L asked MBFS to end the agreement early, they confirmed she was entitled to 
return the vehicle, and explained she could find this information under the Termination: your 
rights section of the agreement, they set out the amount Mrs L would need to pay in order to 
do this.  
Im satisfied that this information is clear in the agreement, and that it was provided to Mrs L 
in good time, prior to her entering the agreement and again when she asked to return the 
vehicle. 
MBFS have charged Mrs L £23,357.96 to end the agreement early, which is half of the 
amount payable and in line with the termination section of the agreement as set out above. 
Theyve deducted £5,000 for the deposit Mrs L paid, and £17,299.04 for the total amount of 
payments Mrs L had made up to that point. This left a £6,058.92 shortfall for Mrs L to pay. 
So, Im satisfied that the charge to voluntarily terminate the agreement was fairly applied.  
End of contract charge
The terms of the agreement between Mrs L and MBFS set out that the vehicle must be 
returned at the end of the agreement in line with the vehicle return standards. It confirms that 
an inspection will be carried out by trained technicians and goes on to set out the acceptable 
return standards, beyond which it allows MBFS to charge for the costs of either repairing and 
/ or refurbishing the vehicle, or the cost of the consequent reduction in the sale value of the 
vehicle. 
Its clear from the agreement that Mrs L was responsible for returning the car in good 
condition. 
Ive considered whether the charges applied by MBFS are fair and reasonable.  
Along with the vehicle return standards set out in the agreement, there are industry standard 
guidelines published by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA) which set out what is considered to be fair wear and tear in respect of a hired vehicle. So, I have 
also considered these in deciding what its fair for MBFS to charge on return of the car.
The damage that MBFS said was outside of fair wear and tear, and therefore payable by Mrs 
L, was as follows: 
Left hand front wheel  rim damaged over 50mm - £110
Right hand rear wheel  rim damaged over 50mm - £110
Left hand front tyre  outer tread 1mm - £210.69
Front bumper -  scratched over 50mm - £210
Rear bumper  dented 50-100mm - £260
The hire agreement sets out in the vehicle return standards that minor scuffing or damage 
under 25mm to the vehicle alloy or steel rim edge or wheel face is acceptable. The BVRLA 
fair wear and tear standards say that scuffs up to 50mm on the total circumference of the 
alloy wheel is acceptable.
Ive seen the photos provided by MBFS of the wheels, and Im satisfied that they show scuffs 
over 50mm to the rim on both the left front and right rear wheels. So, Im satisfied that the 
charge of £220 for these items has been fairly applied.
The hire agreement sets out in the vehicle return standards that less than 1.6mm tread 
depth across 75% of the tyre is not acceptable. The BVRLA fair wear and tear standards say 
that all tyres must meet minimum UK legal requirements. The UK legal limit for minimum 
depth of the tread on tyres is 1.6mm, across the central three quarters of the tread around 
the complete circumference of the tyre. 
Ive seen the photo provided by MBFS of the tyre, and Im satisfied that it shows the left front 
tyre is under the minimum legal requirement. So, Im satisfied that the charge of £210.69 has 
been fairly applied. 
The hire agreement sets out in the vehicle return standards that light surface scratches not 
through the top coat which can be removed by polishing / touching up are acceptable. The 
BVRLA fair wear and tear standards say that surface scratches of 25mm or less where the 
primer or bare metal is not showing are acceptable, provided they can be polished out. 
Ive seen the photo provided by MBFS of the front bumper, and Im satisfied that it shows a 
scratch over 25mm where the primer is showing. So, Im satisfied that the charge of £210 
has been fairly applied. 
The hire agreement sets out in the vehicle return standards that minor body dents under 
13mm in diameter are acceptable. The BVRLA fair wear and tear standards say that dents of 
less than 15mm in diameter are acceptable.  
Ive seen the photos provided by MBFS for the rear bumper, and Im satisfied they show a 
dent over 15mm. So, Im satisfied that the charge for £260 has been fairly applied. 
Overall, Im satisfied that MBFS have fairly applied the end of contract charges for damage 
to the vehicle.
Putting things right
Ive considered the three points of Mrs L complaint. I dont think MBFS need to do anything 
more in respect of the voluntary termination, or the end of contract charge. But, I think it 
needs to do more in respect of the financial difficulties and pay Mrs L £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused, along with removing any adverse information from 
Mrs Ls credit file, for the reasons Ive set out above. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require Mercedes-Benz Financial 
services UK Limited trading as Mercedes-Benz Finance to: 
Pay Mrs L £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Remove any adverse information from Mrs Ls credit file. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2022.
 
Zoe Merriman
Ombudsman