DRN-3865778
The complaint
Mr G complains that Revolut Ltd wont refund money he lost, after he fell victim to an 
Authorised Push Payment (APP) scam.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat it all here, 
But briefly, and based on the submissions of both parties, I understand it to be as follows.
In March 2022, Mr G was contacted by somebody claiming to be from Revolut. The caller 
told Mr G to check the number they were calling from on Revoluts website, which Mr G said 
he did and could see it was a Revolut telephone number. The caller made Mr G think hes 
money was in danger and that he needed to move it to a safe account. 
Believing he was talking to his bank and that everything was genuine, on 25 March 2022,  
Mr G went ahead and made a transfer for £2,187.07 to account details the caller provided.  
But unfortunately, unknown to him at the time, Mr G was speaking to a fraudster and hed 
sent the money to an account the fraudster controlled. 
Mr G has said that within an hour of making the payment he realised he had been the victim 
of a scam and contacted Revolut through its in-app chat. Revolut looked into Mr Gs 
complaint, but didnt uphold it. It said it considered the transfer Mr G was making was out of 
character and seemed suspicious, so it sent the transfer to pending and warned Mr G about 
the most common type of scams. Revolut did try and recover the money that Mr G lost from 
the beneficiary account (the account to which the money was sent), but it was only able to 
recover £0.07, which it returned to Mr Gs account.
Unhappy with Revoluts response, Mr G brought his complaint to our service and one of our 
Investigators looked into things, but he didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In 
summary, he said that while the payment Mr G made was larger than payments hed made 
in the months leading up to the scam, he didnt think Revolut should have done more than it 
did. He said Revolut had identified the payment as potentially higher risk and provided Mr G 
with warnings about scams. Our Investigator thought the warnings provided were sufficient 
and proportionate in the circumstances. 
As Mr G didnt agree with our Investigators opinion, his complaint has been passed to me 
for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear Mr G was the victim of a scam and I can understand why he wants to do all 
he can to recover the money he lost. But I can only direct Revolut to refund Mr Gs losses if it 
can fairly and reasonably be held responsible for them. 
I can see that Mr G has referred to the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement 
Model (CRM) Code. But the CRM Code doesnt apply in this case as Revolut arent signed 
up to it.
Mr G has said he didnt authorise the transaction as it was made as part of a well elaborated 
scam. But whilst we now know the account Mr G sent his funds to was controlled by a 
fraudster, the funds were paid to the account details Mr G had entered and therefore the 
transaction was requested and authorised by him. Because of this, Revolut had an obligation 
to follow his instructions.
But, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice 
and good industry standards, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate for 
Revolut, as an electronic money institute (EMI), to take additional steps or make additional 
checks before processing a payment in order to help protect its customer from the possibility 
of financial harm from fraud. 
Revolut has a difficult balance to strike in how it configures its systems to detect unusual 
activity or activity that might otherwise indicate a higher than usual risk of fraud. There is a 
delicate balance to be struck. There are many millions of payments made each day and it 
would not be possible or reasonable to expect a bank to check each one. And, in situations 
where Revolut do intervene, I would expect that intervention to be proportionate to the 
circumstances of the payment. 
In this case, I dont consider Revolut acted unfairly or unreasonably in allowing the payment 
to be made. Revolut did recognise the payment was unusual for Mr G, in comparison to how 
he typically ran his account. In view of this it provided warnings to Mr G at the point he was 
making the payment. I can see that Mr G told Revolut he saw the warnings, but that he 
wasnt thinking properly and he doesnt think the warnings were enough. 
But all things considered, I think that Revolut did enough in providing a warning to Mr G 
when he made the payment. I think that was a proportionate intervention, given the 
individual circumstances of this case, and Im not persuaded Revolut needed to do anything 
more. 
Im also satisfied Revolut acted reasonably in attempting to recover Mr Gs funds, but that it 
was only able to recover a small amount. It is quite typical with these types of scams for 
fraudsters to move money away from the beneficiary account, straight after the payments 
are made, presumably to frustrate the efforts at this type of recovery. Sadly, that was the 
case here.
Its very unfortunate Mr G has lost this money in this way, and I understand the whole 
experience has been deeply upsetting and I have a great deal of sympathy for him. But in 
the circumstances, I dont think I can fairly or reasonably say Revolut should have done 
more to prevent Mr G from losing this money.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2023.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman