DRN-3947042
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Erudio Student Loans Limited unfairly terminated her loan agreement. 
What happened
Mrs S had student loans with Erudio that were in arrears and subject to deferment. The 
deferment was due to end towards the end of June 2022. At the end of April 2022 Erudio 
sent Mrs S a deferment application and asked her to submit it by 24 June 2022. Erudio said 
that if the deferment application wasnt received before that date repayments would become 
due. 
Mrs S says she completed the deferment application on 30 May 2022 online and provided a 
copy of her P60 which shows her earnings fell below the repayment threshold. But Erudio 
says the deferment application was only 80% complete. Erudio hasnt been able to confirm 
what information remained outstanding but its records show Mrs S accessed its online 
system on 30 May 2022. 
A deferment application reminder was sent to Mrs S on 31 May 2022. Mrs S has explained 
she thought the reminder had crossed over the deferment application shed made online the 
day before. 
The deferment period ended on 25 June 2022 and Erudio sent a default notice to Mrs S on 
28 June 2022. A termination letter was sent to Mrs S around a month later. The loans were 
subsequently closed by Erudio and Mrs S lost the ability to defer payments or benefit from 
an age related right off. 
Mrs S complained but Erudio didnt agree it had made any mistakes. An investigator at this 
service looked at Mrs S complaint and upheld it. They thought there had been a genuine 
misunderstanding and Mrs S believed her deferment application had been successfully 
submitted before the deadline. The investigator asked Erudio to confirm what information 
was missing from Mrs S application but it wasnt able to say. The investigator also asked 
Erudio to provide a copy of its deferment chaser sent on 31 May 2022 but didnt receive a 
response. The investigator asked Erudio to reinstate Mrs S loans and process her 
deferment application. 
Erudio asked to appeal and said Mrs S had a history of submitting late deferment 
applications which had led to historic arrears on her loans. Erudio also said the onus was on 
Mrs S to ensure shed successfully completed her deferment application on time and didnt 
agree to reinstate the loans. As Erudio asked to appeal, Mrs S case has been passed to me 
to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to ensure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under. 
Mrs S has told us she was aware there were arrears on her student loans which meant it 
was important that her deferment application was completed on time. The systems evidence 
on file shows Mrs S accessed Erudios online system on 30 May 2022, which matches the 
date shes told us the application was submitted. 
Erudio says the application was only 80% complete. But Mrs S disagrees and says she 
completed the application, providing the required information about her circumstances and 
finances. Mrs S also says she provided a copy of her P60 as requested by Erudio to verify 
her income was lower than the threshold required to make repayments. As noted above, our 
investigator asked Erudio to confirm what information was missing, but its not been able to 
say. In my view, if Mrs S had failed to complete the deferment application in full on 30 May 
2022 she shouldve reasonably expected Erudio to notify her of the missing details. But I 
havent seen any evidence that shows it did that. 
Erudio says it sent Mrs S a follow up on 31 May 2022. The investigator asked Erudio to 
provide a copy of the chaser it sent to Mrs S on 31 May 2022 but no copy has been 
provided. So we dont know what Erudio said after the application was submitted.  And Im 
satisfied Mrs S was of the view that her deferment application had been submitted and the 
necessary information provided. I agree with the investigator that if Mrs S had been made 
fully aware of the missing information she wouldve provided it by the due date. And I think 
its more likely than not that Mrs S application wouldve been reviewed in time for the end of 
her deferment period the following month. 
Ive considered all the available evidence. In my view, the fairest way to resolve Mrs S 
complaint is for Erudio to reinstate her loans and arrange to complete the deferment 
application and, if successful, apply the deferment from the end of the previous deferment 
period. If Erudio has recorded adverse information on Mrs S credit file, it should remove it. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mrs S complaint and direct Erudio Student Loans Limited to 
settle as follows: 
-Reinstate Mrs S student loans (or make arrangements for them to be treated as if 
they have been reinstated) and apply the original terms and conditions going forward
-Process a deferment application for Mrs S to cover the period from the end of her 
previous deferment. If successful, Erudio should backdate the deferment
-Remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs S credit file
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman