DRN-2906307
The complaint
Miss T complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
The policy was bought in 2006 in connection with a further advance Miss T took out on a 
mortgage shed arranged in 1999. Miss T had taken out PPI in connection with that 
mortgage too. The PPI for both loans covered Miss T if she couldnt work because of 
accident, sickness or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint about the sales of both policies. Miss T accepted 
the adjudicators conclusions in connection with the 1999 sale, but she disagreed with his 
conclusions about the 2006 sale. The complaint has been passed to me for a final decision 
about the 2006 sale.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Ts case. It seems to me that the relevant 
considerations in this case are materially the same as those set out on our website. And the 
main questions I need to consider are:
- If Halifax gave any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the product it 
recommended was suitable for Miss Ts needs?
- Did Halifax give Miss T the information she needed to decide whether to take out the 
policy? 
If there was a problem with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider whether Miss 
T is worse off as a result. That is, would she have done something different  such as not 
taking out the policy  if there hadnt been any problems with the sale? 
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ive set out my reasons below.
Miss T says the PPI was presented as part of the overall package for the further advance 
borrowing, and that Halifax didnt give her a proper choice about buying the cover. She says 
Halifax didnt make it clear that the PPI was a separate product to the further advance. Ive 
noted everything Miss T has said.
The difficulty I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between Miss T and Halifax 
when the policy was sold. Halifax hasnt been able to provide much paperwork from the point 
of sale, which isnt surprising given the amount of time thats passed. Im also mindful that 
these events took place many years ago, and that exact recollections of what happened can 
fade over time. 
But I note that in the mortgage offer Halifax supplied to Miss T, the PPI is listed as Optional 
insurance. With that in mind, if Miss T had thought the PPI was a condition of getting the 
borrowing she wanted, I think it might have been reasonable for her to question this. 
Without anything else to support what Miss T has told me, I dont think I can fairly and 
reasonably say that Halifax didnt make her aware that the PPI was optional. 
Halifax accepts that it advised Miss T to take out the policy and it doesnt look like it was 
unsuitable for her based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. I say this 
because:
- Miss T was eligible for the policy given her circumstances and the PPI terms and 
conditions. 
- Miss T says she was entitled to employer benefits if she couldnt work due to 
sickness or accident, and that her partner wouldve helped if things went wrong. 
But the policy wouldve paid out in addition to Miss Ts employer benefits. Having the 
policy in place wouldve meant Miss T could use her employer benefits to pay for 
other expenses. And it wouldve meant she didnt have to rely on her partner. 
So I still think the policy wouldve been useful to her, despite her existing 
arrangements.
- Miss T wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits, 
such as those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical 
conditions. As she could have benefited from the full extent of the cover I think it 
unlikely she needed better advice or information about the policys exclusions and 
limitations. 
- The cost of the PPI was set out in the mortgage quote from Halifax. So I think Miss T 
wouldve known how much she would be paying for the policy and found it 
acceptable. The policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I think 
it unlikely Miss T would have made a different decision if better information about the 
cost had been provided. 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Miss T about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But as Ive already said, Miss T wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or 
limitations and the policy had a reasonable benefit. So I think it unlikely Miss T would have 
made a different decision if better information had been provided  overall, I think she would 
still have taken out the policy.
My final decisionMy decisions is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman