DRN-2972681
The complaint
Mr M and Mr S complain that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has turned down a claim they 
made on their travel insurance policy for lost earnings.
What happened
Mr M and Mr S have travel insurance as a benefit of a packaged bank account.
On 17 March 2020, as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Foreign & Commonwealth 
Office (FCO) advised against all but essential travel abroad. Subsequently, the FCO 
removed travel restrictions for some countries on a travel-corridor list. This meant that UK 
nationals were exempted from having to self-isolate on their return from one of the listed 
countries. On this basis, Mr M and Mr S booked a holiday to a country Ill call T, which was 
on the FCOs travel-corridor list. They were due to travel on 27 September 2020.
A few days before they were due to fly, Mr M called UKI to ask, amongst other things, 
whether he and Mr S would be covered for claims arising from Covid-19. The call handler 
told Mr M that the policy covered Covid-19 related claims. 
Mr M and Mr S travelled as planned. However, on 3 October 2020, whilst they were abroad, 
the FCO removed T from the travel-corridor list. This meant that Mr M and Mr S had to self-
isolate for 14 days following their return to the UK. Due to the nature of their employment, 
neither Mr M nor Mr S were able to work during this period. So they made a claim on their 
travel insurance policy for their lost earnings.
UKI turned down their claim. It said the policy didnt cover lost earnings.
Mr M and Mr S were unhappy with UKIs decision and they asked us to look into their 
complaint. They said that during the call with UKI, Mr M had understood that he was fully 
covered for the impact of Covid-19.
Our investigator didnt think Mr M and Mr S complaint should be upheld. She explained that 
the policy specifically excluded claims for loss of earnings. And while she sympathised with 
Mr Ms position, she didnt think UKIs call handler had provided incorrect information. She 
thought instead that thered been a miscommunication. So she thought it was fair for UKI to 
turn down the claim.
Mr M and Mr S disagreed. They said that theyd imagined the policy would cover these 
costs. They felt the call handler shouldve specifically mentioned that the policy wouldnt 
cover lost earnings. If they had, Mr M and Mr S wouldve been in a position to cut short their 
trip, so they wouldnt have needed to quarantine. 
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr M and Mr S, I think it was fair for UKI to turn 
down their claim. Ill explain why.
The relevant rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And they mustnt 
turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the terms of Mr M 
and Mr S policy and the circumstances of their claim, to decide whether UKI treated them 
fairly.
Ive first considered the policy terms, as these form the basis of the contract between Mr M 
and Mr S and UKI. It seems that their claim relates solely to their lost earnings, following 
their trip, due to the fact they had to self-isolate for 14 days and couldnt work. The policy 
contains a general exclusion, relating to uninsured losses. This says:
We will not cover any claim for:
 any loss not specifically covered by this policy (for example loss of earnings because you  
are not able to return to work after an injury or illness that happened on a trip.
I think then that the terms of the contract clearly state that UKI wont pay claims for lost 
earnings if a policyholder cant return to work after a trip. So I dont think it was unfair for UKI 
to conclude that Mr M and Mr S claim wasnt covered by any section of the policy terms. Id 
also add that most, if not all, insurers exclude claims for lost earnings, or claims for things 
that happen once a policyholders trip has ended.
Like the investigator, Ive listened to Mr Ms call with UKI. Its clear he wanted to be 
reassured about whether or not the policy would cover Covid-19 related claims. And I agree 
that the call handler told Mr M that such claims would be covered. 
I dont think the call handler gave Mr M incorrect information though. UKI would cover 
cancellation or curtailment claims related to changes in FCO advice, or medical expenses 
claims where a policyholder became ill abroad with Covid-19. Mr M and Mr S would also still 
have been entitled to cover under the remaining sections of the policy. But any cover would 
generally be in line with the things UKI has chosen to insure. I note too that Mr M didnt ask 
about whether hed be covered for lost earnings  he asked specifically about whether hed 
be covered if he had to isolate in T, or contracted Covid-19 while he was away. I think the 
call handler answered Mr Ms questions in an accurate and reasonable way. As Ive set out 
above, lost earnings are generally not covered by any insurer under a travel insurance 
policy. So I wouldnt necessarily have expected the call handler to highlight this, or to be 
aware that this information was important to Mr M or Mr S. 
Overall, while I sympathise with Mr M and Mr S position, because I understand theyre out of 
pocket for reasons outside of their control, I dont think UKI has done anything wrong which it 
needs to put right.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 October 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman