DRN-2475423
The complaint
Mr S, Mr S and Mrs S complain that Vitality Health Limited didnt reduce the premiums under 
their private health insurance policy.
What happened
The policy covers Mr S, his wife and their son. But for ease of reading, Ill only refer to Mr S 
in my decision, as hes the policyholder.
Ms S renewed the policy on 1 April 2020. He wasnt happy that the premium had increased, 
so he amended the cover by increasing the excess  this reduced the premium.
Mr S son was due to have an operation in April 2020, which was covered by the policy. But 
this was cancelled due to the Covid-19 global pandemic. It was declared a pandemic by the 
World Health Organisation (WHO) on 11 March 2020.
Mr S wasnt happy to continue paying the full premium for the policy when his family wasnt 
able to fully benefit from it. He also wasnt happy with the customer service he received from 
Vitality  it didnt call him back when promised on several occasions.
Vitality said that as Mr S had recently downgraded the policy, he wasnt eligible for the 
Premium Saver Option it had introduced to help its members who were struggling financially 
during the pandemic. But considering its service failures, Vitality said Mr S could still opt in 
for the Premium Saver Option  this reduced Mr S premiums by 50% for three months. If 
Mr S didnt want to go ahead with this, Vitality said it would pay him £100 for its service 
failures instead.
Mr S agreed to the Premium Saver Option, but he doesnt think this is enough. He says a fair 
outcome would be a refund of 50% premium for six months  the period of time when his 
son wasnt able to have the operation.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He thought what Vitality had done was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. He said the issues were caused by the global pandemic, 
and this was outside of Vitalitys control. He also pointed out that Mr S and his family 
couldve still benefitted from the policy, even while some private hospital services were 
limited.
Mr S didnt agree with our investigators findings. In summary, he said the issue was that 
Vitality wasnt providing the service it had contractually agreed to provide. And he pointed 
out that whilst Vitality reduced the premium for three months, it reduced the cover for six 
months. He also doesnt agree what Vitality has said about his policy not being eligible for 
the Premium Saver Option, so Mr S doesnt think Vitality has offered adequate 
compensation for its service failures.
As no agreement was reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its unfortunate that Mr S and his family were impacted by the unprecedented circumstances 
of the Covid-19 global pandemic. Independent hospital resources were needed to support 
the NHS and this had an impact on the private services that they were able to offer. This 
meant that Mr S sons operation that was due to take place in April 2020 was cancelled, and 
this didnt go ahead until October 2020. But I dont think this is something I can hold Vitality 
responsible for, as the circumstances were outside of its control.
I fully accept this was outside of Mr S control as well. But he and his family still had a private 
health insurance policy, and it covered them if they needed any other eligible treatment. 
Vitality also offered other healthcare services beyond in-hospital treatment, and these 
continued to be available  for example, virtual GP consultations and referrals and other 
remote specialist consultations and treatment.
Vitality offered to reduce Mr S premium by 50% for three months. But this also meant the 
policy wouldnt be eligible for Covid-19 cash back benefit or the 25% Waitrose benefit. 
Vitality also applied a further three-month waiting period for any new planned inpatient or 
day-patient admissions only. This meant that there was some reduction in cover for six 
months in total.
Taking everything into account, I think what Vitality has done is fair and reasonable. The 
issues around private hospital treatment were wholly outside of its control due to the 
unprecedented circumstances of the Covid-19 global pandemic. But Vitality offered a 
reduction in Mr S premiums for three months. 
I appreciate there was some reduction in cover for six months  but calculating the premium 
reduction over the six months still means Mr S paid 25% less in premiums over that time. 
Mr S and his family still benefitted from having cover in place in case they needed any other 
eligible treatment, and they could continue their fully underwritten cover. This meant there 
was no break in cover, or a change in the underwriting terms.
I can see Vitality didnt always call Mr S back when it said it would. But I do think it put things 
right within a reasonable period of time. Based on what Ive seen, I think its most likely that 
Mr S policy wasnt eligible for the Premium Saver Option in April 2020. But Vitality offered 
this to Mr S regardless.
Overall, I think Vitality has acted fairly and reasonably in all the circumstances of this 
complaint. I dont think theres anything else it needs to do, to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr S, Mr S and Mrs S complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S, Mr S and 
Mrs S to accept or reject my decision before 22 March 2021.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman