DRN-2765050
The complaint
Mr G brings this complaint on behalf of his business, which Ill call A, a limited company. 
Mr G complains that Lloyds Bank Plc have issued a number of statements for As account 
without the business name in the address section, and that they provided poor service when 
he contacted them to correct this. 
  
What happened
Mr G changed the address of As account with Lloyds in early 2020. Following that change of 
address, he began to receive the invoices for As account without As name on them. 
Mr G visited a Lloyds branch to try and correct the problem and was unhappy with the 
service he received there. A complaint was registered with Lloyds in July 2020. 
In August 2020 Lloyds wrote to Mr G to explain that theyd provide feedback to the area 
manager for the branch about the service he received. They apologised that As name was 
missing from the invoices and said this was now corrected. They told Mr G that when the 
address was changed on the account, the name field had been left blank which led to the 
letters not containing As name. Lloyds paid a total of £171 in compensation to Mr G. 
Mr G contacted Lloyds shortly after this response to tell them hed received another invoice 
for As account without As name on. Lloyds issued a further response to Mr G in September 
2020 saying theyd now fixed this, and they paid him an additional £50 in compensation.
 
Unhappy with this, Mr G brought the complaint to our service. He would like the invoices to 
be correctly addressed with As business name, and an apology from the branch and area 
managers. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr G, but he didnt think that Lloyds needed to take 
any further action in respect of the complaint. Mr G asked for the case to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in March 2021 recommending that it was 
upheld. I made the following provisional findings:
It appears that when Mr G changed the address for As account, a change was also made to 
the addressee field, which caused the invoices to go out without a name on them. 
Lloyds told Mr G twice that they had corrected this, but in fact the invoices were now being 
addressed to Mr G directly, rather than to the business. 
Ive asked Lloyds why the invoices cant be addressed to the business, as they were before 
the address was changed. Lloyds initially said they were unable to make any further 
changes. They have subsequently provided a screen shot of their system showing that the 
invoices should now be received with As name in the address field. 
Mr G is unable to check the post, as hes currently overseas for an extended period. I am 
satisfied, based on the evidence provided, that the invoices for As account will now be 
addressed to A.  
Lloyds have paid a total of £221 compensation to Mr G to reflect the inconvenience caused.
 
Because A is a separate legal entity to Mr G, I can only make an award for inconvenience 
experienced by the company, and not by Mr G personally.
I havent seen any evidence that explains why Lloyds didnt correct the addressee field when 
Mr G first asked them to. Mr G had to contact Lloyds on a number of occasions, and only 
once wed asked Lloyds to make the change, was the addressee field reverted to that of the 
business name.
Mr G is the sole director of the company, and so the business has been put to inconvenience 
in the time that Mr G has had to take away from running his business in order to resolve the 
issue of how the invoices are addressed. I think its also likely taken additional time for Mr G 
to deal with his business invoices, as its not immediately clear before the post is opened 
who its for. So, I find that Lloyds should compensate A for this, and that £100 is a fair 
reflection of the inconvenience caused to the business. 
Mr G has asked for personal apologies from the staff members involved in his case. I am 
satisfied that Lloyds are responsible for the service provided by their staff members, and 
therefore the apology issued by Lloyds is sufficient in this case. 
Lloyds accepted my provisional decision.
Mr G initially accepted my provisional decision, but then provided a copy of an invoice that 
was addressed to him directly, that hed asked his housemate to check.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There has been no further evidence in respect of the monetary aspect of my provisional 
award, so I think Lloyds should pay A £100 compensation for the reasons outlined above.  
Ive considered Mr Gs evidence in respect of the more recent invoice, and I can see this 
was issued by Lloyds before they told us theyd changed the addressee. 
Part of my decision is to direct Lloyds to address the invoices to A, and I havent seen any 
new evidence that would change my mind about this. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Lloyds Bank Plc to: 
Send the invoices for As account with A as the addressee.
Pay £100 compensation to A, in addition to the £221 it has paid to Mr G. 
  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2021.
 
Zoe Launder
Ombudsman