DRN-3967863
The complaint
Mr K complains about poor customer service from Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) when 
his motorhome broke down on the motorway. 
IPA is the underwriter of this policy, that is, the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of agents. As IPA has accepted its accountable for those actions, in my decision, 
any reference to IPA includes the actions of the agents.
What happened
In August 2022 Mr K, his wife and a friend were returning home from a weekend away. 
Unfortunately, their motorhome broke down on the motorway. As the motorway had no hard 
shoulder, they were stranded in a live lane. Mr K had pulled his car as far over to the left as 
he could, but consequently, he and his passengers were unable to get out of the vehicle, as 
it was next to a barrier. 
Mrs K called IPA for assistance. She immediately explained they were in a dangerous 
situation and wanted roadside assistance to come out within ten minutes. Mr and Mrs K feel 
the call handler didnt respond to the situation appropriately, focusing on asking questions 
rather than sending out a breakdown vehicle.
Mr K complained and IPA paid him £50 compensation to resolve things. Mr K didnt think this 
was acceptable and brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. An 
investigator looked into things for him but didnt uphold his complaint, saying IPA had acted 
in line with their processes. As Mr K remained unhappy his complaint has come to me for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The police are the appropriate agency to deal with vehicles blocking live motorway lanes and 
indeed, police attended and assisted Mr K and his passengers whilst Mrs K was on the 
phone to IPA, having, I understand, spotted their vehicle on a traffic camera. I also note that 
part of the recorded message on the IPA breakdown line tells customers who have broken 
down in a live lane to call 999 immediately, although it seems likely Mr and Mrs K werent 
aware of this at the time. 
Ive listened to the call between Mrs K and IPA. I could hear this was a frightening and 
distressing situation. I could also hear that Mrs K was frustrated with the response she was 
receiving. And there was confusion on the call, in part relating to another callout a few days 
previously. It took some time to establish details. But fundamentally, Mrs K wanted an 
assurance that the recovery vehicle would arrive quickly. The call handler clarified that the 
police were on the scene and moving the party to a safer location. She explained she 
couldnt promise the recovery vehicle would arrive within Mrs Ks requested timescale, but 
that it should be within 60-90 minutes. This was unacceptable to Mrs K.  
I do understand that Mr and Mrs K were frustrated with IPAs response. But from listening to 
the call, I think the handler responded appropriately and sought to assist Mrs K as best she 
was able. She remained calm and polite throughout and was clear with Mrs K what she 
could and couldnt commit to. I think it was reasonable for her to ask questions to establish 
the circumstances and to help her progress the call for assistance in the right way. So Im 
satisfied IPAs response and customer service were satisfactory and I dont think it needs to 
do anything more. 
Finally, Im aware Mr Ks made points regarding a prior incident with the same issue, 
resulting in a callout a few days earlier. I appreciate the point hes making, but that incident 
was the subject of a separate complaint. This complaint relates only to the service received 
during the incident after the weekend and not to any concerns about the competence of the 
mechanic who attended previously.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2023.
 
Jo Chilvers
Ombudsman