DRN-1601674
Complaint 
Ms C complains that a debt Cabot Credit Management Group Limited (Cabot) are pursuing 
her for is unenforceable and it has been aggressive when chasing her for it. 
Ms C has been represented by a third party in this complaint but for ease I will refer to Ms C 
throughout this decision. 
Background 
Ms C took out an unsecured loan with a bank in 2004. She fell behind with her payments 
and the debt was sold to Cabot in September 2008. She made payments to Cabot over a 
number of years but stopped paying in 2018 and questioned the enforceability of the debt. 
Ms C then went on to raise a complaint. She said Cabot had failed to supply her with a copy 
of the credit agreement and a statement of the accounts, as is required by section 78 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974. Because of this, she felt the debt is unenforceable on her and its 
unfair to leave her in a state of limbo while Cabot sit on debts they cant enforce. 
Ms C also complained that Cabot has been sending aggressive communications and unfairly 
putting pressure on her when attempting to collect the debt. She said the decision to lend to 
her in the first place was irresponsible, and as the debt is assigned to Cabot it is responsible 
for that decision. 
Cabot responded to the complaint. It accepted it couldnt enforce the debt but said this didnt 
mean it wasnt owed. So, Ms C referred her complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt 
think the complaint should be upheld. She explained that this service wasnt able to 
determine whether a debt was enforceable  only a court could do that. But she noted that 
Ms C had continued to make payments towards the account when Cabot took over its 
management and that Cabot had explained the current balance. So, she was persuaded 
there was evidence the debts were Ms Cs and that Cabot were therefore being fair when 
pursuing her for payment. She reviewed the correspondence that had been sent to Ms C by 
Cabot, but she didnt think there was evidence Cabot had been aggressive or had harassed 
her.
Ms C responded and raised further queries about the balance that was transferred to Cabot 
when the debt was assigned from the bank. The investigator looked into this and gathered 
information from the bank and Cabot  based on this information she thought that Cabot 
hadnt done anything wrong in seeking to collect the balance. But Ms C disagreed and she 
asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
 
 
My Findings 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Id first like to reassure Ms C and her representative, that Ive read all the correspondence in 
the file when deciding the complaint. I havent comment on every specific point raised but its 
not because Ive failed to take it into account and think about it. Ive instead concentrated my 
findings on what I believe to be the key factors in reaching a fair and reasonable outcome.
Ms C says because Cabot cant provide the original agreement this means, in law, that the 
debt is not enforceable. Ive noted that Cabot agrees that the debt is currently 
unenforceable. But I have no power to say whether a credit agreement is enforceable or not, 
nor can I determine if either Ms C or Cabot are correct, this would ultimately be up to the 
court to decide. What I can decide is whether Cabot is being fair in pursuing Ms C for the 
debt.
Despite not having a copy of the original agreement, I think there is enough evidence to 
suggest the debt in question is Ms Cs. Since the debt was passed to Cabot in 2008, I can 
see from the statements provided that Ms C has made regular payments towards the 
balance up until 2018.  I dont think that would be likely if it wasnt her debt. The original bank 
has confirmed it sold a debt to Cabot  and confirmed the debt it sold belonged to Ms C. 
 Cabot has also provided systems data showing the date it purchased the debt.  Cabot has 
been able to provide a balance for debt they say Ms C is responsible for. So, I think, given 
the evidence Ive detailed above, Cabot are being fair in pursuing Ms C for the debt.
There has been some dispute about the exact balance of the debt that was sold on  mainly 
due to limited records available. Ms C says, given the limited information available, its unfair 
for Cabot to continue to pursue her for the debt. Our investigator contacted the original bank 
to gain further information about the balance that was passed over to see if this tallies with 
the information Cabot hold. There was a small discrepancy with the figures provided. After 
investigating this further, the investigator came to the conclusion that this was due to 
payments being made just before and just after the debt was assigned to Cabot. This was 
because some payments werent accounted for on the original banks records. But having 
compared the two records, it appears the balance Cabot has been recording is correct and 
has taken account of all the payments Ms C has made. Ms C hasnt provided any 
information to say why she thinks the balance is incorrect. Having looked at the payment 
history and balance information provided by both the bank and Cabot, I think the explanation 
provided the investigator is a fair position to take. This means, I still believe Cabot is acting 
fairly in pursuing the debt. 
Ive considered the comments made about Cabot sending aggressive correspondence when 
chasing the debt. Ive reviewed the correspondence that Cabot sent to Ms C but I dont 
agree that it was aggressive. It appears to be factual and not too frequent or rude. Our 
investigator asked Ms C to provide any further evidence she has to show aggressive 
collection activity - but nothing further was supplied. So, I dont think Ive seen anything to 
say Cabot have done anything wrong here.
Finally, I dont agree that Cabot is responsible for any irresponsible lending. It was the 
original bank who provided the loan, so I think its fair to suggest that any complaint about 
irresponsible lending should be made to them and not to Cabot.
 
 
My Final Decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 April 2020. 
 
 
Daniel Little
Ombudsman