DRN-3362113
The complaint
Mr M has complained about the way U K Insurance Limited trading as Privilege (UKI) has
dealt with his claim under his motor policy following an accident.
What happened
Mr M was parked when another driver hit him from behind. He was in the driver seat with his
young daughter in the back. He said he had been dangling his keys to amuse her and they
had slipped between the drivers seat and the door and he was in the process of retrieving
them with his hand when the other driver struck his car.
Mr M said his watch which he wore on his right hand consequently made a small tear in the
armrest or handle due to the jolt. He wanted UKI to repair this in addition to the other
accident damage to his car.
UKI refused because it decided it didnt happen as Mr M said. Mr M complained but UKI
wouldnt change its stance. So, Mr M brought his complaint to us. The investigator didnt
think UKI had done anything wrong. Mr M disagreed so his complaint was passed to
me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 22 February and I said the following:
Essentially UKI dont believe the tear to arm rest on the door was caused by the 
accident.
Ive listened carefully to the engineers call with UKI when he had inspected the car in
November 2021 (the second inspection) and from that I can see why UKI came to 
that decision. Its very clear the engineer simply doesnt really believe Mr Ms account 
of the how the damage occurred. He notes Mr M wasnt wearing a watch on the day 
of the inspection and pauses significantly after saying that. He also doesnt believe 
such damage would be covered under the policy and he believes the other drivers 
insurers simply wont pay for it.
However, whats missing is any scientific or plausible reason why a watch caught in 
the middle of the jolt of the other driver hitting the back of Mr Ms parked car couldnt 
make this tear in the armrest attached to the door as Mr M said it did. It seems 
perfectly plausible to me that it could have happened as Mr M said. Damage to a 
cars interior is covered by any motor policy including if it was caused by another 
driver crashing into the back of a parked car. Such damage could be caused by 
anything unsecured being jolted by the impact. So, I fail to understand why this 
engineer didnt know that. And in that case, its then properly payable by the other 
drivers insurers if the accident wasnt the policyholders fault which is the case here.
I also consider Mr Ms account is truthful as he has been consistent on precisely what
happened and how the damage occurred, throughout his dealings of this element of 
his claim that this was damaged in the manner he said it was.
This is minor element of damage which Mr M has claimed happened from the outset 
in a truthful plausible manner which hasnt warranted the extent of effort UKI has 
shown in refusing to include it in Mr Ms claim. Sadly, UKI doesnt have any call 
recording between Mr M and the first engineer because it was most likely made from 
the engineers mobile phone. Initially UKI said Mr M didnt report this damage 
immediately after the accident, then it agreed he did report it. So, there has been 
fairly extensive confusion initially, as to what Mr M said with UKI wrongly believing Mr 
M didnt ensure this damage was claimed for too.
I consider that coloured matters considerably against Mr M ensuring that UKI 
unreasonably took the view it simply didnt happen as Mr M said. I dont consider 
thats reasonable, however. I havent seen any cogent evidence as why Mr Ms watch 
could not have caused this damage. Mr M wore his watch on his right hand and his 
watch looks fairly robust from the photos of it, so it appears perfectly reasonable to 
me it most likely caused this tear in the manner he said. The photographs showing 
Mr Ms seatbelt often got caught in the door dont appear at all relevant to me as to 
the tear on the armrest either.
So, I consider the repair costs of this tear, minor and all as they appear, should be 
part of Mr Ms claim.
Its clear that Mr M was very frustrated by UKIs refusal to accept this as part of his 
claim and that it didnt believe him. I can see that it all caused him very unnecessary 
distress and inconvenience, more because he wasnt being believed. Further there 
were instances where its clear according to Mr Ms account that UKIs advisers and 
agents were less than professional in their manner towards him. Indeed, UKI 
acknowledged this in its final response letter by paying him £25 compensation.
However, I dont consider thats enough to compensate Mr M here for the extent of 
distress caused by varying advisers and agents of UKI and I consider the total 
amount should be £150 compensation. Thats more in line with awards I have made 
previously in similar circumstances where a policyholders account of what happened 
wasnt believed unfairly.
Mr M accepted my provisional decision. UKI didnt. It refers to the call recordings notes 
saying Mr M said it happened after the impact. So, it felt this matter should be dealt with a by 
a separate claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so again, I remain of the view this complaint should be upheld for the reasons I 
explained in my provisional decision, namely that there was no call recording with the first 
engineer and UKI was confused over whether Mr M reported it at the time or afterwards. 
UKI agreed finally that Mr M did report at it at the time. Further having listened to the call 
recordings its clear the engineer simply didnt believe Mr M account of how the damage 
occurred. He was also very concerned that the other insurers simply wouldnt pay for it.
As I said in my provisional decision, I consider Mr M has been consistent of his account throughout. So, I dont consider there is anything new to change my reasoning as given in 
the provisional decision. 
My final decision
So, for these reasons its my final decision that I uphold this complaint.
I now require U K Insurance Limited trading as Privilege to do the following:
Accept the tear in the armrest door is damage from this accident for which Mr M cant 
be at fault since it was rear end shunt accident.
Arrange for its repair and claim the costs of the same from the other drivers insurers, 
ensuring Mr M is at no disadvantage.
Pay Mr M at total of £150 compensation inclusive of the £25 already paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2022.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman