DRN-3342448
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS) wont allow him to 
reduce the contractual mileage allowance he agreed to when he entered into a hire 
purchase agreement.
What happened
Mr D entered into a hire purchase agreement for 49 months in January 2020. When taking 
out the hire purchase agreement, Mr D agreed to a mileage allowance of 20,000 miles per 
year, or a maximum total mileage of 81,679 miles across the full term of the agreement.
Mr D says Covid-19 has altered his use of the car and he is driving the car a lot less. Mr D 
says he used his car to get to and from work and the impact of Covid-19 means that he 
wont be driving 20,000 miles a year. In fact, Mr D says he thinks he will likely cover around 
10,000 miles in the coming years and wants BMWFS to alter his agreement to reduce his 
mileage allowance.
 
Mr D also says when he returns the car at the end of the agreement, itll likely have half the 
agreed mileage done. So BMWFS will be able to sell the car for a lot more than what the car 
would have sold for had he done the full mileage allowance. And that the balloon payment 
would be higher at the end of the agreement than it should be, as this was initially calculated 
by taking into consideration the mileage Mr D expected to cover prior to Covid-19. Mr D also 
thinks its unfair BMWFS charge for excess mileage done over the agreed allowance, but 
dont allow for him to get a refund of any mileage he doesnt do. 
BMWFS said Mr D agreed to the mileage when he signed the hire purchase agreement. 
BMWFS also said they dont allow for lowering the mileage and that the monthly payments 
and balloon payment amount were based on the 20,000 miles Mr D agreed to. In any case, 
BMWFS said lowering the mileage to lower the monthly costs would increase the balloon 
payment amount at the end of the agreement and the total amount payable.
Our Investigator looked into Mr Ds concerns. In summary, she said there wasnt anything in 
the agreement which allowed Mr D to reduce his mileage allowance. She also said even 
though Covid-19 meant Mr D may not have been using his car as much, Mr D agreed a 
mileage allowance of 20,000 miles when entering into the agreement. And that it wouldnt be 
possible to know what mileage Mr D would have covered had Covid-19 not been an issue. 
So, our Investigator didnt think BMWFS should amend the terms of Mr Ds agreement or 
apply any retrospective refunds once the agreement comes to an end in 2024.
Mr D disagreed. He reiterated that he didnt think it was fair BMWFS are allowed to charge 
excess mileage charges if he goes over the agreed mileage allowance. And that if needed, 
he would be able to increase the mileage allowance, so equally, he should be able to 
decrease the mileage allowance. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Mr D was supplied with a car under a hire purchase agreement. 
This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to look into 
complaints about it.
When Mr D entered into the hire purchase agreement an annual and overall mileage limit 
was agreed. In this case it was 20,000 miles per year or 81,679 miles over the duration of 
the agreement. This is the maximum mileage permitted. Although, the hire purchase 
agreement also sets out what happens if this limit is exceeded. Compared to more 
commonly seen agreements, this is a relatively high mileage allowance. Mr D appears to be 
aware of the impact mileage would have on what he owes under the agreement, and so it 
seems likely that he would only have entered into an agreement with such a high mileage 
allowance if he was happy that this is what he would need at the time.
As the agreement sets out the legally binding terms, Ive had a look at this. In the same 
section as where the mileage allowance is set out, the terms say should Mr D exceed the 
agreed mileage, extra charges would be payable. But Ive found there are no provisions 
within the agreement should a consumer want to reduce their permitted mileage. 
Theres also nothing to say there would be a reduction in payments if the car is returned with 
lesser mileage than anticipated. So, I cant say BMWFS acted outside of the agreement in 
not offering Mr D the chance to reduce the mileage. Nor can I say that BMWFS would later 
be required under the terms of the agreement to compensate Mr D for driving less than the 
maximum allowed mileage.  
With that being said, the circumstances changed a few months after Mr D entered into the 
agreement  the Covid-19 pandemic began. So, in considering the complaint, Ive also 
looked at what I consider to be fair and reasonable and whether I think BMWFS acted 
reasonably given the impact of Covid-19. 
Mr D says that because of Covid-19 and the restrictions imposed by the UK government, his 
usage of the car was impacted and he no longer requires the 20,000 mileage allowance. He 
says that he thinks hell likely be doing around 10,000 miles a year as he no longer uses the 
car to drive to work. 
I appreciate Mr Ds frustrations and I can also understand his point that by driving less than 
the agreed mileage of 20,000 means the resale value of the car is likely to be impacted. 
However, there are several factors that could affect the resale value of a car, not just its 
mileage. Additionally, its not uncommon in a hire purchase agreement like Mr Ds, for the 
maximum permitted mileage to be agreed beforehand, as this forms part of the calculation 
for the monthly payments. 
Mr D also says its unfair that hed be charged if he exceeded the mileage, but BMWFS 
wont alter the mileage allowance to be lower than what was initially agreed. Its not unusual 
for agreements like Mr Ds to have an agreed maximum mileage amount and anything over 
this is likely to be additional charges. Also, Mr D agreed to this term when signing the 
agreement at the time. So, while I appreciate Mr D thinks its unfair, I dont think BMWFS 
have done anything wrong.
At the time Mr D entered into the agreement, its clear from what he told us he was going to 
use his car a lot  I have seen nothing to suggest there was any indication at the time that 
this usage would change in the near future. Unfortunately, circumstances did then change due to Covid-19. However, even though circumstances changed, I need to take into account 
that this was unforeseen and not something BMWFS, nor Mr D, could prevent. The 
subsequent lockdown and restrictions were also outside of BMWFS control, so Ive also had 
to consider this when thinking about whether BMWFS have done anything wrong.
Overall, while I understand the impact Covid-19 has had on Mr D and his use of the car, I 
dont think I can fairly say BMWFS have done anything wrong by not agreeing to alter Mr Ds 
agreement. I appreciate Mr D may be disappointed with this, however, the hire purchase 
agreement he entered into doesnt allow for the alterations hes asked for. 
My final decision
For reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2022.
 
Leanne McEvoy
Ombudsman