DRN-1920558
The complaint
Miss W complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance (BPF), unfairly declined an application for a credit agreement.
What happened
In September 2019, Miss W ordered some items from an online retailer. She selected to pay 
for the items via an interest free loan from BPF over 12 months. Miss W says that, as she 
was shortly about to move home, she had wanted the items delivered to her new address.
Miss W says, the first time she tried to apply for the loan, there was an issue with addresses 
as she couldnt update the postcode on the retailers website. And an underwriter from BPF 
contacted her and asked that she update the address via the retailers website. Miss W said 
that, although she tried to make the change, she was unable to do so and had to contact the 
underwriter to explain.
Miss W says the underwriter told her to cancel the first order, put it through again and this 
time use only the delivery address for both delivery and billing. Miss W said she did as 
requested, but this application was declined.
Miss W says she was then advised to use both her current and her new address on the 
application. However, her application was again declined.
Miss W complained to BPF about its handling of her credit application. She said it had 
unfairly rejected her application leading to her having to sort out another method of payment 
and delay her moving date as she wouldnt have had items she needed in her new home. 
BPF said that it had declined her application because she hadnt met its lending criteria. But 
BPF agreed to pay Miss W £100 compensation for some aspects of the customer service 
that she had received. It also agreed to remove the searches and the marker that she had 
been declined credit from her credit file.
Miss W was unhappy at BPFs final response and complained to this service. She said she 
had an excellent credit rating, and BPF had acted unfairly in declining her application. She 
said she thought the decision could be linked to a previous issue that led to adverse 
information being recorded inaccurately on her credit file, and about which she complained 
several years earlier.
Our investigator didnt recommend Miss Ws complaint should be upheld. He said he thought 
BPF had treated Miss Ws credit application fairly and that the £100 compensation for poor 
customer service had been reasonable. He said he wouldnt ask it to do more.
Miss W disagreed with the view reached by our investigator. She said she didnt think BPF 
had removed the searches from her credit file, and that it had based its decision to decline 
her credit on information relating to the earlier issue about which she had had to complain. 
Miss W was also unhappy at being told to incorrectly put her new address as both the 
delivery and billing address in her second application.
Miss W said that BPFs poor handling and subsequent refusal to accept her credit 
application had caused her unnecessary distress and inconvenience, including having to 
delay her moving date.
As the parties were unable to agree the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt disputed by BPF that it didnt provide the full customer service that Miss W could have 
reasonably expected, and it paid her £100 compensation to reflect the distress and 
inconvenience caused. I have seen that Miss W feels that payment is inadequate for having 
to find another way to pay for items, and not being able to spread that cost out as she 
wanted and additionally feeling she had no option but to alter her moving date.
BPF says that the first application was declined over address issues and, looking at the 
notes, I think this covers both the first time Miss W submitted her application with the wrong 
postcode and the subsequent application when she used only the new address. The final 
application was declined as Miss W didnt met BPFs lending criteria.
BPF says the decision to decline Miss Ws application wasnt linked to information contained 
in her credit file. I appreciate Miss W disagrees with this and is concerned that the decision 
was linked to a previous issue she had with a credit card application and, over which, she 
had made a formal complaint. However, BPF wasnt the provider of the credit card in 
question so it doesnt have any information about Miss Ws complaint, nor has it any access 
to any information about that matter, including any complaint made by Miss W. I can 
understand why Miss W thinks there is a link, but Im satisfied that BPF wasnt involved in 
her earlier complaint and considered only her application and its lending criteria when 
making the decision that it did.
Miss W says BPFs lending criteria was unfair as she has an excellent credit rating and has 
provided proof of that. However, a creditors lending criteria will look at a number of different 
things and not just a credit score. The setting of this criteria is a commercial decision and not 
one I can comment on, but what I can look at is whether BPF dealt with Miss Ws application 
fairly. 
While I appreciate Miss Ws application didnt go smoothly the decision to decline was due to 
her not meeting the lending criteria. And, in these circumstances due to the commercial 
sensitivity of a business lending criteria, BPF wasnt acting unreasonably in not providing 
further details of why the application failed. 
Looking at the compensation, while I accept Miss W found the process stressful in having to 
re-order items and losing her original chosen delivery slot, I think the £100 payment was a 
fair and reasonable amount to reflect the standard of customer service she received from 
BPF and Im not asking it to do more.
Miss W has challenged BPFs evidence that it has removed the searches and the marker 
that credit had been declined from her credit file. I dont know what information is recorded 
on her credit file as I dont have access to that, and so I havent any evidence that BPF 
hasnt taken the action it said it had. If Miss W has evidence from her credit file that these 
things are still showing, then I would ask she provide that to BPF so it can remove them.
For the reasons given Im not upholding Miss Ws complaint.My final decision
As set out above Im not upholding Miss Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 February 2021.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman