DRN-3009067
The complaint
Mr R complains that Accord Mortgages Limited didnt provide him with clear information and 
declined his request to port his mortgage, causing him to incur an early repayment charge 
(ERC). 
What happened
Mr R took out a mortgage with Accord in October 2016. The mortgage had a fixed interest 
rate deal until December 2021, meaning if it was repaid in full before that time Mr R would be 
charged an ERC.
Mr R has said he spoke to Accord in 2017 about potentially porting his mortgage. He says 
he was looking to buy a larger property with his partner, but it would need renovating first. 
So, they were looking to buy the property and carry out some of the renovations with 
financial help from family. Hed then sell his existing property at a later date and port the 
mortgage across to their new home, using the mortgage proceeds to repay the assistance 
from family and complete the last of the renovations. Mr R says Accord said this shouldnt be 
a problem.
I understand Mr R and his partner then bought the new property, with assistance from family, 
in 2017.
In August 2018 Mr R contacted Accord to confirm he would be able to port the mortgage to 
his new home. And he was told, subject to the application meeting Accords lending rules at 
the time it was made, the request was something it should be able to do.
Mr R sold his property and repaid his Accord mortgage in December 2018, incurring an 
ERC. This was on the understanding that he could take a mortgage on the same terms as 
he had previously (port the mortgage) within six months and receive a refund of the ERC.
Mr R applied for a new mortgage with Accord in May 2019. This included porting his existing 
mortgage as well as taking additional borrowing.
Accord said it couldnt consider the application directly as the borrowing would be used to 
repay a loan from Mr Rs family, which Accords lending criteria classified as debt 
consolidation. Accord said its criteria in these circumstances was that an application would 
need to be made through a broker.
Mr R complained to Accord about this decision. He said hed been clear about the 
circumstances of the transaction each time hed spoken to Accord and was unhappy hed 
only been told this fell outside of its criteria at the last moment.
Accord said it didnt have any record of Mr R contacting it in 2017. And it said the 
conversation in 2018 was just a general discussion about porting. But it said it could 
potentially have done more at that time to understand the details of the borrowing and what it 
would be used for. Which mightve allowed it to confirm sooner that the request would be 
outside of its direct lending criteria and require the assistance of a broker. That being said, 
Accord didnt think it had acted incorrectly in May 2019 as the application fell outside of its 
criteria at that time and would need to be made through a broker. It did though agree that if 
this was completed by the end of December 2019 the ERC would still be waived. And it sent 
Mr R a cheque for £100 for the distress and inconvenience incurred and to cover his call 
costs.
Mr R attempted to apply via a broker in December 2019. Accord agreed that it would extend 
the deadline for the mortgage to complete, and an ERC refund to be provided, until mid-
January 2020. But the application was ultimately withdrawn. Mr R says this was partly 
because his broker was provided contradictory information to what he was told. As a result, 
he took a mortgage elsewhere.
Mr R asked our service to consider the complaint. He felt the service provided by Accord had 
been poor and hed been given unclear and incomplete information. He was unhappy the 
porting application was declined and felt that Accord had caused him to incur the ERC.
One of our investigators looked into matters. From the evidence available, he didnt think 
Accord had been made aware of the circumstances of the transaction until shortly before the 
application was made. And he didnt think Accord had then acted incorrectly by applying its 
lending criteria to the application. He also felt Accord had acted fairly by extending the 
deadline for an application to be completed by, to allow a refund of the ERC, and wasnt 
responsible for Mr R not meeting this deadline. So overall, he felt the ERC had been applied 
correctly and didnt think Accord needed to refund this. He also felt the £100 offered by 
Accord was fair.
Mr R did not agree with the investigators opinion. He said he had been clear with Accord on 
a number of occasions about the exact circumstances of the transaction. And he had been 
misled into thinking he would be able to port his mortgage. He said if he hadnt been misled 
in this way, he and his partner wouldnt have bought the property they did, and wouldve 
sought an alternative to avoid incurring an ERC.
As Mr R did not agree with the investigators opinion, the complaint has been passed to me 
to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen a copy of the mortgage offer issued by Accord when Mr R took out his mortgage in 
2016. This explained clearly that if the mortgage was repaid in full before 31 December 2021 
an ERC would be payable. And Ive seen evidence, which neither party disputes, that the 
mortgage was repaid in December 2018. Which resulted in an ERC being charged.
The mortgage offer explains that there are certain circumstances under which the ERC 
might be refunded  specifically if a replacement mortgage with Accord was taken out on 
Mr Rs new property within six months of the mortgage having been repaid. But no 
replacement mortgage was agreed with Accord  even though Accord in fact extended this 
six-month deadline. So, based on the mortgage contract entered into in 2016, the ERC 
seems to have been applied correctly.Mr R says Accord misled him about being able to port his mortgage  specifically in relation 
to how having to repay money borrowed from family would be treated for the purposes of an 
application. And if it hadnt been for this, hed have acted differently and not incurred the 
ERC.
Ive listened to a call Mr R had with Accord in August 2018  before the mortgage was 
redeemed and the ERC applied. This call wasnt with a mortgage adviser, rather it was via 
Accords general mortgages helpline.
In this call Mr R asked about whether hed be able to port his mortgage. He explained that 
he and his partner had bought a property outright, so it was unencumbered. The 
representative of Accord explained they couldnt provide any advice. But they checked with 
the relevant department and confirmed that a mortgage could be ported to a property Mr R 
already owned, although this would be subject to an application being fully checked at the 
time against Accords lending criteria. This was in fact confirmed more than once. They also 
confirmed, subject to an assessment of affordability, Mr R could potentially take additional 
borrowing. I dont think any of the information provided by Accord during that call was mis-
leading or incorrect.
Mr R did not mention or explain during that call that the property hed bought separately, 
outright, had been funded by money from family, that would need to be paid back. Accord 
said in its response to the complaint that it could potentially have done more to ask about 
this at the time. But while I agree it couldve potentially asked further questions, Im 
conscious the call wasnt with a mortgage adviser. And having listened to the call, Im not 
sure I wouldve expected the representative to have done more. 
Mr R also made it clear during this call that he had already bought the other property and 
agreed a sale on his existing property. So, it seems the sequence of transactions had 
already been largely concluded and agreed before this discussion took place. Taking 
everything into account I dont think Accord misled Mr R during this call or caused him to 
take actions that he wouldnt otherwise have.
Mr R has told us he had several calls with Accord prior to this, and before the new property 
was bought in 2017. He says, in those calls, hed made the full circumstances of the 
transaction clear  including that the money to fund the purchase of the new property had 
been provided by family and would be repaid from the proceeds of porting the mortgage. 
Unfortunately, Mr Rs phone provider has been unable to provide evidence of the calls to 
show when they took place.
Accord has provided its contact notes in relation to Mr Rs account. And it has no record of 
any calls having taken place before the conversation in August 2018 or of any previous 
discussion about porting.
Ive thought about what, on balance, I consider is more likely to have happened. During the 
call that took place in August 2018, Mr R didnt make any mention of having previously 
discussed porting with Accord. Nor did he talk about wanting to confirm details hed 
discussed before, having now bought the new property. This does not necessarily mean that 
conversations had not taken place previously. But the nature of the call in August 2018, in 
my opinion, sounded like this was the first discussion on the subject. This coupled, with 
Accord having no record of the calls makes it difficult for me to say, on balance, that a 
previous discussion did take place.But even if they had, Im also conscious that the information Mr R gave in August 2018 didnt 
include any mention of how the purchase of the new property had been funded  money 
provided by family. Mr R has said he was clear with Accord each time he spoke with it that 
this was the case. But the one call Ive heard, before the mortgage was redeemed, where 
porting was discussed, disproves this. So even if I thought there were earlier calls, I dont 
think I can reasonably say that, on balance, Accord was made aware of the full 
circumstances of the transaction. And I think it is more likely that, if earlier conversations did 
take place, they were along similar lines to the conversation that took place in August 2018  
in which Accord explained any application to port would be subject to meeting its lending 
criteria applicable at the time. Which was correct. So, I dont think, on balance, that I can 
reasonably conclude that Accord provided misleading information to Mr R before he 
redeemed his mortgage and incurred the ERC. 
And in any event, it isnt the case that the mortgage was not portable in the scenario Mr R 
was in. It was that the application had to be done through a specific channel  as per 
Accords lending criteria.
The mortgage offer from 2016 explains that any application to port the mortgage would be 
subject to Accords lending rules at the time. Which Accord confirmed in its conversation with 
Mr R in August 2018. Mr R applied to port his mortgage in May 2019. Accord has provided 
evidence of its lending criteria at that time. This confirm that its policy was that money being 
borrowed to repay family members  as was the case here  would be considered debt 
consolidation, under its rules. And that it was unable to lend on this basis directly, and any 
application for this type of lending needed to go through a broker. Again, this isnt to say that 
it could not lend. But that the application needed to be made through a different channel.
Accords lending criteria is a matter of its own commercial judgement. And is not something 
our service can generally interfere with. Based on what Ive seen here Im satisfied that 
these criteria were applied correctly to Mr Rs application. So, I dont think Accord acted 
unfairly by saying it could not proceed with the application in May 2019.
I can see there were several calls over a couple of days in May 2019 in relation to Mr Rs 
application. I havent been provided with recordings of all of the conversations, but I have 
seen call notes of the discussions where recordings are not available. The recordings I have 
heard are reflected accurately in the corresponding notes Accord has provided. So, on 
balance Im satisfied the notes likely accurately reflect what was discussed.
The call notes say Accord explained the issue around debt consolidation to Mr R and that 
this was the reason matters couldnt proceed as they were. And this was reflected in Mr Rs 
complaint, so Im satisfied this likely does reflect the discussion. The notes go on to explain 
that Mr R could apply through a broker  as debt consolidation applications, which this was 
classed as by Accord, could be considered that way. Mr R didnt contact a broker until 
December 2019. He has said he didnt know this was an option until he complained later in 
2019 and received Accords final response  issued at the end of October 2019  which 
confirmed he could use a broker to apply. But Im satisfied, on balance, that Accord made 
him aware in May 2019, that this option was available to him.
In response to Mr Rs complaint, Accord agreed to extend the window for the porting 
application to be completed, and ERC refunded, until the end of December 2019. In the 
circumstances, I think that offer was fair. This was made by Accord in October 2019. But no 
further action was taken until December 2019. Mr R as said circumstances prevented him 
from doing so sooner. But I dont think this was Accords fault.Accord wasnt contacted by a broker acting for Mr R until mid-December 2019. Mr R has 
said his broker then received conflicting information from Accord when contacting it on his 
behalf. Ive listened to a number of calls between Mr Rs broker and Accords complaint 
department, where details of how to apply were being requested as well as confirmation of 
whether the mortgage application needed to be completed by the end of that month. It did 
take several days for information to be confirmed. And given that, at that stage, there was a 
very short time frame for the application to be completed and the ERC refunded, I think this 
couldve been handled better by Accord. But Accord further extended the deadline for the 
mortgage application, including porting, to complete into January 2020. Which in the 
circumstances, in my view, was fair.
Mr R ultimately withdrew the mortgage application. He has said that he needed to raise 
funds to repay the borrowing from his family, as hed previously agreed, and was concerned 
with how Accord was handling matters. But while I can understand he was frustrated by this 
stage, this was ultimately his decision. 
Ive seen evidence that Accords lending criteria in relation to repaying borrowing from family 
changed between it initially rejecting the application and issuing a response to the complaint 
in October 2019. And this change meant it mayve been possible for Mr R to re-apply 
directly, without the assistance of a broker. This wasnt set out in the complaint response. 
And I think it wouldve been better if it had been. But ultimately, as Mr R elected not to 
continue with the application, I dont think this wouldve made a difference here.
So, in summary, I dont think the ERC was applied incorrectly when the mortgage was 
redeemed. I dont think Accord was wrong to say it couldnt process the porting application 
when it was made, as it fell outside of its criteria. And Im satisfied it told Mr R that he could 
still apply by different channels, but that he did not do so for some time. And on balance, I 
cant fairly say it misled Mr R, before he incurred the ERC, about its porting criteria. So, 
taking everything into account I cant reasonably require Accord to refund the ERC.
In its response to the complaint Accord offered Mr R £100 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by this matter. In the circumstances, I think that offer is fair. I understand Accord sent 
a cheque for this amount with its response. Mr R has said that this cheque has not been 
cashed. As that cheque likely wouldve now expired, I think it would be fair for Accord to 
issue a further cheque for this sum. But beyond that, I dont intend to require it to do any 
more here.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2021.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman