DRN-3370014
The complaint
Mr W complains about the advice given by Portal Financial Services LLP (Portal) to transfer 
the benefits from his two defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension schemes to a self-
invested personal pension (SIPP). He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes 
this has caused a financial loss.
What happened
Mr W approached Portal in 2016 to discuss his pension and retirement needs. He had four 
occupational schemes. Two of these were defined contribution (DC) schemes and two DB 
schemes. Ive called the DB schemes DB1 and DB2. 
Mr W has asked that the Financial Ombudsman Service look at his complaint in respect of 
the two DB schemes only. 
Portals welcome letter, sent in late 2016, said it would contact his occupational schemes to 
find out how much tax-free cash he could release. In May 2017 it said that he could release 
£14,026 from his two DC schemes and DB1. 
Portal completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Ws circumstances and 
objectives. I understand there were two telephone appointments in June 2017. Portal also 
carried out an assessment of Mr Ws attitude to risk, which it deemed to be moderately 
cautious.
The fact find also showed that Mr W was: 
Aged 55, and he was married with two children, 
Employed with a gross salary of £23,000. 
Had an outstanding mortgage of £9,000 and around £10,000 in unsecured loans. 
He didnt have any savings or investments. 
The point of sale information showed said that Mr W wanted to: 
Release tax-free cash to make home improvements and repay debt.
Have greater flexibility, ownership and control over his pensions.
Maximise the tax-free cash he could take.  
Have greater choice and flexibility about his death benefits.
Mr W says that the fact finding process concentrated on how much tax-free cash he could 
release from his pensions. He wasnt asked about his future income or retirement needs in 
any detail. 
In June 2017, Portal advised Mr W to transfer the values of his two DC schemes and DB1 
into a SIPP. The transfer value of the DB1 scheme was just over £33,000. Mr W took the 
maximum tax-free cash and he invested the remainder. He invested the proceeds into the 
Dimensional Global Short Dated Bond Fund (Fixed Interest), the Dimensional World Equity 
Fund, and a small amount of cash. 
The suitability report said the reasons for this recommendation were to release tax-free cash 
to make home improvements and repay debt. This transfer process was completed in 
September 2017. 
Portal continued to look at Mr Ws retirement options and in September 2017 it contacted 
him about DB2. It initially informed Mr W of how much tax-free cash he could take from DB2. 
But in late September 2017, Portal informed Mr W that he should not transfer the DB2 
scheme benefits as the rate of growth needed to match the DB scheme benefits wasnt 
achievable. But Portal said that Mr W could proceed with the transfer on an insistent client 
basis. 
Portal then sent Mr W a further letter on 29 September 2017. This said Since our 
conversation we have completed our initial phase of research and analysis and we strongly 
recommend that you do not transfer your DB2 pension and instead leave it where it is 
because of the guarantees/benefits that you will be giving up. The letter then immediately 
followed this up by saying;
What happens if you still want to go ahead and transfer your funds?
This is absolutely your decision. Everyones circumstances are different and if you decide 
you still want to transfer your DB2 pension to a new scheme to release tax-free cash then 
this is something we can help you with. In this instance we would need to treat you as an 
insistent client throughout your pension review.
The letter also included an options form for Mr W to complete. The first option given was for 
Mr W to Disregard our recommendation and continue as an insistent client. With the 
second being to accept Portals recommendation and end the pension review.
 
An insistent client form was also included for Mr W to complete. This comprised three 
declarations for Mr W to tick and agree to. These declarations;
Acknowledged the critical yield was unlikely to be achieved and included a brief 
summary of the projected benefits due under his existing scheme at age 65 that hed 
be giving up.
Set out briefly what hed receive instead by transferring  the tax-free cash figure and 
the potential income he might be able to obtain post retirement  and that hed have 
no entitlement to any further tax-free cash. 
Acknowledged that transferring was against Portals recommendation.
There was also a section for Mr W to explain in his own words why he wanted to be an 
insistent client.
Mr W completed and returned the forms saying he wished to proceed as an insistent client, 
In the section of the form to explain in his own words why, Mr W wrote I would like to payoff 
finance on car. And pay off my mortgage early due to worries over job security and home 
improvements needed.
Portal then sent Mr W a suitability report on 19 January 2018. And Mr W proceeded with the 
DB transfer. The transfer value of the DB2 scheme was around £71,500 and Mr W took tax-
free cash of around £17,500. He invested the remainder in the same funds as before.  
Mr W complained in 2020 to Portal about the suitability of the transfer advice because:There was a conflict of interest as the transfers needed to complete before Portal 
would be paid for the advice. 
The advice focussed on releasing tax-free cash and didnt consider Mr Ws needs 
properly
It didnt provide sufficiently clear and understandable advice about Mr Ws options, 
much of it was generic and it didnt provide clear warnings about making the 
transfers.
The transfers werent suitable, Mr W could have met his aims other ways and he 
should not have been advised to transfer DB1.
He wasnt an insistent client and it wasnt reasonable for Portal to treat him as one. It 
shouldnt have facilitated the transfer of DB2. 
Portal didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint. It said:
There wasnt a conflict of interest and Portal was acting within the regulations of the 
time.
The advice was suitable for Mr W and it didnt concentrate on the tax-free cash 
available.
It advised Mr W not to transfer DB2 as it was his main pension provision.
But Mr W didnt have any other means of repaying his debts and so it was 
reasonable that he transferred DB1 and DB2.
It was reasonable to treat Mr W as an insistent client. The choice to transfer DB2 was 
his alone.
The funds he invested in were reasonable and met his attitude to risk.
Mr W referred his complaint to our service. An investigator upheld the complaint and 
recommended Portal pay compensation. He said that both transfers were not in Mr Ws best 
interests. So, Portal shouldnt have advised Mr W to transfer the value of DB1. And he didnt 
think that Mr W was an insistent client, and so Portal shouldnt have transferred the benefits 
of Mr Ws DB2 scheme. 
Portal disagreed, saying:
It was clear that Mr W wanted to access his pension benefits in order to clear some 
debts and make home improvements. This was very important to him. 
He confirmed that he wanted the flexibility that a drawdown arrangement would give 
him. 
Whilst the critical yield was high the hurdle rate, or the rate if Mr W took drawdown, 
was reasonable. 
Mr W transferred his DB2 scheme benefits against Portals recommendation. 
Portal gave Mr W reasonable information about the insistent client process. He 
proceeded after considering this. Portal says it followed best practice for insistent 
clients. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and,where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint for largely the same reasons given by 
the investigator. 
Suitability of advice
Portal has said that the advice it gave was suitable. It says the transfer of DB1 was 
appropriate. It did not recommend that Mr W transfer DB2, but that he insisted on doing so. 
And so, after he insisted, it recommended a provider and investments which it feels were 
right for him. But for the reasons Ill explain, which are largely the same as those explained 
by our Investigator, I dont agree that Portals actions were appropriate or fair.
COBS 2.1.1R required Portal to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client. And, as part of that, COBS 9.2 required Portal to take 
reasonable steps to make sure its recommendation was suitable for Mr W. To achieve this, 
COBS 9.2.2R said Portal had to obtain enough information from Mr W to ensure its 
recommendation met his objectives, that he could bear the related investment risks 
consistent with these objectives and that he had the necessary experience and knowledge 
to understand the risks involved in the transaction.
There were also specific requirements and guidance relating to transfers from 
defined benefit schemes  these were contained in COBS 19.1.
COBS 19.1.2 required the following:
A firm must:
1) compare the benefits likely (on reasonable assumptions) to be paid under a 
defined benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded 
benefits with the benefits afforded by a personal pension scheme, stakeholder 
pension scheme or other pension scheme with flexible benefits, before it advises 
a retail client to transfer out of a defined benefits pension scheme;
2) ensure that that comparison includes enough information for the client to be able 
to make an informed decision;
3) give the client a copy of the comparison, drawing the clients attention to the 
factors that do and do not support the firm's advice, in good time, and in any 
case no later than when the key features document is provided; and
4) take reasonable steps to ensure that the client understands the firms 
comparison and its advice.
Under the heading Suitability, COBS 19.1.6 set out the following:
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined 
benefits occupational pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits 
whether to transfer, or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a transfer or opt-
out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a transfer, conversion or 
opt-out to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that 
the transfer or opt-out is in the client's best interests.
In short, Portal needed to begin by assuming a transfers from Mr Ws occupational pension 
schemes (OPS) were not suitable, then consider Mr Ws specific circumstances and 
objectives. It needed to assess the options available and look at what was in his best 
interests. It needed to provide a comparison of what the situation would be if he opted to 
transfer his pension from his OPS and what it would be if he didnt, making clear the differences and risks. And it needed to make sure that Mr W understood all of this 
information so that he could make an informed decision. All while ensuring it acted 
honestly, fairly and professionally.
The transfer of Mr Ws DB1 scheme benefits. 
Portal advised Mr W to transfer his DB1 scheme benefits. Ive firstly looked at whether the 
advice to do this was reasonable. 
Financial viability 
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case.
For DB1 the critical yield required to match Mr Ws benefits at age 65 was 8.7% if he took a 
full pension and 6.8% if he took tax-free cash and a reduced pension. The critical yield to 
match the benefits available through the scheme at age 57 was quoted as 39.6% per year if 
Mr W took a full pension and 16.1% per year if he took tax-free cash and a reduced pension.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017, was 
3.7% per year for 9 years to retirement. For further comparison, the regulator's upper 
projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection 
rate 2% per year.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Ws 
moderately cautious attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. There would be little 
point in Mr W giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB1 scheme only to 
achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. But here, given the lowest 
critical yield was 6.8% for DB1, I think Mr W was likely to receive benefits of a substantially 
lower overall value than the DB1 scheme at retirement, as a result of investing in line with 
his attitude to risk. 
Portal has provided cashflow models and Ive considered these, but Portals models show 
that his DB scheme benefits would run out some time after his age 80 if the lower growth 
rate assumptions are used. 
Also, as Portal will know, past performance is no guarantee for future performance and so I 
consider the discount rates and the regulators standard projections to be more realistic in 
this regard in the long term rather than projecting historic returns forward, particularly over 
such a long period of time.
For this reason alone, a transfer out of the DB1 scheme wasnt in Mr Ws best interests. Of 
course financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice, as Portal 
has said in this case. There might be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, 
despite providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered these below.
Flexibility and income needs
I dont think Mr W required flexibility in retirement. This is because, based on the evidence 
Ive seen, I dont think he had a genuine need to access his tax-free cash earlier than the normal scheme retirement age and leave his funds invested until a later date. I say this 
because whilst Mr W did seem to have some debts, there is no compelling evidence that 
they were causing significant difficulty at the time. Mr W says that he was managing these 
and he was coping with repaying them. There is no indication this would change. Mr W says 
the alternatives werent properly explored. 
I also cant see evidence that Mr W had a strong need for variable income throughout his 
retirement. This doesnt seem to have been discussed. 
The focus of the advice seems to be allowing Mr W to access his tax-free cash. But, as far 
as I can see, no compelling reasons were given as to why he would need  rather than want 
- to do this. And what taking his benefits now would mean in respect of his future income 
doesnt seem to have been looked at. 
Death benefits
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr W. But whilst I appreciate 
death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr W might have thought it was a good idea 
to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to 
advise Mr W about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily 
designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think Portal explored to what extent Mr 
W was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for higher death benefits. 
In fact this doesnt seem to have been discussed in any detail.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Mr W 
was married and had two children (its unclear how long they would be dependent for) and 
so the spouses or dependents pension provided by the DB scheme wouldve been useful to 
his spouse and dependents if Mr W predeceased them. I dont think Portal made the value of 
this benefit clear enough to Mr W. This was guaranteed and it escalated  it was not 
dependent on investment performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal 
pension was. And as the cashflow analysis shows, there may not have been a large sum 
left, particularly if Mr W lived a long life.  In any event, Portal should not have encouraged Mr 
W to prioritise the potential for higher death benefits through a personal pension over his 
security in retirement.
Furthermore, if Mr W genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his spouse or children, which 
didnt depend on investment returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his death, 
I think Portal shouldve instead explored life insurance. 
Suitability of investments
Portal recommended that Mr W invest in risk bearing funds as above. As Im upholding the 
complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of his DB1 scheme wasnt suitable for Mr W, it 
follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the investment recommendation. This is 
because Mr W should have been advised to remain in the DB1 scheme and so the 
investments in the funds wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice had been given.
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a SIPP justified 
the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr W. And I dont think that insurance was 
properly explored as an alternative.
I dont doubt that access to the tax-free cash, the flexibility, control and potential for higher 
death benefits on offer through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr W. But Portal wasnt there to just transact what Mr W might have thought he 
wanted. The advisers role was to really understand what Mr W needed and recommend 
what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr W was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr W was very likely to obtain 
lower retirement benefits and in my view, there were no other particular reasons which would 
justify a transfer and outweigh this.  Mr W shouldnt have been advised to transfer out of the 
scheme just to repay debts that were affordable. These were worth giving up the guarantees 
associated with his DB scheme.
And as Mr Ws representative has said these debts were relatively modest and he should 
have been advised to look at other means of repaying them if this was urgent. Such as a 
secured loan on his property. Or transferred the DC schemes only. 
I dont think Mr W would have proceeded with this transfer if Portal had advised him that the 
transfer wasnt suitable. 
Overall, I dont think Mr W should have been advised to transfer the benefits of his DB1 
scheme. And I dont think this is altered by the fact that it was the smaller of his OPS 
schemes. 
The transfer of Mrs Ws DB2 benefits
The letter Portal sent to Mr W on 12 September 2017 was headed We have all the 
information we need from your current pension providers, which is great news. And the first 
paragraph included the statement we can confirm that the maximum tax-free amount you 
could now access from your pension is £17,402. It went on to say a call would have to now 
take place to understand Mr Ws circumstances and that options would be discussed 
including of course, the amount of tax-free cash you wish to take. And it also said, in fact 
emphasising in bold, that the transfer value is guaranteed for a limited period of time only 
and if this needed to be re-calculated This could delay how long it will take to receive your 
tax-free cash.
Whilst Portal had looked into Mr Ws circumstances at this point it (in respect of his other 
schemes) it hadnt fully considered his DB2 scheme. But it was already strongly emphasising 
the release of tax-free cash  involving a change to Mr Ws current pension arrangements  
how much could be released and suggesting a need for urgency. I think the contents of this 
letter suggests the approach already being skewed to a particular outcome. I dont think this 
was in line with the requirement to start by assuming the transfer was unsuitable.
And I dont think the emphasis placed on this outcome, before Portal had looked into the 
DB2 transfer fully, was fair to Mr W or could be said to demonstrate Portal was acting in his 
best interests. And I think the content of this letter was likely to affect Mr Ws thinking and 
reasonably lead him to think at that stage Portal was suggesting this option.
Portal had completed a fact finding call. But the emphasis of the information recorded in the 
fact find was, in my view, the release of (maximum) tax-free cash above all else. There is 
very little by way of information about Mr Ws income needs in retirement. Indeed, the only 
mention of this seems to be one question saying How much in todays money will you need 
when you retire? which was answered unsure. The primary purpose of a pension is to 
provide benefits in retirement. So, the lack of any real consideration of Mr Ws retirement 
needs make it difficult to say that enough essential information was obtained to make a 
suitable recommendation. And the repeated emphasis within some of the questions around the need for tax-free cash could very well have led Mr W into thinking that this what Portal 
thought was best.
The bigger issue in my view though is the correspondence that then followed this. The next 
correspondence Portal sent Mr W was a letter on 29 September 2017 called Important 
news about taking money early from your pension  again placing emphasis on withdrawing 
money from the pension. This went on to say that, after completing its initial phase of 
research Portal strongly recommend that you do not transfer. So, this is the document 
which summarised Portals advice and personal recommendation to Mr W. And in my view, 
shouldve made it clear that it had understood enough about Mr Ws circumstances for Portal 
to believe its advice was suitable. And provided comparisons, or detailed information, in 
order for Mr W to make an informed opinion. But there was no further reason given in the 
letter itself for this recommendation or why Portal had reached this conclusion.
There was an attachment to the letter called Overview of your pensions. And this gave the 
only additional explanation of the recommendation by saying If you transfer out of this 
scheme now then any new pension would need to grow at a rate of 5.5% per year to at least 
match these benefits (the technical term for this rate is the critical yield). We just do not think 
this is achievable. Suggesting this was the reason for the recommendation made. But 
again, there was no further explanation or reasoning.
I think Portal was correct that the required critical yield was unlikely to be achievable. And its 
worth mentioning here that the critical yield showing on Portals transfer analysis (TVAS), 
where a full match of Mr Ws scheme benefits is taken is 13.5%, or 11.3% if tax-free cash it 
taken. And this meant that a transfer was not financially viable. But this isnt the only thing Id 
have expected Portal to take into account before making a personal recommendation. The 
critical yield is important, and a strong indicator of whether retirement benefits are likely to be 
better or not by transferring. But this isnt the only consideration for whether advice is 
suitable.
 
There can be reasons that it is in a consumers best interests to make a transfer, even if their 
retirement benefits will be lower. And Id have expected to see some consideration of these 
as Portal was making a personal recommendation to Mr W. And for these considerations to 
be explained to Mr W so that he could make an informed decision, But Portals 
recommendation contained no reference to Mr Ws objectives or circumstances. It was 
reiterated that his pensions were worth a certain amount, from which he could take 25% tax-
free cash. But there was no exploration or commentary relating to how much of this was 
needed or why. 
And this was despite the fact find recording that Mr W only had £7,000 of debt he wanted to 
repay. Even if used the tax-free cash to repay his mortgage his total debt was a relatively 
modest £16,000. It was recorded that he wanted a front fence. But its not clear if any of this  
was a genuine need. 
There was also no assessment provided at that point setting out what alternative ways of 
raising the required money had been considered, or why these had been discounted. The 
options of raising money through credit werent commented on at this stage. And so, dont 
appear to have formed any part of Portals reasoning when it said it recommended not to 
transfer.
There also doesnt seem to have been any consideration to Mr W taking benefits under his 
existing scheme at that time. As Ive said, I acknowledge a TVAS was carried out. But none 
of the information Ive seen indicates this was shared with Mr W. Neither of the letters sent in 
September 2017 make any reference to the information within the TVAS, beyond the critical yield, or to it being included for review. And I havent seen any other evidence that it was 
shared. So, I cant reasonably say that Mr W had the opportunity to review this document.
In any event though, Portal didnt look at the potential for immediate retirement. Mr W was 
55. And in the scheme information section of the TVAS report, it was noted that 55 was the 
earliest retirement age allowed by the scheme. So, it appears he was eligible to take benefits 
under the DB scheme at that point. But that doesnt appear to have been talked about at any 
stage of the advice process. Indeed, the TVAS report looked at what Mr W would be able to 
take at age 58, as well as the assumed scheme retirement age of 65. But Ive seen no 
reason for this or why instead it didnt cover what could be taken at age 55.
The TVAS report indicated that at age 58 Mr W wouldve been able to take tax-free cash of
£17,001 under the DB scheme and then receive a guaranteed escalating income of £2,550 
per year. If hed taken benefits at age 55, these figures would likely have been lower. But I 
think it is reasonable to assume that the tax-free cash wouldve been enough to provide the 
amount Mr W wanted, or very near it. And hed have then received a guaranteed escalating 
income. But again, Ive seen no evidence that this option was considered or discussed with 
Mr W. And Ill reiterate Im not persuaded that there was a real pressing need for the tax-free 
cash. 
The Overview of your pensions document portal included with the letter did mention that 
the projected benefits Mr W could potentially take by staying in his existing scheme until age 
65 were a pension of £3,996 per year and tax-free cash of £26,638. But there was no 
comparison within the recommendation between this and what Mr W may potentially receive 
by transferring (aside from immediate tax-free cash).
Without any of this information, or indeed any real reasoning being provided in writing for 
why Portal didnt recommend Mr W transfer, I dont see that Mr W could reasonably have 
understood why this was apparently Portals advice. So, I dont think Portal provided full and 
clear advice to Mr W. And as a result, I dont think he was in a position to make an informed 
decision  about the transfer or about being an insistent client. And so, I dont think the 
advice given by Portal, was suitable.
 
Insistent Client
Despite the advice being, in my view, incomplete and unsuitable, I think Portal then also 
directed Mr W towards disregarding it anyway. Immediately after saying it didnt recommend 
transferring, in the next paragraph of the same letter, Portal promoted the option of still 
releasing money from Mr Ws pension as being something it could assist with. I dont think 
that was appropriate or in Mr Ws best interests  particularly if Portal truly considered not 
transferring to be suitable.
Portal also enclosed forms, with the same letter for Mr W to complete, in order to go against 
this advice. And indeed, the options letter listed disregarding advice as the first option 
available to Mr W. I also dont think this was appropriate. If Portals advice was not to 
transfer, I believe it shouldve given this advice and the reasons why and left it to Mr W to 
consider this further. If he had then contacted it to see if it could still help, then itd have been 
fair to share this information. But to promote this option at the point it did seriously 
undermined the recommendation it says it was making.
I do acknowledge that the forms Portal provided included a section for Mr W to complete in 
his own words to explain why he wanted to transfer. And I can see he did so, saying he 
understood the effects of doing so. But given the lack of any reasoning with the 
recommendation made and there being no evidence of any other comparison being provided 
to this, I dont think Mr W was in an informed position or could in fact fully understand the apparent risks. So, I think this statement holds less weight and I think was likely only made 
because Mr W believed he could access some additional funds.
After Mr W insisted on proceeding, Portal sent him a suitability report. Firstly, Im of the 
opinion that a suitability report shouldve been provided along with the advice not to transfer, 
before the option of proceeding on an insistent client basis was discussed. But in any event, 
I think the suitability report provided didnt go far enough to allow Mr W to make an informed 
decision and the covering letter was misleading.
The suitability report said several times that Portal had already recommended that Mr W not 
transfer his policy and leave it where it was because of the benefits hed be giving up. But it 
contained no further reasoning why it recommended this  so doesnt read like a 
personalised recommendation.
The only part of the report that provided any additional depth on the things that ought to 
have been considered and formed part of the original advice was in the Additional important 
information section  not even the body of the report itself  where a small amount of 
additional detail was provided in respect of alternative funding options. It said using a loan, 
re-mortgage, disposable income or assets had been discounted as not financially viable.
But I dont think this demonstrates a genuine consideration of these options in any depth. 
There is no commentary on why Mr W didnt want to take on a loan or re-mortgage. 
The fact find shows that expenditure wasnt looked at. It showed that Mr and Mrs W had a 
loan of £7,000 and a mortgage of £9,000. But it was recorded that they managed their 
finances. It was also recorded that repaying these would give them peace of mind but 
nothing more than this. 
And so, I dont think the suitability report, even when it was provided, was sufficiently 
detailed as a recommendation not to proceed. And even after receipt of this, retrospectively 
after Mr W had already indicated hed proceed on an insistent basis, I dont think he had 
been provided with enough information to make an informed decision about doing so.
The focus of the suitability report was also largely on the new provider that Portal was now 
recommending as well as the portfolio mix it was suggesting and why it was doing so. And 
the covering letter that accompanied the report clearly said that Portal was delighted to 
recommendTransferring your pension. This I think supports what Mr W has said  that 
his understanding was Portal was in fact recommending the transfer. At the very least it 
significantly muddied the waters. Which I think on balance likely led Mr W to believe that 
Portal felt the transfer was appropriate. And made it next to impossible for him to make an 
informed decision.
Portal was required to ensure that it treated Mr W fairly and that it acted in his best interests. 
And Im not persuaded that it did treat Mr W fairly when it went to such lengths to assist Mr 
W to identify as an insistent client.
I dont think the process was geared towards Mr W making an informed, considered 
assessment of the reasons why he shouldnt be transferring  as if it was I feel that would 
have involved Portal providing the full recommendation to Mr W, allowing him to consider 
this on his own and then revert to Portal if he still wished to proceed.
On the contrary, I would go as far as to say that Portals process was designed to facilitate 
the transfer, with significant emphasis placed on the release of funds and how this could be 
achieved from the outset. I dont think that providing Mr W with a means of proceeding 
against the advice, without establishing why the apparent requirements were truly necessary and why alternatives werent appropriate, demonstrates that Portal had his best interests in 
mind.
Overall, I think this shows that Portal made it altogether far too easy for Mr W to agree that 
he was an insistent client rather than allowing him time to think about the advice not to go 
ahead with the transfer. And so, I dont think he truly could make an informed decision about 
this.
Would Mr W have acted differently?
I dont know if Mr W has used his tax-free cash to fix his fence and repay some debt  in 
line with the intentions noted. But again, I believe the discussions around how he would 
use this money were more what he might do if funds were available  something which 
Portal prominently emphasised as an outcome from the outset  rather than something he 
needed. And even if he did use the funds in the way that he had discussed with Portal, I 
dont think this confirms that this was truly a need or that he would always have transferred 
his OPS and taken tax-free cash even if Portal had used a more appropriate process. 
Taking this into account, I think, as an inexperienced investor, had Mr W been provided with 
more appropriate and robust advice around why the transfer was not suitable, he wouldnt 
have gone ahead. I know Portal maintains that it said the transfer was against its 
recommendation  which overall was in my view correct. But the process Portal used, 
including the suitability report ultimately issued after Mr W had been directed to the 
insistent client route, lacked sufficient clarity, reasoning and rigour  for all the reasons set 
out above. 
And, in my view, meant Mr W wasnt able to make an informed decision. If he had been 
provided with more appropriate information and reasoning, so that he fully understood the 
risks and long-term implications involved in transferring his OPS and investing as he did, 
and hadnt been directed towards the insistent client route, I think he would have acted 
differently and retained his deferred benefits. As a result, I think Mr Ws complaint should be 
upheld.
Our Investigator recommended that Portal also pay Mr W £300 for the distress caused by 
the unsuitable advice. I dont doubt that Mr W has been caused distress and concern in 
relation to his retirement planning. And Im conscious this wouldnt have happened but for 
the unsuitable advice. And so, in the circumstances, I think the award the Investigator 
recommended is fair.
Summary
In light of the above, I think Portal should compensate Mr W for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr W, as far as possible, 
into the position he would now be in but for Portals unsuitable advice. I consider Mr W would 
have most likely remained in both his DB schemes if suitable advice had been given.
Portal must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.For clarity, Mr W has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on his normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ws acceptance of the decision.
Portal may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ws 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ws SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ws pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr W as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr W within 90 days of the date Portal receives notification 
of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Portal to pay Mr W.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
Portal should also pay Mr W £300.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Portal Financial 
Services LLP to pay Mr W the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
Portal Financial Services LLP to pay Mr W any interest on that amount in full, as set out 
above.Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Portal 
Financial Services LLP to pay Mr W any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Portal Financial Services LLP pays Mr W the balance. I would additionally recommend any 
interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr W.
If Mr W accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Portal Financial 
Services LLP.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr W can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr W may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2022.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman