DRN-3181051
The complaint
A business, that Ill refer to as R, complain that Society of Lloyds declined a claim on their
onshore wind turbine extended warranty. Mr R, a partner in R, has brought the complaint on
Rs behalf. All references to Society of Lloyds include its agents. 
What happened
In February 2020, R say their wind turbine suddenly stopped working. The company that
services the turbine (N) carried out some remote monitoring to try and diagnose the fault
but couldnt get it to produce power.
R later saw the turbine mast swinging from side to side. N stopped the monitoring and shut
the turbine down completely. R say they checked the bolts on the mast base and found each
one was loose, so tightened them, but it became clear the base plate was damaged.
During a site visit in March 2020, N noted that the front part of the pitch mechanism has
failed and broken several parts.
R made a claim and sent Society of Lloyds an invoice for the repair work. The estimate
included the cost of three blade bearings and seals, pitch arm assembly components and
supplying a new base plate, as well as call out charges and labour to repair and rebuild the
pitch shaft and spider.
Society of Lloyds collected some information from R, including recent maintenance reports, 
monitoring data, pictures of the failed parts, Ns site report and the repair invoice. It asked a 
chartered engineer to validate the claim.
The engineer felt the mast base had corroded and suffered from loose securing bolts over a
period of time and that the pitch arm assembly had worn due to a lack of lubrication. They
said failure of the pitch arm assembly had exerted stress on the blade shaft bearings.
The engineer noted that at the last annual service, R was given advice about the need to
replace certain parts, including the pitch arms and pitch linkages, in the future.
They highlighted that costs arising from wear and tear, or breakdown to any part not named
on the warrantys Master Parts List, were excluded. They also said that it was a condition of
the warranty that R keep the turbine in a proper state of repair. Society of Lloyds declined
the claim in full for a combination of these reasons.
R complained. In summary, they said:
They asked about how advisory comments would affect the cover at the outset, and 
didnt get a response. They also never received any warranty documentation;
Its clear from the warranty that the main shaft, blade hub and bearings are covered. 
The pitch assembly at the hub end of the turbine is controlled by an actuator at the 
rear of the turbine. These parts are connected by an inner shaft which runs through 
the main shaft. The pitch spider turns on a bearing at the hub end of this inner shaft. 
So, when the warranty mentions a shaft its reasonable to conclude this includes the 
inner shaft. Its inconceivable to say the inner shaft, bearing and pitch arm assembly 
arent covered as theyre integral to the turbine;
The turbine breakdown was sudden and unforeseen, as required by the warranty 
definition of breakdown. The only way the pitch arms and bearing can be put under 
pressure is from other failing parts, in this case the three main blade bearings;
They have complied with all the conditions of their warranty, including having the 
turbine serviced annually. They werent advised to repair or replace any of the failed 
parts at the most recent service. The advice they did receive (that certain parts may 
need replacing in another year or at the next service) was analogous to an advisory 
in an MOT test;
Its nonsense to suggest components of the pitch arm assembly werent lubricated. 
Mr R was present when the parts were greased and had to remove the grease to 
provide photographic evidence of the damage. 
I issued a provisional decision on 16 November 2021. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The burden of proof is on R in the first instance to establish, on balance, theyve suffered a
loss their warranty covers. The burden of proof then shifts to Society of Lloyds to either pay
the claim, show that an exclusion applies, or show that theres been a material breach of a
warranty condition (again on balance).
Ive kept in mind that whilst Society of Lloyds has relied on the opinion of a chartered
engineer, they only carried out a desktop review and Mr R also has expertise in this area.
I note three sections of the turbine needed repair / replacement as a result of the breakdown.
R were invoiced for a new base plate, pitch arm assembly components, and three blade
bearings and seals. The other costs were for call out fees, labour and VAT.
Has an insured event taken place?
R are covered for breakdown and income protection (following a breakdown). A specific
definition of breakdown is given in the warranty:
The sudden and unforeseen breaking, distortion, overheating or electrical burnout or
electronic failure to provide stable output at design specification of any part of the
Insured Machinery as described in the Master Parts Schedule which occurs whilst
the Insured Machinery is in use, resulting in its immediate stoppage of function or
partial stoppage of pre-programmed function and requiring repair and / or
replacement before normal working can be resumed...
Society of Lloyds appears to have dealt with the damage to the turbine in two parts, the
damage to the base plate and the failure of the pitch arm assembly. It hasnt explicitly
addressed the damage to the blade bearings as far as I can tell.It said it didnt think that the damage to the base plate could be considered a breakdown by
this definition. Ive addressed whether this makes any difference to the outcome of the claim
under a later heading.
Society of Lloyds seems to accept that the breakdown of the pitch arm assembly was
sudden and unforeseen, but has sought to rely on two exclusions to decline this aspect of
the claim, in addition to alleging R breached a warranty condition.
Ive thought about whether it has shown, on balance, the exclusions apply, before going on
to consider whether there was a material breach of a warranty condition.
Has Society of Lloyds demonstrated, on balance, that an exclusion applies?
Ive focussed firstly on the exclusion for wear and tear. This excludes:
The cost of rectification or making good of wear and tear, gradual deterioration, rust,
corrosion or oxidisation, gradually developing defects, cracks, flaws or fractures,
scratching of painted or polished surfaces, and gradual reduction in operating
performance of any part...
This exclusion is limited to damage involving those parts themselves and shall
not apply to other resultant insured damage {my emphasis}
As such, Im satisfied a reasonable person would understand that if a part breaks down due
to wear and tear, other resultant insured damage wont be caught by this exclusion.
Society of Lloyds has relied on the observations of the chartered engineer, which were that:
The blade pitch assembly is clearly worn to an extreme extent with clear evidence of
a lack of lubrication.
Unfortunately the photographic quality is insufficient to make a technical judgement
on the precise cause of the failure of the main shaft but from assessing the state of
the bearing race shown with the symmetrical indentations confirm bearing roller
failure in the race.
From this is can be concluded that lubrication was severely lacking to a point where
the bearings seized to the shaft exerting a torsional stress resulting in the shaft
failure.
Evidential marking on the shaft face confirms the bearing inner race has seized to the
shaft.
Closer examination and test is required to confirm the original suitability of materials
used for the manufacture of the shaft
Failure of the pitch arm assembly has exerted excessive stress on the blade shaft
bearings which have now worn to an excessive degree. Thus their failure can be
considered to be due to the wear of a non-insured component.
It is noted that in the last, and only service report provided, specific mention was
made some 8 months prior to failure that there was wear in the pitch linkageWhilst the engineer has referred to the main shaft here, I cant see that this was repaired or 
replaced, whereas the pitch shaft (which I believe is what Mr R calls the inner shaft) was. 
I can see Mr R has talked about this inner shaft being severed, and the bearing destroyed. 
It therefore seems reasonable to conclude this is the shaft the engineer was referring to, as it 
forms part of the pitch arm assembly he concluded failed due to extreme wear. 
Mr R says:
this section of the report is slightly confusing as it crosses over from the pitch
assembly to the three main blade pitch arm bearings, referring in the main to one
bearing.
In terms of the pitch arm assembly my views on these components are clear that had
they been faulty at the last service they would have been replaced. Had they been
checked at this years service the advisory advice may well have been the same.
Assumptions that there was an advisory comment do not infer they are faulty.
In terms of the lack of lubrication to all the components referred to this is a complete
nonsense as I observed the lubrication taking place at the service. The pitch arm
bearing was indeed greased and when removed at the time of the breakdown was
covered in grease. This also applies to the three main blade pitch arm bearings
where old grease was removed and a new canister of specially designed grease was
inserted to each bearing. When removed, these components were also covered in
grease, along with the bearings. In fact, I had to remove the grease so I could
provide the photograph of these parts.
As I previously mentioned the pitch arm assemble is attached to an inner shaft
running through the main shaft taking direct control from the actuator. This inner shaft
has a bearing and spider connector at the blade hub. The bearing was completely
destroyed, the inner shaft severed along with a breakage of one pitch arm connector
and severe damage to the remaining two.
Moving onto the three main blade pitch arm bearings all three showed significant
movement when examined on site by {engineers} and when removed showed severe
damage. No movement was found during the service of 9 June 2019. Seals were
checked and grease was applied as explained above.
It is further noted within the report that is accepted that there was failure of these
bearings.
It is noted that there is insufficient judgement to make a technical assessment, yet
assumptions have been made that lack of lubrication is a major factor, when clearly
this is not the case and there is no evidence to support this assertion
The pitch arms and bearing are not under load as they perform their function.
The only way these components are put under pressure is when an unusual load is
applied from other failing parts, in this case the main shaft bearings which were found
to have failed.
Based on the events and evidence provided the sequence of events at the time of
the sudden and unforeseen breakdown can be concluded as the main pitch arm
bearings failed, put excessive strain on the pitch arm assembly, resulting in extreme
force upon the mast and base plate.In summary, there seem to be two conflicting theories on what happened. The chartered
engineer argues that the pitch arm assembly failed due to wear and tear, exerting excessive
stress on the blade bearings. They seem to consider any damage to the base plate to be
unrelated and gradual.
Conversely, Mr R says the blade bearings failed, putting stress on the pitch arm assembly,
resulting in extreme force on the mast and base. Ive thought about whether theres any
other evidence to support either theory.
The initial site report (completed by N) said once the turbine was lowered and inspected it
became apparent that the front part of the pitch mechanism has failed and broken several
parts Whilst only a brief commentary, this seems to support that the failure of the pitch
arm assembly caused other parts to break, as opposed to vice versa.
The equipment maintenance log from the annual service and repair in June 2019 show that,
during the service, various components of the turbine were greased. But, in addition to that,
it shows the pitch mechanism was inspected, with the engineer remarking that the arms
may need changing at next service.
Various other internal components were inspected, all of which were given scores of five to
nine on a scale from zero (requires replacement) to nine (new condition), except for the pitch
linkages where no score was given. The engineer remarked that the pitch linkages had a
slight play, no need to change may be good for another years.
Regardless of whether this means the pitch arms and pitch linkages should have been
replaced at that point, this does indicate that, eight months before the breakdown, these
components of the pitch arm assembly were showing signs that they were approaching the
end of their lifespan. This does add to the inherent likelihood that these parts just wore out
(albeit slightly earlier than expected), in turn resulting in the failure of other parts.
Overall, I think thats the more likely version of events. That would be consistent with the
chartered engineers comments on the photographic evidence, the commentary in the initial
site report, and the signs of wear noted during the annual service and repair in June 2019.
Whilst I accept its possible the blade bearings failed unexpectedly and put strain on the
pitch arm assembly, theres only really Mr Rs own testimony to support that theory.
The wear and tear exclusion is limited to damage involving those parts themselves and shall
not apply to other resultant insured damage. But the warranty also excludes:
Breakdown to any part not named in the Master Parts List {my emphasis}
 Master Parts List is defined as being limited to the following component parts:
Gearbox, Generator, Main shaft and bearing, Controller (Top, central and bottom),
Blade hub, Blade bearings, Carden shaft, Hydraulic unit, Yaw gears, Yaw ring, Main
shaft, Hub bearings, Brake System, Anemometer and Blade Spring.
There can be no doubt that the blade bearings are included in the master parts list. And
theres nothing in the warranty to suggest blade bearings which are designed to facilitate
pitch control (as is the case here) will be treated differently.
I can see the blade bearings were given a score of nine (new condition) at the annual
service and repair in June 2019. So, they do appear to have broken down in a manner that
was sudden and unforeseen whilst the turbine was in use, and required replacement before
normal working could be resumed.It therefore appears to me that the cost of this (£2,280 plus VAT) should have been covered.
Society of Lloyds should also have established what proportion of the call out fees related to
this work. It should do that now.
There is a qualifier just below the exclusion for parts not on the master parts list, which says
This exclusion is limited to breakdown involving any part not named in the Master Parts List
and shall apply to other resultant Breakdown {my emphases}
Society of Lloyds may argue thats whats happened here (that the breakdown of the blade
bearings is, on balance, resultant from breakdown involving a part not named on the master
parts list  the pitch arm assembly).
I just dont think it would be fair for the exclusion to be applied in that way in this case.
The exclusion itself is for breakdown to parts not named in the master parts list themselves.
And the qualifier was clearly intended to limit the exclusions application, not broaden it. So,
I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for the exclusion to be applied to the Breakdown of
the blade bearings.
In terms of the pitch arm assembly, I dont think the warranty can be read as covering any
and all parts of the turbine, so long as theyre integral to its operation. Its clear, in my view,
that cover is limited to the component parts listed under the master parts list. Theres nothing
in the warranty to imply parts not named in the list will be covered. Indeed, breakdown to any
part not included on the list is specifically excluded.
I dont agree that its implied from the inclusion of the main shaft, hub and bearings in the
master parts list that the pitch arm assembly is also covered. The pitch arm assembly is a
set of discrete component parts used for pitch control. To a large degree this is immaterial
because Im satisfied the pitch arm assembly is more likely to have failed due to wear and
tear, and would be excluded on that basis even if it was on the master parts list.
Theres no real dispute that the base plate isnt on the master parts list. But Mr R says it
failed due to excess pressure from the failure of the blade bearings and pitch arm assembly.
Ive found its more likely that the pitch arm assembly failed due to wear and tear, but that
the failure of the blade bearings was resultant insured damage and therefore isnt caught by
the wear and tear exclusion (or, for the reasons given above, the exclusion for parts not on
the master parts list). I dont think the same can be said for the base plate, even if I accept it
failed at the same time. It isnt resultant insured damage because it isnt on the master parts
list and is therefore specifically excluded.
Has there been a material breach of a warranty condition?
Society of Lloyds has suggested R is in breach of their contractual duties, which are set out
in the warranty under Access & Reasonable Precautions.
These include that R should take all reasonable precautions to avoid loss or damage and
enforce the observance of all proper safeguards against damage and keep the Insured
Machinery in a proper state of repair and maintain it in accordance with the manufacturers
recommendations.
It relies on the fact that, during the annual service and repair in June 2019, R were advised
that the pitch arms and slew breaks may need changing at the next service, that the pitch
linkages may be good for another years and that a new hinge pin would need to be put in 
place at the next service.Notwithstanding the extent to which these are relevant factors in terms of the likely cause of
the breakdown, I dont think Society of Lloyds has persuaded me that R breached the
warranty conditions its highlighted. Any underlining below reflects my emphasis.
The remark relating to the hinge pin was recommend leaving a pin in place at next service.
Under Further action required after service: the engineer selected no. The remark relating 
to the pitch mechanism was arms may need changing at next service. Under Further 
action required after service: the engineer selected no.
The remark relating to the slew breaks was will probably require changing at next service.
Under Further action required after service: the engineer selected change at next service.
Finally, the remark relating to the pitch linkages was slight play, may be good for another
years. Under Further action required after service: the engineer selected Slight play no
need to change.
These advisories were grouped together under a heading Advisorys for next service.
As such, it doesnt appear to me that any recommendation was given to R to replace these
parts, or carry out further maintenance on them, prior to the next annual service and repair.
And Ive not seen evidence that anything else should have given R cause for concern prior
to the breakdown of the turbine in February 2020.
Was R given sufficient information during the sale?
There was evidently a chain of email correspondence around the time of the sale which
neither party has thus far shared an actual copy of (Mr R has just quoted from it). So, its
hard to know what features of cover were discussed, or how they were explained.
In terms of Mr Rs question on advisories, all Society of Lloyds could reasonably have done
was to highlight the warranty conditions and the exclusion for wear and tear.
I dont think this would have caused Mr R to act any differently. He maintains hed complied
with the conditions in any event and, as can be seen, Im minded to agree. Its unlikely hed
have been able to find another warranty which didnt contain the same, or similar conditions,
and a similarly worded exclusion for damage / breakdown arising from wear and tear.
My provisional decision
I intend to uphold this complaint and direct Society of Lloyds to:
Pay R £2,280 plus VAT for the replacement of the blade bearings and seals;
Establish (from N) roughly what proportion of the call out fees related to this work;
Add interest at a rate of 8% annual simple on the final amount from the date R paid
the invoice to the date of settlement.
Responses to my provisional decision
Both parties accepted my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Given both parties accepted the reasoning set out in my provisional decision, I see no 
reason to depart from it. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Society of Lloyds to:
Pay Mr R £2,280 plus VAT for the replacement of the blade bearings and seals;
Establish (from N) roughly what proportion of the call out fees related to this work;
Add interest at a rate of 8% annual simple on the final amount from the date R paid 
the invoice to the date of settlement
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2021.
 
Mike Walker
Ombudsman