DRN-4369871
The complaint
Mr and Mrs N complain that the mortgage advice they got from a broker working for Sesame 
Limited wasnt suitable for them. Their mortgage offer expired before they were due to 
complete their purchase, and they were wrongly advised they could extend that offer.
What happened
Mr and Mrs N decided, in late 2021, to buy a new-build property. They took mortgage advice 
from a broker working under the umbrella of Sesame Limited. They said they were advised 
to move quickly, because mortgage rates were rising. They told the broker the completion 
date for the property was expected to be some time between June and August 2022. They 
said they were told at the time that the lender the broker had recommended would make an 
offer which would initially be valid for six months. But if the offer did expire, then the broker 
could ask for an extension, and as long as they could show they were still in employment, 
everything would stay the same.
Mr and Mrs N got a mortgage offer at 1.69% fixed until 2 March 2027, produced on 16
December 2021. That offer would expire on 31 May 2022, before their planned completion.
Mr and Mrs N said that they paid £30,000 deposit on the back of the mortgage offer, and by
February 2022 they had sold their previous home, so they were committed to the purchase.
Mr and Mrs N said they spoke to their broker again a few months later, to check how a new
job offer might affect their mortgage. They also sought reassurances that they still had their
existing offer, and could use that to buy the house, and were told everything was fine.
Mr and Mrs N said the broker rang in May 2022, to say they needed to reapply for their
mortgage, as it was about to expire. They found out then that the rate was going up
considerably, and their payments would be an extra £130 a month over 5 years.
Mr and Mrs N said they now know there are lenders whose mortgage offers last longer, so
they think their broker recommended the wrong mortgage. They wanted compensation for
the extra £130 a month they would pay over the 5 years, which they worked out as £7,800.
Sesame said it thought the mortgage recommendation the broker made was suitable for the
couple, and there was no evidence the broker had chosen this for her own financial gain.
Sesame didnt think its broker had given any commitment that Mr and Mrs N could keep the
rate they applied for late in 2021.
Sesame said no lender is obliged to extend a mortgage offer, and lenders can withdraw an
offer at any time up to completion. The extension of the offer expiry date is at the discretion
of the lender and subject to various factors. Sesame said it considers those are outside the
control of the broker. So, whilst the broker could have highlighted the risks of the offer
expiring to Mr and Mrs N, there was nothing she could have done to mitigate this risk.
Another lender may not have extended the offer either. And rising interest rates were also
outside of the brokers control.
Our investigator thought this complaint should be upheld. She said Mrs N knew about the
expiry date on her offer, and raised concerns several times, but her broker said the offer
could simply be extended to accommodate the propertys completion date of July to August
2022. Our investigator didnt think Sesame had explained that her offer was only guaranteed
until its expiry date. So our investigator said Mr and Mrs N were always unlikely to be able to
complete their purchase using this offer.
Our investigator thought if Mr and Mrs N had applied for their mortgage in early 2022
instead, they could have secured an offer from the same lender. This would have been at a
higher rate than they were offered in December 2021, but not as high as the one they
eventually got, in June 2022. So she thought Sesame should pay the difference between the
rate they could have got in early 2022, and the one they eventually got. And because of the
upset this situation caused, she said Sesame should pay Mr and Mrs N £550 compensation.
Sesame didnt agree. It repeated the arguments it had advanced when it responded to Mr
and Mrs Ns complaint. It didnt think it was responsible for what had gone wrong, and it
didnt think it should have to pay such a high compensation award. Because no agreement
was reached, this case was passed to me for a final decision. And I then reached my 
provisional decision on this case.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
I have listened to the calls Mr and Mrs N had with their broker to take out this mortgage.
And, like our investigator, I do think Mr and Mrs N were alive to the issues caused by 
buying a new build property, and that they raised those concerns with their broker. But I 
dont think they could have waited until early 2022 to apply for a mortgage. They needed 
to have an offer in place in late 2021, so they could reserve the property they wanted. 
And that meant they had to get an offer a long time in advance of their likely completion.
Mr and Mrs N told their broker the property would be ready some time between June 
and August 2022. So its clear the broker knew that Mr and Mrs N were purchasing a 
new build and that it might not be completed before an offer issued in late December 
would expire.
Mr and Mrs N asked what would happen  should they apply for a mortgage now, or 
wait. And I can hear that their broker advised them that they did need an offer now, but 
that most lenders will extend that offer past six months for a new build property.
Not all lenders will extend an offer, on the same terms as it was initially granted. Theres
nothing to explain why the broker thought this particular lender would extend this offer. 
Later internal notes make clear that other staff members within Sesame consider that 
the lender the broker recommended in this case wont ever extend its offers. And this 
lenders intermediary pages also make clear that if the product applied for is no longer 
available after the six month offer period has expired (as is often the case when 
mortgage interest rates are rising quickly) then a new product will need to be selected.
Mr and Mrs N then needed to reapply in May, when they realised their mortgage offer 
would not be extended. They secured a rate of 2.79%, fixed until 2 August 2027, instead 
of the rate of 1.69% which they were expecting.
Sesame said there was nothing their broker could have done to avoid this, and anymortgage offer could have been withdrawn before completion anyway. But I dont think 
the answer here is quite that straightforward. Mortgage offers, once made, are legally 
binding on the lender, so they can only be withdrawn in specific circumstances. And not 
all mortgage offers have the same validity period. In short, I think Mr and Mrs N are 
paying a rather higher interest rate now, because they were wrongly advised in late 
2021 by Sesames broker. 
I know Mr and Mrs N would like Sesame to pay the difference between the monthly
payments they were expecting, on their December 2021 mortgage offer, and the 
payments they are now making. But I dont think its fair and reasonable, in the 
circumstances of this case, to base compensation on the rate that they were offered in 
late 2021. That rate was only ever available for a specific time. It was no longer 
available when they bought their property, so they could never have got this rate.
Instead, I need to about what advice Mr and Mrs N should have been given in late 2021, 
and what mortgage they could have secured if theyd been given better advice.
Its not unusual for new-build properties to take longer to reach completion, so specific
mortgage products do exist which are designed to deal with this issue. So Sesames 
broker could have suggested a mortgage product which was specific for new build 
properties, and would either have rather longer validity from the outset, or could be 
extended whilst keeping the same rate. I think thats the advice that Mr and Mrs N 
should have been given in December 2021.
New-build mortgage products do tend to have slightly higher interest rates. But interest 
rates were rising at the time, and I can hear on the call recordings that all sides were 
aware of this. So, in the context of what were widely understood to be rising interest 
rates, I think a new build mortgage should have been offered to Mr and Mrs N. And I 
also Mr and Mrs N would have been likely to accept this, if it was offered. I think its 
likely that they could have secured an offer from a lender who would provide a longer 
validity period, if they had been advised to make such an application in December 2021.
Unfortunately, Mr and Mrs N werent offered a new-build specific loan. So we cannot be 
entirely sure what rate they could have secured, in December 2021, with an offer valid 
until their property was due to complete. We know that Santander was recommended to 
them, as the lowest rate they could secure at the time, so any other lenders rates which 
they could secure would be expected to be slightly higher anyway. And as Ive 
explained, mortgage offers designed for new builds, with longer validity, do also tend to 
be at slightly higher rates. 
I will consider any further evidence that Sesame wishes to submit before finalising my
decision on this point, but at the moment, I think its likely that, if Mr and Mrs N had been
advised to apply for a new build mortgage rate in December 2021, they could have 
secured an offer which would have extended to their completion date, in late July 2022. I 
think they would have been likely to secure a rate around 0.25% higher than the rate 
they did get. And I think it would be fair and reasonable to base the compensation in this 
case, on the difference between the rate they did secure, of 2.79% fixed until 2 August 
2027, and a notional rate of 1.94% which I think they could have secured in December 
2021.
So, subject to further evidence on this point, I currently think Sesame should work out 
the difference in payments between the rate Mr and Mrs N are paying, until 2 August 
2027, and the amount they would have paid if theyd secured a rate of 1.94%. And they 
should pay this amount to Mr and Mrs N as a lump sum.I do think Mr and Mrs N have been caused unnecessary stress and upset by what 
Sesames broker has done here. But I also note that, under my proposed resolution, Mr 
and Mrs N will receive a lump sum, upfront. I do think there are advantages to having an 
upfront payment like this, which I have to take into account when Im assessing the 
fairness of any outcome. For those reasons, I think a payment of £250 in compensation, 
in addition to this lump sum, would provide a fair and reasonable outcome to this 
complaint, taking account of the stress and upset this case has caused.
I should stress to both sides, that this decision is provisional, and may change, 
particularly in response to any new evidence and argument received from either side. 
But on what Ive seen to date, this is what I currently think would provide a fair and 
reasonable outcome to this complaint.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both sides replied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs N replied to say they wanted to add some further points.  
Mr and Mrs N said this was a very stressful time for them, and the stress had continued for 
the last two years. They said there wasnt even a delay on the completion of their property, it 
was ready when the builder said it would be. They told us about other buyers, purchasing on 
the same development, at the same time, whose offer was extended. So they now knew that 
there were lenders available, when they applied for a mortgage, that would guarantee rates 
for a new build homes. And they wanted to know why they werent offered this. 
Mr and Mrs N said Id mentioned that they would never have secured the rate they were first 
offered. Mrs N said that she wasnt aware of any asset transaction where the payments at 
the point of sale are changed at collection. 
Mrs N said that, to put this in perspective, they were now paying around £2,800 a year more 
to live in their house than agreed, when they agreed to buy and pay a deposit. And if they 
hadnt gone ahead with the purchase, they would have lost a very sizeable deposit, and 
been homeless, as their previous home had already been sold. 
Mrs N said shed repeatedly sought reassurance from the broker for her concerns, and was 
repeatedly told that the existing offer could just be extended. 
I understand that Mr and Mrs N have been hugely disappointed, to find that the careful 
budgeting they had undertaken before committing to purchase this property, was all falling 
apart. I did take that into account in reaching my provisional view. 
I dont think the analogy Mrs N makes, with the payment for goods changing between the 
time of sale and the time of collection, applies in the same way to the purchase of a house or 
flat. The payments Mr and Mrs N made to the seller, a building and development firm, didnt 
change because of what the broker did. 
What did change, was the interest they pay each month on the money theyd borrowed to 
make this purchase. It is usual for repayments on lending to change over the term of the mortgage, when the 
interest rate changes, and Mr and Mrs N may yet find that happens to them. But if a home 
buyer secures a fixed rate mortgage, then they can be confident their repayments will be the 
same for some time to come. Mr and Mrs N got a fixed rate offer, and budgeted on that 
basis. But what went wrong here, was that Mr and Mrs N were advised to take up an offer 
with a mortgage company which the broker should have known would not extend its offer to 
when they actually anticipated completing the purchase of their home. 
As Mr and Mrs N said, and as I set out in my provisional decision, there are mortgage 
products which are designed for those who are buying new build properties. These 
companies usually charge a little more interest. They usually charge a little more interest, but 
I explained in my provisional decision why I thought Mr and Mrs N would have chosen to pay 
a slightly higher rate, for the security that they could have obtained from holding a fixed 
interest rate offer that ran for longer. That way, they could have some confidence that this 
would still be valid when they finally moved into their home.
Thats why I reached the provisional decision I did. And I still think that. 
Sesame also replied. It set out briefly its understanding of the provisional decision, which 
wasnt quite what I had decided. And it said it agreed Mr and Mrs N had to secure an offer in 
December 2021 in order for the new build plot to be reserved. So Sesame said it was always 
likely this offer would have expired if the build was delayed, meaning that a rate of 1.69% 
would never have been obtained. 
Sesame said it didnt understand why I had chosen a figure of 1.94% as a probable rate. It 
wanted sight of the evidence used for this. It said other lenders had already declined to lend, 
and that when it secured a new offer for Mr and Mrs N, it got them the best rate available at 
the time, which was 2.79%.
I wrote back to Sesame, before issuing this final decision. In that letter, I said the 2.79% rate 
Sesame said was the best it could get for Mr and Mrs N, was secured in May 2022. And my 
view was that things went wrong well before this.
I wanted to draw Sesames attention to some points which were central to my decision. I 
noted that Mr and Mrs N had said at the outset that their new-build property would take 
around six to eight months to be ready. So I said they should have been told at the outset - 
in late 2021 - about mortgages designed to meet the needs of those buying a new-build 
property. Some new-build specific products have offers which can run for nine months, 
others can be extended for twelve months.
I said that if Mr and Mrs N were correctly advised, I had concluded they would have applied 
for a new-build mortgage. We know Mr and Mrs N Mrs N had secured mortgage lending in 
December 2021, and there was nothing in this case to make me think they could not have 
secured alternative offers at this time. 
I said Id based the rate in my provisional decision on my understanding of the additional 
cost of new-build rates which are generally a little higher than the rates on ordinary 
mortgages (where the offer typically wont be extended for more than six months). But I said 
if Sesame wanted to offer alternative evidence of new-build mortgage interest rates that Mr 
and Mrs N would have been able to secure in December 2021, then I would of course 
consider that before reaching any final view. 
Sesame has now replied to say it continues to disagree. It says there was no guarantee that 
Mr and Mrs N could have obtained alternative lending with a longer extension period. And it still thought the broker tried her best to obtain the next best rate for Mr and Mrs N, once it 
was clear that the property would not be built on time.
 
Sesame said there was also no evidence to suggest that Mr and Mrs N were led to believe, 
should the property not be completed by the time the mortgage offer expired in June 2022, 
that this lender would extend their mortgage offer for a further period of time
Ive listened again to the relevant call, and reviewed the evidence once more, and I still dont 
think the evidence is as Sesame has recently represented it. Mr and Mrs N were clear at the 
outset when they expected their property to be ready. This is recorded on the mortgage 
advice call that Sesame sent to our service. The problem here wasnt caused by delayed 
completion on their property. The problem dates from December 2021, when Mr and Mrs N 
were advised to take a mortgage where the offer was always going to expire by the end of 
May 2022, although theyd already said their property wouldnt be ready until June 2022 at 
the earliest. Its clear on the call that Mr and Mrs N were alive to this. And I can hear they 
were told then that the lender would extend its offer. 
For the above reasons, I havent changed my mind in this case. So Ill now make the 
decision I originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that Sesame Limited must calculate the total difference between the 
monthly payments Mr and Mrs N will make on their mortgage, from its inception to 2 August 
2027, at the fixed interest rate of 2.79% that Mr and Mrs N secured, and the notional rate of 
1.94% which I think they could have secured in December 2021. Sesame Limited must pay 
this amount to Mr and Mrs N as a lump sum. 
Sesame Limited must also pay Mr and Mrs N £250 in compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N and Mr N to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 November 2023. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman