DRN-3453567
The complaint
Mrs F says Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, unfairly declined a payment she 
tried to make with her credit card.  
What happened
Mrs F transferred a total of £88,000 into her Barclaycard account across 30 and 31 January 
2022. This was to allow her to use her credit card to make a high-value purchase in US 
dollars and save on currency conversion fees. But when she tried to make payment it failed. 
Barclays advised her to try the following day, she did so several times over the next two 
days, but each time it failed. She then used a different payment method and as a result says 
she incurred additional costs of £1,487.84. After she requested a credit balance refund on 2 
February 2022 it took until 15 February 2022 for the money to be returned to her current 
account. During this time Mrs F had to speak to the bank several times with long call wait 
times. 
Mrs F wants Barclays to cover the additional costs she incurred and compensate her for the 
stress and wasted time its actions caused. She is also unhappy with how Barclays handled 
her complaint.
Our investigator upheld the complaint in part. He found Barclays was entitled to decline the 
transaction as section 16 of its terms and conditions sets out that accountholders should not 
keep money in their account, and that they should make sure they do not pay more than 
their total outstanding balance. However, he said that Barclays had provided incorrect advice 
(that the funds transferred onto the card need to clear before a successful payment could be 
made) when Mrs F initially called to query the failed payment, and he also felt the time taken 
to return the credit balance was longer than it ought to have been. For these two failings that 
caused Mrs F unnecessary work and stress he instructed Barclays to pay a total of £300 
compensation.  
Unhappy with this assessment Mrs F asked for an ombudsmans review. She said if the 
bank are to rely on the account terms in this way it ought to have a system in place to return 
any payments in excess of balances owing. She also provided evidence of two previous 
occasions when the bank had allowed her account to hold credit balances significantly in 
excess of her credit limit. 
Barclays also responded saying it was happy for an ombudsmans review as it doesnt think 
compensation of £300 is fair. It believes Mrs F was acting against the terms of its product 
and trying to use the product for a purpose it was not designed for.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am upholding Mrs Fs complaint in part.
As Mrs Fs use of her account was contrary to section 16 of the terms and conditions, that 
she had agreed to, I find that Barclays did not make an error when it declined the 
transaction. I acknowledge she had used her account in this same way on two previous 
occasions but that does not change the validity of this finding, or the fairness of the banks 
decision. This means I do not agree that Barclays was responsible for Mrs F needing to use 
a different payment method and not being able to make the savings she had planned to on 
currency conversion fees.
Mrs F argues that, given its response to her complaint, Barclays shouldnt have accepted the 
two payments onto her account. It should have a system to prevent this. Barclays explained 
that had Mrs F made the payments on its website or by phone the credits would not have 
been allowed, but as they were bank transfers this isnt fully in its control. As we are not the 
regulator we are unable to look at systemic issues, only the merits of individual cases. So I 
have no power to assess the suitability of the banks processes in circumstances such as 
these. I do note it has the contractual right, and a process, to return credit balances.
I have been able to listen to two calls between Barclays and Mrs F when she was trying to 
understand why the payment wouldnt go through. I think that the service Barclays provided 
to Mrs F wasnt of the standard she is entitled to expect. When she initially called she was 
given lots of different explanations and contradictory information  there was a problem with 
international payments that day; a fraud block had been put on her account that would need 
to be lifted; two pending payments could be seen; the payment had been stopped; and 
finally that as the transferred funds were pending and had not been posted to her account 
she just needed to wait one working day before making the payment. Based on Barclays 
final response and submission to this service none of these were the reason the payment 
declined. Barclays argues that given the characteristics of this incident it would have been 
limited as to what it could say to Mrs F, but I am not wholly persuaded that it is the cause of 
the misinformation Mrs F was given. 
Mrs F says her calls also disconnected on occasion and she experienced long call wait times 
so I can understand she became increasingly frustrated  particularly as the purchase she 
was trying to make was time-sensitive. Had Barclays provided accurate information from the 
outset about its credit balance policy I find Mrs F would have been saved substantial stress 
and inconvenience. I accept that because of the value of the credit balance refund additional 
checks would have been needed before the money was returned, but as she requested it on 
2 February 2022 and it didnt reach her account until 15 February 2022 I find that timeframe 
to be unreasonably long in the circumstances.
I therefore agree that Barclays should compensate Mrs F for the distress and inconvenience 
she has suffered, and I find £300 to be fair. To reach this conclusion I have considered the 
amount of money involved, and the time-sensitive nature of Mrs Fs transaction. 
Mrs F was also unhappy with how the bank managed her complaint but as complaint 
handling is not a regulated activity we have no jurisdiction to investigate this. 
Putting things right
Barclays must pay Mrs F £300 compensation.
My final decision
I am upholding Mrs Fs complaint in part. Barclays Bank UK PLC must now put things right 
as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or reject my decision before 20 September 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman