DRN-2716735
The complaint
Mr M and Ms W complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt administer the process of 
applying a payment deferral to their mortgage properly. This resulted in them being chased 
for missed payments even though a deferral had been agreed.
 
What happened
Mr M and Ms W have a mortgage with Barclays. Following the introduction of restrictions 
relating to the coronavirus pandemic in March 2020, they phoned Barclays to ask for a 
payment deferral. Barclays told them it didnt yet have a process in place for applying 
payment deferrals, but would do so shortly. A few days later Mr M and Ms W were able to 
apply for a deferral online, and were notified Barclays had agreed a deferral for their April 
May and June 2020 payments.
In June 2020 Barclays wrote to and texted Mr M and Ms W to notify them that they had 
outstanding mortgage payments. Mr M and Ms W contacted Barclays to try and find out what 
was going on  they say they were kept waiting on the phone for several hours. They spoke 
to a member of staff who confirmed they had a payment deferral in place, and Barclays 
wrote to them to confirm.
However, later that month, Barclays again wrote to them telling them they had missed 
payments on their mortgage and their credit files could be affected. They again called 
Barclays, waiting on the phone for several hours. They say they finally spoke to someone 
who said they would receive a call back the next day  which didnt happen. They again 
called and again waited on hold, with no response. 
Finally, Mr M and Ms W made a complaint. Barclays said that it had experienced staffing and 
operational difficulties, which had led to a delay in their payment deferral being registered  
and this had meant that arrears letters had been automatically triggered by its systems. 
Barclays said it would remove any adverse entries from their credit files. It offered £225 
compensation. And it said it would reinstate their direct debit from August, asking them to 
make a manual payment in July.
Later, Barclays wrote to Mr M and Ms W notifying them that their direct debit wouldnt in fact 
restart until September. 
Mr M and Ms W say they tried to make manual payments using Barclays online portal for 
July and August, but it wouldnt accept their debit card. So they called Barclays again, but a 
payment couldnt be processed over the phone either. Mr M and Ms W raised another 
complaint about not being able to make manual payments, but say Barclays took too long to 
deal with it. As a result they werent able to make the July and August payments. Barclays 
then wrote to them telling them they were in arrears. 
Mr M and Ms W are unhappy about the confusion over whether they had a payment deferral, 
the letters from Barclays wrongly telling them they were in arrears, and the amount of time 
and inconvenience in contacting Barclays to try to get things sorted out. They want Barclays 
to write off the missing July and August payments, remove any late payment markers from 
their credit files, and compensate them for their trouble. And they want Barclays to waive the 
early repayment charge so they can move to another lender.
Barclays agreed Mr M and Ms W had received poor service. It confirmed they had had a 
payment deferral for April to June, and the deferred payments had been capitalised in July. It 
said it had arranged to remove any late payment markers for July and August from their 
credit files. And it offered a further £300 compensation. But it didnt offer to waive the July 
and August payments. 
Mr M and Ms W didnt accept that and referred their complaint to our service. Although 
theyve made a payment to cover the July and August payments, they dont think they 
should fairly have to. 
Our investigator thought that Barclays had done enough to put matters right. As Mr M and 
Ms W didnt agree, they asked for an ombudsman to consider their complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The coronavirus pandemic, and the lockdown restrictions that came with it, was an 
unprecedented situation causing significant disruption to national life, to the lives of many 
people  including Mr M and Ms W  and to the effective operation of many businesses.
When the government announced the lockdown restrictions, it also announced that 
mortgage borrowers would be able to request payment deferrals on their mortgage (these 
were initially referred to as payment holidays, but payment deferral is a more accurate term, 
since the payments missed must be made up at a later date).
This came into effect almost immediately  requiring lenders, including Barclays, to set up 
new systems and new processes virtually overnight. And they had to do so at a time when 
their businesses were also being disrupted and their staff having to work from home. 
There was also massive demand for payment deferrals during the first lockdown. Its 
estimated that at one point over a sixth of all UK residential mortgages were on deferral.
All of these factors  an entirely new process, with no notice of its introduction, with massive 
demand for it against the background of staff shortages and operational difficulties  meant 
that Barclays, like many lenders, struggled to provide the customer service it would have 
liked to.
And while I appreciate how frustrating it was for Mr M and Ms W to experience the problems 
that resulted, in fairness I also have to recognise the difficulties that Barclays was facing.
As it was, unfortunately Mr M and Ms Ws payment deferral application wasnt processed 
properly. It doesnt know exactly why that was  but, against the background Ive set out, it 
was inevitable that there would be problems.
When the payment deferral wasnt processed, Barclays systems thought Mr M and Ms Ws 
mortgage had gone into arrears, and it automatically generated letters which were sent out 
to them. That was unfortunate, and shouldnt have happened  but in all the circumstances 
its perhaps understandable that it did so. Barclays then confirmed that the payment deferral 
had been put in place, and Mr M and Ms Ws mortgage was not and would not be treated as 
being in arrears.Because the payment deferral ended in June, Mr M and Ms W would have to resume 
making payments from July. Its not unreasonable that it took some time to reinstate the 
direct debit, though it should really have been in place for the August payment, not the 
September one. However, Barclays did tell Mr M and Ms W they would need to make 
manual payments. 
Unfortunately, there was a system error which meant that Barclays was unable to take 
payments from Mr M and Ms Ws debit card. They were eventually able to pay by bank 
transfer. 
Its not in dispute that things have gone wrong here. Mr M and Ms W werent able to get their 
payment deferral registered, and were distressed to receive arrears letters. They spent long 
periods trying to contact Barclays, and had problems making manual payments.
What I need to decide is what Barclays needs to do to put matters right, in a way that 
represents fair compensation and is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
Barclays says it has removed all adverse information from Mr M and Ms Ws credit files. And 
Mr M told our investigator that he had checked his record, and could see that the arrears 
markers Barclays had applied had since been removed. I think thats fair, and what I would 
expect Barclays to do. The regulator made clear that payment deferrals should not be 
recorded as arrears, and it wasnt Mr M and Ms Ws fault that the July and August payments 
werent made. So there shouldnt be any missed payments recorded on their file  and Im 
pleased to hear that both parties have separately confirmed that they no longer appear on 
Mr M and Ms Ws credit files.
Mr M says their monthly mortgage payments have gone up because of the July and August 
payments. I dont think thats the case. As I said, a payment deferral  a more accurate term 
than payment holiday  doesnt mean that payments dont need to be made at all, it means 
they dont need to be made yet. Its a temporary holiday from making payments which are 
deferred to some future date, but must be made up.
There are various methods of making up a payment deferral  the missed payments can be 
made in a lump sum, they can be spread over a few months, or they can be added to the 
mortgage balance and paid off gradually over the rest of the term (known as capitalisation). 
Barclays capitalised Mr M and Ms Ws three deferred payments, and thats why their monthly 
payment went up from £1,455 to £1,480  to spread the three missed payments for April 
May and June over the remaining term.
Mr M and Ms W say Barclays should make up the missed payments for July and August, 
rather than expecting them to. I dont agree that this would be a fair resolution. When 
something goes wrong, the way to put it right is to put Mr M and Ms W back in the position 
they would be in had nothing gone wrong. Had nothing gone wrong, Mr M and Ms W would 
have been able to make manual payments for July and August. Those are payments 
properly due under their mortgage, and payments they always would have had to make. I 
dont think writing them off is a fair way to put right difficulties in making them.
I do think Barclays needs to recognise the trouble, upset and inconvenience Mr M and Ms W 
were caused over several months. They had to spend long periods trying to get things sorted 
out over several months, and were caused significant upset and worry by what went wrong. 
But I dont think the proper measure by which to calculate the compensation due is by 
reference to the hourly pay rate of Barclays chief executive, as Mr M and Ms W suggest. 
Rather, its by reference to the particular trouble and upset they were put to, in the context of 
the sorts of awards the Financial Ombudsman Service makes in other similar cases (about which more information is available on our website). And its also fair to bear in mind the 
unprecedented challenges Barclays  and everyone else  was facing in 2020, and to bear 
in mind that everyone in the UK faced some difficulty and inconvenience at that time.
I note that Barclays has offered, in total, £525. I think thats fair compensation to recognise 
the trouble and upset it caused, and I dont require it to do any more. I understand that 
Barclays has already paid Mr M and Ms W £225, and if they wish to accept the offer of the 
remaining £300 they should let the investigator know and he will notify Barclays so it can 
make payment.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that Im satisfied Barclays Bank UK PLC has 
made a fair and reasonable offer to settle this complaint. It should pay Mr M and Ms W the 
additional £300 compensation if they choose to accept it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Ms W to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 July 2021.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman