DRN-2857607
The complaint
Miss C complains that Credit Karma UK Limited wouldnt allow her to open an account using 
her preferred email address. Shes also unhappy that shes not been given a full explanation.
What happened
The facts of the complaint are well known to the parties so Ill only summarise them.
Miss C is represented in this complaint by a family member. But for ease of reading Ill refer 
to her.
Miss C was unable to open a Credit Karma account due to the email address she used 
being flagged in the preliminary security checks as being high risk. Shes unhappy that she 
hasnt been told exactly why this was so.
Credit Karma explained that it has robust security measures in place. And that these had led 
it to conclude that the email address which Miss C wished to use was considered to be too 
high risk. It said that it had offered her the option to use a different email address.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He said that Credit 
Karma was entitled to rely on security measures of its choice. 
Miss C wasnt happy with this outcome. As its not been possible to resolve this complaint an 
ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Let me say at the outset that I totally understand Miss Cs concern and upset that her 
application using her preferred email address was refused.
I should also say that I doubt if Im going to provide the answers shes looking for. So I 
understand her sense of frustration.
Each business is entitled to put in place such security measures as it deems fit, in order to 
secure the information it holds. And to try and ensure that such details are disclosed only to 
those who have a right to access it.
Credit Karma has explained that the scores it uses are obtained from another business. And 
that if the score exceeds a set level its considered to represent too high a risk.
Its not unusual for businesses to use a range of scores which are compiled by reference to 
numerous risk factors. And I havent been informed of the specific factors which affected 
Miss Cs application. 
But I do know from dealing with similar complaints that the approach isnt just designed to 
protect the business. Its also meant to protect Miss Cs information. Even if she might not be 
aware of any specific risk.
I cant reasonably require Credit Karma to supply other than a general explanation of its 
security policies. It would defeat the purpose of the checks if precise details were given 
which might lead to these methods being compromised. 
The only conclusion that I can reach is that upon being advised of the security score 
attached to that particular email, Credit Karma determined it was unwilling to proceed. As 
theres nothing to show that the criteria have been applied in a different way to that which 
affects all applicants, I cant say the business has made an error.
I hope that Miss C might take some consolation as its fair to infer that there is no criticism of 
her personally. Presumably she wouldnt have otherwise been offered the chance to use a 
different email. 
Finally, I understand that Miss C has been able to access the information she required 
through another business in the same group as Credit Karma. I agree that this might seem 
inconsistent. But as Im only looking at the business within the UK jurisdiction, I cant 
comment about any variations in regulations compared with other jurisdictions.
In summary, I dont find that Credit Karma has done anything wrong. Its entitled to apply 
security checks that it considers to be sufficient for its purposes. And it offered Miss C a 
reasonable alternative when her preferred email address was found not to be acceptable. So 
its done all that could reasonably be expected.
I understand Miss Cs frustration but Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 July 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman