DRN-3073023
The complaint
Mr C complains that (Lloyds) defaulted his overdraft and sold the debt to a debt collection
agency.
What happened
 Mr C transferred his account from Lloyds to another bank in February 2020. The balance 
was then £2,002.80 debit. He repaid £1,000 on 27 February 2020, another £400 on 16 
March 2020 and a further £400 on 15 April 2020. The balance of £202.80 was sold to a debt 
collection agency (DCA) in September 2020. A default was registered.
Mr C complained. He said he tried to pay off the overdraft by payment from his new bank 
account. But each time, Lloyds rejected his payments. Hes tried to speak to them but hadnt 
got anywhere.
Lloyds said the debt of £202.80 hadnt been repaid and so they made demand and 
transferred the debt to the DCA. They couldnt see why any payments to his account had 
been returned. They said theyd been clear in their letters that the debt had to be repaid, and 
theyd given him guidance as to how this could be paid off. They said that because the 
account had been switched to another bank, credits to pay off the debt had to be made to a 
holding account, using the sort code and account number as reference. This was advised to 
Mr C in letters. Because no payments had been received, Mr Cs account has been 
transferred to their collections team  and their letter dated 17 April 2020 advised that. And it 
said to contact their collections team to make payment. They made formal demand for 
repayment on 29 May 2020. Mr C then had until 12 June 2020 to pay off the debt before it 
was referred to a DCA  and this would then mean a default could be registered in his name.
Mr C brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said she considered that Lloyds had acted 
reasonably. They hadnt received enough money from Mr C to pay off the overdraft balance 
of £202.80. Lloyds had given him instructions about how to make payments in their letters. 
Mr C had then paid in amounts of £1,000, £400 and another £400, leaving £202.80 
outstanding. She could see (from Mr Cs new bank statements) that Mr C had attempted to 
make three payments between 30 April 2020 and 5 July 2020, but all were returned. Lloyds 
letter dated 17 April 2020 gave instructions as to how to make payments  he needed to call 
the collections team at Lloyds. Lloyds letter dated 7 May 2020 reminded Mr C that the debt 
was due  but didnt given instructions as to how to pay it off. Lloyds had told Mr C many 
times how to make the payments to pay off the overdraft. In two phone calls, Lloyds had 
offered to provide Mr C with details of how to make payment  but he said he knew what to 
do. Lloyds had also given him enough warning that a default might be registered against his 
name if he didnt pay off the debt.
Mr C asked that his complaint be looked at by an ombudsman.
I reached a provisional decision where I said:
I take a different view to our investigator. The crux of Mr Cs complaint is that he tried to pay 
off the Lloyds debt several times  using his account details - but each time the payment 
was rejected by Lloyds. And so  this was unfair. Lloyds have said to us that they believe he 
was using the wrong details  as theyd advised him to use a holding account, or to contact 
their collections team.
Mr C had shown us his bank statements for his new bank. These show he paid £202.80 to 
his Lloyds account  on 30 April 2020, 16 June 2020, 5 July 2020 and 15 July 2020. All had 
the reference of his Lloyds bank account number and sort code. And all the credits were 
returned the same day. Lloyds say they have no record of these rejected credits. But it 
appears that Mr C did make efforts to pay into his account  using his Lloyds account 
number and sort code. But  I can also see that it looks like they were faster payments. So  
I looked at this.
Lloyds say they wrote to Mr C on 27 February 2020  to pay into a holding account, using 
his old account details as a reference. They cant show us this letter  but theyve shown us 
a template of what it wouldve said. It says to pay into his bank account by various means:
Branch - Pay directly into your old account by cash or cheque
Internal Transfer to your old account
CHAPS Payment to your old account
It then goes onto say for Faster Payments, use the following account details. Account 
Number: 00000000
Sort Code: 30-48-52
Reference: <Sort CodeAccount number
I think this letter says  that Mr C should pay into his old bank account. But  if he used 
Faster Payments, the way to do it was different. And after the letter  he paid in £1,000 on 
27 February 2020, another £400 on 16 March 2020 and a further £400 on 15 April 2020. And 
 these credits were accepted by Lloyds. But  it looks to me that those payments werent by 
the faster payments method.
Lloyds also say that Mr C was advise to contact collections to make payment in the letter of 
27 February 2020. But the letter says  (this) does not apply to any account that is currently 
within our collections department. If your account is being managed by our collections 
department, immediate payment is required But  Mr Cs account wasnt being managed 
by collect advised him of this. So  that wasnt relevant.
Lloyds have said that their letter dated 17 April 2020 asked Mr C to contact collections to 
make payment. Ive looked at this letter and it doesnt. It quotes Mr Cs sort code and 
account number and says if you pay in the amount of £202.80 your account will be up to 
date and to return your account to order please pay the funds required into your 
account immediately. Theres no mention of paying to a collections department  but it says 
to pay into Mr Cs Lloyds account. Theres no mention of how to pay into his account.
Lloyds have also said that their other letters advised Mr C to pay into a different, holding 
account. Ive looked at the letters dated 7 May 2020, 29 May 2020 and 23 July 2020  and 
all of them refer to paying into your account. Theres no mention of any other means of 
payment.And so  I must consider whether Lloyds communications were clear in advising Mr C what 
to do. There was one reference to how to use faster payments in their letter dated 27 
February 2020  as against three other methods in the same letter. And there were four 
other letters  which dont describe how to make payment  or that a different way was 
needed if using faster payments.
I can see why Mr C tried to pay into his old Lloyds bank account using his bank account 
details and using the faster payments method  which is what he did. He really wasnt told to 
do anything else. Lloyds say they wouldnt have seen these credits  if they were rejected by 
them.
And so, on balance and in the circumstances of this complaint, I think that Lloyds didnt act 
reasonably. I think Mr C tried to pay off his overdraft debt, using his Lloyds account details. 
And  I cant see that he was told to do anything other than that  other than one reference 
in the letter of 27 February 2020. So  I think that Lloyds should write off this small overdraft 
and remove the default from Mr Cs credit file. And  because of the distress and 
inconvenience caused, they should also pay him compensation of £100.
Responses to the provisional decision:
Mr C accepted my findings. Lloyds sad they agreed to remove the default and pay 
compensation of £100 to Mr C. But they made the point that the debt of £202.80 has still to 
be paid off. And as long as Mr C does that, they will remove the default marker from his 
credit file. They will explain the steps that Mr C needs to take when they write to him about 
the compensation payment.
So  I need to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Ive considered what Lloyds have said  and I think they make a good point. Because the 
payments to Mr Cs account failed, the debt of £202.80 is still outstanding. And  its only fair 
that Mr C repays this. So, I am changing my final decision to say this  otherwise it remains 
as set out in the provisional decision. Lloyds will advise Mr C how to pay off the debt when 
they write to him. 
(continued)
My final decision I uphold this complaint. And Lloyds Bank PLC must:
Once Mr C has repaid the debt of £202.80, remove the default from Mr Cs credit file.
Write to Mr C to advise how to repay the debt.
Pay compensation of £100 to Mr C.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman