DRN-3772341
The complaint
Mrs F is unhappy QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) has declined a storm damage claim made under her 
home insurance policy.
What happened
In January 2022 strong winds caused damage to Mrs Fs flat roof and ridge tiles, so she 
made a claim to QIC, her home insurance provider. Mrs F also arranged for temporary 
repairs to make the roof watertight.
QIC inspected Mrs Fs roof. They said there werent storm conditions at the time. They also 
declined the flat roof damage as they said it was due to wear and tear, and gradual 
deterioration, which is excluded under Mrs Fs policy. Whilst they didnt accept there was a 
storm, or by extension storm damage to the ridge tiles, they accepted these under the 
accidental damage cover part of Mrs Fs policy, and offered a cash settlement in line with 
what they said it wouldve cost them to repair.
Mrs F was unhappy with QICs position and approached this service.
Our investigator looked into things and upheld the complaint. She said, based on information 
Mrs F had obtained from the Met Office, that there was a named storm at the time and there 
was a weather warning in place for Mrs Fs immediate area, so she was satisfied a storm 
had occurred. She also said the damage was consistent with a storm and QIC hadnt shown 
the exclusion it was relying on applied.
So, our investigator said QIC should accept the full claim and settle it in line with the 
remaining policy terms. She said that as Mrs F had needed to arrange repairs herself, the 
settlement should be at Mrs F rather than QICs costs. And she said 8% simple interest 
should be added to the settlement.
QIC agreed with our investigators view of the weather and that a storm occurred so they no 
longer disputed this point. But QIC said the overall claim decision still stands due to wear 
and tear being the proximate cause of damage to the flat roof.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When we consider complaints about storm damage claims, we take into account the 
following questions, and if any of the answers are no then its likely a claim wont succeed:
Were there storm conditions?
Is the damage consistent with storm type damage?
Was the storm the main or dominant cause of the damage?
QIC originally said there werent storm conditions at the time of the damage. Our investigator 
took into account weather reports, and information Mrs F had obtained from the Met Office. 
Our investigator said to QIC that having considered all the information, she was of the view 
that there were storm conditions at the time. In response, QIC said they agreed with the 
investigators view of the weather and that there were storm conditions.
As this point is no longer in dispute, I dont need to decide whether there was or wasnt a 
storm. 
And in relation to question two above, damage could be caused to a flat roof by a storm. So, 
this potentially satisfies point two.
But QIC has declined the flat roof claim on the basis they say the storm wasnt the main or 
dominant cause of damage. Instead, they say the dominant cause was wear and tear and 
gradual damage, which has been highlighted by the weather at the time.
Mrs Fs policy excludes:
Any gradual or maintenance-related loss or damage
Loss or damage as a result of gradual causes including:
-wear and tear;
-fall in value over time;
-gradual deterioration (whether you were aware of it or not);
-exposure to sunlight or atmospheric conditions;
-normal settlement;
-warping or shrinkage;
-rusting or corrosion;
-wet or dry rot (regardless of the cause);
-fungus, mildew or mould;
-infestation (for example by vermin); and
-costs that arise from using or maintaining your buildings and contents normally.
And the storm policy cover specifically excludes:
anything that happens gradually.
Ive considered the surveyor report and images provided by QIC. And having done so, Im 
not persuaded QIC has shown the above exclusions apply here. The surveyor report is very 
brief and doesnt go into any detail about how the wear and tear and gradual damage 
conclusion has been reached, or why this is the case. A number of images have been 
provided, but in my view, they also dont demonstrate wear and tear and gradual damage is 
the main cause of damage either. I note QICs comments in response to the investigator assessment around how damage can 
more generally be caused to flat roofs if they are suffering wear and tear and gradual 
damage, but I dont think theyve demonstrated this is what has happened here with Mrs Fs 
flat roof. And I dont think the images support that conclusion either.
In addition, the roofer who carried out repairs to Mrs Fs roof also confirmed both the 
remaining undamaged roof, and the part which was damaged and had come off, werent in a 
state of disrepair.
With this in mind, I dont think QIC has acted fairly or reasonably by declining the claim 
based on the above exclusions as I dont think theyve demonstrated they apply. Therefore, 
QIC needs to consider Mrs Fs full storm damage claim in line with the remaining policy 
terms.
Mrs F has already had to have her roof repaired following the (incorrect in my view) claim 
declinature. And at the same time, she has also had repairs carried out to the ridge tiles 
(which QIC accepted under accidental damage). As Mrs F has needed to arrange herself for 
all repairs to her roof to be completed as a result of the storm damage, QIC need to settle 
this at the costs Mrs F incurred in carrying out the storm damage repairs, rather than 
restricting settlement to its own costs if it had accepted the claim in full.
In line with our usual approach, QIC also need to add 8% simple interest to the settlement 
from the date Mrs F paid the invoice to the date of settlement.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and direct QIC Europe Ltd to:
deal with Mrs Fs full storm damage claim in line with the remaining policy terms
settle the claim at the costs Mrs F incurred in having the storm damage repairs 
completed  rather than at the costs QIC wouldve incurred
add 8% simple interest* to any cash settlement from the date of payment of the 
invoice by Mrs F to the date of settlement
* If QIC Europe Ltd considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income 
tax from interest, it should tell Mrs F how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs F a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2022.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman