DRN-3683855
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that TICORP Limited mis-sold them a travel insurance policy, which 
didnt include cover for the only destination they wanted to travel to. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs M bought a travel insurance policy online and subsequently discovered that it 
didnt cover the only destination they wanted to travel to (and where they had already 
travelled to once while the policy was in force). 
Mr and Mrs M complained to TICORP, who sold them the policy. TICORP said it offered two 
different types of European travel insurance cover  one which covered the destination in 
question and one which didnt. TICORP said Mr and Mrs Ms policy schedule stated that the 
particular destination wasnt covered, and it sent Mr and Mrs M screenshots showing the 
sales journey they would have followed setting out the different options of cover available. 
As Mr and Mrs M remained unhappy, they brought the matter to the attention of our service. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened but didnt uphold the complaint. Mr 
and Mrs M didnt agree with our investigators findings, so the complaint has been referred to 
me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the sale of this policy was non-advised, under relevant industry rules, TICORP needed to 
give Mr and Mrs M information about their policy which was clear, fair and not misleading, to 
enable them to make an informed choice about whether or not to buy it. It was up to Mr and 
Mrs M to ensure they bought the level of cover which suited their needs. 
Ive seen extracts of the sales journey which Mr and Mrs M would have followed when 
buying the policy. This includes the screenshots set out in TICORPs final response letter 
and is the information which Mr and Mrs M would have seen before completing the policy 
purchase. These show dropdown options for the purchaser to chose from, including two 
options for Europe  one which excluded the destination which Mr and Mrs M wanted cover 
for and one which included it. 
Mr and Mrs Ms policy schedule shows they chose to buy the option which excluded the 
destination in question. 
Ive also seen evidence that the quote summary displayed on the side of every webpage 
throughout the sales journey would have displayed that Mr and Mrs M had chosen cover 
which excluded the destination in question. 
Overall, I think the sales process was clear and I dont agree that Mr and Mrs M would need 
to have referred to their policy terms and conditions to confirm what was covered. 
I understand Mr and Mrs M say they would never have bought cover which excluded this 
destination but, based on the evidence Ive seen, I think its likely that Mr and Mrs M selected 
to buy a policy which excluded the destination they wanted cover for. 
Any misunderstanding or confusion about whether the destination in question was described 
as a low risk or a high risk country doesnt change my decision that TICORP didnt mis-sell 
this policy, so I wont be directing TICORP to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 October 2022.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman