DRN-3195932
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F are unhappy with Union Reiseversicherung AGs (URV) decision to decline 
their travel insurance claim.  
What happened
Mr and Mrs F had travel insurance with URV. Theyd booked to go on holiday from 10 
February 2020  14 May 2020. During their trip, theyd planned to travel around several 
countries. They were in New Zealand on 13 March and were planning to take a cruise when 
the COVID-19 restrictions came into effect. The cruise was cancelled, and they were left in 
New Zealand. Mr and Mrs F decided to return to the UK given the advice received from the 
Foreign Commonwealth Office (FCO). They managed to secure a flight, at an additional 
cost, and returned home on 23 March. They claimed on their policy for the additional flight 
costs and the unused part of their trip. But this was declined by URV.
URV said the policy Mr and Mrs F had didnt provide cover in the circumstances.
Our investigator thought this was unfair. She said that URV should cover the claim because 
the policy was unclear about whether cover would be provided. She explained that the 
curtailment section of the policy should cover Mr and Mrs Fs claim despite excluding claims 
arising from FCO advice. The investigator explained that Mr and Mrs F would have been left 
in a difficult position had they ignored FCO advice, because the policy wouldnt cover them 
had they stayed in New Zealand either. She said that the policy didnt make this clear and so 
felt that Mr and Mrs Fs claim should be covered on a fair and reasonable basis. 
URV disagreed and said that the policy isnt intended to cover curtailment due to FCO 
advice and so it maintained its position. 
Mr and Mrs F received a voucher from the tour operator for the unused portion of their trip  
which theyve accepted as a fair resolution. And so, this complaint is now focussed on the 
additional flight costs. Its for me to make a final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold is because I broadly agree with our investigators 
opinion that URV should cover this claim. Ill explain why. 
URVs argument here is that theres no cover in place for FCO exclusions. In other words, 
the policy doesnt cover curtailment claims that are caused by the FCO advising against all 
but essential travel. Its highlighted the relevant clause in its terms and other documentation;
what is not covered section:14.
Travelling against FCO advice -Your travel to a country, specific area or event when the 
Travel Advice Unit of the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO) or regulatory authority in a 
country to/from which you are travelling has advised against all, or all but essential travel.
And;
Unless agreed with us there will be no cover If the FCO advise against travel to your 
destination. 
But this claim wasnt borne from that. Mr and Mrs F were in New Zealand and awaiting their 
cruise when they received the news that it was cancelled. This was on 13 March 2020 and 
before any FCO advice was given. New Zealand didnt announce any restrictions on travel 
until 19 March  which was after Mr and Mrs Fs trip was curtailed. And the UK didnt place 
any restrictions to New Zealand until 29 March  which was again after they decided to 
arrange a flight home. 
The reason the cruise was cancelled was because the destination they intended to travel 
closed its borders to new visitors, owing to the COVID-19 pandemic. Ive checked this and 
Im satisfied that was the case. Mr and Mrs Fs trip was then effectively curtailed because 
they were unable to continue in the circumstances. 
The most relevant term in the policy explains that cover will be provided for curtailment 
claims for irrecoverable costs of unused transport and accommodation where there is; 
1) death, illness, bodily injury as a direct result of pregnancy, 
2) Quarantine 
3) If you are employed in certain listed jobs and you get called upon to return 
4) The authorities or police require you to cut short your trip for the listed reasons
It's for these reasons I think it fair that URV should have paid the claim because their trip 
was curtailed because the borders of their intended destination were closed. It wasnt 
because of the FCO advice as they had to cancel before that came out. The country they 
intended to travel to decided not to accept travellers and so the cruise was cancelled on that 
basis. 
The policy doesnt list this type of event as an exclusion and so Ive thought about whether 
its fair that URV rely on its reasoning for declining this claim. Im not persuaded it was. I say 
that because I think it a reasonable expectation of Mr and Mrs F that URVs policy would 
have provided cover in these circumstances, particularly as the policy is silent on that point. 
Therefore, I think it fair and reasonable to pay their claim for the reasons Ive explained.
Mr and Mrs F received a voucher for the unused part of their holiday and theyve since 
accepted this. And so, URV doesnt need to consider that part of it. But it should pay the 
additional costs associated with the return flight as this was necessary for them to get home 
given what Ive just explained. 
Mr and Mrs F were able to get a return flight on 23 March 2020 which was significantly 
curtailing the trip as they were due back home until 14 May. The additional costs of those 
flights were £1001 and so URV should now pay this.
 
My final decision
Im upholding this complaint and Union Reiseversicherung AG must now pay the costs associated with getting Mr and Mrs F home to the UK as explained above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 April 2022.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman