DRN-4250954
The complaint
Mrs H has complained about the quality of a car she acquired under a hire purchase 
agreement with Black Horse Ltd trading as Land Rover Financial Services. Shes also 
unhappy with the affordability checks that were carried out when she took out the 
agreement. 
What happened
In April 2019 Mrs H acquired a used car under a four-year hire purchase agreement with 
Black Horse. The car was a year old and had covered around 8,000 miles. The car cost 
around £37,000 and Mrs H paid a deposit of around £2,500. Monthly payments were around 
£600 per month and there was a final payment of around £16,000. 
Around nine months after acquiring the car Mrs H raised a quality dispute because smoke 
was coming from the exhaust. Mrs H took the car back to the dealer and it traced the fault to 
a turbo charger and replaced it, which cost around £2,000. The dealer also said further 
damage may have occurred due to the lack of servicing and that Mrs H had been made 
aware. The mileage at this point was around 30,500. 
When Mrs H collected the car she quickly saw the engine management light had come on so 
she contacted the dealer again, and it informed her the car needed a new engine. 
Mrs H complained to the dealer and Black Horse. Black Horse arranged an independent 
inspection that said the failure was caused by a lack of servicing and there was no evidence 
the fault was present or developing at the point of supply. Black Horse therefore didnt 
uphold the complaint. It said Mrs H had covered over 22,000 miles in nine months and that 
shed not serviced the car in line with the manufacturer guidelines. Black Horse said a 
service was due around 10,500 miles prior to the failure. 
Mrs H took her complaint against the dealer to another alternative dispute resolution (ADR) 
scheme that didnt uphold her complaint. It said the evidence suggests the turbo and engine 
failed because of a lack of servicing and not because of an inherent fault. 
Mrs H raised another complaint with Black Horse in May 2022. Black Horse noted Mrs H 
said the root cause of the faults was an oil leak. And that the car was returned without an 
engine rebuild. She also raised concerns about falsification of her income by the dealer to 
get the finance approved. Shes questioned the affordability checks that were carried out, 
and that if her income hadnt been inflated, she wouldnt have been granted the finance 
agreement. 
Black Horse sent a further final response to say there was no evidence an oil leak that Mrs H 
reported was caused by the dealer or was present at the point of supply. It also didnt uphold 
a complaint about the car being delivered back without an engine rebuild because it says the 
engine was stripped for inspection and put back in the car when it was delivered back. It also 
said Mrs H received a copy of the agreement and signed it. It said if she was unhappy with 
any of the terms she wasnt obligated to proceed. It said Mrs H supplied the income and 
expenditure which was applied in order to complete the affordability checks. It said it carried 
out checks with the credit reference agencies before granting the finance. It didnt uphold the 
complaint, and Mrs H referred it to our service to consider. 
Our investigator looked into things but didnt make any recommendations. She didnt think 
there was enough evidence the car wasnt of satisfactory quality. She noted Mrs H had said 
her son carried out the pre-sales process and liaised with the dealer. And that shed not 
seen enough evidence of Mrs Hs income so she couldnt conclude the salary had been 
inflated by the dealer. 
Mrs H didnt agree. She said shed sent in evidence of her bank statements and that shed 
supply more information. She said her income had been falsified and that the car possibly 
had an oil leak when it was supplied which caused the knock-on problems. Or that they were 
caused by the dealer. Mrs H supplied a copy of her P60 for the tax year to 5 April 2020.
As things couldnt be resolved, the complaint was passed to me to make a decision. I 
requested further evidence through our investigator. We asked Mrs H to supply us a copy of 
her full credit file, three months bank statements leading up to the Black Horse agreement 
for all the accounts she used and details of her income and expenditure. This is so we could 
establish Mrs Hs financial situation at the time she entered into the agreement, because 
shed indicated she wouldnt have been able to afford the agreement had the dealer not 
inflated her salary  implying Black Horse shouldnt have lent to her. 
Mrs H said shed not be able to send her credit file, but she found a couple of statements for 
joint accounts she held. Mrs H sent a statement for one account from November 2018 to 
February 2019. And from another account which looks like its from February to March 2018. 
The copies of the statements weve been sent arent very clear.  
I issued a provisional decision that said:
I want to acknowledge Ive summarised the events of the complaint. I dont intend any 
discourtesy by this  it just reflects the informal nature of our service. Im required to decide 
matters quickly and with minimum formality. But I want to assure Mrs H and Black Horse that 
Ive reviewed everything on file. And if I dont comment on something, its not because I 
havent considered it. Its because Ive concentrated on what I think are the key issues. Our 
powers allow me to do this. 
Im conscious that Mrs H had six months to refer her complaint to our service off the back of 
Black Horses final response letter that it sent in August 2020. Mrs H referred her complaint 
to our service in June 2022 off the back of another final response letter Black Horse sent that 
month. 
It looks like Black Horse reinvestigated Mrs Hs complaint about the quality of the car 
because of further evidence from Mrs H. She also raised new points that had not been 
considered before. For the avoidance of doubt, and given it looks like Black Horse 
reinvestigated the matter, I intend to say the complaint about the quality of goods was 
brought in time because it was reinvestigated due to the new evidence, and that the other 
complaints about the delivery back of the car and the affordability can also be considered 
under this complaint. If Black Horse disagrees with any of this, it should let me know in 
response to this provisional decision. 
Quality of goods
Mrs H didnt offer substantive responses to our investigators view on the quality of the car. 
But for completeness, Ive thought about this part of the complaint. Mrs H acquired the car under a hire purchase agreement. Our service is able to consider 
complaints relating to these sorts of regulated consumer credit agreements. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) covers agreements like the one Mrs H entered into. 
The CRA implies terms into the agreement that the quality of goods is satisfactory. 
Black Horse is the trader for the purposes of the CRA and is therefore responsible for 
dealing with a complaint about their quality.
The CRA says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into account the description of the 
goods, the price or other consideration for the goods (if relevant) and all other relevant 
circumstances. For this case, I think the other relevant circumstances include the age and 
mileage of the car at the point of delivery.
In Mrs Hs case, the car supplied was used and had covered around 8,000 miles. Thered be 
different expectations than if it was a brand-new car. But its worth pointing out Mrs H paid 
around £37,000 and the car was only a year old. I dont think shed have expected it to have 
any major issues shortly after acquiring it. 
I think theres enough evidence to demonstrate there are faults with the car. It required a 
new turbo and, as I understand it, a new engine. But like our investigator found, I simply 
dont have enough evidence the faults were present or developing at the point of supply. 
Its important to note the only independent evidence I have, by way of the independent 
report, says that in the technicians opinion the engine failure was caused by a lack of 
servicing. And theres no evidence to suggest that this fault was present or developing at the 
point of sale. Similarly, Ive got no evidence to demonstrate the fault with the turbo was 
because of an inherent problem or that the engine fault was linked to work carried out by the 
dealer. 
I agree with our investigator that its relevant Mrs H was able to cover over 20,000 miles 
before the faults manifested. While I appreciate Mrs Hs comments that cars can drive on 
slow oil leaks for a long time, Ive simply not been shown any evidence to suggest the 
engine failure (or turbo fault) was caused by an oil leak that was present or developing at the 
point of supply. I dont find theres sufficient evidence to show the car wasnt of satisfactory 
quality. 
Ive also thought about the comments about the car not being serviced. It seems likely this is 
the cause of the faults. I understand the car needs to be serviced every two years or 20,000 
miles  whichever comes sooner. Ive not seen anything to indicate Mrs H had been told the 
car was serviced prior to her acquiring it, or that shed not need to service it. The hire 
purchase agreement sets out Mrs H was required to service the car in accordance with the 
manufacturers recommendations. 
Therefore, taking all this into account, there arent grounds to say the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied, or that Mrs H has been misled in some way 
regarding the servicing of it. 
Car returned without a rebuilt engine
Black Horse didnt uphold this part of Mrs Hs complaint because the dealer said it stripped 
the engine and the engine was put back in the car when it was returned. I understand 
Black Horse paid for this. Im not sure exactly what happened when the car was returned. 
And weve not been given supporting evidence from Mrs H. But given Ive not found there was a breach of contract with regards to the quality of the car, I dont consider Ive got the 
grounds to direct Black Horse to do anything in relation to this in any event. 
Affordability
Ive also thought about Mrs Hs complaint about the affordability checks that were carried out 
and the way the agreement was brokered. Weve explained how we consider complaints 
about unaffordable lending on our website. Ive thought about this approach when deciding 
this part of Mrs Hs complaint. 
Mrs H said her son spoke to the salesperson at the dealer when applying for the agreement. 
She says the only time she went into the dealer was to sign the contract. She says she 
thought her income was approximately £24,000 but the salesperson had inflated it to help 
get the finance agreed. Mrs H also says she didnt supply any payslips. 
Black Horse says it was supplied an income for Mrs H of £44,000. But Mrs H says this was 
incorrect. The acquisition happened quite a few years ago so its going to be difficult to reach 
firm conclusions about what was discussed at the time. Im conscious that some of the 
negotiations happened between Mrs Hs son and the dealer so Mrs H wasnt involved. But 
Im also mindful Mrs H has raised a complaint about the affordability of the agreement. So I 
think its sensible to focus on that, because its directly linked to the declared income. 
Our investigator didnt think about the affordability aspect of the complaint because 
Black Horse didnt substantively refer to it in its final response. But given Mrs H has raised 
an affordability aspect with Black Horse, I think I ought to consider it. 
Black Horse was required to make sure, via its lending decision, that Mrs H could 
sustainably repay the borrowing. The checks that Black Horse were required to carry out had 
to be borrower focused. So instead of seeing how statistically likely Mrs H was to repay the 
borrowing, it needed to assess whether she could sustainably repay the borrowing, taking 
into account her personal circumstances. And it needed to base its creditworthiness 
assessment on sufficient information.
What is considered proportionate will depend on a number of factors such as (but not limited 
to): the type, amount and duration of the credit; the frequency and size of the repayments; 
the total amount payable and total charge for credit; the interest rate and any other costs 
which may be payable; any other potential adverse consequences for the customer arising 
from a failure to make payment.
In this case, if she wanted to keep the car, Mrs H was asked to pay back over £45,000 over 
four years with payments of around £600  a significant commitment over a moderate term. 
Black Horse has said it was advised Mrs H had a disposable income of nearly £1,700 and 
that it carried out credit checks. Its shown us details of the checks it carried out. Id like to 
have more information about what certain information on the checks mean before saying 
whether I felt Black Horses checks were proportionate. But the problem I have is that even if 
I were to say Black Horses checks werent proportionate, I dont have sufficient evidence to 
decide what proportionate checks would have found  and therefore whether the agreement 
was affordable. 
Mrs H has been unable to supply copies of all her bank statements leading up to taking out 
the agreement for all the accounts she was using. Shes also not supplied a copy of her 
credit file. I appreciate different checks show different things and that Black Horse may have 
chosen to look at something else, but I think the statements and credit file would be fair for 
me to consider when weighing up Mrs Hs financial circumstances at the time she entered into the agreement. Without bank statements, a credit file, or other supporting evidence, I 
dont find I have the grounds to say that Black Horse acted unfairly by granting finance to 
Mrs H. And this would be the same whether or not the income was recorded incorrectly. 
Therefore, for the reasons given above, I dont think theres enough evidence to show the 
car was of unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied. I dont think Black Horse needs to 
take action in relation to the engine. And I dont consider theres sufficient evidence to say 
Black Horse acted unfairly by granting the finance. 
Black Horse hasnt supplied anything further, but Mrs H did. In summary, she says:
The engine was disconnected so it was wrong to say it was attached. The dealer 
wasnt paid to reconnect it. 
Shed sent copies of the correct bank statements which were from 2019, not 2018. 
She never said her income was £44,000  this was done by the salesperson. She 
questions where the evidence was that it wasnt altered. Her income was around 
£24,000. 
The car had repairs carried out to the diesel particulate filter (DPF) without her being 
consulted. And that it was returned as fixed when it wasnt. 
The garage shouldnt have taken money from her for a repair that wasnt going to 
work. 
There was an oil leak and that the service wasnt due until May 2020. The car should 
have had an oil change before it was supplied, or she should have been better 
informed. 
She was unable to supply a copy of her credit file. 
Mrs H did supply some further bank statements. She says one set of statements shows her 
husbands income and outgoings. And that another statement shows her income and 
outgoings aside from a job she was paid in cash  but that is shown on the P45. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to thank Mrs H for supplying further evidence, which Ive considered. I do empathise 
with the situation. And I can understand she must be really frustrated to have spent so much 
money on a car that wasnt very old, and its developed such significant problems. I cant 
imagine how she must have felt receiving the car back after having the turbo repaired only to 
find out there were still major problems with it.
However, what I have to bear in mind is that Im considering a complaint against 
Black Horse. And I need to think about its responsibilities as a provider of financial services. 
Im not considering a complaint against the dealer.
As the supplier of the car under the hire purchase agreement, Black Horse is responsible for 
a complaint about its quality. But for the reasons given in my provisional decision Ive not 
seen enough to demonstrate theres a breach of contract in relation to the implied terms 
about the cars quality. I take on board Mrs H has said the car had repairs carried out to the 
DPF and that she tells us it was returned as fixed when it wasnt. Moreover, Mrs H said the 
engine wasnt reconnected more recently. But I dont have sufficient evidence the faults were 
as a result of the car not being of satisfactory quality. If I could make a finding the faults were 
as a result of the car not being of satisfactory quality, I could say there was a breach of 
contract and that Black Horse needed to take ownership to put things right. But without being 
able to establish theres a breach of contract, I dont find I have the grounds to do that. The evidence Ive seen indicates the faults were as a result of the car not being serviced 
properly. Mrs H has said the service wasnt due until May 2020, but I understand the car 
needs to be serviced every two years or 20,000 miles  whichever is sooner. So given the 
car had around 30,000 miles on the odometer, and it hadnt been serviced I dont think it was 
serviced in line with the guidelines. Ive not seen anything to demonstrate Mrs H was misled 
about those requirements, or that she was misled about the service history of the car. 
Black Horse has said it paid the dealer £1,690 for the strip down of the engine. And it paid to 
have the car put back together again to be delivered back to Mrs H. It says it didnt agree 
any repairs as the complaint wasnt upheld. Its provided evidence it asked Mrs H for 
evidence an oil leak was present or developing at the point of supply. Based on what Ive 
seen, I think Black Horse acted fairly. Its taken the steps to pay to have the car inspected 
when it could have asked Mrs H herself to evidence the faults were inherent. It says its paid 
to have the engine reassembled (although not to a working order because it doesnt have 
liability). So if theres any problems in relation to that  Mrs H may wish to speak to the 
dealer, or ultimately to Black Horse again. But I dont consider Black Horse needs to do 
more in relation to the quality of the car than its already done. 
With regards to the affordability, I still dont consider Ive been supplied sufficient evidence 
the agreement was unaffordable. Mrs H says the evidence supplied shows the income for 
her and her husband. Ive been shown three months for a joint account. Payments in and out 
the account both total over £23,000 for the three months. Mrs H has also provided a few 
months or her own statements. But Ive not seen a copy of her credit file. I can see a 
significant number of transfers from Mrs Hs husbands account which I have no further 
details of. Without sufficient evidence of Mrs Hs full financial circumstances it wouldnt be 
fair to say the agreement was unaffordable. Ive set out in my provisional decision that 
theres a lack of evidence as well about what happened when the agreement was brokered. 
Even if I were to make the finding Mrs Hs income was input incorrectly, I still cant safely 
conclude the agreement wasnt affordable. 
Therefore, while I sympathise with the situation, Im not going to direct Black Horse to take 
any further action.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2023.
 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman