DRN-3098624
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Fairmead Insurance Limited caused significant delays on a 
claim under their legal expenses insurance policy, which resulted in them being unable to 
pursue it.
Where I refer to Fairmead, this includes its agents and claims handlers. 
 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
an overview of some key events here.
In 2016, Mr and Mrs W entered into a contract with a company  who Ill refer to as E  to 
have new windows and doors installed. There were several problems, including faults with 
the product, workmanship and damage caused to their home. 
E admitted liability for what went wrong, but Mr and Mrs W werent happy with the options 
given to resolve the complaint. So in 2017, they made a claim on their insurance policy to 
take legal action against E. Fairmead accepted the claim, and appointed one of its panel 
solicitors  who Ill refer to as D. 
D was satisfied the claim enjoyed reasonable prospects of success and agreed to pursue it, 
with its costs being covered by the policy. But in 2019, D advised Fairmead that it could no 
longer act due to a breakdown in the relationship with Mr and Mrs W. This appears to have 
arisen because Mr and Mrs W were unhappy with the expert evidence from two different 
experts. They felt the reports didnt accurately reflect the full extent of the problems and they 
were concerned that D had provided inadequate instructions to the experts. 
Fairmead agreed to instruct another panel solicitor  who Ill refer to as M. M was satisfied 
the claim still enjoyed reasonable prospects, but it wanted to obtain a new expert report. By 
the time this was arranged, it was 2020 and the country was in lockdown due to the Covid 
pandemic. So the expert wasnt able to attend Mr and Mrs Ws home due to government 
restrictions. 
By mid-2020, E went into administration. Because of this, M didnt think there were 
reasonable prospects of recovering damages. As this is a requirement for cover under the 
legal expenses policy, Fairmead withdrew funding from the claim.
Mr and Mrs W has raised a complaint as theyre unhappy with the handling of their claim. 
They say the delays in progressing matters has resulted in them being unable to pursue E. 
And had the claim been handled appropriately, this wouldve been resolved long before the 
pandemic and before E went into administration.
Fairmead said it couldnt take responsibility for the actions of the solicitors. And as D and M 
were responsible for the day to day running of the claim, any complaint about its progression 
should be directed to them and the Legal Ombudsman. But it acknowledged that there had 
been delays in responding to correspondence. And for that, it offered £250 compensation.
As Mr and Mrs W werent happy with this response, they brought their complaint to our 
service. But our investigator didnt think Fairmead needed to do anything more to put things 
right. He agreed that Fairmead arent responsible for the solicitors actions and much of what 
went wrong was outside of its control. He was satisfied the offer of £250 fairly compensated 
Mr and Mrs W for the stress and inconvenience caused by Fairmead.
Mr and Mrs W didnt agree with our investigator, so the complaint has been passed to me for 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
  
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. I recognise the strength of feeling Mr and Mrs W have for this matter, and I 
know this outcome will be disappointing to them. So Ill explain why.
I should make clear at the outset that Im only looking at the way Fairmead handled this 
claim. I appreciate Mr and Mrs W are unhappy with both D and M, but Fairmead isnt 
responsible for the actions of a solicitor.
In order for the solicitors to act as representatives for Mr and Mrs W in their claim, they 
wouldve had to enter into a client/solicitor retainer. At that point, Mr and Mrs W wouldve 
become clients of the solicitors. Solicitors have their own rules and regulations. And 
complaints about them are considered by the Legal Ombudsman.
If Mr and Mrs W have concerns over the way the solicitors handled their claim, theyd need 
to raise these with the solicitors directly. And they can escalate their complaint to the Legal 
Ombudsman. I wont be looking into the solicitors conduct. And I wont be holding Fairmead 
responsible for it.
Turning to Fairmeads conduct, I can see that it initially received Mr and Mrs Ws claim in 
2017. It actioned this within a reasonable period of time and after receiving the policy 
excess, it instructed D. I havent identified any delays during this period. 
D had the claim from 2017 to 2019. And during this time, Fairmead took very little action. I 
cant see that it requested updates from D or updated Mr and Mrs W at all during that time. 
Our investigator thought this was poor customer service, but he acknowledged that as D had 
conduct of the claim it wasnt necessary for Fairmead to get involved. 
Ive thought about what Id expect Fairmead to do, as the insurer, once a panel solicitor had 
been instructed. As Fairmead arent legal professionals, it isnt responsible for the day to day 
running of the claim nor would I expect them to oversee the solicitors actions. I also wouldnt 
expect Fairmead to update Mr and Mrs W  as that would be for D to do.
In 2019, D contacted Fairmead about the problems it was experiencing with the expert 
evidence. It asked Fairmead if it would be willing to fund a third expert report as 
Mr and Mrs W werent happy with the first two reports, including supplementary reports. 
Fairmead responded to this request within its service standards, confirming that it wasnt 
aware of any reason why a third report was reasonable or necessary. Im satisfied this 
decision was fair, based on the information Fairmead has been given by D at that time.A few months later, D advised Fairmead that it could no longer act due to the breakdown in 
the relationship. Fairmead offered Mr and Mrs W the choice of two further panel solicitors, 
following which M was appointed. Whilst Im satisfied this was the appropriate action for 
Fairmead to take, I dont think this was handled as quickly as it couldve been. There does 
appear to have been a few weeks between Fairmead being aware of Ds withdrawal from the 
case and the offer of new solicitors.  
Whilst there appears to have been a further few weeks delay before appointing M, this 
seems to be because Fairmead were responding to several questions raised by Mr and 
Mrs W. As well as arranging calls from the two panel firms to speak to them before they 
choose one. Once theyd decided on M, there was further correspondence between 
Fairmead and M to agree terms of appointment. But I do note some emails that werent 
responded to within Fairmeads service standards.
Once M was appointed, the day to day conduct of the claim became its responsibility. And I 
dont think there was anything more Fairmead couldve done from this point. Its unfortunate 
that the claim didnt progress quickly enough and once a further expert was ready to be 
appointed, the government restrictions prevented this from taking place. After which, E went 
into administration. But I cant hold Fairmead responsible for this. 
From everything Ive seen, there has been times when Fairmead couldve responded or 
taken action quicker than it did. But the delays Ive identified consist of a few weeks and are 
not sufficient enough to have contributed to the claim spanning over three years. Nor do I 
think it was within Fairmeads control that E went into administration before the claim could 
be pursued. 
That said, I do believe Mr and Mrs W wouldve experienced some additional stress and 
inconvenience as a result of Fairmeads delays. These were at a crucial time where new 
solicitors needed to be appointed. So for that reason, I think compensation should be paid. 
And based on the impact I believe this wouldve had on Mr and Mrs W, Im satisfied £250 is 
fair in the circumstances. 
  
My final decision
Fairmead Insurance Limited has offered to pay £250 compensation to resolve this complaint. 
I think this is fair, for the reasons Ive explained. 
As such, my final decision is that Fairmead Insurance Limited should pay Mr and Mrs W 
compensation of £250.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 23 November 2021.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman