DRN-3385040
The complaint
Mr A complains about the way American International Group UK Limited (AIG) dealt with his 
claim for his watch under his Tech Pack insurance. 
What happened
Mr A made a claim under his Tech Pack insurance to repair or replace his watch. AIG 
accepted the claim and arranged for the repair. AIG were unable to repair the watch as the 
parts were unavailable so it sent Mr A a cash settlement.
Mr A wasnt happy with the cash settlement so contacted AIG and also asked for the return 
of his watch because he said he could get it repaired himself. AIG explained that it was 
unable to return the watch as a cash settlement had been offered. Mr A didnt agree, he felt 
the cash settlement wasnt sufficient for him to get a replacement and he could have had the 
watch repaired himself for less, so he made a complaint. 
AIG upheld the complaint and said it hadnt offered the correct settlement figure so agreed to 
pay Mr A a further £60 to settle the claim and also £20 in compensation for the error. Mr A 
didnt think AIG had done enough and remained unhappy that AIG disposed of his watch. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said AIG had processed the claim in line 
with the terms of the policy and its offer of compensation was reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
Mr A didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold the complaint, Ill explain why. 
Looking first at the policy document, the terms say:
Brightstar may offer You the ability to have Your Device repaired instead of 
replaced. 
Brightstar will determine at its sole discretion what the available repair options are 
based on Your location and Your Device. Brightstar will discuss the available options 
with You at the time of Your claim
Where Brightstar replaces the Device, the replacement will likely be a 
remanufactured - not brand new - Device. 
Brightstar is under no obligation to provide You with a new replacement Device and 
there is no guarantee that You will receive a new replacement Device.
If Brightstar is unable to provide a replacement it will contact You to discuss an 
alternative claim settlement.
Damaged or broken-down Devices and parts and materials replaced by Brightstar 
shall become Our property.
Mr As policy, like all other gadget insurance policies Ive seen, provides that it may replace 
an insured device with one that has been refurbished. It also states that it cant guarantee to 
replace the insured device with one of the same colour. We dont consider that these terms 
are unfair. And in my opinion, this is clearly set out in the policy terms.
Mr A says that the settlement amount AIG offered wasnt enough to replace his watch for an 
identical one. But having considered the information provided I think that the same make and 
model was available for the settlement amount. So Im not persuaded that the settlement 
offer was too low. 
Mr A doesnt feel he is able to get a replacement watch with the settlement amount. But Mr 
As policy says it doesnt provide a guaranteed new replacement, so I dont think it was 
unreasonable of it to offer the settlement it did as it seems in line with the amount a 
refurbished watch would cost. 
Mr As watch was considered beyond repair and under the policy terms AIG was entitled to 
decide if the watch was repairable or not and then go on to decide if it could offer a 
replacement or discuss an alternative settlement. 
After AIG had told Mr A that his watch wasnt repairable, he asked for it to be returned to 
him. He felt hed be able to get it repaired elsewhere. But AIG were unclear whether this was 
possible. The agent Mr A spoke to didnt know if the watch had been disposed of or not. 
A few days later AIG told Mr A that his watch had been disposed of and so couldnt be 
returned. Given the circumstances, I can see that this wouldve been frustrating for Mr A.
AIG says that it didnt dispose of the watch prematurely and by the time Mr A had requested 
the watch be returned AIG were unable to guarantee anything as the settlement had been 
made seven days prior so it thought the watch was likely to have already been broken down 
for parts.  
It's likely that in assessing whether the watch was repairable or not, it was taken apart. This 
means it became unlikely that anyone else could repair it. 
But by then AIG had met its obligation under the policy. It had offered the settlement. And in 
doing so the watch had become its property. So it was entitled to keep it and/or dispose of it 
as it wished. So by the time Mr A asked for his watch back, it belonged to AIG. So it did 
nothing wrong when it disposed of it. 
Mr A says this was unfair. He fells AIG should have contacted him before disposing of his 
watch. Unfortunately, theres nothing in the policy terms which requires AIG to do this. Its a 
matter of insurance law that once an insurer has provided full indemnity it acquires the 
policyholders rights over the insured item. So, once AIG had settled the claim, the watch 
belonged to it. 
Ive also thought about the incorrect settlement figure which was initially offered to Mr A, I 
can see AIG accepted its error and offered Mr A £20 compensation for the error which I think 
is fair and in line with what this service would offer in similar circumstances. I understand Mr As disappointment, but I dont consider that AIG has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably. And I dont intend to ask it to do anything further in relation to this claim. 
  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I m not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2022.
 
Jag Dhuphar
Ombudsman