DRN-2879275
The complaint
Mr R complains that Barons Autostar Ltd did not properly advise him about a number of car 
finance agreements he entered into over several years.
What happened
Mr R is a partner in a professional services firm. From about 2010 he has taken out a 
number of finance agreements for cars, brokered by Barons Autostar. Some have been in 
his own name and some have been in the name of his firm, which Ill call B. Until recently, 
however, all have been personal rather than commercial agreements. Mr R has explained 
though that all were for cars for the use of his business. His complaint is, in summary, that 
Barons Autostar should have told him about commercial agreements, since they would have 
been cheaper and therefore more appropriate to his needs and those of his business.
Until April 2014 this service had no power to consider complaints about credit broking for 
business purposes where the total amount payable was more than £25,000. That meant that 
we could not consider a number of the agreements about which Mr R was complaining. A 
different ombudsman issued a decision explaining that in more detail. We can however 
consider one agreement in Mr Rs name (which is the subject of this complaint) and one in 
the name of his firm (which is the subject of a separate complaint).
The agreement I am considering here was in Mr Rs name and was signed in April 2016. It 
was a three-year hire purchase agreement regulated by the Consumer Credit Act 1974. It 
required Mr R to make an advance payment of just under £1,500 followed by monthly 
payments of £795.00. It was a fairly standard hire purchase agreement.
Mr R has explained that it was not until a different agreement came to an end in 2017 that he 
realised he could have taken out commercial agreements instead and that this would have 
worked out much cheaper for him and his business. With all the other agreements he had 
taken out over the years, he says he could have saved tens of thousands of pounds. As I 
have indicated, however, this service cannot consider complaints about the setting up of 
most of those agreements.
Barons Autostar did not accept that it was responsible for advising Mr R on the type of 
agreement he or his firm should have taken out. It noted that its terms of engagement 
expressly said that it was not a financial adviser and could not provide financial advice. Mr R 
referred the matter to this service where one of our investigators considered what had 
happened. He thought that Barons Autostar should have appreciated from its dealings with 
Mr R that the car was for business purposes and should therefore have discussed the option 
of a commercial rather than personal finance agreement. He recommended compensation to 
reflect what he considered to have been the additional costs incurred by Mr R and B.
Neither Mr R not Barons Autostar accepted the investigators recommendation and the case 
was passed to me. Because I thought it likely that I would reach a different conclusion from 
that reached by the investigator, I issued a provisional decision. I indicated that I was not 
minded to uphold the complaint, for these reasons:
In my view it would not be fair to determine this complaint in Mr Rs favour unless I thought 
that Barons Autostar had done something wrong. And I can only make an award in Mr Rs 
favour if I do that and conclude that Barons Autostars actions or inaction caused financial 
loss or material inconvenience.
The role of Barons Autostar as a broker was to introduce Mr R to suitable products and 
where necessary to explain the key features of them. Its disclosure document says that it 
can introduce customers to a limited number of lenders who may be able to help. Those 
lenders provide a range of products which may be suitable. It also says:
We are not Independent Financial Advisors and so are unable to provide you with 
independent financial advice. There are also other sources of finance which you may 
wish to investigate.
I think therefore that Barons Autostar made it clear that it was not recommending one 
product over another or giving advice about the suitability of any arrangement. Nor would I 
expect it to do so without asking about Bs business. In my view Barons Autostar was 
entitled to proceed on the basis that Mr R had, if necessary, taken his own advice on how 
best to finance cars for his business.
I do not therefore need to consider whether in fact taking the car on a commercial deal would 
have been cheaper for Mr R and I make no comment on that.
In response to my provisional decision Mr R said that he thought there was some confusion 
about the nature of his complaint. He clarified that his complaint was not that Barons 
Autostar had given poor financial advice but that it had not told him about the option of using 
corporate finance to fund the car. He asked that I review the case and issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am of course grateful to Mr R for his clarification. I did however refer to both the actions of 
Barons Autostar and to its inaction. I also noted that the investigator had indicated that he 
thought Barons Autostar should have discussed commercial as well as personal 
agreements.
For the avoidance of any doubt, however, I do understand that Mr Rs complaint is not that 
he was given poor advice but that he was not given sufficient information about the options 
available to him. I accept that he was not given financial advice.   
I remain of the view however that Barons Autostar did what it was engaged to do, namely to 
introduce finance arrangements. It made clear to Mr R that different packages might be 
available  that is, the fact that it introduced a particular arrangement did not mean it was the 
most suitable or that other options might be better. It did not mean either that it had 
presented a full range of options.
Mr R says that his choices were restricted because he was not given the full range of 
options. I am prepared to assume for the purposes of this complaint that corporate finance 
would have been available in this case, although I note that Barons Autostar has said that 
not all packages were available to all customers. It has also said that its corporate finance 
packages were designed for corporate customers who have a need for a number of vehicles 
but do not wish to visit a dealership. Mr R did not fit that profile. It said, as I noted in my 
provisional decision, that a corporate deal would not necessarily have saved Mr R any money.  
I do not believe however that Mr R had an entitlement to be introduced to corporate finance 
options, even if he would have been able to apply for them. Nor was he told that all options 
had been presented. On the contrary, he was told that other sources of finance were 
available. I am satisfied that Mr R was provided with sufficient information about the deal he 
took out to enable him to make an informed decision about whether or not to proceed with it.
My final decision
For these reasons, as well as those set out in my provisional decision, I do not require 
Barons Autostar Ltd to do anything more to resolve Mr Rs complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or reject my decision 
before 16 July 2021.
 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman