DRN-1788028
The complaint
Mr G complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) incorrectly recorded adverse 
information on his credit file which meant he couldnt take out a mortgage for the amount he 
wanted.
What happened
Mr G entered into a repayment plan in 2018 with NatWest and was told it would not be 
reported to the Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs), but it was. He says he found that out 
when he made a mortgage application with a bank I will call B and although the mortgage 
application was approved, B would only lend him 85% Loan To Value (LTV) and not the 95% 
LTV he wanted. Mr G says he was forced to use savings to buy the house that he had 
planned on using for renovations on his new house. He would like £13,000 compensation 
which is the extra money he was unable to borrow or for NatWest to lend him the money on 
the same terms as the mortgage he took out. Mr G would also like compensation for a 
holiday deposit he lost when he cancelled it as he couldnt afford it. And says B told him the 
problem was caused by NatWest and the information it recorded on his credit file.
NatWest accepts it made a mistake and has apologised to Mr G. It says it has removed the 
adverse information and has paid £50 compensation.
Mr G brought his complaint to us and our investigator upheld the complaint. The investigator 
thought B hadnt said the sole reason for offering a 85% LTV compared to a 95% LTV 
mortgage was due to the incorrect CRA information. And that lenders consider a variety of 
factors when making lending decision. The investigator thought it was Mr Gs choice to 
cancel the holiday and recommended NatWest pay a total of £200 compensation which its 
agreed to do. The investigator listened to the call recordings and thought Mr G applied for an 
85% LTV before asking for a 95% LTV mortgage and didnt think there was evidence the 
sole reason for decline was the CRA information.
Mr G doesnt accept that view and says his credit score was excellent until the mistake and 
was told by B what the issue was. He says he had no choice but to cancel the holiday and at 
no stage was he told the issue was affordability.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I uphold this complaint and think NatWest should pay £200 compensation. I 
appreciate that Mr G will be disappointed by my decision.
There is no question here that NatWest made a mistake and recorded adverse information 
on Mr Gs credit file. I have no doubt Mr G spent some time trying to find out what had taken 
place and in asking NatWest to remove it. I also accept that Mr G spent time explaining what 
had happened to B and I have no doubt was caused distress and inconvenience. For those 
reasons I find NatWest ought to pay Mr G compensation and Im satisfied that £200 
compensation is fair and reasonable and fairly reflects the level of distress and 
inconvenience he was caused.
The key issue here is if NatWests actions led to B refusing to lend Mr G more than 85% LTV 
when he made a mortgage application. And I confirm that I have looked at Mr Gs application 
for a mortgage and listened to the calls between him and B. Im satisfied that lenders look at 
a variety of factors when making lending decisions that are not confined to information on 
credit files and such decisions are usually complex and generated by computer 
programmes. Im also satisfied that during one call B told Mr G that it had no concerns about 
the adverse information on his credit file and I dont think at any stage that B told Mr G that 
the sole reason for the lending decision was based on that adverse information. So, Im 
satisfied that I cant fairly hold NatWest responsible for Bs lending decisions and I also cant 
fairly find that Bs lending decision was due to NatWests mistake.
I also make clear to Mr G that regardless of my findings I dont think he suffered a financial 
loss of the £13,000. I think that if B had lent him the 95% LTV mortgage, he would have 
owed B that extra money. I can see that Mr G has told us that he didnt for example take out 
a personal loan for the extra money which may have been a far more cost-effective way of 
borrowing rather than a long-term mortgage. I also think it was Mr Gs choice to cancel his 
holiday and so I cant fairly order NatWest to repay that cancellation cost.
Overall, I accept NatWest made a mistake and I have explained that I accept that would 
have had an impact on Mr G. I cant fairly find that NatWests mistake was the sole reason 
why B lent the amount it did, and, in any event, I find Mr G didnt suffer a financial loss as 
result of what took place.
Putting things right
I intend to order NatWest to pay a further £150 compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and order National Westminster Bank 
Plc to pay Mr G a further £150 compensation. Mr Gs acceptance of that award would be in 
full and final settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2020.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman