DRN-3915353
The complaint
P complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) have failed to refund a payment of £9,542.75 it 
made to a Wise account as part of an investment scam in February 2022.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
It isnt in dispute that P authorised the disputed payment made to Wise (the account of 
which was held in the name of Ps sole proprietor) using its Lloyds debit card (where the 
funds were subsequently transferred on to the scammers). The payments were 
requested by P using its legitimate security credentials provided by Lloyds, and the 
starting position is that banks ought to follow the instructions given by their customers in 
order for legitimate payments to be made as instructed.
However, Ive considered whether Lloyds should have done more to prevent P from 
falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a bank should 
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular transfer. 
For example, if it was particularly out of character. 
Having considered the payment of £9,542.75 in light of Ps spending history, I dont think 
it would have appeared particularly unusual or out of character. I can see that it had 
made much larger transactions prior, such as two payments of £15,000 and £28,763.43 
just the day before it made the payment to Wise. Payments as large as £83,000 had also 
been made from the account in September 2021, so a payment of less than £10,000 
would therefore not have represented a significant deviation in the way Ps account was 
normally used. Therefore, Im not persuaded there was anything that ought reasonably to 
have triggered Lloyds fraud monitoring systems in these circumstances, and I dont 
consider there to be any fair or reasonable basis in which it can be held liable for Ps 
loss. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2023.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman