DRN-4401228
The complaint
I, a company, complains about a claim it made on its Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited 
(RSA) business protection insurance policy.
I says RSA treated it unfairly.
Is complaint is brought by a representative on its behalf, but I shall refer to all submissions 
as being its own for ease of reference.
What happened
The history of this complaint is well known to both parties, so I wont repeat it here in detail, 
save to say that Is claim arises out of damage to its premises following a storm in July 2021. 
I submitted its claim for damage to contents and business interruption in July 2022.
In summary, I is unhappy with the settlement amount offered by RSA. It feels this doesnt 
adequately compensate it for the losses it suffered and that its entitled to more. Its also 
unhappy with the time its taken RSA to assess its claim.  RSA says its assessed everything 
and the offer its made I is fair.
Our investigator considered Is complaint and didnt uphold it. She said RSA havent treated I 
unfairly. I doesnt agree so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold Is complaint against RSA. Ive explained why under the 
headings below.
Business interruption
I says that further sums are owed to it under this claim, but that RSA has yet to pay this. 
RSA says that when the policy was taken out the statement of fact stated the property was 
solely occupied by I, but this doesnt now appear to be the case. As such I is only covered 
for their specific losses. 
I appreciate that I says they were unaware of the information given in the statement of fact 
and that this was completed by their broker. But whilst Im sympathetic to I, I cant ask RSA 
to pay out a claim beyond the risk its agreed to take on. So, the losses I is claiming for need 
to relate to I specifically. 
In terms of business interruption, RSA has said that the only income generated by I itself is a 
monthly management fee plus rental income. RSA say the pub management agreement 
shows the management fee to be a flat rate with no provision for VAT, so it hasnt paid this. 
RSA has offset any savings made by I during the period of closure which have been 
calculated by their agents independently. As such RSA have worked out the net figure 
payable to I at around £56,700. 
I says this doesnt take into account the entire figure its claimed in respect of income. RSA 
acknowledge that I appears to receive more in terms of income than is recorded in Is 
management agreement, but RSA says its unclear what this relates to. Is accountant 
provided some explanation that compensation on profits was paid to I and increased each 
year but theres no evidence to support why this was or indeed anything that supports the 
account given of this amount. I think its reasonable for RSA to ask for evidence of this 
additional income in order to decide whether the claim falls within its policy terms. Without it, 
I cant say RSA have done anything wrong by turning down that claim.
I is unhappy that RSA havent paid a loss of rental income for the 1st floor function room and 
the flat above the business premises. From what Ive seen, thats because the insurance 
was taken out on the basis that the premises was solely occupied, but that doesnt appear to 
be the case. As such these two areas seem to fall out of the business occupancy so I dont 
think RSA were wrong to turn down these claims. 
Since bringing this complaint I has supplied RSA with further information to support the 
claim. Although RSA has supplied some comment on that information, its not something I 
can consider because it didnt form part of the original complaint that was addressed by the 
investigator and in any event RSA havent provided a final response letter in respect of that 
information. If I remains unhappy, it will need to address this with RSA directly and if it wants 
to, raise a fresh complaint.  As matters stand however, I may well be able to resolve things 
with RSA if its able to supply credible evidence to substantiate the claims its making here.
Contents claim
RSA offered I roughly £19,000 in respect of their claim but I says this doesnt cover 
everything. As I understand it the reason for this was because I hadnt supplied RSA with 
proof of ownership of the additional items claimed for. So, whilst I supplied further invoices, it 
didnt provide evidence to support the fact that it owned them.
I says it has supplied further information to RSA since it brought this complaint to us to 
determine to help support its contents claim. From what RSA has said, I has supplied an 
invoice for refurnishing the flat thats above the business premises but there are no details of 
the work done and no evidence that supports the flat belongs to I at all and therefore forms 
part of the insured risk. RSA have asked for further information to help determine this issue. 
I has explained that the flat was used by the Director of I which fits within Is sole occupancy 
of the building. I has also said that invoices were provided to RSA in respect of the contents 
claimed for but the original paperwork was stored in the basement of the premises which 
was destroyed in the flood. I says it offered to give RSAs loss adjuster the boxes of those 
papers to see if they could be considered but this offer was declined. They say that in the 
absence of original paperwork, their accountant can provide a letter confirming the original 
value of the items claimed for and everything I owned in the building. 
In response RSA have asked several questions about the occupancy of the flat such as 
details of the work done and an explanation of how the items claimed for belong to I if the 
Director was residing there. They say this is more suggestive of the Directors private 
contents being claimed for. RSA has also asked for evidence to prove that the invoice I has 
presented in respect of this claim relates the renewal of damaged items. Theyve also asked 
why the information I has given about the Directors occupancy and claim for items has 
never been presented before. In response to Is reference to lost paperwork, RSA says it doesnt have a record of being 
offered to consider this, but ultimately its up to I to substantiate the claim its making. As 
such it cant consider the claim without evidence to support it.
Overall, I think the questions asked and comments RSA has made are fair. So unless I is 
able to provide a credible explanation as well as supporting evidence, I wouldnt expect RSA 
to do anything further. As such I dont consider the position RSA has taken in respect of the 
contents claim to be unreasonable.
In response to the investigators view, I has now supplied some further information from its 
accountant as well as an explanation around some of the questions raised by RSA. It will 
need to direct that to RSA to consider. I cant comment on it because RSA hasnt had the 
opportunity to consider this or its position on things. And claims handling is not a service we 
offer. If I remains unhappy with RSAs position, it can raise that with it directly or bring a 
further complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Is complaint against Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask I to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2023.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman