DRN-2067879
The complaint
Mr Ss complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC is about investments he was advised to 
make in 2007.  
What happened
Mr S met with a Barclays adviser in April 2007. Following the advisers recommendation, 
Mr S invested £20,000 across a number of different funds.
Mr Ss complaint is that the investments werent suitable for him. He says he was advised to 
invest too much and exposed to a higher degree of risk than he was prepared to take. 
Barclays initially rejected Mr Ss complaint. They have now accepted that some of Mr Ss 
money was invested at too high a risk level, and theyve offered redress to put that right.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ss complaint. She thought the advice Barclays gave Mr S 
was unsuitable and that Barclays should do more to put things right. Barclays disagree and 
have asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before making their recommendations, Barclays should have considered Mr Ss financial 
situation, his knowledge and experience of investing, and his investment objectives. 
That would include taking account of his attitude to risk, his purpose in investing, and how 
long he wanted to invest his money for. 
At the time of the advice Mr S was retired, with no financial dependents. Mr S told the 
adviser he was receiving a state pension and two personal pensions. Taking account of his 
expenses, he had a monthly disposable income of £467. 
Mr S had £34,815 of cash on deposit, which included about £21,000 from a recently matured 
investment. He was looking for advice on how he could continue to get a higher rate of 
growth than in a standard deposit account. Mr S told the adviser he didnt have in mind a set 
time period for his investments and wanted the capacity to be flexible according to his needs 
and circumstances. In discussion, Mr S agreed he would invest for at least five years. 
The adviser recommended that Mr S keep a cash reserve of £14,815 for any unforeseen 
expenditure and invest the remaining £20,000. Based on Mr Ss circumstances at the time, 
I think that was reasonable and I dont think he was advised to invest too much.
Mr S described his attitude to risk as cautions. Following discussion with the adviser, Mr S 
agreed to split his funds so that 70% (£15,200) was invested in cautious products and 30% 
(£4,800) in those assessed as balanced risk. I think that split was reasonable and in line with 
Mr Ss attitude to risk.
Barclays have looked again at the investments recommended to Mr S. Their adviser 
recommended that Mr Ss investment be spread across several Barclays, Axa and Norwich 
Union funds. Some of them were assessed as cautious risk and others as balanced.
Mr S invested £7,000 in a Norwich Union fund that the adviser said was suitable for a 
cautious investor. Barclays have now said the fund should have been categorised as a 
balanced risk investment because 77% of the assets were held in equities and property.
Barclays accept that they should have advised Mr S to invest that £7,000 in a cautious fund 
to achieve the 70/30 split that had been agreed with him. Theyve worked out what they think 
would have happened if Mr Ss £7,000 had been invested in a suitable fund and offered to 
compensate him on that basis.
Ive thought about what Barclays have proposed, but I think they should do more to put 
things right. 
 
Mr S was investing £20,000. He told the adviser his attitude to risk was cautious, although 
after discussion he said he was prepared to invest 30% of his available capital in balanced 
risk funds. 
But that wasnt the risk profile of the investments Mr S was advised to make. Barclays 
accept that over a third of Mr Ss capital was invested in a fund they categorised incorrectly. 
In total about 60% of his capital was invested in funds categorised as balanced risk. 
I note also that the other funds Barclays categorised as cautious risk invested more than 
50% of their assets overall in equities and property. The Barclays dynamic fund offered a 
six-year capital guarantee and was invested 66% in equities, 11.5% in commodities and 8% 
in property. The Axa high yield fund was invested 42% in equities and 9% in property.
Overall, I think Mr Ss funds were exposed to significantly more risk than he wanted to take. 
Taken as a whole, Im not satisfied the investments met Mr Ss objectives and I think 
Barclays gave him unsuitable advice. I think it would therefore be fair and reasonable for 
Barclays to compensate Mr S by comparing the performance of the full sum he invested on 
the advice of Barclays against the benchmark Ive described below.   
Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr S 
as close to the position he would probably now be in if he had not been given unsuitable 
advice. 
I take the view that Mr S would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely 
what he would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair 
and reasonable given Mr S' circumstances and objectives when he invested. 
What should Barclays do?
To compensate Mr S fairly, Barclays must:
Compare the performance of Mr S' investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investment. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.Barclays should also pay interest as set out below. Income tax may be payable on any 
interest awarded.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end date) additional interest
Whole 
Portfoliostill existsfor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index; 
for the other 
half: average 
rate from fixed 
rate bondsdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple per year 
from date of 
decision to date of 
settlement (if 
compensation is 
not paid within 28 
days of the 
business being 
notified of 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Barclays 
should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank 
of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. 
Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis. 
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in. 
Any withdrawal, income or other payment out of the investment should be deducted from the 
fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation 
from that point on. 
If there are a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, I will accept if 
Barclays totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end instead of deducting 
periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr S wanted capital growth with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital. 
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices 
representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a 
higher return. I consider that Mr S' risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared to 
take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Mr S into that position. It does not mean that Mr S 
would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind of 
index tracker fund. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that broadly 
reflects the sort of return Mr S could have obtained from investments suited to his 
objective and risk attitude.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Ss complaint against 
Barclays Bank UK PLC.  
Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay the amount calculated as set out above. They should 
provide details of their calculation to Mr S in a clear, simple format.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2021.
 
Matthew Young
Ombudsman