DRN-2942250
The complaint
Miss V complained that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) unfairly declined 
a claim for storm damage under her home insurance policy.
All references to LV include companies and contractors acting on its behalf.
  
What happened
Miss V contacted LV to make a claim for storm damage to her home when water entered her 
home through the conservatory roof. LV investigated the claim and declined it as it said the 
damage was caused by wear and tear.
When Miss V contacted this service, our investigator upheld the complaint in part. She said it 
was reasonable for LV to decline the claim on the basis of wear and tear. However, there 
had been issues with how the claim had been handled, which led to avoidable delays and a 
lack of clear communication. She said LV should pay £250 compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience caused.
As Miss V didnt agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint in part. I will explain why.
When we look at a storm claim complaint, there are three main issues we consider:
1.    do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to 
have happened?
2.    is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Were only likely to uphold a complaint where the answer to all three questions is yes.
So, Ive thought about the first question. When LV checked the weather data, it said this 
didnt show conditions that would be considered to be a storm. Ive also looked at the 
weather data around the time of the claim and didnt find conditions that would be 
considered to be a storm. However, Im aware that due to there being a weather warning in 
place for a named storm, LV decided it couldnt rule out that there were storm conditions at 
Miss Vs property at the time of the claim. So, LV decided to proceed on the basis that there 
could have been storm conditions at that time and continued to investigate the claim. I think 
that was a fair approach for LV to take.
Ive also thought about the second question. LV found two specific areas of damage to the 
conservatory roof that had allowed the water to enter. These were that the lead flashing was 
slightly raised and that the seal between the roof timber closest to the house and the 
polycarbonate roof sheet had a number of splits in it that possibly allowed water to enter. I 
think this type of damage to a roof could be caused by a storm, so I think the answer to this 
question is yes.
For the third question, Ive looked at the damage in more detail. When the loss adjuster 
assessed the damage by a video call, he said it was difficult to determine how the damage 
had happened. So, a contractor visited to assess the damage in person. The contractor 
identified the damage to the lead flashing and the roof timber. 
I asked LV to provide more information on the damage. It said there was no external 
damage due to the storm and that although the conservatory was in good condition for its 
age it required maintenance and had some areas of rot. The internal chipboard floor was 
also mouldy indicating two areas of water ingress both of which were off the lead valley 
adjoining the house. The lead work had sealant applied in numerous areas and the timber 
boxing below was rotten, which indicated the issue had been ongoing for a period of time. It 
also confirmed that the main area of ingress appeared to be in the corner of the 
conservatory where the box gutter was. The timber beneath was rotten which suggested a 
longer-term problem.
The policy is designed to cover one-off insured events. So, based on its experts findings, I 
think it was reasonable that LV declined the claim for storm damage. The evidence indicated 
that the damage was the result of a longer-term issue. The policy didnt provide cover for 
wear and tear or gradually occurring issues.
Im aware that Miss V was also concerned about how her claim was handled. She said she 
waited several months to be told the outcome. This seemed to be because she didnt receive 
a letter that had been sent a few months before telling her the claim had been declined. 
From what Ive seen the letter was correctly addressed and Ive no reason to doubt LV sent 
the letter. So, if it wasnt received, I dont think that was down to the actions of LV.
However, there do seem to have been some delays, such as between the date of the loss 
adjusters assessment and the contractor then being appointed to assess the damage 
further. There also seems to have been a delay in reviewing the contractors findings. LV has 
also accepted that a letter it sent to Miss V could have been worded better, as it might have 
given the impression the claim would be settled. LV also acknowledged in a letter to Miss V 
that there had been some unacceptable delays during her claim. In my view, LV should pay 
£250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by the delays and the 
communication issue.
  
Putting things right
LV must pay £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to Miss V 
because of the handling of some aspects of her claim.  My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is upheld in part. I 
require Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited to pay Miss V £250 compensation.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss V to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 October 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman