DRN-2290627
The complaint
Mr D and Mrs J complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE charged an additional premium in 
relation to Mrs Js travel insurance policy. Reference to Great Lakes includes reference to its 
agents. 
What happened
Mrs J booked a cruise with departure and return dates of 21 September 2019 and                
5 October 2019 respectively. On 4 September 2019, Mr D took out a single trip policy on   
Mrs Js behalf. 
When the policy was taken out, Mr D declared several medical conditions for Mrs J, 
including bronchiectasis and one resolved respiratory infection in the previous year.        
Great Lakes charged a premium of £280.08       
In relation to Mrs Js diagnosis of bronchiectasis, she had previously been advised by her 
doctor to take antibiotics at the first sign of a chest infection. On 17 September 2019, Mrs J 
thought she might have a chest infection and took antibiotics she already had, as previously 
instructed by her doctor. On 20 September 2019, Mr D told Great Lakes about this and said 
that, whilst Mrs J thought she had no sign of infection, she intended to continue the course of 
antibiotics, which ended on 30 September 2019. 
Great Lakes said that as long as Mrs Js condition was improving, she took the antibiotics as 
prescribed and her doctor confirmed that shes fit to travel, it would provide cover at an 
additional premium of £786.32, taking the total premium to £1,066.40. Great Lakes offered 
Mrs J the option of cancelling the policy. 
Mrs J was due to depart the next day, so paid the additional premium but complained about 
it on her return. 
Mr D and Mrs J say that Mrs J wasnt diagnosed with a chest infection in September 2019    
- she merely thought she might have one, so she took antibiotics as a precaution. Mrs J 
didnt see her GP about her suspected chest infection. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She didnt think that Great Lakes had 
treated Mrs J unfairly. 
Mr D and Mrs J didnt agree with the investigator. Mr D said that there was no medical proof 
that Mrs J had a chest infection in September 2019. He said that the advice Mrs J received 
was that even if she only imagined she was getting a chest infection, she should take 
antibiotics. Two days after Mrs J started the antibiotics she was sure she didnt have a chest 
infection but continued to take the antibiotics to finish the course, as advised. 
Mr D said that as Mrs J believed she was doing well, she thought it was fine to update   
Great Lakes. He said that if Mrs J hadnt told Great Lakes about this, she would still have 
been covered and charged the lower premium. Mr D said that if Mrs J hadnt had the money 
to pay the additional premium, she wouldnt have been able to travel. 
Mr D asked that an ombudsman consider the complaint, so it was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the relevant policy terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy. Great Lakes has referred to the 
following part of the policy:  
Changes to your health after purchasing your policy
If after you purchase your policy [] any of the following happens:
you are diagnosed with a new medical condition
your doctor, or consultant changes your prescribed medication
you receive inpatient medical treatment
you are placed on a waiting list for investigation or medical treatment
then you must contact Staysure Customer Services. A member of the team will ask you 
specific questions about your medical condition(s).
This may result in an additional premium to allow cover to continue, to add additional Terms 
and Conditions to your policy or to exclude cover for the newly diagnosed condition or for 
the condition that has undergone significant change.
If we are unable to continue to provide cover, or if you do not wish to pay the additional 
premium you will be entitled to make a claim under Section 1 (Cancellation) for costs which 
cannot be recovered elsewhere for trips booked prior to the change in health.
Alternatively, you will be entitled to cancel your policy, in which case, we will refund a 
proportionate amount of your premium.
Please note that your doctor, or consultant telling you that you are well enough to travel 
does not mean that you will be covered for your pre-existing medical condition(s). If you 
have any concerns regarding whether, or not you will be covered please contact Staysure 
Customer Services.
The following part of the policy is also relevant:
Each insured person who has a pre-existing medical condition must make a medical 
health declaration before each period of cover and, if there are any changes in their health 
or prescribed medication, prior to commencement of the period of cover, before departing on 
any trip and throughout the life of your policy. We will ask you specific questions which 
you must answer accurately and to the best of your knowledge. Failure to do so may 
invalidate your cover.
has Great Lakes treated Mrs J unfairly?
This service isnt the regulator, so we cant direct Great Lakes generally about how it 
conducts its business or sets its premiums. But I can look at whether it has treated Mrs J 
fairly. I think it has and Ill explain why. 
 
I dont think that the four circumstance set out in the policy and to which Great Lakes 
has referred apply here: Mrs J wasnt diagnosed with a new medical condition; her 
doctor didnt change her prescribed medication; she didnt receive inpatient medical 
treatment and wasnt placed on a waiting list for investigation or medical treatment. Nevertheless, under the separate term of the policy which Ive set out above, Mrs J 
was obliged to tell Great Lakes about any change in her health before departing on 
her trip. I think that the change in Mrs Js health here was that she thought she might 
have a chest infection. So, Mrs J was right to tell Great Lakes about that.  
  
Even if I reached a different conclusion about whether the policy terms required    
Mrs J to tell Great Lakes about changes in her health, the fact is that she did so. I 
think its reasonable in this case for Great Lakes to act on the information it received. 
Mr D says that if Mrs J if hadnt told Great Lakes about this, she would still have been 
covered and charged the lower premium. But if Mrs J had made a claim against the 
policy, a previous omission of information about a change in her health may have 
caused Great Lakes to cancel the policy or led to only a partial settlement of her 
claim.
Great Lakes has provided me with confidential, business sensitive information to 
explain how it calculated the additional premium. Im afraid I cant share that 
information with Mr D and Mrs J, but Ive considered it carefully. Im satisfied the 
additional premium was calculated correctly and that all of Great Lakes  customers 
in Mrs Js position would have been charged a similar additional premium.
When calculating premiums, insurers take into consideration a very large number of 
factors. In this case, Great Lakes considered that the new information Mrs J gave 
about her health posed a higher risk than it had previously assessed. Its not for me to 
tell Great Lakes what factors it should take into account when assessing risk, nor how 
to go about its assessment. Thats essentially a matter  of commercial judgment and 
not something with which we would usually think its fair to interfere.
I understand that Great Lakes gave Mrs J the option of cancelling the policy, rather 
than paying the additional premium. I think that was fair, but I quite understand that 
Mrs J didnt want to cancel the policy so close to her departure date. 
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont think that Great Lakes treated Mrs J unfairly, so I dont 
uphold the complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr D and Mrs Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 March 2021.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman