DRN-2895357
The complaint
Mr H has complained that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) mis-sold him an 
Ultimate Reward Current Account (URCA) in May 2013. 
Mr H paid a monthly fee for this account, which came with a number of benefits. Mr H says 
that he was told that he had to take out this account in order to retain his overdraft facility. I 
can see that Mr H has also raised concerns about the service he received during the 
complaint process.
What happened
Our adjudicators looked into Mr Hs complaint. They did not think that the URCA was mis-
sold and they thought that the £50 that Halifax paid for the issues in relation to the complaint 
handling was sufficient. 
Mr H did not agree with this and so asked for an ombudsman to look at the complaint
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
And Ive used this approach to help me decide what to do about Mr Hs complaint. I know 
this is going to come as a disappointment to Mr H, but after giving this case a lot of thought, I 
dont think the account was mis-sold to him. I know this isnt the outcome that he was hoping 
for. But I hope that my explanation will help him to understand how I have come to this 
conclusion.
I've started by thinking about whether Mr H was aware the URCA account was optional and 
whether he was given a clear choice in taking out the account. I think its more likely than not 
that he was. I say this because he had previously had a fee-free bank account with Halifax 
for a number of years. So, I think that Mr H wouldve been aware that free accounts existed 
and were an option for him. 
Mr H says he was told by a member of staff on the phone that if he changed his account to 
the URCA account it would allow him to retain his overdraft. I can see though that the 
account, when it was upgraded to the URCA account from the fee-free account, was taken 
out online without the presence of a member of staff. I find it unlikely that a member of staff 
would intentionally mis-lead Mr H into taking out a URCA account if the account was not to 
be taken out over the phone or in branch - as I cant see how this would benefit the member 
of staff, since they would not receive credit or recognition for the upgrade.
Additionally, during the online upgrade process, the major features and benefits of the 
account wouldve been highlighted. I am of the understanding that there would have been no 
mention of the account being the only way to allow Mr H to retain his overdraft. So, if this 
was the major reason for him to upgrade to the URCA account, the absence of anything 
mentioning that he would need to do this to retain his overdraft shouldve made him question 
what he says he was told by the Halifax members of staff.
I accept that Mr H may have been under the impression that having the URCA account 
would allow him to retain his overdraft facility, but there is not enough for me to say that this 
was as a direct result of him being told this by Halifax.
I note that Mr H registered for a number of benefits that the account came with and made a 
claim against the mobile phone insurance. So I think that it is likely he took out the account 
because of the package of benefits that it came with, rather than because he was told by 
Halifax that he needed the account to retain his overdraft. Though I accept that given the 
length of time since this occurred, he may no longer recall this.
This account was not recommended to Mr H. This means that Halifax did not need to ensure 
that the benefits were suitable for Mr H. But it did need to provide Mr H with enough 
information to decide this for herself. 
I think its likely Halifax wouldve mentioned the major benefits that the account came with as 
it was, after all, trying to make the account seem attractive to Mr H. I accept that Mr H may 
not have been told everything about all of the benefits that the account came with. But I cant 
see anything about his circumstances at the time that makes me think he wouldve been put 
off from agreeing to the account, had he been given more information about it. 
Mr H says that he tried to cancel his account but was unable to do so. I cant see any formal 
requests for a downgrade in Halifaxs records until a note in 2015 that suggests that Mr H did 
not complete the process required for the downgrade. So based on the evidence I have 
been provided with, I cant say Halifax did anything wrong in relation to this.
So, having carefully considered everything, I dont think the URCA account was mis-sold to 
Mr H. I therefore think it would be unreasonable to require Halifax to refund Mr H the account 
fees that hes been charged whilst hes held the URCA account. I completely understand 
that this will be frustrating to Mr H, as he strongly feels that his account was mis-sold. I also 
understand that with the benefit of hindsight, the URCA account may not have represented 
good value for money. But I cant uphold his complaint due to this. I can only uphold the 
complaint about the sale of the account if it was sold incorrectly. And for the reasons set out 
above, I dont think it was.
I note Mr Hs issues in relation to Halifaxs complaint handling process but overall I think that 
the amount of redress offered is sufficient.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2021.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman