DRN-2118670
The complaint
Mrs S complains about how Nationwide Building Society has paid interest on her FlexDirect 
account. She says she was misled by branch staff when she opened her account.
What happened
On 1 October 2019 Mrs S opened a FlexDirect account at her local Nationwide branch. She 
said the account was advertised as offering a credit interest rate of 5% gross per annum  
although this was subject to eligibility criteria.
Mrs S had previously held an account with Nationwide, which was closed in April 2017. She 
said the branch staff member who assisted her in opening her account in October 2019 was 
aware of this. And she says they reassured her that shed still be eligible for the 5% interest 
rate.  
Subsequent to Mrs S FlexDirect account being opened she discovered shed only been paid 
1% credit interest. She therefore complained to Nationwide about the way in which interest 
had been calculated. She said, had she known she wouldnt have been eligible to earn 5% 
interest on her account balance, shed never have opted to open a FlexDirect account. This 
was because she was intending to close an account that was paying 1.5% interest in order 
to open her new account. So, she told Nationwide shed been misled by branch staff when 
she opened her account. 
After Nationwide investigated what had happened it told her it had correctly paid interest on 
her account balance. It said the promotional 5% credit interest offer was only available to 
account holders who hadnt previously held a FlexDirect account. And, as Mrs S had held an 
account previously and benefited from a 5% interest rate, she wasnt eligible to the 
promotional rate again, which was clearly outlined in its terms and conditions. Nationwide 
also said there was no evidence Mrs S had been misled in branch when opening her 
account in 2019. So, it didnt uphold her complaint. 
Being dissatisfied with Nationwides response to her complaint she referred it to our service. 
Our investigator empathised with Mrs S but didnt recommend upholding her complaint. 
Overall, they didnt think Nationwide had made an error or treated her unfairly. They also 
werent persuaded there was evidence to demonstrate Mrs S had been misled when she 
opened her account in 2019. So, they didnt think it needed to do anymore here. But Miss S 
disagreed and asked an ombudsman to decide her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities. Ive read and considered 
everything Mrs S and Nationwide have told our service, but Ill concentrate my comments on 
what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to 
take it on board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order 
to reach what I think is the right outcome.
My role is to assess whether I think Nationwide made a mistake, or treated Mrs S unfairly, 
such that it needs to now put things right. And, having thought carefully about everything she 
and Nationwide have said, Im afraid to say that I dont think it did. I appreciate Mrs S will be 
disappointed by this outcome. But I hope she can understand the reasons behind my 
decision.
As I mentioned in the background to this complaint the balance in Mrs S FlexDirect account 
earned 1% in interest. Ive carefully considered the literature and information Nationwide 
provides its account holders about this account. Having done so I can see page 1 of the 
important information document makes clear that an account holder wont be eligible to 
earn 5% in circumstances where theyve previously held a FlexDirect account and 
benefitted from the 5% AER introductory rate. In such circumstances the document makes 
clear a credit interest rate of 1% will apply unless an account is being opened for the first 
time in joint names.
In this case Mrs S opened a sole account in October 2019 having closed a sole account over 
two years previously. Im therefore satisfied the correct interest rate, based on Nationwides 
literature and information, has been applied here.
Ive also carefully reviewed the terms and conditions that apply to Mrs S account. 
The terms set out how in detail how interest is earned on account balances in clear 
intelligible language. And they reinforce the information in literature given to Mrs S in branch, 
which state that customers who have previously benefitted from a 5% interest rate wont be 
eligible to earn that again in circumstances where the same account is opened to one that 
has closed  as happened here. 
Ill turn to the second part of Mrs S complaint, which is that she was misled by branch staff 
when she opened her account in 2019. She says she was assured shed be eligible to 
receive the higher 5% interest rate even though shed previously held the same account. 
However, Nationwide says theres no evidence of that assurance.
On this issue, Nationwide has told our service that the member of staff that opened Mrs S 
account cannot recall the account being opened given the passage of time. This isnt 
unreasonable and I wouldnt expect a member of staff to remember the details of a typical 
customer transaction such as assisting with opening an account. 
Nationwide has explained the member of staff in question was well known. So, its confident 
they understood the terms and conditions that applied and would have, most likely, taken 
Mrs S through the eligibility criteria as part of the account opening process. I dont think 
thats an unfair assumption for Nationwide to make here. Its entirely reasonable to expect a 
staff member to outline eligibility criteria and important terms and conditions about interest  
particularly when the interest rate was so important to Mrs S.
Mrs S has said she wouldnt have chosen to open an account with a lower interest rate to 
the one she was intending to close. I appreciate the point shes making. But, Im sorry to 
disappoint her  I havent seen enough evidence to satisfy me that branch staff told her she 
would earn 5% interest. Im therefore not persuaded she was misled in relation to the 
interest rate her account balance would earn.
Based on the evidence Ive seen I cant agree with Mrs S that Nationwide mis-sold her 
account to her. And Im satisfied the interest she accrued is in line with the terms of her account. It follows that I cant fairly ask Nationwide to increase the amount of interest its 
credited her account.
I appreciate the reasons why Mrs S brought this complaint to our service. But for the reasons 
given Im not persuaded Nationwide did anything wrong here. So, I cant fairly uphold this 
complaint. 
I realise Mrs S will be disappointed with my decision. But it brings to an end what we, in 
trying to resolve her dispute with Nationwide informally, can do for her. Im sorry we cant 
help Mrs S further on this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2020.
 
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman