DRN-3153369
The complaint
 Mrs S has complained that TFS Loans Limited (TFS Loans) provided her with an 
unaffordable loan.
What happened
  TFS Loans provided Mrs S with a guarantor loan on 30 November 2015. The loan amount 
was for £5000 and she was required to repay £195.46 a month over 5 years. The total that 
she had agreed to repay back was £11,727.60. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint and thought that TFS Loans unfairly 
provided this loan. He concluded that although he felt it had gathered enough information, it 
couldve used the information gathered in a better way. He said TFS Loans didnt make a fair 
lending decision when it agreed the loan.
TFS Loans disagrees with our investigators view and says it carried out proportionate 
checks and then went on to make a fair lending decision. So as the parties are still not in 
agreement, Mrs Ss complaint has been passed to me an ombudsman, to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive 
referred to this when deciding Mrs Ss complaint.
I need to take into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice.
When TFS Loans lent to Mrs S, the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority and 
relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC).
TFS Loans was entering a regulated credit agreement. So, it had to carry out a reasonable 
assessment of Mrs Ss creditworthiness before it entered the agreement. This means that 
TFS Loans had to consider both the risk to it that Mrs S wouldnt make the repayments 
under the agreement when due, and the risk to Mrs S of not being able to make these 
repayments. In particular, TFS Loans had to consider Mrs Ss ability to make repayments 
under the agreement as they fell due over the life of the agreement, without her having to 
borrow to meet the repayments, without her failing to make any other repayment she had a 
contractual or statutory duty to make, and without the repayments having a significant 
adverse effect on her financial situation.
The rules dont set out any specific checks which must be completed to assess 
creditworthiness. But the lender should take into account the borrowers income (over the full 
term of the loan) and their ongoing expenditure for living expenses and other debts. Whilst it 
is down to the lender to decide what specific checks it wishes to carry out these should be 
reasonable and proportionate to the type and amount of credit being provided, the length of 
the term, the frequency and amount of the repayments and the total cost of the credit. So, a 
lenders assessment of creditworthiness would need to be flexible and what is appropriate 
for one person might not be for another. And what might be sufficient for a borrower in one 
circumstance might not be so for the same borrower in other circumstances.
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance by carrying out more detailed checks:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact that the 
total cost of credit is likely to be greater and the borrower is required to make repayments 
for an extended period).
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mrs Ss case, I have considered the 
following questions:
Did TFS Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mrs 
Ss loan application to satisfy itself that she would be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way?
If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
Did TFS Loans make a fair lending decision?
Ive carefully thought about all of the relevant factors in this case.
Were the checks that TFS Loans carried out reasonable and proportionate?
I have looked through some documents and also listened to call recordings that TFS have 
provided and by doing this I have managed to obtain an understanding of what happened 
when it agreed to lend to Mrs S. I can see that it verified Mrs Ss income by checking a 
payslip and looking at bank statements. Mrs S declared her income to be around £1811 a 
month and TFS Loans verified this. Mrs Ss income was a mixture of wages, working tax 
credits and child benefit. It also asked Mrs S about her expenses, looked through bank 
statements and used a credit search to check for her credit commitments. It says after it did 
this, it worked out Mrs Ss disposable income and says it could see that she could afford the 
loan repayments. 
Ive carefully considered what TFS Loans has said and on the surface of it, it had assessed 
Mrs S to have enough disposable income to afford the loans. Ive listened to the calls it has 
submitted to our service. On this occasion, I think it carried out enough checks and gathered 
enough information that I think were proportionate.
But it also needed to act on any information that it would have gathered and make a fair 
lending decision based on what it had in front of it. So, I need to go on and consider whether 
it did this.
Did TFS make a fair lending decision?Ive concluded the checks TFS Loans carried out, on balance were proportionate. But I dont 
think TFS Loans made a fair lending decision on each occasion it lent to Mrs S, based on 
what it had in front of it. 
I say this because when I look through the credit search TFS Loans carried out, I can see 
that it shows Mrs S was having problems managing her finances. 
The search showed that Mrs S had defaults recorded against seven accounts. She had 
defaulted on 2 payday loans, 2 credit cards and 3 home credit accounts. Mrs S had 
defaulted on 2 the home credit accounts only 2 months before she asked for a loan with TFS 
Loans. The credit search TFS Loans had carried out also showed that Mrs S was in arrears 
with a further 4 home credit accounts and had been in all 4 cases, in arrears for several 
months. 
I think it would have been clear from these search results that Mrs S wasnt managing to 
repay her debt, and this resulted in her accruing arrears and in also defaulting on several 
accounts. This shows that she was having problems managing her finances. I think, when I 
consider this, I think that it was unlikely that Mrs S could repay further credit sustainably 
without experiencing more adverse consequences. 
So, I conclude that based on what TFS Loans had in front of it, it would have seen Mrs S 
wouldnt have been able to make repayments in a sustainable way.  
As Mrs S has been further indebted with a high amount of interest and charges on the 
loan that she shouldnt have been provided with, Im satisfied that she has lost out as a 
result of what TFS Loans did wrong.
So, it follows that TFS Loans needs to put things right.
 
Putting things right
 In line with this Services approach, Mrs S shouldnt repay more than the capital amount she 
borrowed. With this in mind, TFS Loans should:
add up the total amount of money Mrs S received as a result of being given the loan. 
The payments Mrs S made should be deducted from this amount. Any payments 
made after the total repaid exceeds the amount Mrs S was given should be treated 
as overpayments and refunded to her;
add interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments from the date they were 
paid by Mrs S to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse information placed on Mrs Ss credit file because of the loan;
*HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS Loans to take off tax from this interest. TFS Loans 
must give Mrs S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
 
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mrs Ss complaint about TFS Loans Limited 
and it now needs to put things right in the way set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman