DRN-3578423
The complaint
Mr C complains Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) requires him to pay 
an outstanding balance following the end of his car hire agreement. 
What happened
In March 2017, Mr C entered into a 48 month hire agreement with MBFS for a new car. He 
paid an initial rental of £1,279 and he was required to pay monthly instalments of £426. The 
hire agreement was due to end in June 2021.
Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, Mr C fell into financial difficulty meaning he was unable to 
pay the monthly instalments. Following communication with MBFS and their agents, Mr C 
voluntarily surrendered the agreement in March 2021. The car was returned to MBFS and 
later sold at auction. The net sales proceeds were put towards the outstanding balance 
however it didnt settle the agreement in full meaning there was a shortfall balance of around 
£2,500 which Mr C had to pay. 
Mr C complained that he wasnt given the option to sell the car privately before returning it 
and he only received the settlement quote after it had been returned. He believed the car 
couldve sold for more money thereby reducing or indeed clearing his overall liability.
MBFS said they had acted in line with the terms of agreement. Unhappy with their response, 
Mr C referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator recommended the case wasnt 
upheld. They believed MBFS had applied the terms fairly. 
Mr C disagreed. In summary, he said:
- MBFS terms about voluntary surrender are unfair and disadvantageous to 
consumers;
- He shouldve been given the option to sell the car privately;
- MBFS had a duty to sell the car for its true value and not simply at auction for a quick 
sale. This would provide greater fairness to consumers;
- The car was in excellent condition when returned and couldve sold for more;
- MBFS have no interest in selling the car at its true value because the consumer will 
be responsible for any shortfall balance.
 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than has been provided and Ive 
done so using my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive concentrated 
on what I consider are the key issues. This reflects the nature of our service as an informal 
alternative to the courts. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every detail to be able to 
reach what I think is a fair outcome in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read the terms of the agreement. I wont repeat them again as its already been provided 
in full by the investigator. But having done so, its clear in the event the agreement is to end 
early, it would be done by the process of voluntary surrender. Where this happens, the 
agreement outlines that the car must be returned in accordance to MBFS returns standards. 
It also says all unpaid monthly payments will be payable, 95% of the total agreement amount 
must be paid and charges for the recovery, repair and sale of the car will be applied. Mr C 
signed the agreement in March 2017 so Im satisfied he was aware of these terms. 
Ive considered Mr Cs comments that he believes the voluntary surrender term itself is 
unfair. Its not my role to say whether a term is unfair nor is it my role or that of our service to 
tell a financial business to change their processes. Both matters are best dealt with by the 
financial regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority. Instead my role is to consider individual 
complaints. In this case, I must decide whether MBFS have fairly applied their term 
concerning voluntary surrender and in this instance, I believe they have.
Mr C had made it clear he could no longer afford the instalments. In response, I believe 
MBFS acted fairly and in line with the terms by giving him the option to end the agreement 
by voluntary surrender. Ive seen MBFS correspondence that outlined the process including 
the fact the car would be sold at auction, the net sale proceeds would be paid towards the 
balance and Mr C would be responsible for any shortfall. As mentioned above, the 
agreement said Mr C would be liable for 95% of the total amount owed. However, in this 
case, MBFS has decided to sell the car and use the net proceeds to offset the balance. By 
MBFS deciding to take this course of action it has lowered the amount owed by Mr C 
because based on the terms, he wouldve been liable for 95% of the agreement amount. For 
this reason, I find MBFS has done more than what they were obligated to do based on the 
terms, so I cant say they acted unfairly.
  
I acknowledge Mr Cs comments that it wouldve been mutually convenient for both parties if 
he was able to sell the car privately as he believed he couldve sold it for more money. I can 
understand why he may think this way. However similar to the investigator, I wish to stress 
this is a hire agreement meaning the legal owner of the car is MBFS. As Mr C isnt the legal 
owner of the car, he has no right or ability to sell the car as it doesnt belong to him and there 
is no term in the agreement that allows him to do so. 
I understand a settlement letter was sent to Mr C after the car was returned. MBFS has 
explained where an agreement ends early, a settlement quotation is generated for their 
finance department so the balance owed can be determined. MBFS has explained in cases 
of voluntary surrender, such correspondence wouldnt be sent to consumers. However they 
accept it was sent to Mr C in error. I understand this wouldve caused confusion for him 
especially as he also got acknowledgement of his request to voluntary surrender on the 
same day. 
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied MBFS acted fairly and in line with the terms in 
ending the agreement by voluntary surrender as a result of Mr Cs financial difficulty. 
Therefore I wont be asking them to write off the balance as Mr C has requested. Based on 
MBFS breakdown of what Mr C owes, there is no evidence to indicate this has been 
calculated incorrectly. It may be beneficial for MBFS to provide the breakdown to Mr C for 
his reference. Overall I find Mr C is required to pay the outstanding balance.
I appreciate my decision will disappoint Mr C and I sympathise with the situation he now 
finds himself in. I would like to remind MBFS, if hes still experiencing financial difficulty I expect them to treat him with due consideration and forbearance in regard to the repayment 
of the outstanding balance. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2022.
 
Simona Charles
Ombudsman