DRN-1499930
 
The complaint
 Mr D and X complain that Nationwide Building Society, trading then as 
Portman Building Society, mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
In 2003, Mr D and X applied for a joint mortgage with Nationwide. Nationwide also sold them 
a regular premium PPI policy. This policy covered the repayments on their loan for up to 
twelve months if Mr D became unemployed. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr D and X disagreed with the 
adjudicators view, so the case has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. Having done so, Im not upholding it for 
reasons that Ill now explain.
Nationwide dont still retain any of the paperwork which would have been completed at the 
time of the sale for either Mr D and Xs mortgage or the PPI policy. That isnt wholly 
surprising given how long ago this was. Businesses arent required to keep such records for 
this length of time.
In these circumstances, I need to decide what I think is most likely to have happened based 
on all the evidence available to me  including what Mr D and X say they remember from 
then.
Mr D and X say that the mortgage advisor they spoke to told them they had to take PPI 
unemployment cover for Mr D in order to get their mortgage. They say the advisor said that 
this was due to the nature of Mr Ds employment and the relatively short time hed been with 
his employer.
Although there isnt any paperwork available for this sale, Ive seen other mortgage 
application forms for this business from around this time. On these, the customer was 
required to tick a box if they wanted to take PPI and to select the type of cover they required. 
So Im satisfied that the mortgage application that Mr D and X are likely to have completed 
and signed at the time did make it clear that the PPI policy was optional.
From what this Service knows about Nationwides normal sales practice in 2003, no advice 
about the purchase of the PPI policy should have been given by the mortgage advisor 
Mr D and X spoke to. And we also know that taking PPI should not have been made a 
condition for receiving approval to their mortgage application. Nevertheless, I do accept its possible that this advisor wrongly misled them into thinking that, for the reasons they gave, 
they had to take out the policy to get their loan. 
But I need to bear in mind that this sale took place some seventeen years ago. And 
memories of what was said at such meetings do tend to fade with time. Ive no doubt that 
this is what Mr D and X genuinely think they remember being said to them at the time. But I 
dont think it would be fair for me to conclude that this is what is most likely to have 
happened, base only on what they recall about this meeting now. Taking everything I know 
into careful consideration, I think its more likely that Mr D and X decided for themselves that 
they wanted to take out cover which specifically protected their repayments if Mr D became 
unemployed and actively chose to do so.
 Both Mr D and X appear to have had generous sick pay entitlements if they werent able to 
work because of an accident or sickness. And X seems to have had a relatively secure job in 
the public sector. So I think they might well have regarded their greatest financial risk to 
have been from Mr D becoming redundant and having to rely on a combination of their 
savings and any redundancy entitlement he had to protect their future mortgage repayments.
As I dont think Nationwide recommended the PPI policy to Mr D and X, it didnt need to 
ensure that it was suitable for their circumstances at the time. But it did still need to give 
them enough information about the policy for them to decide if they wanted to take it. I dont 
know what information was given to Mr D and X at their meeting with Nationwide when they 
agreed to take the policy. And its possible that the information they received could have 
been better than it was. But I dont think that better information would have changed their 
minds about taking out this cover. I say this because:
 
Mr D appears to have been eligible for the policy and not affected by any of its main 
exclusions and limitations.
 
For the reasons Ive already given, I think that the cover they chose under the policy 
would have been useful to them if things went wrong and Mr D had been made 
unemployed. In these circumstances it could have protected their repayments for up 
to twelve months and meant they could have used any other means they had for 
other essential expenditure. And a mortgage is a big financial commitment  one 
where ones home is potentially at risk if repayments cant be met  so I think  
that Mr  D and X would have valued the extra security the policy gave them. 
 
Ive no reason to think the PPI was unaffordable for Mr D and X. And as the 
premiums were paid for monthly, it could have been cancelled if it no longer met their 
needs.
 
Ive thought carefully about all the points which Mr D and X have made in response to our 
adjudicators view. But this hasnt made me think that theyve lost out by anything that 
Nationwide might have done wrong when it sold them this PPI policy.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im not upholding this complaint about 
Nationwide Building Society.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and X to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 May 2020.
Simon Furse
Ombudsman