DRN-1466387
Complaint
Mr C says MYJAR Limited (MYJAR) lent to him irresponsibly.
Background
Mr C took out three payday loans with MYJAR between 23 October 2016 and 28 February 
2017. A summary of his borrowing history is set out on the table below:
LoanDate 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalment Amount Original 
Repayment
Amount
123/10/2016 03/11/2016 1 £200.00 £222.40
204/11/2016 28/02/2017 6 £175.00 £51.40
328/02/2017 01/03/2018 6 £925.00 £278.44
 
Mr C had some problems repaying loan 3 but eventually he repaid it in March 2018.
In its final response to Mr C, MYJAR said it would not uphold his complaint, based on the 
application information, income and expenditure Mr C provided. It said it carried out 
appropriate and proportionate affordability checks, based on the number of loans, amounts, 
terms and repayment history. It also said it had assisted Mr C in a repayment plan for loan 3, 
this included freezing the interest and charges  when it became aware Mr C was 
experiencing financial difficulty.
Our adjudicator considered Mr Cs complaint and didn't think it should be upheld. Mr C 
didn't agree with the adjudicators view. He said the reason he was unhappy with it was 
because MYJAR based the loans affordability on figures that were wrong.
Mr C explained that MYJAR were quick to ask for his bank statements after the complaint 
was made, but he wasn't asked for these or his payslips when he took out his loans, even 
after he had taken several payday loans and had dozens of these on his credit file. He said 
he was sure MYJAR had seen these. He explained that his first two debts were fairly low in 
terms of how much he borrowed, and he repaid them on time, but they also contributed to 
the spiral of debt. He told us when he took out his third loan, he was having intense financial 
difficulties and had substantial debts.
He asked that the matter be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
My findingsIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr C 
could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that MYJAR should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
 
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MYJAR was required to establish 
whether Mr C could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesn't automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Cs complaint. Having done this, Im sorry to 
disappoint Mr C but Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
When MYJAR lent Mr C his loans, it asked him to confirm his net monthly income, his 
expenditure and an affordability check was carried out for each loan. In addition, MYJAR 
also conducted other checks including fraud checks and an affordability assessment. Ive seen a copy of the report giving information about Mr Cs circumstances. I can see that for 
loans 1 and 2 Mr C declared his income to be £900 per month and for these loans Mr C said 
his outgoings were around £100.
As I said above, early in the lending relationship, I wouldn't necessarily expect MYJAR to 
undertake a full review of Mr Cs financial circumstances. In this case, when thinking about 
what it knew about Mr C at the time as well as the monthly commitments he had and the 
loan amounts being provided, I think the checks it did were proportionate. At the time 
MYJAR gave Mr C his first two loans I dont think it would have established from the 
information it received that Mr C was having problems managing his money.
I have carefully considered the third loan. Ive taken into account that this time Mr C 
borrowed a substantial amount more than he had done for his previous loans. I can also see 
he took this out on the same day as he had repaid his previous loan. He reported to MYJAR 
that his income this time was £1,500 and his expenses were around £120. But, I can also 
see for this loan MYJAR modified Mr Cs income to £1,350 to better reflect Mr Cs 
circumstances, probably because of the financial information it had seen.
For this loan, taking into account the increased lending and the short time between taking 
out the loans, I agree that MYJAR should have increased its checks  to take into account 
Mr Cs full financial circumstances.
Ive seen a copy of the credit report. This is something MYJAR couldve looked into when it 
gave Mr C Loan 3. This shows other short-term lending Mr C had taken out. Ive carefully 
looked through this report. I can see Mr C had other payday loans but each of the other 
loans were taken out slightly later than Mr Cs third loan or had been repaid by the time Mr C 
was given his third loan. So, I cant fairly say that MYJAR shouldn't have given this loan or 
that it would have appeared the loan was unaffordable or unsustainable for Mr C. Ive also 
thought about the amount of his income and his outgoings. As I said above, MYJAR 
adjusted Mr Cs income. Mr C seemingly would have still been left with a balance even after 
paying loan 3.  From this I cant say MYJAR should have been alerted to the fact that Mr C 
was having problems managing his money.
So overall, in these circumstances, I think MYJARS assessment for these loans were 
proportionate and the checks it carried out showed it that Mr C could likely afford the 
repayments he was committed to. So, it follows that I think that when Mr C applied for the 
three loans, MYJARS decision to lend was reasonable.
Ive also thought about the way MYJAR treated Mr C when he struggled to repay loan 3 in 
accordance with the agreement. I can see that MYJAR made some errors in relation to 
taking payment when it shouldn't have done. But I can also see it has now put things right by 
rectifying any errors it made and it emailed Mr C to explain what had happened. So I cant 
say MYJAR didn't treat Mr C fairly and sympathetically when he fell into difficulty in repaying 
loan 3.
I am sorry to disappoint Mr C. But it follows that for the reasons set out above, I havent 
upheld the complaint. I dont need to tell MYJAR to take any further action in respect of it. 
 
 
 
 My final decision
For the reason set out above, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2020.
Nicola Woolf
Ombudsman