DRN-2905871
The complaint
Mr W complains about the transfer of the defined-benefits he held in the British Steel 
Pension Scheme (BSPS) to a personal pension. He says he was advised to transfer by 
Financial Solutions Wales Ltd (FSW, the respondent business in this complaint) and 
another financial business (which Ill call Firm B). He believes that the advice provided was 
unsuitable for him which has resulted in him suffering a significant financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ws employer announced that it would be examining options to 
restructure its business including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation 
with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, which 
included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined-
benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could transfer their 
benefits to a private pension arrangement.
Mr W was concerned about what the announcement by his employer meant for the security 
of his preserved benefits in the BSPS. He was unsure what to do so he approached FSW for 
advice. Mr W had several meetings with FSW in 2017, during which it gathered information 
about his circumstances and objectives. However, FSW was unable to complete the advice 
process and referred Mr W to Firm B. 
Firm B carried out further fact-finding and completed a transfer value analysis report 
(TVAS). Firm B then sent Mr W a recommendation letter on 30 November 2017 advising 
him to transfer out of the BSPS to a drawdown-ready pension plan. It recommended he 
invest the funds with a business Ill refer to as P. £436,805.38 was transferred to his new 
pension and was invested in a cautious fund with P. Mr W was referred back to FSW for 
ongoing advice and servicing of his pension.
In July 2019 Mr W complained to both FSW and Firm B about the advice.
Firm B didnt uphold the complaint and Mr W referred his complaint about it to our service. 
However, whilst the complaint was with us, Firm B went into liquidation so Mr Ws complaint 
about this business has been referred to the Financial Services Compensation Scheme 
(FSCS).
FSW told Mr W it hadnt provided him with any advice to transfer his pension  it said it had 
referred him to Firm B.
Mr Ws representative referred his complaint to our service, saying FSW should be held 
liable for the advice. The representative said Mr W had met with FSW several times, and 
had only spoken to a representative of Firm B briefly. It said Mr W knew FSW was getting 
outside help but didnt understand this to mean that Firm B would be providing him with 
advice instead. The representative said Mr W had been verbally advised to transfer by FSW 
and Mr W had gone ahead with the transfer based on that advice. It added it was a joint 
venture between the two businesses, evidenced by the advice fee being split between the 
two firms and FSW facilitating the completion of transfer paperwork.
Our investigator didnt agree. She wasnt persuaded that FSW had formally advised Mr W to 
transfer his pension.
As Mr W didnt agree, the complaint was passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations, the regulators rules, guidance and codes of practice, and what I consider to 
have been good industry practice at the time. And where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, 
what I think is more likely than not to have happened based on the available evidence and 
the wider surrounding circumstances.
My understanding of the representatives position is that FSW should be held liable for the 
advice on three grounds:
FSW verbally advised Mr W to transfer his pension and Mr W relied upon that advice 
despite Firm Bs involvement  FSW should be held accountable for that advice.
There was a joint venture between FSW and Firm A and there is authority from our 
service and the courts to support joint liability for the advice.
Even if FSW is not liable for the losses as a result of Mr W transferring out of BSPS, 
FSW was still obliged to treat him fairly and have due regard to his best interests.
Ill address each point in turn.
Did FSW advise Mr W to transfer?
Having considered the available evidence, I think it is possible that FSW verbally advised, or 
gave Mr W a strong impression, that he should transfer his pension from the BSPS to a 
personal pension. I say this because FSW completed a fact-find with Mr W and gathered 
information about his objectives and attitude to risk. It also produced an illustration for the 
pension provider that Mr W eventually transferred to  P  investing in the same funds. 
There are also notes in the fact-find that show the risks of transferring were discussed with 
Mr W. So, FSW had a lot of the information it required to provide Mr W with a 
recommendation at that stage. It also had the necessary regulatory permission to provide 
pension transfer advice and Mr W had signed terms of business confirming he wanted FSW 
to provide him with such advice. 
As I understand it, FSW referred Mr W to Firm B because it didnt think it would be able to 
give Mr W a formal recommendation before his transfer quotation expired on 
11 December 2017. This was because of the number of BSPS clients it was dealing with at 
the same time. But, having produced an illustration for P, demonstrating where Mr W should 
transfer his pension to and how the funds would be invested, it seems to me that FSW was 
operating on the presumption that Mr W would most likely transfer his pension. And I think 
Mr W probably believed FSW was going to advise him to transfer out of his pension too.
But crucially Mr W couldnt have transferred based on these interactions with FSW alone. 
The transfer value quotation provided by the trustees of the BSPS stated that Mr W would be 
required to provide evidence that he had taken appropriate financial advice if he wanted to 
transfer his BSPS benefits to a flexible benefits scheme. This requirement was repeated in the transfer value discharge form, which further stated that Mr W would need to provide a 
signed confirmation from his adviser that such advice had been given. It is clear to me, 
based on the evidence Ive seen, that FSW did not issue any recommendation letter or 
suitability report to Mr W advising him to transfer out of BSPS. However, Firm B issued a 
suitability report addressed to Mr W recommending that he transfer out of BSPS to a flexible 
scheme. And Ive seen a copy of the letter Firm B sent to Mr W evidencing that hed taken 
advice to meet the BSPS trustees requirement. FSW did not produce such a document as it 
did not give Mr W any formal advice in respect of his pension. So, Mr W couldnt have 
transferred out of BSPS based on the meetings he had with FSW or any verbal advice he 
might have been given.
I accept that FSW received a substantial part of the advice fee following Mr Ws transfer, as 
a result of it introducing Mr W to Firm B. I also accept that after Firm B had given Mr W the 
transfer advice, FSW assisted with the completion of paperwork. But, ultimately, Firm B gave 
the advice for Mr W to transfer, and I dont think FSWs earlier involvement automatically 
makes FSW liable for the suitability of the pension transfer advice provided by Firm B.
Mr W was FSWs client, and it clearly did a lot of the background work prior to a 
recommendation being made. So, I dont think it is unusual that FSW facilitated the 
completion of the transfer paperwork, particularly as it would be providing ongoing servicing 
and advice to Mr W. And even though the advice fee was split, it is my view that Firm B 
remains fully responsible for the advice they gave Mr W to transfer.
I have nevertheless considered whether Mr W would have still opted to transfer his benefits 
out of the BSPS to a personal arrangement if Firm B had advised him not to transfer. Mr Ws 
representative says Mr W was persuaded to transfer based upon his interactions with FSW, 
who verbally advised him to transfer. But on balance I dont think Mr W wouldve gone 
against the advice provided by Firm B. Mr W was an inexperienced investor and the risk 
assessments carried out by both firms showed him to have a cautious attitude to risk. The 
fact-finds also show he was concerned with protecting his pension, rather than trying to get a 
higher income out of it. So, if Firm B had provided Mr W with clear advice in writing against 
transferring, explaining why it wasnt suitable for him given his cautious attitude to risk, 
I dont think Mr W wouldve acted against that advice purely based on his earlier discussions 
with FSW.
In light of what Ive said above, its my decision that it was Firm Bs advice that ultimately 
enabled Mr W to transfer. If this advice was unsuitable, then I think Firm B is responsible for 
Mr Ws losses flowing from the transfer. Im aware that Firm B was declared in default by the 
FSCS, so Mr W will need to pursue a claim with the FSCS  I understand he is already doing 
so.
Did FSW and Firm B embark on a joint venture?
FSW states a joint venture existed between FSW and Firm B to facilitate Mr W transferring 
out of the BSPS and that both businesses remain jointly liable for any financial loss Mr W 
has suffered. It says that the joint venture primarily involved FSW verbally advising Mr W to 
transfer out of the BSPS before introducing them to Firm B to formally recommend the 
pension transfer to a new pension plan. Mr Ws representative says that Firm B did nothing 
more than rubber stamp FSWs earlier verbal advice. Due to the nature of the joint venture 
and the number of pension transfers likely carried out in this manner, the representative 
wants me to ascertain how many clients FSW introduced to Firm B and how many of those 
received a positive recommendation to transfer and were returned to FSW for ongoing 
advice.I understand why Mr Ws representative has raised this concern  it seeks to establish a 
pattern of behaviour that evidences the alleged joint venture. But Mr Ws representative will 
understand that the individual details of each case are always different  which is why this 
service decides each case on its own particular facts and merits. So, in deciding this 
complaint, Ill only look at the individual facts and merits applicable to Mr Ws personal 
dealings with FSW. I wont be considering FSWs alleged acts or omissions in other cases 
where it introduced individuals to Firm B. And I wont be considering the acts or omissions of 
Firm B in its dealing with Mr W because this complaint is about FSW rather than Firm B.
Based on the evidence Ive seen, I think FSW set out with the intention of providing Mr W 
with advice on his BSPS benefits. It carried out a fact-find and risk assessment and asked 
Mr W to sign a client agreement, in which it set out the fee it would charge him for its advice. 
FSW was unable to complete the advice process owing to capacity issues and time 
constraints associated with the transfer. I can see no other plausible reason for it not 
providing Mr W with advice, given it had regulatory permissions to do so and stood to benefit 
from a substantial advice fee  more so than the share of the fee it received by introducing 
Mr W to Firm B.
Because of the capacity issues, FSW referred Mr W to Firm B. And based on the 
documentation Ive seen completed by Firm B, I think it carried out its own fact-find, risk 
assessment and TVAS report before making a recommendation to Mr W. So, overall, Im not 
persuaded that in Mr Ws case there was a planned joint venture in respect of the advice to 
transfer out of the BSPS. Based on the evidence Ive seen, Firm B didnt rely on FSWs 
analysis, but completed its own, going further and issuing a TVAS, which FSW did not. And 
as I have set out above, I dont think it would otherwise be fair to hold FSW liable for the 
advice to transfer out of the BSPS.
FSW did not treat Mr W fairly or have due regard to his best interests
Mr Ws representative has suggested that FSW didnt treat Mr W fairly or act in his best 
interests by partnering with Firm B as it did not carry out appropriate analysis of Firm B 
before referring Mr W to it. It argues FSW should have done so to prevent Mr W suffering 
detriment. As I have said above, FSW did not feel it could complete the advice process in 
time. It referred Mr W to Firm B, which was regulated by the FCA to provide pension transfer 
advice, so that Mr W did not miss his opportunity to consider a transfer from the BSPS. 
I dont think FSW could reasonably be expected to carry out further due diligence on Firm B, 
particularly as Firm B had the necessary permissions from the FCA to provide this advice. 
And, as a regulated adviser, it was also required to treat Mr W fairly, act in his best interests 
and provide him with suitable advice.
In conclusion, I havent seen any evidence that it was FSWs advice that ultimately led to 
Mr Ws decision to transfer out of the BSPS, without the actions of Firm B. I am also not 
persuaded that FSW made an error or treated Mr W unfairly in the role it carried out. 
Because of this, I dont consider it would be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me 
to require FSW to pay compensation to Mr W or to take any further action in response to this 
complaint.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2022.
 
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman