DRN-3266133
The complaint
Miss C complains that Home Retail Group Card Services Limited, trading as Argos Card, 
has closed her Argos Card account.
What happened
Miss C had an Argos Card account. She says that she was having difficulty making an online 
order so she contacted Argos Card and was told that her account had been closed. She 
complained to Argos Card but it said that a decision had been made to close any account 
which had remained inactive for twelve months and that an e-mail had been sent to Miss C 
in July 2021 to advise her of the action that it was taking. It said that it cant be held 
responsible if the e-mail wasnt delivered and that Miss C would need to reapply for an Argos 
Card if she wanted to have an account and would be subject to the necessary credit checks. 
Miss C wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service. Our investigator 
didnt recommend that her complaint should be upheld. He said that he unable to find that 
Argos Card had acted unfairly so he wouldnt be asking it to do anything differently.
Miss C has asked for her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. She says that she 
didnt receive a text message from Argos and that this issue would have been avoided if 
shed been sent a text message. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome recommended by our investigator for these 
reasons:
the terms and conditions of the Argos Card account say: We may end this 
agreement and close your account (by providing two months written notice), cancel 
or suspend your right to use your account and/or reduce your credit limit if it has 
been dormant, meaning there have been no purchases or there has been no balance 
owed to us for at least 6 months;
Argos Card says that a decision was made to close any account which had remained 
inactive for a period of twelve months  and it has provided evidence to show that the 
last purchase on Miss Cs account was in January 2020;
it says that an e-mail was sent to Miss Cs e-mail address in July 2021 to advise her 
that her account would be closed if she didnt use her card within two months of the 
date of that e-mail;
it says that Miss C didnt use her card within that time period so her account was 
closed;
Miss C says that she didnt receive that e-mail but shed registered for e-billing so I 
consider that it was fair and reasonable for the notice to be sent to her by e-mail and 
I consider it to be more likely than not that the e-mail was sent to her, even if she 
didnt receive it, and that by sending the e-mail Argos Card had complied with the 
requirement to give notice to her;
Miss C has referred to a text message but Ive seen no evidence to show that Argos 
Card either sent her a text message about closing her account or that it has said that 
it sent her a text message (its final response letter to her clearly says that it sent her 
an e-mail);
Argos Card says that Miss C would need to reapply for an Argos Card if she wanted 
to have an account and would be subject to the necessary credit checks;
Miss C clearly feels very strongly that her account shouldnt have been closed  and I 
sympathise with her for the issues that shes experienced  but I consider that Argos 
Card sent the required notice to her and that the account was closed in accordance 
with its terms and conditions; and
Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that Argos Card has acted 
incorrectly in these circumstances so I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for 
me to require it to reinstate Miss Cs account, to pay her any compensation or to take 
any other action in response to her complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Miss Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 August 2022.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman