DRN-4024625
The complaint
Miss B complains HSBC UK Bank plc (HSBC) refused to open the specific bank account she 
applied for and failed to provide a full explanation why. 
What happened
Miss B says she visited a branch of HSBC to apply for a specific bank account (A) as it 
offered a switcher cash incentive and was the best type of bank account to suit her 
purposes. Miss B says she was informed at the time of the application it had been rejected 
but without any reason, so she revisited the branch the next day and was told her application 
failed because of an algorithm. Miss B says she also rang the bank to understand why her 
application had failed and she was then informed in writing by HSBC it was due to her credit 
score.
Miss B says her credit score is good and is looking for HSBC to provide the precise reason 
why she was declined for the A account. Miss B says while HSBC have paid her £170 by 
way of a goodwill gesture there were other benefits the A account provided. 
HSBC says Miss Bs application didnt meet the credit score required to meet its risk appetite 
for this particular type of bank account. HSBC says it opened another type of bank account 
for Miss B and as a gesture of goodwill paid her £170  the equivalent of what she would 
have received if it had opened an A account for her. 
Miss B wasnt happy with HSBCs response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator felt the A account was subject to status and internal checks, meaning applicants 
would need to meet HSBCs criteria for this type of account. The investigator felt HSBC 
werent obliged to accept her application if it didnt meet its criteria. The investigator says 
HSBC explained to Miss B the reason for the declined application was due to her credit 
rating not fitting the remit for this type of account, and it doesnt need to do any more than 
that. 
The investigator felt HSBC had acted fairly when it paid Miss B £170 as a gesture of 
goodwill.
Miss B didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to my 
decision. 
I can understand it would have been disappointing and upsetting for Miss B to have applied 
for a specific bank account only to be told it had been rejected, without any specific reason 
why. 
When looking at this complaint I will consider if HSBC acted unfairly when it declined to open 
the A type account for Miss B. 
The first thing to say here is many banks offer a range of bank accounts and these will 
require different assessment criteria, depending on the type of account. Here Miss B applied 
for an A account which had a higher credit rating threshold than a standard HSBC bank 
account.
Thats not to say Miss Bs credit rating is poor in anyway, more that it didnt meet the strict 
criteria HSBC had set for this type of account and its not for me to tell HSBC otherwise. 
While Miss B wants a more specific explanation why her credit rating wasnt sufficient, thats 
not something I can tell HSBC to do, as this could be considered sensitive business 
information. 
Its reasonable to say HSBC could have perhaps been a little more helpful initially when a 
member of staff apparently suggested Miss Bs application was declined due to an algorithm. 
That said, HSBC here have opened a bank account for Miss B and paid her £170 as a 
gesture of goodwill, equivalent to the switcher incentive that attracted her in part to this type 
of account initially. With that in mind I am satisfied HSBC provided a fair outcome for Miss B 
here.
While Miss B may not agree, it isnt unreasonable for HSBC to set certain internal criteria for 
specific types of bank accounts and thats what happened here. 
While Miss B will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of HSBC. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 April 2023.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman