DRN-1361211
 
The complaint
Mr G complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral) provided incorrect 
information which led to him driving without insurance. 
What happened
Mr Gs car insurance policy was due to expire in August 2019. He'd spoken to Admiral in 
June 2019 to say he lived in a shared residence and therefore asked for all correspondence 
to be sent by email. He said this was because he didn't always receive his post. 
Admiral agreed to do this. But it failed to tell him that some important correspondence, such 
as renewal invitations and policy expiration notices could only be sent by post. 
Mr G missed his renewal invitation dated July 2019 because he said it came through by post 
and not email as expected. He also didnt receive any notification that his policy had expired 
as he didnt renew it and the policy wasnt set up to automatically renew. So Mr G was 
driving without insurance for a period of time.   
Admiral said it had made an error and that its agent should have told Mr G that some 
correspondence can only be sent by post. Mr G said he was forced to take out a new policy 
because of this and spent lengthy periods on the phone to try to insure his vehicle. Admiral 
offered him temporary insurance, but it was later established that Mr G wasnt able to take 
the type of insurance being offered out. So he chose a different policy with Admiral. He said 
he was dependent on his car during that time due to medical reasons. 
Admiral accepted it had made an error and offered to compensate him for it. It originally 
offered £25 but said this was offered by frontline staff in an attempt to try to resolve things. 
But once it looked at things more thoroughly it offered to pay him £200. It also agreed to 
write off £179.79 to match the renewal price Mr G would have had if he renewed with it in 
July 2019. 
Mr G remained unhappy with this. He said Admirals error caused him to drive for over a 
month without insurance. He also felt he had been forced into taking out a new policy with it, 
and received poor service from it soon after he found out he wasnt insured. So he brought a 
complaint to this service for consideration. 
Our investigator looked into everything and didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She 
agreed Admiral made mistakes that caused Mr G to experience a level of distress and 
inconvenience. But she felt that Admirals offer of £200 was fair and reasonable. 
Mr G disagreed and so the case has been passed to me for final decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I agree with Mr G that mistakes were made by Admiral following his request in June 2019 for 
it to send all correspondence by email. This led to him missing his policy renewal invitation 
and subsequent expiry emails. As a result of this, he was driving without insurance for a 
period of time. 
I appreciate this experience would have caused him a level of distress and inconvenience. 
But I think Admiral has accepted it made an error and has put things right fairly. I appreciate 
this will disappoint Mr G, and so I will explain why. 
Mr G drove without insurance for a period of time. I appreciate this would have been 
concerning for him when he found out, and its fortunate that nothing occurred during that 
time to him as a result of having no insurance in place. But I am unable to make Admiral 
compensate him for things that could have occurred, but fortunately didnt. So on this point, I 
dont think that Mr G has lost out  for example he hasnt told us that he was involved in an 
accident during that period or a situation occurred where he needed to make a claim. 
Mr G only realised his policy hadnt renewed in September 2019 when he logged into his 
online portal. He thought his policy was due to renew in October 2019 as he said he had 
forgotten hed taken out a ten month policy  rather than an annual one. I appreciate Mr G 
was given wrong information that all correspondence would be sent by email. But I think hes 
also responsible for making sure hes appropriately insured to drive his vehicle and knows 
when he needs to either renew or purchase insurance with a different provider. I note his 
policy wasnt set to automatically renew so he should have ensured he was aware when his 
then current policy was due to expire. I appreciate he said this was an oversight.
However, I agree Admiral made a mistake here. It should have informed Mr G during the call 
he made to it that certain important documents were required to be sent by post. Its a 
mistake that has caused Mr G a level of distress and inconvenience. Because of this, he 
said he had to spend a day, whilst at work, to try and arrange insurance cover in order to 
drive home. I note Mr G said he was reliant on his car at that time due to medical reasons 
and agree this would have further added to his distress. 
But overall I consider that Admiral has accepted it made a mistake. And this service doesnt 
award compensation to intend to punish a business for an error its made. I think it has put 
Mr G back into the position he would have been in by offering him the original renewal price 
he was quoted and making an award as an acknowledgment for the trouble and upset 
caused to Mr G. 
My understanding is that Mr G accepted the quote in order to continue with his insurance. I 
appreciate Mr G said he was trying to get insurance so he could drive home, but he could 
have also looked at insuring his vehicle with other providers at that time too if he didnt think 
Admirals price was competitive. 
Mr G asked our investigator to request Admiral writes off the monthly interest that accrued 
on his premium. But I dont think thats fair because this is something he would have been 
required to pay in any event given hes chosen to pay his premium monthly. So I wont be 
requiring it to do that.
In summary, I agree Mr G has experienced a level of trouble and upset as a result of an 
error made by Admiral. But I think £200 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances because 
he hasnt lost out (fortunately) by driving without insurance. 
I think £200 fairly compensates Mr G for the level of service he received, the delays 
experienced in setting up a new policy and receiving incorrect information. So I wont be 
asking Admiral to do anything further.My final decision
 My final decision is I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2020.
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman