DRN-2422297
The complaint
Mrs M has complained to Sesame Limited (Sesame) about pension advice she was given 
in 1994. 
Background
In 1989 Mrs M was given advice by another firm to set up a personal pension, and she 
started making payments towards her retirement.  
When she married and purchased a property, she decided a review of her finances were 
needed.  So, in 1994 Mrs M sought advice from an appointed representative (AR) of 
Sesame.  The adviser recommended she increase her payments into the personal pension 
instead of joining an occupational scheme offered by her employer.
Sesame upheld Mrs Ms complaint and accepted the advice given by its AR was not 
suitable.  To put things right, it offered to compensate Mrs M by comparing the performance 
of her personal pension with the occupational pension scheme between 1994 and 1997.  
Sesame capped the compensation at 1997 because that was when Mrs M changed jobs and 
was offered the opportunity to join a new occupational scheme (but chose not to).
Mrs M didnt accept Sesames offer and referred her complaint to this Service.  She said that 
she didnt have any need to join her new employers occupational scheme in 1997 because 
her personal situation hadnt changed since getting advice from Sesames AR.  Mrs M 
eventually opted into her employers pension scheme in 2012 and stopped making payments 
into her personal pension.
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint and recommend it be upheld.  She 
concluded that compensation should be calculated up until 2012 when Mrs M opted into her 
employers pension scheme. The investigator said Mrs M had reasonably relied upon the 
advice given to her in 1994 and had no reason to seek fresh advice as her personal 
circumstances hadnt changed.
Mrs M accepted the investigators opinion, but Sesame did not.  
In summary, Sesame said that when Mrs M was made redundant and changed jobs in 1997 
that was a change in her personal circumstances.  Given Mrs M had sought advice on two 
previous occasions, she had the opportunity and ought to have sought advice at that time 
too.
Sesame also highlighted that when Mrs Ms employer was taken over by another business in 
2005, a new pension scheme was introduced which she was given the opportunity to join.  
Then from 2008 Mrs M and all employees were given the opportunity to join that scheme 
annually.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change her opinion, and so Sesame asked for a fresh 
review of the complaint by an ombudsman.
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having considered everything, Ive reached much the same conclusion as the investigator, 
and for broadly the same reasons.
Mrs Ms complaint is about the advice given to her by an AR of Sesame in 1994. It has 
accepted its responsible for the advice and that it was unsuitable for Mrs Ms circumstances.  
I agree with this, as Ive seen nothing to suggest sufficient consideration was given to the 
benefits offered by her employers pension scheme in 1994.
As Sesame has accepted responsibility for that unsuitable advice, the key issue for me to 
decide in this decision, is whats fair and reasonable compensation to put things right.
The offer made by Sesame is intended to compensate Mrs M from when the advice was 
given in 1994 up until August 1997 when she changed jobs and had the opportunity to join a 
new occupational scheme. It has done that by comparing the actual performance of her 
personal pension with what returns shed have made if shed paid into the employers 
scheme.
Im satisfied the approach taken to compare the performance of the two pensions is fair and 
reasonable, but Im not persuaded its fair to cap the calculation at 1997.  I understand the 
reasons Sesame has put forward, but I disagree  and will explain why.
Mrs M had sought advice previously to set up her initial pension provision, and review things 
following her marriage and house purchase.  Those life events can have a significant 
financial impact on personal circumstances.  Sesame says that when Mrs M changed 
employment and was offered membership of a new pension plan in 1997, it would also have 
expected her to seek financial advice.
Whilst I accept Mrs M could have considered whether to join the occupational scheme and 
sought advice, I dont think its unreasonable that she didnt.  Only 3 years previously Mrs M 
had taken advice and was told to increase contributions to her personal pension rather than 
join an employers scheme.  When she had another opportunity to join a pension through her 
new employer in 1997 nothing else had changed in her personal circumstances  and so 
she continued payments to her personal pension.
In 2005, Mrs Ms employer was taken over by another company which announced a new 
pension scheme which she had an opportunity to join.  Sesame also says that from 2008 
onwards, Mrs M and all existing employees were given the opportunity to join the scheme 
each year.  As a result, Sesame feels Mrs M had ample opportunity to question her existing 
personal pension or seek financial advice about opting in to her employers scheme before 
2012.
Sesame provided a booklet with the information it says Mrs M would have been given by her 
employer in 1997, 2005 and 2008. The booklet sets out the benefits of joining the 
occupational scheme, but it appears to have been issued to another employee around 2000.  
The accompanying cover letter says the employee that received the letter is in one of the 
transferring categories.  This suggests the booklet was sent to employees who were 
already part of the employers scheme, as opposed to those not opted in.I cant be certain the booklet with the occupational pension benefits was provided to Mrs M, 
and the evidence Ive seen doesnt persuade me that it was.  However, I do accept its likely 
that information would have been available to Mrs M from her employer.
Its clear Mrs M had several opportunities to join occupational schemes and review her 
pension arrangements following the 1994 advice.  But having an opportunity to join a 
scheme does not mean that Mrs M necessarily ought to have considered further financial 
advice necessary.  Although Mrs M could have pro-actively sought advice, Im conscious 
that she already believed that she was paying into a suitable pension, because of the advice 
she was given by Sesames AR in 1994.
Mrs Ms position was determined by the advice given to her in 1994 that Sesame is 
responsible for.  Although there were opportunities for her to join her employers pension, as 
she received no advice to do so, I think its fair and reasonable to hold Sesame responsible 
beyond August 1997.  Im satisfied that there was no break in causation up until the point 
Mrs M did opt into her employers scheme in 2012.
To put things right, I think Sesame should recalculate its offer so that it includes the full 
period until she joined her employers scheme in 2012.
  
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ms complaint against Sesame Limited.
To put things right, Sesame should recalculate the offer of compensation it has already 
made to Mrs M, but to include the full period from the point of advice in 1994 to when she 
joined her employers pension scheme in 2012.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2021.
 
Ross Hammond
Ombudsman