DRN-2665612
The complaint
Mr W complained that U K Insurance Limited trading as Churchill (Churchill) declined his 
claim under his home emergency cover.
What happened
Mr W has a home insurance plus policy with Churchill that includes home emergency cover. 
Mr W contacted Churchill claims handlers (Company A) on 4 September 2020 to report a 
bad smell coming from a drain in his garden, just outside his bathroom window. Churchill 
sent a contractor out who inspected the drain and wasnt able to locate any blockages. The 
contractor used a high-powered water jet to remove debris and advised Mr W to contact his 
water provider if the problem persisted. 
Mr W contacted Company A several days later as the smell hadnt gone away. He was told 
they couldnt assist as all facilities were free flowing. Mr W contacted his local water provider 
and was told by them that the outside drain required a channel, the manhole required re-
benching and the drop point needed to be replaced. His water provider also said it was for 
Mr W to deal with these issues as they were within the boundaries of his property. 
Mr W again contacted Company A as he thought this should be dealt with under his home 
emergency cover. But Company A suggested he make a claim under his buildings 
insurance. Mr W contacted Company A several times over a period of about two weeks and 
he thought he was told during one of these calls that the claim would be covered under his 
home emergency policy. Company A later told Mr W this wasnt the case and the information 
provided when he first contacted it was correct. Mr W was unhappy and so complained. 
Company A responded to Mr W. They agreed Mr W had been told during one of his calls 
with them that his claim might be approved, and they said he shouldnt have been told this. It 
said there is no internal damage caused to Mr Ws property and all facilities are free flowing, 
so the work required was not considered to be an emergency. Company A offered Mr W 
£100 compensation for the breakdown in communication and delays caused by them. 
Mr W remained unhappy and so complained to this service. He said drainage located within 
the boundaries of his property is covered by his home emergency policy. He said Churchill 
tried to redirect the claim to his home and buildings cover, but this would mean he had to 
pay an excess. Mr W said this matter was an emergency as it was giving off a toxic smell. 
Mr W said the work was outstanding and feels the distinction of what constitutes a home 
emergency has been manipulated and abused.  Mr W wants UKI to pay £500 towards the 
work, as this reflects the job allocation total under the policy and £500 in compensation. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint. Mr W was unhappy with the outcome 
reached by our investigator and said an emergency doesnt have to be life threatening to be 
covered on a home emergency policy. And it doesnt have to directly affect the internal parts 
of the property. He said, for instance, his HEC covers infestations such as mice, which isnt 
life threatening but can effect health. He said nowhere in the policy does it state his 
circumstance wouldnt be covered and its not listed as an exemption. 
Because Mr W didnt agree with what our investigator said, this has come to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding this complaint.
I want to start by saying that its not necessarily the case that Mr Ws home emergency 
policy would cover him for full repairs to the drainage system within the boundaries of his 
home. In general, home emergency cover deals with sudden and unforeseen emergency 
situations. And its often the case that a temporary repair would be carried out under the 
policy, to stop whatever it is that might be causing damage or making the home potentially 
uninhabitable. If more costly and permanent repairs are required, then these would usually 
either be paid for by the policy holder or might be covered under a home insurance policy. 
Ive looked at the terms of Mr Ws home emergency cover and these say that Churchill will 
pay the cost of emergency assistance needed for an emergency involving:  underground 
external drainage for which you are legally responsible.  This means that Mr Ws policy 
covers him for work to underground external drainage on his property, as long as that work 
needs to be dealt with as an emergency. So the question is whether or not the situation with 
the smell coming from the drains on Mr Ws property should be seen as an emergency. 
The terms of Mr Ws policy define what constitutes an emergency for the purposes of cover 
under the policy. It says: An incident in the home that happens during the period of 
insurance and which needs to be dealt with quickly to avoid: Making the home unsafe or 
insecure for you; Damaging the home and its contents, or The home losing its main source 
of heating, lighting or water (hot or cold).
I dont doubt that this is likely to be an unpleasant and frustrating situation for Mr W. But for 
me to see the problem with the drains on his property as an emergency, I would have to be 
satisfied that its a situation that needed to be dealt with immediately. And that not dealing 
with it in that way would have meant causing damage to the home, making the home unsafe 
or insecure or that it affected facilities. And I cant see that its done any of those things. 
From what Ive seen Company A checked and jet washed the drains and confirmed that the 
drains were free flowing. This means that although repairs need to be carried out to the 
drains, Mr W continued to have the full use of bathroom and drainage facilities in his home. 
And its my understanding that he continues to have full bathroom and drainage facilities in 
spite of the problem not yet being addressed. 
What this means is that Im satisfied that Churchill acted fairly when it said it wouldnt deal 
with the repairs to Mr Ws drainage system as an emergency. As I said, its the case that 
repairs need to be carried out and that Mr W is having to tolerate an unpleasant smell, but 
this is not an emergency situation. While I make no finding about whether the repairs might 
be covered under Mr Ws home insurance policy, Mr W should consider looking into this. 
I can see Mr W also has concerns about how Company A communicated with him, in 
particular about whether it told him earlier that the claim would be covered and whether it 
caused delays in dealing with this matter. But, for the purposes of this decision, I can only 
look at the complaint against Churchill and the decline of the claim under Mr Ws home 
emergency policy. My final decision
Its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2021.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman