DRN-2074158
The complaint
Mr B complains that Cofunds Limited (trading as Aegon) failed to deal effectively with his 
request to transfer his shared-based ISA from another provider into a new unit trust-based 
holding with Cofunds. Changes in prices during the month-long delay resulted in a £900 
loss. He said hed spent a considerable amount of time chasing Cofunds, both about the 
delays and its varying responses to his complaint, and wants additional compensation for 
this.
What happened
In a Provisional Decision I concluded that Cofunds should pay Mr B £200 in addition to the 
£200 it had already paid, based on the following assessment.
Mr B was understandably very frustrated that Cofunds had not followed up the transfer 
request and did nothing until he took the initiative to pursue things and informed it that his 
existing provider hadnt received the form. I also fully understand why he felt Cofunds 
shouldve sent it first class and/or recorded delivery given such transfers could be time-
sensitive. 
All this was very unfortunate. But my role, and that of this service, is to assess not whether a 
business might have done things differently but whether they clearly did something wrong. 
I have seen nothing in its terms and conditions which states that it promises to send transfer-
in requests by first class or registered post, or that it would follow up such transfer requests if 
an existing provider fails to respond within a set period of time.  When Mr B made it aware of 
the problem it re-sent the form by first class recorded delivery.
So I do not believe Cofunds can reasonably be held liable for any financial loss that may 
have occurred. I do, however, think its communications were extremely poor, giving Mr B 
misleading and incorrect information and that this significantly increased his frustration with 
Cofunds and what had happened.
A Cofunds complaints handler rang Mr B on 6 May 2019 and, in my view, made a serious of 
incorrect, misleading or unhelpful remarks, including:
She had not read the file properly and insisted that Mr B had made a transfer-out 
request
She claimed that Cofunds chased these after three weeks, implying they had already 
chased his request up a week or more earlier
Once Mr B made clear it was a transfer-in request she repeatedly said that these 
were chased more quickly, something which was not Cofunds policy
She did, as Mr B claims, seek to partially blame the existing provider, alleging  with 
no evidential basis  that it would have been aware of the request even though it had 
not received the form
She then repeatedly argued that an IFA would have been involved, again without any 
evidence to support this, and either they or the provider were therefore partly to 
blame
She repeatedly apologised for not chasing the request, saying it was Cofunds policy 
to do so
She clearly offered to pay compensation for any loss, albeit she then sought to argue 
that the provider might have been partly to blame  again with no evidence to support 
this
Overall, I fully understand why Mr B was both extremely frustrated by the conversation but 
reassured that he would be compensation for any loss. Given the complaints handler had 
clearly promised financial compensation the subsequent complaints handlers phone call, in 
simply dismissing this issue without any consideration of what had been promised, was very 
unsatisfactory.
In this context I am very surprised that Cofunds concluded, in its Final Response Letter, of 
17 May, that it had done nothing wrong and did not uphold any aspect of Mr Bs complaint.
However, as I do not believe Cofunds was liable for any loss, and I dont believe the first call 
handlers offer constituted a verbal contract (as Mr B claims) I dont intend to instruct it to pay 
any potential loss. Instead, I believe it should compensate Mr B both for the myriad of 
mistaken information it supplied, the poor service overall, and the loss of expectation that he 
would be compensated for any loss.
I currently intend to instruct Cofunds Limited (trading as Aegon) to pay Mr B an additional 
£200 trouble and upset. So if it has not already paid the £200 originally offered.
Cofunds accepted my provisional decision. 
Mr B didnt believe this was adequate compensation, saying:
I seem to have confused Cofunds and Aegon. Cofunds was his broker and he had no 
complaints about it; his complaint is about Aegons failings, as the receiving 
institution
Aegon appears to be able to say anything without being accountable; it promised to 
pay certain compensation and should be required to stand by that commitment 
irrespective of any internal differences
The ombudsman service should insist on a company standing by its commitments
It was entitled to challenge his loss calculation but not merely to ignore any loss and 
go back on its promises
He has expended considerable time and effort on this issue and my proposed 
compensation does not go close to reflecting the trouble and upset this issue has 
caused him; nor is he being given any compensation for his financial loss
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I apologise for any confusion over the use of Cofunds throughout my provisional 
decision. Cofunds has been part of Aegon since 2016 so they are effectively the same 
company and this complaint has been registered as being against Cofunds trading as 
Aegon. However, given the specifics of this complaint I recognise it would have been more 
helpful to draw distinction between the two brands when describing the complaint. I would like to reassure Mr B that I fully understood the differing roles of the two brands when 
considering his complaint.
Secondly, I fully understand Mr Bs disappointment that I did not believe Cofunds/Aegon 
should paying compensation for potential financial loss as promised by an early call 
handler. 
But my role is to assess what a business should have done and whether a customer did lose 
financially as a result of its mistakes. So, for example, if a bank wrongly told a customer they 
had £100,000 in their account I would not expect them to pay the customer that sum. In this 
case I didnt feel there was sufficient evidence to conclude that Cofunds/Aegon was 
responsible for any financial loss. In particular, I didnt accept that its specific mistakes 
resulted in an actual loss.
Given this, I solely considered what I felt was a reasonable sum given the mistakes it had 
made. This is inevitably a subjective matter but I thought £400 was appropriate i.e. double 
the amount Cofunds/Aegon had offered. In this context its important to stress that its not my 
role to punish or fine a business.
Putting things right
I instruct Cofunds Limited to pay Mr B £200.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and instruct Cofunds Limited to pay Mr B £200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2020.
 
Tony Moss
Ombudsman