DRN-4138421
The complaint
Mr P complains that Vitality Health Limited has turned down a dental treatment claim he 
made on a group private medical insurance policy.
What happened
Mr P is a member of his employers group private medical insurance policy.
In November 2022, Mr P had a dental check-up and was given two fillings. He made a claim 
on his policy for the costs of the check-up and treatment. 
Vitality paid for Mr Ps check-up. But it turned down the claim for the costs of his treatment. 
Thats because it said the policy only covered dental treatment if a policyholder had had a 
dental check-up and undergone all necessary treatment in the 15 months before cover under 
the policy began. In this case, Mr P hadnt had a dental check-up since 2019, so Vitality 
concluded that his treatment costs werent covered.
Mr P was unhappy with Vitalitys decision and he complained. He accepted that the policy 
Membership Guide set out the relevant term. But he felt the term was buried in the text. He 
considered Vitality should have clearly highlighted it. And he didnt think either Vitalitys 
online Member Zone or his policy certificate made the term sufficiently clear. 
Vitality maintained its stance, although it did update the dental section on the Member Zone 
to include the term following Mr Ps complaint. Remaining unhappy with Vitalitys decision, 
Mr P asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Ps complaint should be upheld. He noted the Member Zone 
stated that the dental, optical and audiological cover information was only a summary of 
cover and to check the full terms and conditions. And he felt the policy Membership Guide 
made the term sufficiently clear. He considered it was Mr Ps employers responsibility to 
highlight the key terms of the policy. So he concluded it had been fair for Vitality to turn down 
Mr Ps claim for the treatment costs.
Mr P disagreed and Ive summarised his response. He noted that the reference to checking 
the full policy terms wasnt detailed in the specific dental section of the Member Zone. He 
said hed also had to search for the full terms and conditions. He maintained that the 
relevant term had been hidden in the policy terms. He added that hed checked the policy 
terms and conditions but had missed the applicable clause. And he referred again to the fact 
that Vitality had changed the Member Zone following his complaint to clearly set out the 
requirement to have had a check-up and undergone all necessary dental treatment in the 15 
months before cover began. 
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr P, I think it was fair for Vitality to turn down 
his claim and Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, 
the terms of the group policy and the circumstances of his claim, to decide whether Vitality 
treated him fairly.
Ive first considered the terms and conditions of the group scheme, as these form the basis 
of Mr Ps employers contract with Vitality. Mr P made a dental claim, so I think it was 
reasonable and appropriate for Vitality to consider the claim in line with the Dental Care 
section of the policy. The Dental Care cover is set out on page 15 of the Membership Guide. 
The policy says that Vitality will reimburse members up to 80% of the costs for treatment 
which is clinically necessary. But the dental care section also includes the following term:
you must have undergone a check-up with your regular dentist and have completed all 
dental treatment recommended in the 15 months before your cover start date. If you have 
not seen a dentist in the 15 months before your cover start date, then eligibility for this cover 
will only begin after you have undergone a check-up by a dentist and completed all dental 
treatment recommended.
In my view, this term makes it clear that Vitality will only pay for treatment if a member has 
seen a dentist in the 15 months before their cover begins and if theyve already undergone 
recommended treatment. I dont find that its been laid out confusingly or that its been buried 
within the text. 
Vitality has provided us with evidence which shows that Mr P last had a dental check-up in 
2019  which was significantly longer than 15 months before his cover start date in April 
2022. On that basis, I think Vitality was reasonably entitled to turn down Mr Ps claim for his 
treatment costs.
It's clear how strongly Mr P feels that Vitality didnt make the term sufficiently clear, given its 
importance. I acknowledge that it isnt set out in Mr Ps policy certificate. Neither is it 
displayed in the dental, optical and audiological section of the benefits table, which provides 
an at-a-glance summary of cover. However, the first paragraph on page one of the policy 
certificate says:
To understand your cover properly, please read this certificate together with the Your Plan 
Terms and conditions document. (The Membership handbook).
And under the further information section of the benefits table relating to dental cover, it 
says:
Please refer to the Your benefits explained section, under Dental care on page 15.
As such, I think Vitality made it sufficiently clear that the benefits table and policy certificate 
didnt list the full cover terms. And I think it made it clear too that members ought to check 
the full contract terms in order to understand the policy and the way cover worked.
I accept that at the time of Mr Ps claim, the specific  Member Zone dental section didnt 
include the relevant clause. But I can see that the dental, optical and audiological benefit 
section of the Member Zone included a brief overview of cover, called Protecting your teeth, 
eyes and hearing. I think it was clear enough then that the information underneath referred to all three types of cover.  And the Member Zone specifically stated:
the following is a summary of your Dental, Optical and Audiological cover. You can read the 
terms and conditions here. A hyperlink was included, which ultimately took a member to the 
full policy terms. Again then, I think Vitality did enough to make the term clear to its 
members.
Vitality made a decision to change the Member Zone after Mr P made his complaint. This 
was a commercial decision Vitality was entitled to make and I dont think it suggests that 
Vitality had previously made any error.
Id also add that Mr Ps employer held the contract with Vitality  it took out the cover. So 
while the policy terms needed to be set out in a clear and understandable way  I dont think 
Vitality had any responsibility to highlight the relevant term to Mr P at the point he was added 
to the corporate cover.
Overall then, despite my natural sympathy with Mr Ps position, I think it was fair for Vitality 
to turn down his claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman