DRN-4406681
The complaint
Mr A complains that Santander UK Plc didnt process his promissory note as requested nor 
return it and it didnt action a data subject access request (DSAR) he posted. 
What happened
Mr A says that he commissioned a builder to carry out some work and submitted a special 
deposit (promissory note) along with a sales purchase order for the work to be completed. 
He says that Santander ignored his request in regard to the promissory note. Mr A said he 
was concerned as the promissory note contained sensitive personal information. He then 
raised a DSAR but Santander didnt respond.
Santander said that it didnt issue promissory notes for current account customers and 
further noted that Mr A didnt have sufficient funds available in his account at the time. It said 
it hadnt received Mr As DSAR and provided details of how to make this request.
Our investigator said that Santander hadnt been able to locate the letter containing Mr As 
promissory note, and because of this she recommended it pay Mr A £50 for the 
inconvenience caused. She said that Mr A didnt send the DSAR to the correct address, so 
she didnt uphold that part of the complaint.
Mr A didnt agree with our investigators view. He said he sent a highly sensitive and 
powerful instrument related to securitisation to Santander five times with clear instructions to 
send it back if it was something they were refusing to accept. He said he had proof of 
delivery and wanted to know what had happened to his instrument and why it wasnt 
returned. Mr A said Santander's Articles of Association states that they accept negotiable 
instruments. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand why Mr A is frustrated by the service he has received from Santander. He sent 
a certified promissory note dated 14 July 2022 to Santanders Chief Financial Officer and 
Chief Executive Officer on 15 July 2022 and didnt receive a response. He says he sent the 
document on five occasions and still didnt receive a response. I agree that this isnt the 
service that should have been provided. However, when considering what action Santander 
is required to take in resolution of this complaint, I have considered the extent to which the 
outcome would have been different in regard to the payment had the promissory note been 
acknowledged and also the impact this issue has had on Mr A.
Santander explained that a promissory note is a signed document containing a written 
promise to pay a stated sum to a specified person or the bearer at a specified date or on 
demand and that it isnt something Santander will action as it is an agreement between Mr A 
and the builder. It said that Mr A could use other routes to make his payment such as online 
banking, telephone banking or payment at a branch or through CHAPS. It said that the 
information Mr A referenced in regard to Santanders acceptance of negotiable instruments 
related to corporate accounts and that Mr A isnt a corporate customer. It also said that Mr A 
didnt have the funds available in his account at the time. 
Based on the above, I find that even if Santander had located the promissory note, this 
wouldnt have been something it would be able to process for payment. Given this, I do not 
find that the outcome in regard to the payment to the business from Mr A would have been 
any different had the promissory note been located by Santander. 
Mr A also said that his DSAR wasnt responded to. Santander said it had no evidence of 
receiving the DSAR and provided details of how to submit a DSAR. Having looked at the 
information provided Mr A didnt send his DSAR to the correct address and therefore I do not 
find I can say Santander did anything wrong by not responding to this.
I accept that the lack of a response to Mr A caused him distress and inconvenience. Mr A 
has said that he sent the instrument to Santander on five occasions and that the letter stated 
that if the payment was unacceptable in some way, then Santander should respond in 
writing within seven days and return the promissory note. While I appreciate that Mr A had 
set out what he expected to happen, as Santander hasnt been able to find any record of the 
promissory note it hasnt been able to return this to Mr A. I can understand why this is 
upsetting for Mr A.
Mr A has also raised concerns as the promissory note contains sensitive personal data. If he 
is concerned about Santanders compliance with the data protection laws, he can raise this 
with the Information Commissioners Office. However, I have considered the concerns he 
has raised when assessing what compensation is reasonable in this case.
Our investigator recommended that Santander pay Mr A £50 compensation for the upset 
caused by not being able to locate his letter. I understand that Mr A doesnt think this is 
enough. Having considered the issues involved and that the promissory note wasnt 
something that could be used on Mr As account, I am only awarding compensation for 
Santander not returning the promissory note as requested by Mr A and for it not being able 
to locate this. I have taken into account Mr As comment about the data included in the 
promissory note but having considered the issues in this complaint, I find that compensation 
of £50 is reasonable.
Putting things right
Santander should pay Mr A £50, as it has agreed, as compensation for the inconvenience 
and upset caused by not being able to locate his letter and promissory note.
My final decision
My final decision is that Santander UK Plc should take the action set out above in resolution 
of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman