DRN-3012040
The complaint
Mr A is a sole trader. He complains about the way National Westminster Bank Plc 
(NatWest) handled his application for a Bounce Back Loan.
What happened
Mr A was an existing personal customer of NatWest and wanted to apply to the bank for a 
Bounce Back Loan. NatWest required customers without a business account to open one 
before it would consider an application for a Bounce Back Loan. So Mr A applied to the bank 
for the account he needed on 20 May 2020.
NatWest initially declined Mr As application. This was based on the fact that hed recently 
taken out a payment holiday on his personal loan accounts, which had been transferred to 
the banks collections department as a result. 
NatWest later changed its internal guidance, such that the payment holiday record was no 
longer a barrier to Mr As account application. So when he reapplied on 21 August 2020, the 
bank approved his application and the necessary account was opened on 2 September. 
NatWest subsequently approved Mr As Bounce Back Loan application and he received a 
loan of £35,000 on 8 September.
While Mr A successfully obtained a Bounce Back Loan in the end, hes unhappy at how 
NatWest dealt with things. He says the bank gave him incorrect information when he applied 
for the payment holiday on his personal loan, yet this then affected his application for the 
Bounce Back Loan. And he says there was a delay in being able to make the second 
application due to errors on the banks part.
NatWest says that its original decision to decline Mr As application was correct. But it 
accepts that it misadvised him about the impact that the payment holiday would have  and 
that delays on its part affected his ability to reapply for the Bounce Back Loan. Its 
apologised for the inconvenience caused and paid Mr A compensation of £250.
Our investigator agreed that NatWest couldve handled things better and had been put to 
some inconvenience during the application process. But Mr A now had the loan and hadnt 
lost out financially as a result of the issues hed faced. And she thought that the £250 
NatWest had already paid Mr A was fair compensation for the inconvenience hed been 
caused. So she didnt recommend that the bank take any further action. 
Mr A didnt accept our investigators view. He didnt think £250 was sufficient, bearing in 
mind the amount of time hed had to spend chasing things up and given the stress it had 
caused him. And he said wed not taken into account any customer charter when assessing 
what had happened, or considered the impact on his business. 
So with no resolution, Mr As complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NatWest was entitled to require Mr A to enter into a business relationship before it would 
consider an application for a Bounce Back Loan from him. And the consideration of his 
application for an account was legitimately subject to different checks and requirements than 
an application for the loan itself. 
Mr As account application was initially declined due to the status of his personal loan 
accounts, which had been transferred to NatWests collections department as a result of the 
payment holiday hed recently set up. This decision was in line with the banks policy at the 
time. And although I wouldnt expect a Bounce Back Loan application to have been declined 
for this reason, NatWest had the discretion to reject a request for a business account on this 
basis. So the bank didnt do anything wrong when declining Mr As initial application.
However, NatWest couldve handled things better after this initial decision. Operating under 
the belief that he needed to get his loan accounts back out of the banks collections 
department, Mr A set out about making changes to the loans so that the monthly payments 
would be more affordable. As NatWest has accepted, there were then delays on its part in 
finalising the paperwork for the term extension that Mr A was trying to set up. 
This need not have held up the Bounce Back Loan application  as Mr A was no longer 
ineligible, given the changes to the banks policy. NatWest changed its policy the day after it 
declined Mr As first application. But even though Mr A was in touch with NatWest on a 
number of occasions about the matter thereafter, the bank didnt tell him this  including 
when responding to his complaints in August. So it missed opportunities to invite Mr A to 
reapply, which wouldve made things quicker and simpler.
In the end, I dont think that NatWests errors prejudiced Mr As position or caused him to 
lose out financially. He obtained the payment holiday, business account and Bounce Back 
Loan that he wanted. But there was an avoidable delay in obtaining the latter, which was 
down to the bank. And, as noted above, I can see that Mr A had to speak to the bank a 
number of times to chase progress. I can appreciate that this would also have caused Mr A 
some understandable worry and stress during what was already a stressful time  and 
acknowledge that it took him away from running his business, too.
Im pleased to see that NatWest has already recognised the impact its errors had on Mr A. It 
has apologised and paid him compensation of £250. I think this is fair in the circumstances 
and in line with what I would otherwise have awarded. 
I should explain, given Mr As response to our investigator, that there isnt a customer 
charter that would influence the amount of compensation I might award. Rather, we 
consider the overall impact of the financial businesss errors on the complainant and make 
an award that we deem fair and reasonable in the circumstances of each individual 
complaint. 
As Ive set out above, there were instances where NatWests service fell below the standard 
that Mr A was entitled to expect. And for the distress and inconvenience that this caused 
him, I think £250 is fair compensation. As NatWest has already paid this, Im not requiring it 
to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2021.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman