DRN-4411232
The complaint
Mr A complains about Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) and the service they provided 
after he made a claim on his Home Emergency (HE) policy following the breakdown of his 
boiler.
What happened
Mr A held a HE insurance policy, underwritten by IPA. Unfortunately, on 16 March 2023, Mr 
As boiler broke down, leaving him without heating and hot water. So, he contacted IPA to 
make a claim.
IPA accepted Mr As claim and arranged for an engineer to attend his property on, or 
around, that day. They were unable to repair the boiler as parts were required. So, parts 
were ordered, and Mr A was made aware of his alternative accommodation and heaters 
allowance.
An engineer reattended Mr As home on 22 March, with the parts ordered on the first 
attendance. But these parts failed to repair the boiler, and additional parts were identified as 
being needed. So, parts were ordered again. And at the same time, IPA paid Mr A £100 
compensation to recognise the length of time hed been without access to heating and hot 
water. A third attendance was held on 28 March, with the additional parts. But Mr As boiler 
was still unable to be repaired and so, at this point, his boiler was deemed beyond 
economical repair (BER). Mr A was unhappy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Mr A was unhappy with how long it had taken IPA to deem his boiler BER. He explained how 
his lack of access to heating and hot water during the cold weather at that time of year 
impacted his health. So, he wanted to be compensated for the upset hed been caused.
IPA responded to Mr As complaint and upheld it. And they offered to pay Mr A an additional 
£200 to recognise the impact their service had created. Mr A didnt think this offer was 
enough to fairly compensate him and so, he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and felt the offer already put forward by IPA was a 
fair one. They agreed with Mr A that IPA couldve deemed his boiler BER sooner, explaining 
why they felt this shouldve been done on 22 March 2023. So, they accepted Mr As claim 
was delayed unnecessarily for a period of six days. And they recognised the impact having 
no access to heating and hot water had on Mr As health. But they thought the £200 fairly 
recognised this impact, considering the relatively short delay IPA were responsible for, and 
the fact we were unable to say for certain it was this delay that led directly to Mr As health 
condition. So, they didnt think IPA needed to do anything more.
Mr A didnt agree. He maintained his belief his health condition had been caused by the 
actions of IPA. And he provided his own timeline, explaining that after his boiler had been 
deemed BER by IPA, hed instructed his own engineer who had managed to fix the issue. 
So, he maintained his position that £200 compensation wasnt enough to adequately 
compensate him, and he felt this should be increased. As Mr A didnt agree, the complaint 
has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think the £200 offer put forward by IPA in their complaint response is a fair 
one, for broadly the same reasons as the investigator. And Ill explain why. 
I think its accepted by IPA that their service couldve been improved during Mr As claim and 
so, I dont think the complaint issue itself is in dispute. But for completeness, Ive considered 
the timeline of Mr As claim, to identify where I think there were unavoidable delays.
I note Mr A raised his claim on 16 March 2023, and IPA arranged for an engineer to attend 
Mr As property on, or around, the same day. So, I think they acted fairly here. And Id expect 
IPA to make a reasonable attempt to repair the boiler. In this situation, IPAs engineer felt 
further parts were needed and Ive seen nothing to suggest this wasnt the case. So, I think 
IPA were fair to order parts, in line with the engineers advice.
The terms and conditions of the policy Mr A hold explains, under the section Parts 
Availability that there may be times when replacement parts are delayed because of 
circumstances beyond our control. In these cases, we will not be able to avoid delays in 
repair. In this situation, the parts were ordered and received within three working days, 
considering the parts were ordered around the weekend. So, I dont believe there has been 
an unreasonable delay here. And, even if there was, I dont think this wouldve been in the 
control of IPA. So, I dont think IPA acted unfairly, up to the 22 March 2023, when an 
engineer attempted to fit these parts.
But I note on this second attendance, the parts werent able to repair the boiler. And the 
engineer felt additional parts would be needed. Considering that on the next attendance, 
some six days later, even more parts were said to be needed, I think its reasonable for me 
to assume this shouldve been realised on the attendance on 22 March. And, had this been 
the case, I think IPA wouldve deemed Mr As boiler to be BER six days sooner.
And had IPA done this, Mr A would then have been able to engage his own engineer earlier, 
who I note Mr A has stated did in fact manage to fix the boiler overall. While I do appreciate 
why this would lead Mr A to feel as though IPAs engineers diagnosed the boiler incorrectly, 
Ive seen no evidence to show exactly what work Mr As own engineer completed, to say for 
certain whether IPAs engineers decision to deem the boiler BER was an unreasonable one.
So, I do think Mr A was left without access to heating and hot water for six days longer than 
he shouldve been, had IPA acted fairly. And because of this, Im satisfied IPA did act 
unfairly. So, Ive then thought about what I think IPA should do to put things right, which I 
recognise is the main point that remains in dispute.
Putting things right
When thinking about what IPA should do to put things right, any award or direction I make is 
intended to place Mr A back in the position he wouldve been in, had IPA acted fairly in the 
first place.
In this situation, had IPA acted fairly, I think they wouldve made Mr A aware on 22 March 
2023 that they felt his boiler was BER. And had they done so, I think Mr A wouldve been 
able to arrange for an independent repair sooner. So, I think Mr A should be compensated 
for this.I want to note that Mr A disputes this diagnosis. But I note IPA have already reimbursed Mr 
A the costs of his independent engineer, so I dont think Mr A has lost out financially 
because of this decision. So, Ive thought solely about what compensatory amount is a fair 
one, to recognise the emotional and physical impact to Mr A.
I recognise Mr A has provided our service with medical documentation, that he feels 
supports his belief his medical condition was caused because of his exposure to the cold 
without heating and hot water. And he feels this exposure was solely down to the failures of 
IPA. But I dont think Im able to say for certain that it was IPAs failure that led to this 
condition.
This is because I think Mr A would always have been exposed to no heating and hot water 
between 16 March to 22 March 2023, even if IPA had acted fairly, as they were not 
responsible for his boiler breaking down initially. And Id always expect them to attempt a 
repair, as this falls in line with the terms of the policy Mr A held. So, I dont think it would be 
fair for me to say IPA were the sole cause of Mr As health condition. So, I dont think they 
should compensate Mr A for the development of the condition directly.
But I dont doubt Mr A did have a health condition that was made worse by the cold. And I 
think this wouldve made the situation he found himself in worse. So, Id expect the 
compensation offered by IPA to reflect this adequately. And having considered the offer IPA 
offered Mr A, I think this offer falls in line with our services approach and what I wouldve 
directed, had it not already been put forward.
I think the £200 fairly recognises how Mr A wouldve been impacted by his lack of access to 
heating and hot water, considering the situation was made worse by his health condition. But 
I think it also fairly reflects that IPA were only responsible for six days worth of delays which 
I think is a relatively small period of time.  And that Mr A would always have been exposed to 
the cold for a period of time, which IPA couldnt control.
I think the £200 also fairly reflects the fact that IPA have since covered the costs of Mr As 
own engineer, £50 for heaters allowance that Mr A chose to utilise instead of alternative 
accommodation and that IPA have already paid an additional £100 to Mr A during the claim 
process, to recognise any impact Mr A was caused waiting for parts up to the attendance on 
22 March 2023, which I dont think they needed to do.
So, because of the above, I am directing IPA to pay Mr A £200 as put forward originally in 
their complaint response.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Mr As complaint about Inter Partner Assistance SA 
and I direct them to take the following action:
Pay Mr A £200 to recognise the upset and inconvenience he was caused by the 
avoidable delays they created during the claim process.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 November 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman