DRN-4087791
The complaint
Miss O complains about the charges applied by Waltons Insurance Brokers Limited when 
she cancelled the buildings warranty policy shed obtained through them.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill provide only a brief 
summary here. Miss O and Waltons can be assured that Ive read and considered all the 
evidence and information we have on file.
In 2021, Miss O contacted Waltons and asked them to arrange a buildings warranty for her 
property, a converted barn.
In November 2021, Waltons proposed a policy underwritten by a third party insurer and 
provided Miss O with the details.
At the end of November 2021, Miss O paid around £5,200 for the policy. This compromised 
around £2,500 for the policy premium, taxes and insurance administration fees plus around 
£2,700 in other fees.
The other fees were in essence Waltons fees for setting up and administering the policy. In 
order for the cover to come into effect, a number of checks and inspections needed to be 
carried out.
In July 2022, Miss O decided she wanted to cancel the policy. She said she couldnt provide 
the documentation Waltons had requested as a condition of the cover coming into effect.
Waltons refunded the premium and associated taxes and fees  coming to around £2,500. 
Theyve paid interest on that refund after there were delays in it being paid to Miss O.
However, they told Miss O they wouldnt be refunding the other fees, which theyd essentially 
taken for their own services (amounting to around £2,700).
Miss O wasnt happy with this and made a complaint to Waltons. And when they maintained 
their position, she brought her complaint to us. 
Our investigator looked into it and didnt think Waltons had done anything wrong. Miss O 
disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Waltons have returned Miss Os premium and associated fees  which would have been 
paid across to the insurer, presumably as and when the policy took effect and cover started. 
So, the bone of contention here is Waltons administration and other fees. 
In these circumstances, its not unfair or unreasonable, in principle, for brokers or 
intermediaries to keep fees paid to them for their services in finding, setting up and 
administering a policy, when that policy is cancelled. As long as the fees are reasonable and 
properly reflect the work they had to do.
In this case, at the back end of 2021, Waltons identified a suitable policy for Miss O, worked 
with the insurer on a policy proposal and price and dealt with queries from Miss O before she 
accepted the proposal. And then set up the policy.
They then had a prolonged and protracted correspondence with Miss O around the further 
information requirements that would need to be met before the cover could come into play. 
And they arranged for the appointment of an inspector to visit the property.
Bearing all of that in mind, I cant reasonably conclude that the fees charged by Waltons 
were excessive or out of proportion with the amount of work they had to do. In simple terms, 
they did the work to earn their fees in this case.
I dont think though that Miss O is necessarily questioning that assumption. Its her view that 
Waltons ought to have known from the outset  when she approached them to arrange the 
policy and gave them information about her property  that she would in effect never have 
been able to meet the information and documentation requirements for the cover to take 
effect.
In other words, Miss O is saying Waltons took her money and led her down what turned out 
to be an eight month long path, when they ought to have known at the outset that the policy 
wasnt suitable for her needs and would never deliver cover for her property.
I know this will disappoint Miss O, but I dont agree with her, and I wont be upholding her 
complaint. Ill explain why.
To being with, its difficult to see what Waltons stood to gain from any intentional deception 
of Miss O. If the policy was never going to come into effect, they were only ever going to get 
their administration fees  and to be frank, theyve put more effort into dealing with this issue 
than theyve charged fees to cover.
I then have to ask myself whether Waltons ought to have known that the cover was never 
going to be suitable given what Miss O told them about her property before she bought the 
policy.
The situation is more complicated than it might first appear. In Miss Os own words, the 
property was originally built  around 15 years previously  as a storage barn. Presumably 
with the relevant building regulations in play and permissions given for a building for that 
purpose.
Miss O tells us that she obtained permission to turn the barn into a dwelling. But that it 
already had bathroom facilities, a kitchen and much of what might be expected in a 
residential property.
She says she decided to add a staircase and make some other minor changes after getting 
planning permission for residential use, but the basic structure of the building remains the 
same.
Miss O says this history was known to Waltons before they made their warranty policy 
proposal to her. And they should  at that point  have known that she was unlikely to be 
able to obtain the required documents if they were to relate to the original building of the barn (and not just to the changes to the property she was currently making).
The documents and information Waltons asked Miss O to provide were, essentially: local 
authority or private building control certificates; the approved drawings or plans; the 
structural engineers details and/or site investigation report and/or desk top study; a 
condition survey report; and any third party warranties or certificates (for any part of the 
build).
These arent unusual things to ask for in these circumstances. Miss O was asking for cover 
for damage caused by any structural defects in her property over the course of ten years. Its 
not unreasonable for the insurer (via Waltons) to want to know that the building was built 
according to building regulations, with appropriate permissions and according to an 
adequate and satisfactory design (with architects drawings and a structural engineer saying 
the building would stand up).
It's also not unreasonable to assume that those documents might still be available to Miss O, 
even some 15 years after the bran was first built. I dont think its reasonable to say that 
Waltons should have known, in November 2021, that those documents wouldnt; be 
available to Miss O. 
I can also see from the evidence we have on file that the policy proposal Waltons put to 
Miss O in October / November 2021 specifically said that the cover would not start unless 
and until those documents and/or information were provided 
The proposal document listed the documentation required very clearly. And it was sent to 
Miss O before she signed up for the policy and/or paid the money over to Waltons.
Miss O tells us that she had assumed that all the documentation and certification required by 
Waltons would relate to the work currently being undertaken at the property  the staircase 
and other minor alterations  rather than the original building of the storage barn (with 
kitchen, bathroom etc.).
Im not entirely sure how Miss O came to that conclusion given that she was asking Waltons 
to provide a structural defects policy for the whole structure (rather than just the staircase 
and other minor changes), but I am satisfied that Miss Os misunderstanding is not due to 
any failure of communication on Waltons part.
In summary, it wasnt unreasonable or unfair for Waltons to want to see the documents that 
Miss O now says she cant possibly provide. They told Miss O - before she paid for the 
policy - theyd need those documents in order for the cover to take effect. And if Miss O 
misunderstood what they needed, I cant reasonably conclude that was because of any 
failure on Waltons part.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Os complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 September 2023.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman