DRN-3333647
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE declined their travel insurance claim. 
My references to Great Lakes include its agents. 
What happened
In June 2019 Mr and Mrs G booked a holiday abroad for 2 to 16 June 2020. In November 
2019 they bought a Tiger travel insurance policy, insured by Great Lakes.
On 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation declared Covid-19 to be a pandemic. On 
14 March 2020 the relevant countrys government announced severe restrictions on 
movement. On 15 March 2020 the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO  
formerly Foreign & Commonwealth Office) advised UK nationals against all but essential 
travel to the relevant county. On 16 March 2020 the relevant country closed its borders to 
travellers.
On 17 March 2020 the FCDO advised UK nationals against all but essential travel abroad. 
And on 23 March 2020 the UK government imposed wide-ranging restrictions on movement, 
commonly referred to as lockdown. This government announcement included an instruction 
to stay at home other than for a limited list of essential reasons. The legal restrictions on 
movement were announced on 23 March and came into force on 26 March 2020. 
On 26 March 2020 Mr and Mrs Gs planned trip was cancelled. On or before 8 May 2020 the 
holiday provider offered to reschedule the trip but Mr and Mrs G said they wanted a refund. 
On 18 May the holiday provider said it was ceasing to trade and only provided a partial 
refund. Mr and Mrs G claimed on the policy for the outstanding amount.
Great Lakes declined the claim. It said the policy didnt cover cancellation in Mr and Mrs Gs 
circumstances.
Mr and Mrs G complained to us. They said the policy covered cancellation due to 
compulsory quarantine and during the period they had been told by the UK government to 
self-isolate as they were vulnerable to Covid-19 due to their age and Mr Gs medical 
condition. In the meantime they were able to get a further partial refund leaving £1,215.10 
outstanding which they want Great Lakes to pay.
Our investigator thought Great Lakes unfairly declined the claim. He didnt think Mr and 
Mrs Gs circumstances meant they were in compulsory quarantine. But as the policy 
specifically excluded claims if a policyholder travelled against FCDO advice our investigator 
said Mr and Mrs G wouldnt have been covered if theyd continued with their trip and they 
wouldnt have been covered for cancelling it either. He didnt think this was a fair position for 
them to have been left in so he recommended Great Lakes reassess the claim under the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
Great Lakes disagreed and wanted an ombudsmans decision.
What I provisionally decided  and why
I made a provisional decision explaining why I was intending to not uphold the complaint. 
I said:
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must 
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into 
account when reaching my provisional decision.
The situation Mr and Mrs G found themselves in was completely unprecedented and outside 
of their control. However, no insurance policy covers every eventuality and insurers are 
entitled to decide what level of risk they wish to accept in return for the premium paid for a 
policy. Great Lakes obligations under its contract with Mr and Mrs G are limited by the 
terms, conditions and exclusions set out in the policy.
The cancellation section of the policy terms say, on page 9, that Great Lakes will pay Mr and 
Mrs Gs unrecoverable cancellation costs (up to the policy limit) if its necessary and 
unavoidable to cancel a trip due to:
1. death, Serious Injury or Illness, during the Period of Insurance of:
i) You; or
ii) a person You are travelling with; or
iii) a Relative; or
iv) a Close Business Associate who lives in the UK ; or
v) a friend or Relative who lives abroad with whom You have made arrangements for 
the provision of Holiday accommodation where Your Holiday involves staying in such 
persons Home and is dependent upon such persons Well being.
2. You or the person You are travelling with:
i) being required in the UK for jury service, as a witness in a Court of Law; or
ii) being under compulsory quarantine; or
iii) being required to be present by the police, as a result of Your Home or Your 
travelling companions Home or Usual place of business in the UK suffering a 
burglary within 7 days of the start of, or during Your Trip; or
iv) suffering fire, theft, storm, flood damage to Your Home or to Your travelling 
companions Home within 7 days of the start of, or during Your Trip where You or 
Your travelling companions presence is required either by the police or the insurers 
at Your or Your travelling companions Home; or
v) being made Redundant; or
vi) receiving emergency requirements of duty in the armed forces, police, nursing or 
ambulance services.
So the policy doesnt cover cancellation due a change in FCDO advice. The policy does 
cover cancellation due to Mr and/or Mrs G being under compulsory quarantine, which Ill 
consider below.
The general exclusions section of the policy, on page 8, says the policy doesnt cover:
6) Any claims arising directly or indirectly from You travelling against Foreign Office 
advice or where it is deemed unsafe for You to travel.
In addition to the policy terms, Great Lakes provided Mr and Mrs G with an Insurance 
Product Information Document (IPID) designed to provide a summary of the cover. Page 2 of 
the IPID says under the heading Where am I covered?:This insurance product provides cover for travel to the region in the world specified 
on your schedule. This is subject to there being no restrictive travel advice from the 
Foreign and Commonwealth Office or other regulatory body.
Our investigator said Great Lakes should reassess the claim as it was unfair that the policy 
in effect didnt cover Mr and Mrs G for cancellation due to FCDO advice but didnt cover 
them if they did travel against FCDO advice. There are some limited situations where, if 
I didnt think an insurer had clearly and transparently signposted a policyholder to certain 
policy exclusions such as an exclusion for claims for travelling against FCDO advice, I might 
think its fair and reasonable for an insurer to accept a claim outside of the policy terms and 
conditions. However, I dont think thats the case here and Ill explain why.
This is because Mr and Mrs Gs policy also says, at page 8 under the general exclusions 
heading that the policy doesnt cover:
5. Any claims directly or indirectly caused by, occasioned by, resulting from or in 
connection with any of the following regardless of any other cause or event 
contributing concurrently or in any other sequence to the claim:
xi) prohibitive regulations by the government of any country.
Mr and Mrs G told Great Lakes that the claim should be covered because they were under 
compulsory quarantine but also that At the time flights had been stopped at the insistence of 
the government and the hotel was closed so we couldnt have got there anyway.
Due to Mr and Mrs Gs ages (over 70 years old) the NHS advice was that they were at 
moderate risk from Covid-19 and were told to follow the government information about 
staying at home. Ive seen no evidence that Mr Gs declared medical condition put him in the 
highest risk category. But even if I thought that meant they were in effect in compulsory 
quarantine, which is covered for cancellation by the policy, its difficult to say, with any clear 
certainty, that one specific reason caused Mr and Mrs G to cancel their trip. On the claim 
form to Great Lakes Mr and Mrs G gave the date of verbal cancellation of the trip as 
26 March 2020, which is the date that the UK government legal restrictions on movement 
came into force. I think from what they told Great Lakes the government legal restrictions 
also played a part in the cancellation.
It seems very likely to me that it was a combination of several factors - the FCDO advice, the 
restrictions put in place by the governments both in the UK and abroad, the spread of Covid- 
19 and the NHS advice that they stay at home - that all had an impact in some degree on the 
cancellation. And the government restrictions remained in force at Mr and Mrs Gs intended 
departure date as well.
So even if I thought there was policy cover for the cancellation on the basis that Mr and 
Mrs G were in compulsory quarantine, I think the exclusion relating to prohibitive regulations 
by the government of any country would also apply when considering the circumstances of 
the claim.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs G but taking everything into account I dont think their 
claim is covered under the policy terms and conditions, and there arent reasonable grounds 
on which it would be fair for me to ask Great Lakes to accept the claim.
Responses to my provisional decision
Great Lakes didnt respond. Mr and Mrs G didnt agree with my provisional decision. In summary they said:
In early 2020 people of their age group, particularly with pre-existing medical 
conditions, were told to self isolate to avoid catching Covid-19. 
In the summer of 2020 the NHS put Mr G on the clinically extremely vulnerable to 
Covid-19 list and they attached the NHS letter as evidence. 
Compulsory quarantine ought to apply to their circumstances as countries were 
locked down and airlines not flying. 
The restrictions noted in para 6 werent applicable to them staying at home as their 
flights were cancelled and their hotel was closed
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand why Mr and Mrs G cancelled their holiday and I think they acted reasonably in 
doing so. But that doesnt mean Great Lakes has to cover their claim. 
I note the NHS classified Mr G as clinically extremely vulnerable to Covid-19. But as Ive said 
above, even if I thought there was policy cover for the cancellation on the basis that Mr and 
Mrs G were in compulsory quarantine, I think the exclusion 5 (xi) relating to prohibitive 
regulations by the government of any country would also apply when considering the 
circumstances of the claim. 
From what Mr and Mrs G have said their holiday was cancelled because there were no 
flights, their hotel was closed and they were isolating due to Covid-19. There were no flights 
and the hotel closed because of the prohibitive regulations by the UK government (including 
the FCDO) and the government of the country they had planned to go to. They were 
isolating due to the lockdown restrictions put in place by the UK government, the spread of 
Covid-19 and the NHS advice that they stay at home.
The issue about cover isnt with the restriction in paragraph 6 that Mr and Mrs G refer to. The 
issue is that I think exclusion 5 (xi) applies because one of the reasons the trip was 
cancelled was due to events put in place by prohibitive regulations of governments of the UK 
and the other country. 
For the reasons Ive given in my provisional decision and this decision I dont think the claim 
is covered under the policy terms and conditions, and there arent reasonable grounds on 
which I can fairly say Great Lakes must accept the claim. 
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint..
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 April 2022. 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman