DRN-3885804
The complaint
Miss P complains about the decision by Legal and General Assurance Society Limited 
(L&G) to turn down her income protection claim.
What happened
Miss P is covered under her employers group income protection policy, the aim of which is 
to pay benefit in the event she cant work in her occupation because of illness or injury. The 
policy has a deferred period of 26 weeks.
In 2021, Miss P stopped work for reasons relating to her mental health, and later submitted a 
claim. L&G arranged for Miss P to have an independent medical examination (IME) with a 
consultant in psychiatry (Dr W). Dr W concluded that Miss Ps symptoms did not prevent her 
from working. L&G therefore turned down the claim. Unhappy with L&Gs claims decision, 
Miss P brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought L&Gs claims 
decision had been reasonable, based upon the available medical evidence. 
Miss P then provided new evidence in support of her claim. However, this didnt persuade 
L&G to change its decision. Our investigator also considered the new evidence, but still 
didnt think this demonstrated that Miss P met the requirements for a claim to be paid. 
In light of the ongoing disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss P has raised some concerns about the policy wording, which she finds to be 
ambiguous. I disagree, and find the policy wording to be clear. The policy schedule and 
policy terms should be read in conjunction with each other. 
The policy pays benefit in the event the insured member meets the incapacity definition. The 
policy schedule confirms the incapacity definition is that of own occupation. This is then 
defined in the policy terms as:
Means the insured member is incapacitated by illness or injury that prevents him from 
performing the essential duties of his occupation immediately before the start of the deferred 
period.
Elsewhere the policy makes it clear that benefit will be paid after the deferred period has 
ended. Miss P has made reference to the deferred period definition including a member who 
is only able to work reduced hours or in a reduced capacity. However, that is not relevant 
here, as Miss P did not work at all during the deferred period. 
Miss P was signed off by her GP as unfit to work throughout the deferred period. Her GP 
said she did not think Miss P was fit to work due to her continued severe symptoms of 
anxiety and depression. I also note that Miss P had occupational health assessments during 
the deferred period where it was concluded that she was unfit to return to work. 
However, this is at odds with Dr Ws opinion. He thought that Miss P was not disabled from 
working on psychiatric grounds. Dr W accepted that Miss P was experiencing low grade 
depressive symptoms, but concluded that her symptoms were not of a severity that would 
prevent her from working. 
Miss P has raised some concerns about Dr Ws conclusions, but I am not medically qualified 
and so it is not for me to comment on how Dr W reached his opinion. 
In October 2021, Dr M (consultant psychiatrist) carried out a review of Miss Ps medical 
records and provided a report. He thought her depression was moderately severe. But in 
response to a question which asked about the relevance to this on Miss Ps progress, 
prognosis and return to work, I see that Dr M provided no comment. 
Its apparent that Dr M and Dr W had differing views over the categorisation of Miss Ps 
depressive symptoms (Dr M described her as having moderately severe depression, 
whereas Dr W described her as having low grade depression). Dr M did not assess Miss P 
and only carried out a desktop review of her medical history. Though in any event, the only 
reference that Dr M made to Miss Ps ability to work was that he said her difficulties appear 
to be played out in the work arena also, which he thought needed to be addressed. But Dr M 
did not say that Miss P was not well enough to work, or suggest that he disagreed with 
Dr Ws conclusions in this respect. 
After Miss P brought her complaint to this service, she arranged to see Dr N (consultant 
psychiatrist). This assessment took place in September 2022. Dr N said that Miss P met the 
criteria for a diagnosis of emotionally unstable personality disorder  borderline type. She 
thought Miss P would benefit from psychological therapy. 
Ive considered Dr Ns evidence; however, Dr N did not see Miss P during the deferred 
period and so could not comment on her ability to work at this time. Miss P had returned to 
work by the time she met Dr N.
Taking all this into account, I find that the greatest weight ought to be placed on Dr Ws 
opinion. He is a mental health specialist and, crucially, he assessed Miss P during the 
deferred period and commented on her ability to work. Whilst I recognise my decision will 
disappoint Miss P, I find that it was reasonable for L&G to turn down her claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 February 2023.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman