DRN-1734681
The complaint
Mr H complains  that his mortgagee  Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax unfairly 
refused to give him a p ayment  holiday.  Mr H also wants  to complain  about  the service  
he has received  from Halifax.  He says  Halifax  initially  accused  him of lying,  but later 
agreed  with him after he was able to provide  some  call recordings.  Mr H says  he is 
very unhappy  with how Halifax  has treated  him.
What happened
Mr H resigned  from his job following  the death  of his father  in April 2019.  He says  he 
contacted  Halifax  to request  a payment  holiday  for two months.  He says  Halifax  
agreed  to this and that he understood  it would  then add the arrears  onto the mortgage  
balance  or extend  the term by two months.  However  he says  he was then contacted  
by Halifaxs  collections  department  and that it has been  pursuing  him for the arrears.  
He says  he re-started  his repayments  in June  2019.
Mr H complained  to Halifax  and it replied  on 18 December  2019.  It said it had listened  
to recordings  of his calls.  It said that when  he rang on 2 May 2019  to request  a 
payment  holiday,  it had told him he wasnt  eligible  for one. He was transferred  to the 
payment  assistance  line who said there  were  two options available, a reduced 
payment arrangement or a nil payment arrangement.  
As Mr H wouldnt be returning to work until the end of June 2019 and wouldnt be paid, 
Halifax had suggested a nil payment arrangement as Mr H wouldnt be able to contribute 
anything to the mortgage in this period. Halifax had keyed  a two-month  nil-payment  
arrangement  but had warned  Mr H that this would  put him in arrears.  It had written  to 
him on 3 May 2019  confirming  this arrangement.
Halifax  had previously  acknowledged that in a call on 12 August  2019  it hadnt made it 
clear that the arrears werent being capitalised. And it had agreed to review whether a 
payment holiday could be given. Halifax  offered  to pay Mr H £100  for any distress  caused  
by raising  his expectations.  This was subsequently  paid.
Mr H wasnt happy and brought his complaint to this service, but our investigator didnt 
recommend it be upheld. He said the payment holiday wasnt an option that Mr H was 
eligible for, and there was no evidence Halifax had agreed to capitalise the arrears.
Halifax had acknowledged providing conflicting information when reviewing the complaint 
and paid £100 for the lack of clarity and raising Mr Hs expectations. The investigator thought 
this was reasonable.
Mr H didnt agree. He said it wasnt fair that you could have  a three-month  payment  holiday  
to cover  people  staying  at home  owing  to the coronavirus  but not if you took time off to 
grieve  for a dead  parent.  Because  of the arrears  he was unable  to switch  his mortgage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Halifaxs policy is to allow one payment holiday every three years. But its file note of the 
phone call on 2 May 2019 says that it declined Mr Hs request because hed had one the 
previous year. Ive therefore listened to the call and find that Halifax did tell Mr H that he 
couldnt have a payment holiday as hed had one the previous year. Mr H acknowledged this 
and said it had been for annual leave. He was also told that the temporary arrangement 
would cause the account to fall into arrears.
In its letter to Mr H of 3 May 2019 Halifax said: 
we have agreed a temporary arrangement during which you do not need to make any 
payments to your account. When this arrangement endswe will contact you to try and 
agree a suitable way for you to repay your arrears.
Where an arrangement is agreed on this basis, your account will accrue arrears based on 
the difference between the amounts you pay and your contractual monthly payment. If we 
currently provide information to credit reference agencies, this will continue and reflect your 
payment record.
Ive also listened to two further calls on 1 July and 12 August 2019. The first was about a 
change to the date of Mr Hs direct debit following his return to work. The direct debit 
payment date was changed from 25th to 28th with effect from 1 August 2019. There was no 
mention of the arrears. 
In the second call Mr H said weve made arrangements to consolidate it but Halifax didnt 
confirm this.
In none  of the calls did Halifax  say it would  add the arrears  to the mortgage  balance  or 
extend  the mortgage  term.  Nor did it accuse  Mr H of lying.
Therefore Im not persuaded that Halifax has treated Mr H unfairly or done anything wrong 
here.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 January 2021. 
Edward Callaghan
Ombudsman