DRN-2671758
The complaint
Mr A complains that he has lost out financially due to Prudential Assurance Company 
Limiteds failure to process the instruction it received from his Independent Financial Adviser 
(IFA) to fully crystallise the funds in his pension plan and take Tax Free Cash, on the day the 
instruction was given. 
In particular he says Prudential told his IFA that the Tax Free Cash (TFC) requested on16 
March 2020 had not been affected by a Unit Price Adjustment (UPA) on 17 March 2020. But 
it then applied a Unit Price Adjustment to his TFC.
In order to resolve matters Mr A wants Prudential to pay him the difference between the TFC 
lump sum he received and the amount he would have received if a UPA had not been 
applied to it.
What happened
On 16 March 2020, Mr As IFA submitted a request to Prudential to fully crystallise the 
monies in Mr As Retirement Account (RA) and release 25%TFC. 
At the same time Mr As IFA also submitted a request to increase the ongoing adviser fee it 
received.
Prudential contacted Mr As IFA later that morning. It said:
I have received your recently submitted request for your client [Mr A] to crystallise funds from 
his Prudential Retirement Account.
Due to the request being submitted with additional charges we would require our adviser 
charge instruction form to be signed and completed by the client. This is in relation to the 
increase in the monthly OAC charge. We currently hold 0.5% and the request has been 
keyed with an increase to 0.75%.
Please can you confirm if this has already been completed and sent to us as we are unable 
to authorise the payment without sight of this.
In mid-March 2020 equity markets were falling significantly. In response Prudential applied a 
UPA of 11.7% on 17 March 2020 to its Prufunds. It is not in dispute that Prudential was 
entitled to apply a UPA. Mr A has made clear that he is not complaining about Prudentials 
decision to impose a UPA on the residual balance of his fund.
On 18 March 2020 Mr As IFA emailed Prudential. He said:
I keyed the tax free cash withdrawal on the retirement account on Monday morning  will 
that be affected by the UPA yesterday?
Again, Prudential replied to Mr As IFA on the same day. It said:
Confirmation that as soon as you trigger the TFC the amount is locked in.
Therefore the UPA would not be affect. (sic)
The residual balance would have the adjustment.
However, when Mr A received his TFC the UPA had been applied. Instead of receiving the 
£122,505 he was expecting, Mr A received a TFC lump sum of £108,216.
Mr A complained to Prudential. It upheld his complaint in part and apologised for the trouble 
and upset the incorrect information in its email dated 18 March 2020 had caused.
It said if Mr As IFA hadnt requested the increase to the ongoing fee the request to 
crystallise the funds in Mr As pension would have been completed the same day. This 
means the TFC would have been based on the value of 16 March 2020 and would have 
been unaffected by the UPA.
But is said that, in-line with its terms and conditions, it needed Mr As written agreement 
before it could increase the fees it paid to his IFA. It said it couldnt process the fee increase 
and authorise the payment request until we received a signed Adviser Charge Instruction 
Form.
It noted that Mr As IFA had sent the completed adviser charge instruction to it on 20 March 
2020 and it confirmed that the crystallisation and TFC request had been processed at the 
next dealing point on Monday 23 March 2020.
However, as the UPA had been applied on 17 March 2020 the value of Mr As pension pot 
had reduced and as a result the TFC Mr A received was also reduced in-line with the UPA.
Prudential said it felt it had processed the requests it received from Mr As IFA correctly and 
within a reasonable time. But it said that before it sent the email to Mr As IFA on 18 March 
2021 it should have checked whether there were any outstanding requirements for Mr A, 
rather than providing a generic response. It said the information in the email  that the UPA 
would not be applied to the TFC Mr A had requested  would have been correct if there 
hadnt been any outstanding information.
It paid Mr A £150 to compensate him for the provision of this wrong information. But it said 
it was not willing to compensate Mr A for the shortfall in his TFC.
Mr A was not satisfied with Prudentials response and referred the matter to this service.
Our investigator said he thought Mr As complaint should be upheld. In summary he said he 
didnt think the amendment to the ongoing adviser fee should have stopped Prudential from 
processing Mr As TFC request as he didnt see how the two requests were linked.
He noted that Prudential had said that it couldnt process the crystallisation request and the 
ongoing adviser fee at the same time. But he said he wasnt persuaded this was correct as 
the two transactions were not linked in any way.
Prudential did not accept our investigators view. It also contradicted its earlier claim that:
If there were no outstanding requirements this would have been completed the same day. 
This means the TFC would have been based on the value of 16 March 2020 and would have 
been unaffected by the UPA.
It now said that as Mr A didnt have enough money held in cash in his Retirement Account: 
Mr As request was always going to be subject to a UPA as we required to sell down funds in 
order to make the TFC payment which takes up to 4 working days. It referred to its terms and conditions which it said confirmed this point. 
Our investigator re-considered Mr As complaint in light of the new submissions made by 
Prudential. Having done so he said he wasnt minded to change his view.
He said that although he appreciated that Mr A did not have enough in his cash account to 
meet the TFC request, he was of the view that there was an expectation that if a customer 
requested their TFC on a given day the value of the lump sum would be based on the value 
of the fund on that day. He also noted that Mr As IFA had also said that when other clients 
had made similar requests the value of the TFC amount was locked-in on the day the 
request was made.
Prudential remained unhappy with our investigators view and asked for the complaint to be 
considered by an ombudsman. It reiterated its view that  there was very little Mr A could 
have done to protect his investment and Tax Free Cash (TFC) withdrawal against the Unit 
Price Adjustment (UPA).
It again referred to its terms and conditions, but it did not provide anything that set out a UPA 
could be applied after units had been sold. Instead it said:
If we had everything we required to process Mr As TFC payment the day we received the 
request (16 March 2020), trades would have been placed on day 1 (16th March 2020) and 5 
days is allowed for the trade to settle (taking it to 20 March 2020). Therefore, Mr A was 
always going to be affected by the UPA with regards to his TFC payment and therefore, he 
was not entitled to the pre-UPA value.
It also referred to a ten-day service level agreement, but it did not explain why it believed this 
was relevant to Mr As complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, like our investigator, I think Mr As complaint should be upheld. Ill explain 
why.
I carefully considered the points Prudential had raised in response to our investigators view. 
In light of these comments I reviewed the terms and conditions Prudential had provided. 
Having done so I didnt find there was anything that set out a UPA could be applied after the 
units Mr A held had been sold. I therefore asked Prudential to re-check its position and refer 
me to the relevant section of its terms and conditions.
Rather than doing so, Prudential said:
If you refer to the RA T&Cs it clearly states the Daily calculation of the UPA, if you refer to 
page 22. Section 7, page 23 provides clarification regarding the Unit Price Reset.
With regards to trading times, Prudential work to a 10 day SLA for this transaction. A trading 
time can vary and definitive timescales are not found in the RA T&Cs. I believe other 
Financial companies having experience of working with them, also do not publish specific 
timescales for individual trades. How the Pru Fund works is Prudential work to a 10 day SLA, 
when paying income or processing a transfer out.The five day sell down which I have previously stated is correct and encompassed in the 10 
day SLA.
It also provided the contract note for the sale of Mr As units to fund his TFC payment, dated 
24 March 2020. 
The contract note clearly set out that once the adviser fee form had been received by 
Prudential, on Friday 20 March 2020, the units were sold at the next dealing point, noon on 
23 March 2020. The price of the units at the time the trade was placed was shown on the 
contract note. 
In view of this I again asked Prudential to clarify its position. I explained that the claim 
Prudential had made that the UPA would have been applied even if the trade had been 
placed before noon on 16 March because a sell down of funds was required clearly didnt 
tally with the contract note it had supplied for the trade placed on Monday 23 March 2020.
I explained that, based on the evidence provided I could not see how its claim that, Mr A 
was always going to be affected by the UPA with regards to his TFC payment and therefore, 
he was not entitled to the pre-UPA value was correct.
I said, based on the evidence Prudential had provided, I was of the view that if a trade to sell 
the units to fund the TFC had been placed before noon on Friday 16 March 2020 it would 
have achieved the unit price as at noon 16 March 2020. As the UPA wasnt applied until 17 
March 2020 I said it appeared Prudential was mistakenly claiming that the unit sale price 
could change during the settlement period when it said:
If we had everything we required to process Mr As TFC payment the day we received the 
request (16 March 2020), trades would have been placed on day 1 (16th March 2020) and 5 
days is allowed for the trade to settle (taking it to 20 March 2020). Therefore, Mr A was 
always going to be affected by the UPA with regards to his TFC payment and 
therefore, he was not entitled to the pre-UPA value.
(bold is my emphasis)
I again asked Prudential to refer me to the section in its terms and conditions that set out 
that a UPA can be applied after a trade has been executed.
Prudential responded again. It accepted that its claims that a UPA would have been applied 
if the trade had been transacted on 16 March 2020 were incorrect. It apologised for 
confusing matters.
It said:
If the trade had been processed before noon on 16th then it would not have been affected by 
the UPA. The argument on this case was it fell out of Straight Through Processing (STP) 
before 12 noon on the 16 March 2020.STP can only be done when there are no 
outstanding requirements; otherwise the case drops out and must be processed manually. 
One of the checks which will prevent a case from going through STP is an adviser charge 
linked to the TFC withdrawal, whether this is an ongoing charge or an initial charge. 
This is in line with section 32.2 of our Terms and Conditions (T&Cs) which confirms we 
cannot take an adviser's instruction in relation to charges, which also confirms why we can 
take an adviser's instruction to crystallise Mr A's funds, but we cannot take their instruction to 
instruct changes to a charge.I am grateful that Prudential has now accepted that its claims that a UPA would have been 
applied even if the trade had been placed before noon on 16 March 2020 were incorrect. 
However, it is frustrating that I had to query this point three times before the business re-
checked its position.
I have very carefully considered whether I think Prudentials position in relation to Mr As 
complaint is fair and reasonable. 
Having done so I dont think it has treated Mr A fairly in this matter. As our investigator set 
out, Prudential says that it couldnt process the crystallisation and TFC request and a 
change to the ongoing adviser fee at the same time. It appears this was due to its own 
internal processes, rather than any regulatory or legal requirement.
It appears that in this instance Prudentials processes did not adequately take account of the 
requirement to treat Mr A fairly. I dont think it was fair for it to have delayed processing 
Mr As crystallisation and TFC request simply because of the way its own internal processes 
had been set up.
I have also taken into account that when Prudential emailed Mr As IFA at 11.31am on 16 
March 2020 it said:
I have received your recently submitted request for your client [Mr A] to crystallise funds from 
his Prudential Retirement Account.
Due to the request being submitted with additional charges we would require our adviser 
charge instruction from to be signed and completed by the client. This is in relation to the 
increase in the monthly OAC charge. We currently hold 0.5% and the request has been 
keyed with an increase to 0.75%.
Please can you confirm if this has already been completed and sent to us as we are 
unable to authorise the payment without sight of this.
(bold is my emphasis)
I think Prudential should have made it clear that the trade would not be processed at the 
next dealing point  noon that day  if it did not receive confirmation from Mr As IFA that a 
signed adviser charge form had been sent, or the fee increase request was withdrawn. 
I dont think the email Prudential sent was sufficiently clear. I am particularly mindful that it 
only says it will be unable to authorise payment and did not explain that the crystallisation 
and TFC request would not be processed. If this email had been clearer, Mr As IFA could 
have taken action that would have enabled Prudential to act on Mr As instruction to fully 
crystallise the monies in his Retirement Account and release the 25%TFC at the next 
dealing point (noon 16 March 2020). 
By failing to act on Mr As requests, until it received confirmation that he had agreed the 
adviser fee increase request, I think Prudential failed to treat Mr A fairly.
I dont think there was any legitimate reason for Prudential to fail to carry out Mr As request, 
other than its own internal processes didnt allow it to do so. 
In reaching this view I have taken into account that in March 2020 equity markets were 
falling rapidly. I think Prudential ought reasonably to have known that Mr A would not want 
his TFC request to be delayed (as there was a risk that the smoothed price on Mr As fund 
might be reset due to market conditions). If it was unable to over-ride its internal processes 
and allow the TFC request to be processed on 16 March 2020, I think it should have made every effort to contact Mr As IFA and suggest he temporarily withdraw the adviser fee 
increase (or submit Mr As approval) so that the TFC request could be processed that day.
I note that in its response to this service Prudential has referred to section 32.2 of its terms 
and conditions, but I havent seen anything that says it wouldnt act on requests to crystallise 
funds and release TFC if there were unrelated outstanding requirements.
Having very carefully considered this matter I think this complaint should be upheld. I think 
Prudential failed to treat Mr A fairly when it delayed actioning his request to crystallise his 
pension pot and release TFC because an unrelated request had been made at the same 
time.
Putting things right
In order to put matters right Prudential should pay Mr A the difference between the value of 
the TFC lump sum payment it made, and the value of the TFC Mr A would have received if 
his request had been processed on 16 March 2020 and no UPA had been applied. 
Prudential should also apply 8% simple interest per year to this payment to compensate 
Mr A for the loss of the use of this money.
If appropriate Prudential should also provide Mr A with a tax deduction certificate in respect 
of the interest. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. In order to put matters right Prudential should pay 
the redress as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 October 2021.
 
Suzannah Stuart
Ombudsman