DRN-2490252
The complaint
B, a sole trader, has complained WorldPay (UK) Limited, trading as WorldPay, did nothing to 
help it when a card issuer disputed a transaction itd accepted.
Mr T represents B in its complaint.
What happened
In August 2019 B accepted a card payment for £2,094. Goods were sent to a UK address to 
fulfil the order. On 27 August WorldPay emailed B to let them know theyd received a 
chargeback dispute for this transaction. They received nothing from B. A chargeback was 
completed in September.
Mr T complained to WorldPay on Bs behalf. They believed there was nothing they could 
have done under the card scheme rules to refute the chargeback. They also didnt agree 
with Bs belief that they should have done more as systems to protect B were set up at Bs 
end either by B or their website developer.
Mr T brought Bs complaint to the ombudsman service. Our investigator believed WorldPay 
had done nothing wrong. He wasnt going to ask them to do anything further.
Mr T disagreed. He felt hed been misled by WorldPay. When hed first complained hed 
been told there was nothing WorldPay could do to check cards issued in Europe (as this 
card had been). Mr T has asked an ombudsman to consider Bs complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator and for roughly the 
same reasons. Ill explain why.
Firstly Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than either of the two 
parties and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point 
made by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed 
on what I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to take this approach. This reflects the informal nature of our service as a 
free alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive 
ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be 
able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Im also aware of the detail contained in our investigators view of 4 December 2020 so wont 
be repeating some of what was included there.
Theres no dispute about the facts. B accepted a foreign-issued card for goods which were 
delivered to a UK address. WorldPay authorised the transaction. Mr T has suggested that he 
believes this means this payment is guaranteed. But its clear from the terms of the 
agreement B has with WorldPay that certain payments can always be subject to a 
chargeback and dispute.
Authorisation is mostly a process which confirms the card details are correct and that there 
are sufficient funds which have now been ring-fenced. This would also identify cards which 
had been lost or stolen.
However there are a range of other checks which are generally the responsibility of the 
acquirer to carry out, B in this case. Ive reviewed Bs agreement with WorldPay. It seems 
clear to me that these further checks are set up within the website. Theyre not carried out by 
WorldPay and Ive seen nothing to suggest WorldPay has misled B into thinking that would 
be the case.
Mr T has said in his subsequent discussions with WorldPay they admitted checks cant be 
done on European-issued cards. I can appreciate this may be what he took away from his 
conversation with them. However Ive not seen this to be the case. From my experience of 
the card payment schemes, I know its certainly the case that the address verification 
scheme (AVS) was initially set up for UK-issued cards. And some European-issued cards 
cant be checked because of specific data protection legislation. But any basic check would 
identify the country of origin of the card being used. Mr T would have known the card B 
accepted was foreign-issued and this could have highlighted the need for additional checks. 
Particularly as the order received was for a large amount of money. Ive seen nothing to 
show that this wasnt Bs responsibility.
The evidence WorldPay has provided is that an email was sent to B when a chargeback was 
raised. Mr T says hes got no record of receiving this. I cant explain why this happened. But 
exactly as has been said before, I dont believe whether B received an email or not would 
have made any difference to the outcome. By dint of B not applying any extra checks to 
verify the transaction, WorldPay had no choice but to accept the chargeback. The genuine 
card-holder had not made this transaction.
I appreciate B both didnt get paid and provided goods. This is a massive impact for small 
businesses like B. However I dont think this was WorldPays fault and I have no grounds to 
ask them to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Bs complaint against WorldPay 
(UK) Limited, trading as WorldPay.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2021.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman