DRN-3436143
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) declined his contents insurance claim.
What happened
In August 2021 Mr R contacted Ageas to make a claim on his contents insurance policy. He 
said hed been attacked in his home by a lady (the lady) while asleep and some of his 
contents had been damaged.
After interviewing Mr R, Ageas declined the claim. They said based on his testimony, he let 
the lady into his home and malicious damage is specifically excluded under such 
circumstances. 
Mr R didnt think this was fair. He said he wasnt well when he completed the telephone 
interview and said hed been discriminated against due to his health conditions. Ageas 
asked Mr R to explain his version of events again which he did in two different telephone 
conversations. However, their decision remained the same. 
Our investigator then considered the complaint. She listened to all the calls Mr R had with 
Ageas, before concluding they'd acted fairly by declining the claim. She didnt think they'd 
acted unreasonably by relying on Mr Rs testimony and she found no evidence which 
suggested hed been discriminated against.
Mr R then requested a final decision. In summary, he said he still felt his claim should be 
settled, Ageas were lying about his testimony and the call recordings were corrupt and false. 
He also repeated his belief that hed been discriminated against. 
So, Ive considered the complaint afresh
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R has raised several points in response to our investigators opinion. I have carefully 
reviewed each of these, but I wont address all of them in my decision. Ill focus on the points 
I think are central to the outcome of the complaint.
I would firstly like to say that I was sorry to hear about the incident and I know this matter 
has been very distressing for Mr R.
Under the relevant rules and industry guidelines, Ageas are required to handle claims 
promptly and fairly and they shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.
In this case, Ive needed to consider if Ageas acted reasonably by relying on a specific policy 
exclusion. Having done so, I think they did. Ill now explain why.
The relevant exclusion about malicious damage says no cover is available for:
Loss or damage caused by people to whom You have given permission to be in your 
Home.
So, Ive carefully considered if Ageas acted fairly and reasonably by concluding Mr R gave 
his permission for the lady to be in his home when she caused the damage.
Ive listened to Mr Rs initial telephone interview about the claim. At the start of the call, the 
adviser asked Mr R if it was a good time to speak and he confirmed that it was. She then 
asked him to explain what happened.
In summary, Mr R said:
He knew the lady who caused the incident and he previously told her she couldnt 
stay in his home by text. However, she didnt get the message.
He let the lady in via the front door as it was cold and late at night. He gave her a 
coffee and said she could take a taxi back home, or sleep on the sofa. 
It was after he went back to bed that she attacked him and vandalised his bedding.
She left his home the following morning and promised to replace his items. However, 
he hadnt heard from her since. 
He contacted the police after the event, but they havent been able to help.
Towards the end of the call, Mr R said he had pain in his head and was suffering from 
memory loss, following the incident. So, he couldnt remember where hed purchased his 
bed from and asked if he could provide this information later. The adviser agreed to this and 
continued to ask Mr R some final questions about the items he was claiming for. 
The following day, Mr R was advised his claim had been declined as based on his testimony, 
he gave the lady permission to be in his home.
In summary, Mr R responded by saying:
He wasnt aware of the policy exclusion.
He had concussion following the attack and is hard of hearing, so he didnt 
understand everything he was being asked in the telephone interview.
He opened the door to the lady as she was making a lot of noise. He let her in, but he 
also told her to leave. He didnt invite her to stay. She tricked her way into his house, 
and he was sleepy and on medication. 
During a further call on the same day he said: 
He wouldnt accept that he let the lady in or that he allowed her to stay. He had 
concussion due to the attack and he needed to refresh his memory about what 
happened.
He doesnt know how the lady entered his property. She was on the balcony and 
he looked out to see who was there. She pushed passed him when he briefly 
opened the door to look. He told her to call a lift and go home. However, he was 
later attacked in his sleep and following this she vandalised his bedding. In each of the three telephone conversations, Mr R gave a slightly different version of 
events. Hes also suggested to our service, that the lady may have entered his home 
because he left the front door slightly open. So, its unclear what happened, and it isnt my 
place to decide this definitively. Ive only needed to decide, if I think Ageas acted reasonably 
by applying the exclusion based on the information they were given. 
Based on Mr Rs testimony and on balance, I dont think Ageas acted unreasonably by 
concluding it's likely the lady had Mr Rs permission to enter his home. Even if this wasnt the 
case, Im also satisfied Ageas concluded reasonably that Mr R appears to have allowed her 
to stay. I say this as hes said the attack and vandalism happened while he was sleeping. If 
Mr R hadnt consented to the lady being in his home and felt unsafe, I would reasonably 
have expected him to leave the property or request urgent help by calling 999  a phone 
number thats available 24 hours a day. I wouldnt have expected him to go to sleep, despite 
his vulnerabilities and the late hour. 
Mr R has said he didnt feel well during the initial interview, and the adviser should have 
done more to help him due to his disabilities. Having listened to the call, I didnt hear Mr R 
request any help of this nature. The only exception to this is the final part of the call where 
he asked to provide some additional information later. The adviser agreed to this request 
and the conversation continued. Mr R didnt ask to end the call early or say he needed help 
to enable him to discuss the claim. Im also satisfied the adviser asked the questions in a 
professional unbiased manner and while there was some confusion, Mr Rs answers 
indicated he had a reasonable understanding of what he was being asked. I also see no 
grounds for concluding Ageas tampered with the call recording or any of the other evidence 
theyve provided in response to the complaint.
In any case, Mr R has explained his version of events on several occasions since the initial 
interview, in follow up conversations and in writing. And in my opinion, he hasnt provided 
any persuasive information which would lead me to conclude Ageas acted unreasonably by 
relying on the above policy exclusion. By reaching this outcome, I dont mean to cause Mr R 
any further upset and Im not discounting the distressing events that happened once he went 
to sleep. Im simply concluding Ageas acted fairly by declining the claim and relying on the 
above policy exclusion. I say this as it appears, he allowed the lady to be in his home (all be 
it reluctantly) while he went to sleep. Its also important that I stress Mr Rs policy isnt 
designed to cover every eventuality. So, while I appreciate his contents have been 
damaged, this doesnt automatically mean Ageas are required to settle the claim. 
Mr R has said he feels Ageas have discriminated against him given the problems hes 
experienced and the claim decline. I can understand why he feels this way but having looked 
at all the evidence I dont think Ageas have done so. Nor do I think Ageas have acted 
unfairly or unreasonably. I hope that it helps Mr R to know someone impartial and 
independent has investigated his concerns. As Ive explained above, Im satisfied Ageas 
declined his claim by fairly relying on a policy exclusion. Ive seen nothing that suggests they 
would have treated someone else differently in a similar situation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2022.
 
Claire Greene
Ombudsman