DRN-3865918
The complaint
Ms M says MacArthur Denton Asset Management Limited (MDAML) gave her unsuitable 
advice to move her Aviva personal pension (and Individual Savings Account (ISA)) to 
Transact in 2019. 
What happened
Three of our investigators issued views in this complaint, following reconsiderations after the 
first and second views. The first two views rejected the complaint, but the last upheld it.
The first investigator mainly found as follows:
The capital in Ms Ms pension came from an inheritance. Between 2018 and 2019 
the MDAML adviser conducted initial and updated fact-findings on her profile and 
objective, and issued a suitability report.
At the time, the report says Ms Ms goal was to increase her wealth and income at 
retirement in the most tax efficient way possible; her target retirement age was 
around seven years away; she wanted returns greater than that provided by deposit 
accounts over the medium to long term; she wanted to utilise her ISA allowance for 
the 2018/19 tax year; and she was prepared to invest for a minimum of five years.
The main issue in the complaint is the allegation that the level of risk the Transact 
pension was exposed to was too high and was unsuitable. MDAML assessed Ms M 
as having an adventurous risk profile at the time and the suitability report said she 
agreed with the assessment. The pensions investments were recommended on this 
basis and the report confirmed that her standard of living would not be affected by 
such risk exposure because she was to maintain a contingency fund of £18,000 and 
she also had her income to rely upon. Overall, the pensions portfolio was not 
unsuitable for her and its risks and terms were discussed and agreed with her.
MDAML reviewed Ms Ms portfolio in May, July and October 2019. She then asked 
for an internal change of advisers and a new adviser (within MDAML) advised her 
from March 2020. The number of reviews given to the portfolio was more than would 
be expected.
Around the time of the change of advisers she was concerned about her investments 
and she had conversations about the options put to her. There was nothing wrong or 
confusing about the information she was given, her options were explained to her 
and MDAMLs advice was for her to remain invested and to focus on her long-term 
objectives. Instead, she went against this advice and instructed liquidation of her 
investments. She then tried to withdraw the instruction after it was too late to do so, 
and thereafter refused to reinvest.
Ms M disagreed with this outcome and asked for a review. In the main, she said she 
questioned the reports reference to risks and loss of capital at the outset, but her queries 
were ignored; that she proceeded with the recommendation only because the adviser 
persuaded her to (by telling her that she (the adviser) too was invested in the same portfolio 
and there was little difference between medium and high risk exposure); that she had no 
personal or professional interest in finance and/or investments, her interests in both respects 
were elsewhere and that contributed to the fact that she sought and relied upon professional 
advice for her finances; in 2020 her concerns were about safeguarding profits already made 
in the portfolio, avoiding loss and about exposure to the risk of losses; no options were given 
to her and her concerns were ignored by the first adviser; she was told to remain invested; 
and she was not told about the option to move to cash (within the portfolio) until later, at 
which point her portfolios value had dropped from £59,000 (when she first raised her 
concerns) to £45,000 (when she was eventually told she could move to cash).
The second investigator reviewed the case and endorsed the first view. He mainly concluded 
as follows:
Ms M wanted the potential for higher growth and higher returns in the pension, so 
that correlated to exposure to higher risks of loss.
£20,000 was invested in the Transact ISA in April 2019, £16,726 and then £14,000 
were both invested in the Transact pension in May 2019, and the fund selections 
were based on the agreed adventurous risk profile, aims and objectives. Overall, and 
in this context, the recommendation was not unsuitable for Ms M. 
Her concerns about short term losses in 2020 had to be considered in the bigger 
picture of her long-term objectives for the portfolio. For this reason  and given her 
agreed risk profile and capacity for loss at the time  MDAMLs advice to her to 
remain invested for the long-term purpose was not unsuitable. 
Ms M presently disputes her risk profile at the time, but MDAML could only advise on 
the circumstances it was presented with, and if it had wrongly assessed her profile 
she would have been expected to raise this before proceeding with investments. 
Even though she raised questions about risk exposure at the outset, she did not have 
to proceed with the recommendation. The report was clear on the level of risk 
exposure, so when she proceeded with the recommendation MDAML had the 
responsibility to execute it as set out in the report, which is what it did.
The high level of risk exposure does not appear to have been unsuitable for her. She 
had a contingency fund, she did not invest money she relied upon in the short term 
and she was in a position to bear short term fluctuations in the portfolio. The last 
review before her concerns was in October 2019 and evidence of its contents shows 
that she did not present any change in her circumstances. That meant there was no 
cause to change the initial investment advice, so the advice in 2020 to remain 
invested was not unsuitable.
Ms M disagreed with this outcome too, and asked for an ombudsmans decision. She 
maintained and repeated her core arguments, and she stressed her claims that the initial 
advice in 2019 was unsuitable, that the advice to remain invested in 2020 was unsuitable 
and that she was misinformed about her options (until it was too late) in 2020. 
The third investigator subsequently undertook the case and had an introductory telephone 
conversation with Ms M. The call notes say, during this call, she confirmed, amongst other 
things, that she had since changed her adviser firm and had moved her pension and ISA to 
Elevate, with investments based on a low risk profile; and that the inheritance in the 
pension was aimed at helping her with an early retirement so she would never have taken 
high risks with it. The third investigator thereafter made further enquiries into the case, and sought additional information from Aviva, Transact and from Ms M (about the Elevate 
pension). He also put further enquiries to MDAML.
In his view, the third investigator noted that his enquiries to MDAML had not been answered. 
However, he concluded that he had enough evidence to determine the complaint and that it 
should be upheld. He set out the following main reasons:
In early 2018, based on fact-find evidence, Ms M was  in her 50s without 
dependents; she was in good health and in employment; she earned around £26,000 
per year (with around £1,000 in monthly spare income) and was a member of her 
employers Defined Benefits (DB) pension scheme; she also had the Aviva pension 
(valued at £16,268); she had around £55,000 cash on deposit and £18,000 in her 
cash ISA; she owned her home without liabilities; she was assessed as having a fair 
degree of understanding/knowledge of investments; and she wanted to invest 
£50,000 from her cash holding for the potential of higher returns and to build up as 
much money as possible for retirement. 
The next meeting between the parties was in March 2019. The notes for this meeting 
say there were no changes in Ms Ms circumstances, but she wanted to invest 
£20,000 into her ISA for the 2018/19 tax year, to invest another £20,000 at a later 
date and to review her Aviva pension in order to take advantage of growth potential 
in the following six to seven years. Another meeting happened in April 2019 and it 
was followed by the suitability report dated 24 April 2019.
MDAML recommended the Transact pension and investment, within it, in the 
Macarthur Denton Adventurous Portfolio (the MDAP). An initial advice fee of 2.5% 
(of the transferred funds) applied, as did an ongoing advice fee of 0.75% per year. 
On 28 February 2020 she sent a text message to the adviser expressing her 
concerns about market conditions in the context of the impending pandemic, about 
the risk of loss of value in her investments and about withdrawing from the 
investments. The adviser recommended that she remain invested. She repeated her 
concerns in texts to the adviser in early March, including reference to concerns that 
her portfolios risk profile was too high and the idea of moving it into a low or medium 
risk profile. Again, the adviser recommended that she retain the existing investments. 
On 12 March, she instructed the adviser to move her portfolio into a low risk profile 
as soon as possible. On 13 March she was told her portfolio could be moved into 
cash and that it would be done the following day. On 17 March she instructed the 
new adviser to execute this. That was done and the ISA and pension remained in 
cash until April 2022 when they were transferred from Transact to Elevate. 
The recommendation put Ms M into a more complex arrangement than had 
previously existed with her Aviva pension, and there is no evidence that she sought 
such an arrangement, or that it matched her investment objectives and experience. 
She did not need to access the pension for around seven to eight years, so the 
flexibility mentioned in the report was not needed until then. The Aviva pension made 
available 17 funds to select from and a total maximum of six funds were allowed in 
the pension at a time. There is evidence that the funds within the Aviva pension had 
the following past performance records  44.8% and 27.6% over five years. This was 
not an unreasonable rate of return. There is a lack of evidence that there was a clear 
need to transfer Ms Ms pension.
There is no evidence of a full risk profile report for Ms M at the time, and she disputes 
the high-risk profile that MDAML has attached to her. Given her relatively limited previous investment experience and the modest value of her pension, it is unlikely 
she was a self-investor seeking a wider fund selection and adventurous portfolio in 
the Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) that was recommended to her. 
Furthermore, the recommendation resulted in an additional 2.1% per year in scheme 
costs to her, the suitability report confirmed this and said it was not regarded as 
particularly onerous because it was up to MDAML to invest the portfolio as 
proactively as possible on her behalf. However, just because the report was 
transparent about this does not mean the extra cost was suitable
The fact that she had been a member of her employers DB scheme for around nine 
years at the time does not mean she had the capacity to take risks with her pension 
arrangements, especially given her evidence on the purpose of the inheritance 
capital in the pension. She was not a sophisticated investor and there is a lack of 
evidence that she needed a pension arrangement over and above what she had with 
the Aviva pension. Overall, it is likely that Ms M simply wanted to know the best 
option for her, evidence shows that retaining the Aviva pension would have been 
that, and she would have made the additional £14,000 contribution into it instead.
In terms of the events in 2020, and given that the portfolio was already invested at 
the time, the advice to remain invested was not inappropriate. Liquidation of the 
investments would have crystallised the losses within them at the time. However, 
MDAML should have informed her about the option to move to cash earlier than it 
did. It should have done so within two working days of her initial enquiry on 28 
February 2020. That would have been on 3 March. However, evidence suggests that 
her concerns about the markets at the time would have prevailed over any advice to 
remain invested, so she probably would have instructed liquidation in any case. She 
would probably have done so on 3 March and that would have been actioned on 4 
March, so the notion of liquidation on 4 March 2020 should be reflected in the 
calculation of redress for the unsuitable pension advice. Redress to Mr M should also 
apply for the unsuitable ISA transfer advice, and £350 should be paid to her for the 
trouble and upset caused to her in the overall matter.
Ms M accepted this outcome, but MDAML disputed it and asked for an Ombudsmans 
decision. It questioned why a third view, which upheld the complaint, had been produced, 
despite the first and second views rejecting the complaint; and why that happened instead of 
the case being referred to an Ombudsman for a decision after Ms M disagreed with the 
previous view. It also said that the third views conclusions were not balanced and that its 
findings on facts were flawed  for example, it said, no SIPP ever applied, Ms M never self-
invested her funds, and she was previously invested in global equity funds. In response, the 
third investigator reminded MDAML of the additional enquiries he sent that it did not reply to, 
and he referred to notice he sent prior to that confirming the previous views were to be 
reviewed because they had not addressed all relevant aspects of the case. He also 
confirmed that the case had been referred to an Ombudsman for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with and endorse the third investigators view on the complaint. I 
uphold the complaint. I will address Ms Ms pension first, and then address her ISA.
The Pension
Regulatory ContextPrinciple 2 of the regulators Principles for Businesses requires a firm to conduct its 
business with due skill, care and diligence. Principle 6 requires a firm to pay due 
regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
The regulators Conduct of Business (COBS) rules, under COBS 2.1.1R, requires a 
firm to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of 
its clients. COBS 9.2.1R sets out a firms obligation to assess the suitability of 
investments recommended to its clients. 
In 2009 the regulator published a checklist for pension switching. It highlighted four 
key issues firms had to address in such pursuits  Charges (is the consumer being 
switched to a pension that is more expensive than the existing one(s) or than a 
stakeholder pension, without good reason?); Existing benefits (is the consumer 
losing benefits in the switch without good reason?); Risk (is the consumer switching 
into a pension that matches his/her appetite for risk and personal circumstances?); 
Ongoing fund management (is the consumer switching into a pension with a need for 
ongoing investment reviews that has not been explained, offered or put in place?).
In 2013 the regulator issued a pension related industry alert to firms which included 
the following  It has been brought to the FSAs attention that some financial 
advisers are giving advice to customers on pension transfers or pension switches 
without assessing the advantages or disadvantages of investments proposed to be 
held within the new pension. 
MDAML was, or ought reasonably to have been, aware and mindful of all the above, 
amongst other requirements, during its engagements with Ms M in 2018 and 2019. Primarily, 
it was necessary that the switch from the Aviva pension to the Transact pension was in her 
best interests, in the regulatory context set out above and as a matter of fact. In other words, 
there had to be grounds which made it worthwhile for her to move from one to the other, and 
the Transact pension should essentially have had meaningful prospects of being better for 
her, overall, than the Aviva pension. If not, there would have been no point in switching and 
no justification in Ms M incurring the costs associated with the switch. 
Therefore, the approach that reasonably and sensibly applies to this case is to first consider 
whether (or not) MDAMLs recommendation of the pension switch was suitable for Ms M. If 
not, it ought not to have been recommended and her case is essentially established, 
because everything else that followed was from an unsuitable pension switch that should 
never have happened. However, if the switch was suitable for Ms M, my consideration will 
move to assessing whether (or not) the investments recommended for (and executed in) the 
Transact pension were suitable for her.
Was the switch suitable for Ms M?
On balance, I am not persuaded that it was.
The first point to note is that Ms M did not initially seek pension advice. The January 2018 
fact find document presents evidence to support this finding. The document confirms that 
she wanted, only, advice on savings and investments. As the third investigator said and as 
the document confirms, she was considering investing part of her cash holding. In response 
to questions in the document about whether (or not) retirement planning advice was sought, 
the answers were no, and the documents summary repeated what was stated at its outset 
 that Ms M wanted only savings and investments advice.The same document appears to have been used, and added to (in handwriting), to record 
updates following the 2019 meetings. Two handwritten update notes are dated 25 March 
2019. The first is titled Second Meeting and undersigned by Ms M, but the second is not 
undersigned by her. The first mentions the intended double £20,000 investments that the 
third investigator referred to. The second note says Ms M asked for a pension review 
because no such review had happened for years. However, the note also says she had  
NO IDEA AS TO THE PERFORMANCE, COSTS ETC. [my emphasis] of her pension at the 
time. 
This conflicts with what MDAMLs suitability report said in the following month. The report 
said she wanted a pension review because, with regards to her existing arrangements, she 
was  concerned that performance [had] been poor, fund choice limited and there [was] a 
lack of flexibility [my emphasis].
No such concerns were stated in the March fact find updates. Indeed, it was recorded that 
she was unaware of the pensions performance and nothing was recorded about fund choice 
and flexibility. It is plausible that MDAML considered these aspects of her Aviva pension, 
took negative views about them and shared those views with Ms M. However, that is not the 
same as presenting a scenario in which she  not MDAML  held such views and wanted to 
switch pensions because of them. Overall, on balance and given this evidence, I do not 
consider that she held such views and/or wanted to switch pensions because of them. It 
appears more likely (than not) that MDAML formed the views that have been credited to her, 
and then proceeded to use them as a basis to recommend the switch. 
Based on the above, and on balance, I do not find that Ms M had any interest to review the 
Aviva pension with an aim to switch it. I consider that she simply wanted the pension 
checked and, given her reference to having no idea about its components, to be better 
informed about it. I do not say or suggest she did not want advice on whether (or not) it was 
good for her, or could be better. She probably did. However, the point to note is that there is 
a difference between seeking advice, with an open mind, on a pension arrangement and 
seeking advice specifically to pursue a pension switch because of concerns about an 
existing pension. MDAML says Ms M did the latter, evidence does not support that, instead it 
shows that she did the former.
The above analysis shows that, at the outset, there was no best interest, for Ms M, in the 
idea of a pension switch, because she had no such interest to begin with. Nevertheless, I 
acknowledge she was seeking and receiving advice, so it is arguable that, based on suitable 
advice, a switch could have been in her interest. As such, I have applied the regulators 
checklist to her case.
There is no dispute over the fact that the switch was more expensive for Ms M, so in terms 
of costs/charges alone it was not in her best interest. There was a 2.5% fee to MDAML for 
arranging the switch and a 0.75% ongoing fee for its servicing of the Transact pension. 
Beyond these costs, the suitability report confirmed that the Transact pension would create 
an additional 2.1% per year in scheme costs to Ms M, so it was 2.1% per year more 
expensive than the Aviva pension (which had a total of 1% annual management charge for 
its funds). 
The above additional costs to Ms M confirm that the switch was a notably expensive 
endeavour.
In terms of risks, MDAML says she had an adventurous risk profile. The suitability report 
confirms this and the fact find document confirms this was the highest/riskiest profile in the 
range (the first and lowest being risk averse and the sixth and highest being adventurous). 
The documents definition of this profile included references to  people seeking very high rates of return on their capital/investments; people aware that in doing so they were 
exposing their capital to very high risks of substantial losses; people with a high level of 
awareness of the factors affecting values and performance, and can bear the consequence 
of considerable loss in the pursuit of substantial gains.
Beneath the printed definition in the document is a handwritten note from MDAML 
summarising that Ms M regularly read and listened to news on investments and markets 
(amongst other areas); that she had a good understanding of investments, long term 
investing, and volatility of markets; and that the adviser discussed with her asset classes, 
asset and regional allocations and valuations/devaluations. 
However, Ms M disputes the above description of her and confirms that she had no personal 
or professional interest or knowledge in investments or in the markets. I have not seen 
evidence to contradict this. Her financial arrangements, as summarised across the three 
investigators views, were relatively modest and unsophisticated  and, it could be said, 
featured relatively modest amounts. 
The Aviva pension was invested, roughly in around an equal split, in the Aviva Mixed Invest 
(40-85% shares) (CU) Pension Standard Series 01 fund and in the Aviva International Equity 
(CU) Pension Standard Series 01 fund. Avivas factsheets for these funds say the former 
had a broadly balanced risk profile and the latter had a balanced/high risk profile. Neither 
had the extreme/adventurous profile that MDAML credited to Ms M or that the recommended 
MDAP had.
Furthermore, there appears to be no evidence of a risk profile assessment exercise 
conducted for Ms M at the time of the recommendation  that is, one in which her 
knowledge, experience and approach towards investments (and risks) were properly 
questioned and determined. The fact find document includes a section titled 
SUPPLEMENTARY ATTITUDE TO RISK QUESTIONS, but I am not persuaded this was 
enough to conclude the Adventurous profile credited to her. Six questions were presented, 
the response to the first says Ms M had a fair degree of understanding/knowledge of 
investing; the second response says it was very important to her to have her investments 
covered by the Financial Services Compensation Scheme; the third says it was very 
important to her to have accessible investments; the fourth says it was not important to her 
to have guarantees against loss in her investments; the fifth says socially responsible 
investments were not important to her; and the sixth says the ability to vary the risk profile of 
her investments was very important to her.
I am not persuaded that these six answers established that Ms M was one of the type of 
people described in the definition for the Adventurous profile. 
Overall, on balance and for the above reasons, I consider that Ms M had a broadly balanced 
risk approach for her pension; but she does not appear to have had any more than basic, or 
a laypersons, knowledge and experience of investments; I have not seen evidence to the 
contrary; and on this basis the switch to the higher risks in the Transact pension (given the 
associated recommendation of the Adventurous profiled MDAP within that pension) exposed 
her to more risk than she previously had and more than she had a profile for.
MDAML would argue that the Transact pension offered better facilities in comparison to the 
Aviva pension, and that the MDAP had better prospects compared to the Aviva funds. With 
regards to the latter, I acknowledge that the factsheet for the MDAP at the time confirmed a 
five years performance record of 70.91%, which was considerably more than the records of 
44.8% and 27.6% for the Aviva funds over the same time period. However, the Aviva funds 
performances were not unreasonable and the MDAPs future performance could not be 
guaranteed. As such, I do not consider that the argument outweighs these points or the following  
Ms M did not seek a pension switch at the outset, so it was not an interest she 
pursued. She also did not hold the alleged concerns that have been credited to her, 
so she also did not pursue an interest to address those concerns.
The recommended switch was significantly more expensive for her and exposed her 
to a greater and unsuitable level of risk, neither of which was justified or mitigated in 
any way within the recommendation or in practice.
Even if funds with better performances were to be considered, the Aviva pension had access 
to a range of 17 funds to select from and capacity for investment in six funds at a time. I am 
not persuaded that this was insufficient for Ms M and for the profile she had at the time. 
Fund switches within the Aviva pension could and should have been explored and/or 
undertaken, as opposed to the pension switch.
For all the above reasons, I find that the pension switch recommended to Ms M, by MDAML, 
was unsuitable and unnecessary. It ought not to have been recommended. Available 
evidence is that Ms M sought advice at the time and would followed the advice given to her, 
so if she was advised to retain the Aviva pension she probably would have done so. 
Given the above conclusion (and findings), I do not consider it necessary to address whether 
(or not) the MDAP was a suitable portfolio for the Transact pension. As I said earlier (above) 
if, as I have concluded, the pension switch should not have been recommended to Ms M her 
case is essentially upheld  because everything else that followed was from an unsuitable 
pension switch that should never have happened.  
The ISA
Before MDAMLs recommendation of the Transact Stocks and Shares ISA (and the MDAP 
investment within it), Ms M held a Cash ISA (with £18,000 in it) and a cash holding on 
deposit valued at around £55,000. These cash based holdings, in both respects, 
immediately present a somewhat risk averse approach, which is the approach I consider she 
had for her ISA at the outset. It is not uncommon for people to adopt different approaches 
towards risk for different aspects of their financial arrangements so, for the sake of clarity, I 
do not consider that this finding conflicts with my finding above (in the previous section) 
about Ms M taking a broadly balanced risk approach with her pension arrangement.
Having said the above, it is also clear from evidence that Ms M sought a bit more from her 
ISA arrangement at the time. The fact find document and suitability report (for the Transact 
ISA recommendation) both confirm this, but they do so in quite precise terms. They say she 
wanted to use her ISA contribution allowance for the tax year (using part of her inheritance 
capital) and that she wanted to invest for  the potential of higher returns than deposit 
based savings. In other words, deposit-based savings was the benchmark she wanted her 
ISA to perform against.
In the above context, MDAMLs recommendation of the MDAP was starkly unsuitable. It 
essentially took Ms Ms ISA related approach from one extreme to another  from cash to 
adventurous  and there is no available evidence to justify this. In this respect, I incorporate 
relevant elements from my findings in the previous section about the flaws in MDAMLs 
classification of Ms M as an adventurous risk taker.
On balance, I consider that, at most, Ms Ms instruction to MDAML meant her approach 
towards risk for the ISA had moved from a cash/risk averse basis to a cautious basis. 
Reference to deposit-based savings as the benchmark to perform against is insightful. If she wanted something different (and more exposed to risks), a different form of benchmark  
such as a stock market index  would have been referenced. Instead, what she instructed, 
and what MDAML recorded in its fact find and suitability report, shows that she simply 
wanted more than she could earn in cash holdings. 
That was not an invitation to place her ISA in a high-risk portfolio like the MDAP. Given the 
ISAs starting point, the stated benchmark, the inheritance basis for the capital to be used, 
her relatively modest financial arrangements (including her relatively modest financial 
capacity) as a whole and the fact that she did not present herself with a high-risk taking 
objective or background, such a placement was inherently unsuitable.
For the above reasons, I find that MDAMLs recommendation for Ms Ms ISA was unsuitable.
Ms Ms agreement with the recommendations
There appears to be a part of MDAMLs argument that relies on Ms Ms agreement with the 
suitability reports, the recommended pension switch and the pension and ISA investments. 
Her explanation is that she was always concerned about the recommendations and 
exposure to risk, but was persuaded by the adviser to proceed with them. On balance, this is 
plausible. 
I understand the argument that she could have objected if the recommendations and/or 
exposure to risk were not what she was looking for or what she was comfortable with. 
However, I have considered evidence of her personal background, which I will not set out 
beyond what I reflected in the background (above), in order to avoid breaching her 
anonymity. On balance, I consider that she was initially disposed towards relying on the 
advice she received and viewing such advice as being in her best interest  as many clients 
who receive advice do  and, in her case, she appears to have maintained that reliance 
despite her reservations about the recommendations in 2019. 
The manner in which she seems to have panicked less than a year after implementation of 
the recommendations is notable. It could be said that a natural high-risk taker would have, 
more likely than not, agreed with MDAMLs advice to remain invested in 2020 and to ride out 
any volatility or uncertainty in the markets at the time. She did not have the personality to do 
so, she was no longer comfortable with compromising her reservations and, despite being 
told (more than once) to remain invested, she instructed liquidations of the pension and ISA. 
On balance, I consider that she reacted in this way because she had never been 
comfortable with the level of risk she was exposed to in 2019, so at the first (or early) 
indication of those risks turning against her investments in 2020 she sought to withdraw her 
position.
The above is not a one-sided finding. As I set out in the next section, Ms Ms actions in 2020 
are also reflected in my orders for redress  in the same fashion as the third investigator did 
in his redress conclusion.
Furthermore, or perhaps primarily, the fact of the matter is that MDAML had a strict 
obligation to give Ms M suitable advice. Unsuitable advice does not automatically become 
suitable simply and only because a client agrees with it. If MDAML gave suitable advice to 
Ms M to retain her Aviva pension (and perhaps conduct fund switches within it) and to invest 
her ISA cautiously, neither of which it did, if she rejected such advice and insisted on 
something else, and if the pension switch and MDAP investment recommendations were the 
result of such insistence, my considerations could have been different. However, none of 
these happened, so MDAMLs duty to give suitable advice remains the key consideration.
 Putting things right
Fair compensation
My aim is to put Ms M as close as possible to the position she would now be in if she had 
been given suitable advice with regards to her pension and ISA. 
For the pension, and for the reasons, given above, I consider that she would have retained 
the Aviva pension. It is possible that she could have conducted fund switches within it, upon 
advice to do so, but I consider that even if such switches happened the pension portfolios 
overall profile would have remained broadly as it was.
For the ISA, and for the reasons given above, I consider that it would have been invested in 
a cautious manner.
These findings will define the benchmarks to be used in calculating redress for Ms M in both 
respects. 
In addition, her move to cash in March 2020 will also define part of the calculations. This 
applies only in calculating redress for the pension, because there is a distinct difference 
between the Aviva pensions majority balanced risk profile and the notion of a cautious move 
to cash. Even if she had been suitably advised to retain the Aviva pension in 2019, given 
that the Aviva pension portfolio was exposed to the stock market it is more likely (than not) 
that Ms Ms concerns about the markets in 2020 would have led her to alter the portfolio and 
move it into cautious profile. Like the investigator, and for the same reasons he gave, I 
consider that this would probably have happened by 4 March 2020. I will order below that an 
Aviva pension cash holding be used as the benchmark from this date onwards or, in the 
alternative, the Bank of England average return from fixed rate bonds (as a cautious profile 
benchmark).
In contrast, the ISA should have been invested cautiously in 2019, the benchmark I use in 
the orders below reflects this and I consider that if the ISA was already cautiously invested, it 
is unlikely that Ms Ms concerns about the markets in 2020 would have led her to change it.
Ms M is ordered to engage meaningfully and co-operatively with MDAML to provide it with all 
information and documentation, relevant to its calculation of redress, which it does not 
already have.
The Pension
What must MDAML do?
To compensate Ms M fairly, MDAML must do the following:
Compare the performance of Ms Ms Transact pension between the start and end 
dates shown in the table below with that of the benchmark. The benchmark to be 
used is the notional performance/value of her Aviva Pension, had it been retained 
between the start and end dates and had it been treated (in terms of contributions 
and/or withdrawals) in the same way as the Transact Pension was treated between 
both dates. MDAML will need to liaise with Aviva, with any reasonable cooperation 
needed from Ms M, in order to achieve calculation of this benchmark. If, for any 
reasonable and practical reason, that benchmark cannot be used, the alternative that 
should be used is the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index (prior to 
1 March 2017, the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income Total Return Index) because it 
is made up of a range of indices with different asset classes (mainly UK equities and government bonds) and it is a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take 
some risk to get a higher return. This was the approach Ms M had for the pension 
and this alternative benchmark also broadly matches the majority balanced risk 
profile of the Aviva pension.
 
If the fair value is greater than the actual value the difference is due to her in 
compensation. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
If compensation (up to the end date) is due, calculate and pay any additional amount 
to the compensation that results from applying the performance of Ms Ms Elevate 
pension (from the end date to the settlement date) to the compensation. 
Pay the total compensation into Ms Ms pension plan, to increase its value by the 
amount of the total compensation. The payment should allow for the effect of charges 
and any available tax relief. The compensation should not be paid into her pension 
plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance. If the total 
compensation cannot be paid into her pension plan, pay it directly to her. Had it been 
possible to pay it into the plan, it would have provided a taxable income, so the 
compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would 
otherwise have been paid. The notional allowance should be calculated using her 
actual or expected marginal rate of tax at her selected retirement age. For example, if 
she is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, the reduction 
would equal the current basic rate of tax. If she would have been able to take a tax-
free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation.
Provide the calculation of the compensation to Ms M in a clear and simple format. 
investment 
namestatus Benchmarkfrom 
(start date)to     
(end date)additional 
payment
Ms Ms
Transact 
PensionNo 
longer 
existsUp to 4 March 
2020  Notional 
performance/value 
of Ms Ms previous 
Aviva Pension or, 
in the alternative, 
FTSE UK Private 
Investors Income 
Total Return Index 
(prior to 1 March 
2017, the FTSE 
WMA Stock 
Market Income 
Total Return 
Index); from 4 
March 2020  
Notional 
performance/value 
of a cash holding 
in the Aviva 
pension or, in the 
alternative, the 
Bank of England Date of 
switch to 
the 
Transact 
PensionDate 
Transact 
Pension 
ceased to 
be heldIf compensation 
(up to the end 
date) is due, 
calculate and pay 
any additional 
amount to the 
compensation that 
results from 
applying the 
performance of Ms 
Ms Elevate 
pension (from the 
end date to the 
settlement date) to 
the compensation. average return 
from fixed rate 
bonds
actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark. 
The ISA
What must MDAML do?
To compensate Ms M fairly, MDAML must do the following:
Compare the performance of Ms Ms Transact ISA with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the fair value is greater than the actual value the difference is due to her in 
compensation. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
If compensation (up to the end date) is due, calculate and pay any additional amount 
to the compensation that results from applying the performance of Ms Ms Elevate 
ISA (from the end date to the settlement date) to the compensation. 
Provide the calculation of the compensation to Ms M in a clear and simple format. 
investment 
namestatus Benchmarkfrom 
(start date)to     
(end date)additional 
payment
Ms Ms
Transact 
ISANo 
longer 
existsThe Bank of 
England average 
return from fixed 
rate bondsDate of 
investment 
in the 
Transact 
ISADate 
Transact 
ISA 
ceased to 
be heldIf compensation 
(up to the end 
date) is due, 
calculate and pay 
any additional 
amount to the 
compensation that 
results from 
applying the 
performance of Ms 
Ms Elevate ISA 
(from the end date 
to the settlement 
date) to the 
compensation. 
actual valueThis means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark. To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the 
benchmark, MDAML should use the monthly average rate for fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 
months maturity as published by the Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown 
as at the end of the previous month. Those rates should be applied to the investment on an 
annually compounded basis. 
Any withdrawal, income or other payment out of the investment should be deducted from the 
fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation 
from that point on. If there are a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations 
simpler, I will accept if MDAML totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end 
instead of deducting periodically.
why is this remedy suitable?
Ms M had a cautious approach towards her ISA, the average rate for fixed rate bonds 
broadly matches that and would be a fair measure for someone who wanted to achieve a 
reasonable return without risk to capital. 
Trouble and Upset
I endorse the third investigators finding that Ms M should be paid £350 for the trouble and 
upset the complaint matters have caused her. I order MDAML to make this payment to her. It 
is a reasonable sum to reflect the trouble she has faced, separate from any financial loss, in 
being placed into an unsuitable pension (and pension portfolio) and ISA by its advice, and 
then having to resolve both thereafter.
Compensation Limit
Where I uphold a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business to pay 
compensation of up to £150,000, £160,000, £350,000, £355,000 or £375,000 (depending on 
when the complaint event occurred and when the complaint was referred to us) plus any 
interest that I consider appropriate. If fair compensation exceeds the compensation limit the 
respondent firm may be asked to pay the balance. Payment of such balance is not part of 
my determination or award. It is not binding on the respondent firm and it is unlikely that a 
complainant can accept my decision and go to court to ask for such balance. A complainant 
may therefore want to consider getting independent legal advice in this respect before 
deciding whether to accept the decision. 
In Ms Ms case, the complaint events (the recommendations and their execution) occurred in 
and after April 2019 and the complaint was referred to us after April 2020 (it was referred to 
us in 2021), so the applicable compensation limit would be £355,000.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Ms Ms complaint and I order MacArthur Denton 
Asset Management Limited to calculate, carry out and pay redress to her, and compensation 
for trouble and upset, as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or reject my decision before 7 April 2023.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman