DRN-2102024
The complaint
Mrs A and Mr J complain that Aspen Insurance UK Limited has unfairly declined their 
wedding insurance claim.
What happened
Mrs A and Mr J had booked their wedding abroad for February 2020 and purchased wedding 
insurance in October 2019. When Mrs A then found she was pregnant, they cancelled the 
wedding later that month. Shed been advised by her doctor not to travel to that country due 
to the risk of contracting the Zika Virus.
Mrs A and Mr J made a claim to Aspen for costs including return flights, wedding planner 
and reception fees as well as her bridal outfit. Aspen considered the claim but said that 
cancellation due to pregnancy and the advice shed received from her doctor wasnt covered 
under the policy. Mrs A and Mr J complained to Aspen as they felt the decision was unfair, 
but it maintained that the claim wasnt covered under the policy.
Our investigator considered the complaint and said that cancellation due to pregnancy 
wasnt covered under the policy. Having looked into the items being claiming for, the 
investigator said these wouldnt be covered under the policy terms either.
Mrs A and Mr J disagreed with our investigators view of their complaint. So, the complaint 
has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand the reasons for Mrs A and Mr J deciding to cancel their wedding plans, and that 
they did this based on advice from a medical professional. However, the claim was subject 
to the terms and conditions of the policy they took out and I need to decide whether Aspen 
acted reasonably when it declined her claim, based on those policy terms.
Ive looked at the policy terms to see if theres any cover for cancelling the wedding due to 
being pregnant, or receiving advice from her doctor not to make the trip. The policy covers a 
number of scenarios for cancellation, curtailment and rearrangement. This would include, for 
example, a situation where Mrs A was unable to attend the wedding due to illness. But none 
of the scenarios applies to Mrs As circumstances.
The policy also specifically says that it wont cover:
any claim resulting from pregnancy or childbirth except for related serious medical 
complications where the expected date of delivery is more than two months after the 
ceremony date.
Mrs A and Mr J chose to cancel the wedding as a result of advice from her doctor. I can 
understand that she would wish to follow her doctors advice and make the decision on that 
basis. However, this advice was given due to Mrs A being pregnant. As Ive explained, the 
policy doesnt cover any claim relating to pregnancy where the expected date of delivery is 
more than two months after the date of the wedding, and that was the case here. So this 
exclusion applies.
Aspen also relied on exclusions relating to some of the specific costs being claimed, such as 
travel costs. Ive considered these and agree that, if the claim were covered, not all of the 
items being claimed could be claimed for. But in any event, as Ive explained, the claim was 
not covered. 
I appreciate this will be very upsetting for Mrs A and Mr J. But, taking into account the 
circumstances that led to the cancellation, Aspens decision to decline the claim was in line 
with the policy terms and was reasonable. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 February 2021.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman