DRN-3806882
The complaint
Mrs A has complained that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) didnt contact 
her as it said it would to remind her of the upcoming renewal of her car insurance policy. 
Mrs A was stopped by the policy shortly after her car insurance policy had expired with LV 
for driving without insurance. 
What happened
Mrs A bought a car insurance policy with LV in February 2021. Her preferred method of 
contact was email. LV confirmed the policy wouldnt automatically renew with it in a years 
time. 
In February 2022 Mrs As policy with LV expired. Later that month, Mrs A was stopped by 
the police as her car didnt show as being insured. Mrs A said she thought she was still 
insured with LV. 
LV said it wouldnt indemnify Mrs A as it had sent two renewal reminder emails and a text 
message to her before the renewal date. As it didnt hear from Mrs A, LV said it wasnt 
responsible for Mrs A driving while uninsured. 
Mrs A asked us to look at her complaint. She said LV didnt show that the emails and text 
message it said it sent were delivered. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend Mrs As complaint should be upheld. She was satisfied 
from the screenshots provided by LV that it had sent emails to Mrs A in January 2022 and a 
text message. And as Mrs A hadnt chosen for her policy to automatically renew, it was 
ultimately Mrs As responsibility to ensure she was insured. 
Mrs A didnt agree and so she wants an ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mrs A bought her policy with LV in February 2021, LV wrote:
Just a reminder, your policy will not renew automatically each year, to change this 
please call us. Either way well send you details of your renewal price and cover 
before this policy ends. 
Mrs A received a general update email from LV in December 2021 about changes in 
regulation. In this email LV said it would contact Mrs A when her renewal date was 
approaching. 
According to LVs records, it sent Mrs A an email on 6 and 26 January 2022 reminding Mrs A 
of the upcoming renewal date and provided renewal documents. It also sent her a text 
message.
LV isnt able to provide a copy of the emails- it explained to Mrs A that this is because they 
were sent via a server. However, its provided a copy of its email correspondence with its IT 
department. They confirmed that both emails had been sent successfully to the same email 
address as the email Mrs A received from LV in December 2021. Its records showed the 
emails had been delivered, but not opened. 
Mrs A contacted her email provider to see if it could assist her - shes provided a copy of 
their response which seems to be a generic one about where to find any deleted emails. 
LV has provided screenshots to show the information in the text message it sent to Mrs As 
mobile number. And its provided a screenshot of the dates it sent its emails to Mrs As email 
address. 
I appreciate that Mrs A isnt satisfied with the evidence provided by LV. 
But I think LV has reasonably shown that it attempted to make contact with Mrs A in different 
ways to remind her of the upcoming renewal of her policy before her current policy expired 
on 5 February 2022. And as she didnt request automatic renewal of her policy the year 
before, ultimately the onus was on Mrs A to make sure she was insured. 
This therefore means I dont think LV unreasonably declined to offer indemnity to Mrs A 
when she was stopped by the police for driving while uninsured after her policy with it 
expired. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman