DRN-2107309
The complaint
Mr E complains that Santander UK Plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a mortgage PPI policy taken out in 1992. The policy was taken out in 
one of the banks branches when Mr E was applying for an extra loan on his mortgage. The 
policy provided Mr E with cover for accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr E disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Es case. 
I have decided not to uphold Mr Es complaint and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mr E suggests he wasnt told enough about the PPI to realise it wasnt something he wanted 
to buy. He says if hed known what the PPI was, he wouldnt have bought it. I cant be sure 
what was discussed between him and the bank, but I see the mortgage application form had 
a separate section about PPI asking who might want the cover  and this is ticked to show 
Mr E wanted it. Mr E has signed this. There is also a separate application form for the PPI 
which Mr E also signed. I cant see anything that implies that the PPI is compulsory, so I 
dont think Mr E could have thought he had to have the PPI in order to get the extra money 
he wanted. 
Overall, despite what Mr E remembers, I think the bank made him aware that PPI was 
optional and he chose to take it out.
The bank has accepted that it advised Mr E to take out the policy and it doesnt look like it 
was unsuitable for him based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. I say this 
because:
- Although the exact policy Mr E bought isnt available, ones from the same time period 
suggest that he was eligible for the policy given his circumstances and the PPI terms and 
conditions. 
- Mr E had some work related benefits. Were not sure exactly what those were  but he 
might have been able to get either full or part pay from his employer for up to a year. 
However this policy could have paid out for up to two years in addition to any work 
related benefits and so, it seems, for longer. Having the policy in place would mean Mr E 
could use his work-related benefits and savings to pay for other expenses. This would 
probably have been all the more important when the policy was sold given that Mr E was 
solely responsible for repaying the mortgage. I think Mr E would have had some use for 
the policy despite his existing arrangements. 
- Mr E wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits, such as 
those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical conditions. 
As he could have benefited from the full extent of the cover I think it unlikely Mr E 
needed better advice or information about the policys exclusions and limitations.
- I dont know when Mr E was first told how much his policy would cost or the amount it 
might pay each month, It may have been in his meeting when it was discussed. But I 
think Mr E would know he was to pay something for it, and no suggestion that it was 
unaffordable. And, given the way these policies were set up, theres nothing that 
suggests it wouldnt have covered his main mortgage payment each month.
Its possible the information the bank gave Mr E about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But he chose to take out the policy and so appears to have wanted this type of 
cover. As Ive already said Mr E wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or limitations and 
the policy seems to have been affordable, I think it unlikely Mr E would have made a 
different decision if better information had been provided  overall, I think he would still have 
taken out the policy.
Mr E told us that hes been made redundant twice and if hed known about the PPI hed have 
claimed on it. From the date he gave us, it appears that one of the redundancies was a 
couple of years before he took out the policy. The other was in the same year he cancelled it 
 he cancelled the PPI early on in 2000. It looks to me as though, unfortunately, Mr E wasnt 
covered by this PPI policy at either redundancy date.My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2020.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman