DRN-3872532
The complaint
Mr S and Mr H are business partners for C. They complain that PayrNet Limited wont refund 
a transaction they didnt make. 
ANNA Money, who Mr S and Mr Hs account is with, is an agent for PayrNet. For ease, Ill 
mainly refer to ANNA throughout the decision.
 
What happened
Mr S was called by someone claiming to be from ANNA about some unusual transactions on 
Cs account. They asked him for a code sent by text message to prove who he was, which 
he shared with the caller. 
Afterwards Mr S realised it was for a card payment for £1500.00 and contacted ANNA to 
stop it. It couldnt do this and declined Cs claim for a refund and subsequent complaint. 
Unhappy, C brought its concerns to our service to investigate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator for these reasons:
 
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), C isnt liable for 
payments Mr S didnt authorise, unless he failed with gross negligence or intent to 
comply with the terms of the account or keep Cs personalised security details safe.
Ive firstly considered whether Mr S authorised the payment in dispute. The PSRs 
explain a payment is to be regarded as authorised if he consented to it  and that 
consent must have been given in the form, and in accordance with the procedure, 
agreed between ANNA and C.
ANNA has highlighted the following terms from its agreement that explain the form 
and procedure: Each transaction will need to be authorised by the Cardholder. We 
will treat the transactions as authorised and genuine if the Card PIN or other security 
code personal to the Cardholder is used and, where prompted by ANNA, 
authenticated by the Cardholder through 3DS.
ANNAs submitted that the steps were followed in this case and the one time 
passcode (OTP) sent by text message is a form of consent. But the terms are clear 
that the transactions needs to be authorised by the Cardholder. Here its accepted 
Mr S shared the OTP with the caller under the guise of proving who he was. But Ive 
not been persuaded that he entered the code and therefore authenticated the 
transaction by 3DS on the merchants website. Nor do think its likely that he entered 
his card details. Instead, I think these steps were completed by the fraudster, without 
Mr Ss knowledge. 
It follows Im not persuaded Mr S consented to this payment in accordance with the 
agreed form or procedure. So I consider it to be unauthorised. 
Ive gone on to consider whether Mr S failed with gross negligence to comply with the 
terms of the account and to keep Cs personalised security details safe. ANNA has 
submitted a definition for gross negligence but its not said where its from. And the 
concept isnt defined in the PSRs. Saying that, there are sources that help to guide 
our understanding and application.
 
The FCA, in its document setting out its role under the PSRs, says:  we interpret 
gross negligence to be a higher standard than the standard of negligence under 
common law. The customer needs to have shown a very significant degree of 
carelessness. A similar test existed historically through the Banking Code. Case law 
is helpful here too. In a commercial contract context, Tankers Ltd v 
Papachristidis says that conduct undertaken with actual appreciation of the risks 
involved, or serious disregard of or indifference to an obvious risk can amount to 
gross negligence.
Taking this all into account, and having reviewed the circumstances of the case 
carefully, I'm not convinced Mr S failed with gross negligence. Ill explain why. 
I think its likely the caller already had Mr Ss card details. Its not been suggested he 
shared these during the call, and we know there are lots of way fraudsters manage to 
get hold of these details. Indeed, Ive noted C had recently had trouble with a new 
merchant it had paid but hadnt goods from, which might have been connected. 
As is typical in these sorts of scams, I think its likely the fraudster wouldve used their 
knowledge of the card details to convince Mr S they were genuinely calling from 
ANNA. With that in mind, I can why Mr S trusted the caller and how he wouldve been 
worried when they told him there were unusual transactions on Cs account. 
They asked him for a code they sent by text message to confirm who he was so they 
could protect the account. The message said: "<code> is the code to complete your 
1,500.00 GBP [merchant] purchase made with the card ending in ****. Don't share 
this code with anyone"
Mr S said he it was only afterwards that he realised the OTP was for a payment. And 
I can understand how that happened. Mr S was acting in the heat of the moment, 
having been convinced he needed to protect Cs account. And hed been primed to 
expect the code from someone he genuinely believed was from ANNA  and the 
code subsequently came from them. In these circumstances, I can see how Mr S 
focussed on the code and simple shared this, particularly when it appeared first in the 
message. I dont think it means he acted with very significant carelessness to 
conclude that he failed with gross negligence. 
It follows that Im not persuaded C is liable for this transaction and ANNA needs to 
put things right  by refunding Cs losses from this unauthorised transaction. 
ANNA submit that itd be punitive to award interest on top of this. But its obligations 
are clear in the PSRs, which says it shouldve restored Cs account by the end of the 
next working day at the latest. So Im satisfied its fair to also award 8% simple 
interest per year on the amount to compensate C for the time its been out of pocket.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Cs complaint. PayrNet Limited must:
Pay C the total of the unauthorised transaction, less any amount recovered or 
already refunded  I understand this to be £1,500.00.
Pay 8% simple interest per year on this amount, from the date of the unauthorised 
transactions to the date of settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2023.
 
Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman