DRN-3689267
The complaint
Mr W complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited trading as very (very) should
have agreed to payment holidays.
What happened
Mr W had an account with very  the limit was £3,850. The interest rate was 59.9% p.a. 
His income was affected by the covid-19 pandemic and he asked very for a payment 
holiday  this was agreed on 18 April 2020 for three months. Any Buy Now Pay Later 
(BNPL) purchases where the promotional period hadnt expired by 27 April 2020 didnt 
have to be paid for three months. The payment holiday came to an end on 16 June 2020. 
Mr W had BNPL purchases made in May 2019 to a value of £794.19. Payment for those 
was due in full by 7 August 2020. Mr W paid in £125 on 5 August 2020  and so interest of 
£642.63 was charged. In September 2020, Mr W asked for another payment holiday, but 
this was declined  as very said hed been making the minimum payments to his account. 
Between August 2020 and November 2020  Mr Ws partner paid in a total of £972.47 to 
help him out and keep the account within the limit.
Mr W is represented by his partner, but I will refer to Mr W here as the complainant. Mr W 
complained that he should have been offered a second payment holiday in June 2020  
after the first one had expired. And then  the BNPL amounts wouldnt have fallen due for 
payment. As a result, he had been charged interest in August 2020 - which wasnt fair. And 
he shouldve been given a payment holiday in September 2020 when he asked for one. 
And his partner had paid £972.47 which wasnt necessary. He said the payments made 
should be refunded. He said that what happened caused him a lot of stress and anxiety  
and put a strain on his relationship with his partner - who had to pay in large sums of 
money.
Very said theyd acted fairly. The interest of £642.63 charged in August 2020 was due 
because Mr W hadnt paid off the BNPL instalment when it fell due  and he didnt have a 
payment holiday then. Very said Mr W didnt qualify for a payment holiday in September 
2020  because hed been making the minimum payments to his account at the time of hi
application. But they agreed hed been given some misleading information on the phone, 
and for that paid compensation of £40. Very also said theyd remove any adverse markers 
advised to the credit reference agencies.
Mr W brought his complaint to us. Our investigator felt very acted reasonably. He broadly 
agreed with very  that the interest was due in August 2020 as Mr W didnt make the 
payment on time in respect of the BNPL purchases. He said Mr W didnt qualify for a 
second payment holiday in June 2020 - and very were correct to decline his request for a 
payment holiday in September 2020.
Mr W didnt agree. He said very should have offered him a second payment holiday after 
the first one expired. And if they had done, he wouldnt have had to make the BNPL 
payment in August 2020  and so wouldve avoided the interest paid. And he said it wasnt 
fair hed been declined a payment holiday in September 2020  the reason given by very 
wasnt reasonable. Mr W asked that an ombudsman look at his complaint.
I issued a provisional decision which said:
The crux of Mr Ws complaint is  firstly, should he have been offered, and then given a 
second payment holiday (PH) in June 2020 - after his first one expired. His income was 
still affected by the pandemic at that time. And secondly, should he gave been given a 
payment holiday (PH) in September 2020 when he asked for it.
In April 2020, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) announced guidance to lenders in 
response to the effects on customers of the COVID-19 pandemic. All lenders, including 
very, had to put in place payment holidays on many credit agreements, including BNPL  
to help customers who were affected. Customers could ask for a total of two payment 
holidays each of three months  whereby payments could be suspended. On BNPLs, the 
promotional period was to be extended by the period of the payment holiday. Missed 
payments would not be reported to credit reference agencies. This support was provided 
by firms up to the end of October 2020.
The intention was to provide short term support  usually in cases where customers would 
be returning to work within a short period of time. And so  where a customers situation 
was that they were in longer term difficulty, then payment holidays under this scheme 
werent normally agreed.
The dates of the FCAs announcements are important here. The first one was on 17 April 
2020  and at that stage, it only made for one payment holiday of three months - and that 
therefore directed Mr Ws first PH. The FCAs second announcement was on 3 July 2020  
so this was after Mr Ws first PH had expired.
Payment holiday  April 2020: I can see that very agreed to Mr Ws first PH on 18 April 
2020. They wrote to him to confirm it: The delayed payment periods (and payment due 
dates) for all purchases you may have made on a BNPL basis, and where the delayed 
payment period had not expired prior to 27th April 2020 will be extended by 3 months. 
Where applicable, this means that you will have an additional 3 months to repay the 
balance(s) of your BNPL purchases and avoid the interest that would otherwise have been 
charged when payments become due.
When the PH came to an end they wrote on 29 June 2020 Your payment freeze period 
has now ended. We are writing to you to let you know that your agreed temporary payment
freeze period has now ended. Your payment will be due on or before 10/07/2020 and 
should be made as normal. Please be aware that only one payment freeze can be 
approved on your account so a further payment freeze would not be approved for your 
account if a new request was made.
And so  at that stage, very said a further PH wasnt available. And  because the FCAs 
guidance was then for only one PH, that was understandable.
But Ive then considered what happened next. On 3 July 2020  the FCA announced 
further guidance which extended the PH scheme for another three months. And it also 
said  that where a customer had had a first PH (as Mr W had), then firms should contact 
them to offer a further PH. I quote what the FCA said the firm should make all 
reasonable efforts to contact affected customers and give them an opportunity to take up 
any further help they may be eligible for under this guidance.. And therefore  I think it 
wouldve been fair and reasonable in Mr Ws circumstances  to contact him and offer him 
the chance to apply for a second PH  the first one had only expired a few days before. 
And as his income was still affected by the pandemic, I think its likely it wouldve been 
agreed.What this wouldve meant is that Mr W wouldve had a further three-month PH - from the 
end of June 2020 to September 2020. And so  the BNPL payment due in August 2020 
wouldve been extended by three months  to November 2020. The interest charged in 
August 2020 wouldnt have been due then. And by November 2020 - Mr Ws partner had 
paid in more than £900, and so its reasonable to assume that the interest due on the 
BNPL purchases wouldnt have been payable at all.
Payment holiday  September 2020: very declined Mr Ws request. They gave the reason 
as  his account had received the minimum payments to it. I find that odd, as the FCAs 
guidance in place at the time  was that firms should agree to requests for PHs unless it 
wasnt in a customers best interests to do so (for example, it they were in long term 
financial difficulty). I havent seen in any of the guidance (bearing in mind the July 2020 
guidance ran until the end of October 2020) that suggests that a PH could be declined if 
payments were up to date. That seems to me to be unreasonable. But if very have contrary 
evidence, they should send it when responding to this provisional decision.
But in any case  as Ive said that very shouldve given a second PH to Mr W at the end of 
June 2020  that wouldve meant that hed then had the maximum of two PHs allowed  
and so the request in September 2020 becomes effectively redundant. But  I dont think 
verys decision at that time was a reasonable one to take, and I can see that this caused 
further distress and anxiety to Mr W.
And so - my provisional decision is that very should: 1) rework Mr Ws account as if he 
were given a second payment holiday starting at the end of June 2020 for three months. 
And refund any interest paid as a result of him not having had a second PH  that will 
certainly include a refund of the interest of £642.63 paid in August 2020; 2) remove any 
adverse information from his credit file; 3) I can appreciate the stress and inconvenience 
felt by Mr W. He had to ask his partner to pay in large sums of money  and says this put 
his relationship under strain. And in verys final response I noted he made multiple calls to 
very to try to sort things out. And so, I think a compensation payment here of £200 is 
appropriate.
Mr W has asked for refund of the payments made of £972.47  but I dont think that
reasonable as it would effectively mean he wouldnt be paying for the goods hed 
purchased.
Responses to the provisional decision:
Mr W accepted the findings, and so did very. Very said the refund of interest would be 
£642.63 (August 2020); and £63.22 (June 2020); £64.10 (July 2020); £61.69 (August 2020). 
A cheque would be issued for the compensation of £200.
I now need to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both Mr W and very agreed with the provisional decision, I wont be changing it in issuing 
my final decision. My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Shop Direct Finance Company Limited trading as very must:
Rework Mr Ws account as if he had a second payment holiday from end of 
June 2020 for three months and refund any amounts due to his account. This 
should include a refund of the BNPL interest of £642.63 paid in August 2020.
Pay compensation of £200 for stress and inconvenience. Very have said a cheque 
will be sent to Mr W.
Remove any adverse markers from Mr Ws credit file for the period from April 2020 
to November 2020.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman