DRN-2559443
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with the way U K Insurance Limited (UKI) handled a claim he made on his
roadside assistance policy. 
What happened
Mr Hs car broke down in March 2019, so he called UKI to make a claim on his roadside
assistance policy. UKI sent one of its agents to recover the car to a garage for repairs. Whilst
being towed, Mr Hs car jack-knifed and damage was caused to the recovery vehicle. Mr H 
left the scene and says he called the police because he felt threatened by the agent. The 
police attended the scene and Mr Hs car was taken to the agents base.
UKIs agent believed Mr H was at fault in the accident, because it says he was using his
mobile phone at the time. So it told him it wouldnt be releasing his car until he paid an
amount towards the damage caused to the recovery vehicle and towing equipment. Initially
he was asked to pay £330, but this then rose to £500  which the agent said was 50%
of the repair costs. After three days of negotiations Mr H agreed to pay the agent, but says
he felt forced to do so in order to get his car back. UKI then arranged for the car to be taken
to Mr Hs preferred garage for repairs. But as it arrived at the garage late on a Thursday, the
car wasnt able to be seen until the following week.
Mr H complained to UKI about how hed been treated by the agent and sought to recover the
amount paid to release his car. Mr H said hed had to hire a car after his had been seized
and held at the agents base. So he wanted UKI to cover those hire costs, and pay additional
compensation for the distress and inconvenience hed been caused. UKI responded in April
2019 to say the information it had reviewed from the police and its agent suggested Mr H
had caused the accident, and no threats had been made. UKI said its agent hadnt seized
the car, but instead had removed it from blocking the carriageway. Finally, UKI thought that,
as Mr H had chosen to resolve the damage costs directly with the agent instead of going
through his insurer, it didnt need to refund what hed paid them.
Mr H was unhappy with the response, so he referred the complaint to our service for review.
An investigator here thought UKIs agent had acted unfairly by not releasing Mr Hs car until
he paid for the damage. He held UKI responsible for that, and recommended the insurer pay
Mr H £250 compensation. Mr H didnt accept the investigators view, saying the hire costs 
and the release fee hadnt been considered  nor had he seen the police report UKI were 
relying on. He asked for a final decision on the matter, so the complaint was passed to me. 
I issued my provisional findings in March 2021  and Ive included an extract below:
UKI was aware soon after the accident that its agent was holding Mr Hs car to ransom over
the damage caused. As the provider of the roadside assistance contract, it had an obligation
to ensure Mr Hs car was recovered to his preferred garage for repairs. I dont think it was
fair or reasonable that he was left to negotiate its release directly with the agent. I appreciate
that UKI wasnt Mr Hs or the agents motor insurer, so didnt necessarily have a part in
deciding liability in the accident  but it should have stepped in sooner to resolve the dispute
with its agent and to fulfil its duty under the contract it had with Mr H.
Ive gone onto to think about what would likely have happened had UKI recovered Mr Hs car
to his garage of choice sooner. Mr H has said he doesnt think he was at fault in the
accident, and only paid the agent because he felt like he had no choice. I agree that the
agent holding his car created an imbalance in those negotiations. But its also clear from
what he told UKI, the police report and the emails between his representative and the agent
that Mr H was very keen not to involve their respective motor insurers.
Mr H was free, both at the time and since, to involve his insurer if he wanted to dispute
liability or the amount he was being asked to pay. Im also satisfied that he knew he was
paying towards the repair costs of the recovery vehicle as opposed to a release fee. So, on
balance, I still think he would have settled the damage costs directly with the agent  even if
his car had been recovered to the repairing garage sooner. As I havent been persuaded Mr
H would have acted differently, I dont think UKI need to refund the contribution he made
towards the agents damage costs.
Mr H has complained that UKIs agent behaved threateningly toward him following the
accident. I can see he also raised this issue with the police, who recorded the incident as no
crime and decided not to pursue the matter further. Based on the police report, UKI said it
didnt have enough evidence to support Mr Hs allegations  and I think that was reasonable.
I can appreciate that being involved in an accident would have been an emotive experience
for both parties  and I dont doubt Mr Hs recollection of the agent being angry. But having
considered the police report, and the statements from witnesses, Im not persuaded that any
threats were directed towards Mr H. So I dont think UKI needs to pay compensation for any
impact in that regard.
Mr H has questioned how UKI came to be in possession of the police report, but the insurer
has shown me that the police sent it following a request  and Ive seen no reason to doubt
its authenticity. Its common practice for information of that kind to be shared between the
police and insurance companies, as it is often necessary to their role. Mr H should contact
the police directly if hes unhappy they havent given him a copy.
Mr H has sent us an invoice showing he hired a car for a week at a cost of £285.47. He told
us he only did that because he didnt know how long the negotiations with the agent would
take. Mr H also said he returned the hire car early, after his car had been sent on to the
repairing garage  preferring not to have it in his possession for longer than needed as he
was liable for its condition on return. He told us he didnt get a partial refund for the early
return, and Ive factored in that he opted for a weeks hire as it involved a discounted rate
compared with the day prices.
On balance, Im persuaded that Mr H wouldnt have hired a car had UKI recovered his car to
the repairing garage sooner. He returned the hire car once he knew that had happened, and
he made other travel arrangements while his car was in for repairs. Therefore Im minded to
say UKI should cover that cost (£285.47), and add 8% yearly simple interest onto that
amount from when Mr H paid that invoice until the date UKI refund him.
Mr H says hes spent in excess of 50 hours dealing with these matters  but Im not holding
UKI accountable for a large proportion of that. I appreciate that the accident itself and
following up with police would have been distressing and time consuming. But I dont
consider UKI to be at fault in those issues, so it doesnt need to compensate any impact
arising from them. Im not factoring in a large amount of Mr Hs inconvenience in arranging
travel when no longer had use of the hire car, as most of that was always going to be the
result of his car needing repairs. Im also not intending to make an award for the time Mr H
spent exercising his right to bring a complaint to us. Were a free service, and a degree of
inconvenience is to be expected from disputing a complaint through us.UKI is accountable for the impact arising from its agent holding Mrs H car for three days.
Though Mr H had use of a hire car in that time, Ive thought about how eventually delivering
his car to the garage late on a Thursday would have further delayed the repairs  so theres
some loss of use of his car for me to consider. UKIs agent keeping his car would also have
resulted in some unnecessary worry and frustration  and I accept that negotiating in those
circumstances would have been more stressful. Our investigator recommended £250
compensation, which was a broad acknowledgement of Mr Hs inconvenience across the
whole period. I think a fairer way to put a lot of that right is to give Mr H back his hire costs in
full. UKI should then pay £100 compensation on top, to put right the remaining emotional 
and practical impact that resulted from not stepping in sooner to help its customer.
UKI accepted my findings and didnt have anything further to add. Mr H raised several points 
in response to the provisional decision, which Ive summarised below:
Mr H wanted me to listen to a recording of a telephone conversation hed had with 
UKI, where he told the insurer he would only pay the agent on the basis that it was a 
release fee and not an admission of liability.
He said if UKI had any issues with the basis on which he was going to pay the agent 
it should have raised them during that conversation and rejected his terms.
He said UKI had painted a picture that either it or the agent needed his permission to 
make a claim through their insurers. But the police had facilitated the exchange of 
insurance details at the time of the incident, so they were free to proceed however 
they saw fit. 
Mr H asked what evidence UKI had supplied us with to support the agents claim for 
damages totalling more than £1,000. He also didnt feel UKI had any evidence he 
had been negligent in the accident.
Mr H mentioned having difficulty registering a complaint with UKI, and said he was 
told he couldnt raise one until he had the car back.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about the points Mr H raised in response to my findings, but I havent 
been persuaded to depart from the outcome I reached in my provisional decision. Ive 
explained why below.
I listened to the call in question. Mr H does say to UKI that paying the agent wouldnt be an 
admission of liability, and as far as he was concerned it was a release fee. He also wanted 
to make it clear he wasnt agreeing to pay for any damage. But in the same call UKI offer to 
ask for evidence of the repair costs as part of looking into his complaint. UKI also said that 
Mr H had the option of allowing the agent to go through its insurer to settle the damage 
claim, and for his car to be recovered without needing to pay by the deadline. Mr H says no 
to both options during the call, and decided to go ahead with the payment to the agent. 
Its worth noting that the agreement to pay, and the amount, wasnt between Mr H and UKI  
it was between Mr H and the agent. UKIs role wasnt to decide liability in the accident or 
assess whether Mr H had been negligent  its contract was to ensure his vehicle was 
recovered (which Ive said should have happened sooner). I think UKI made that clear during 
the conversation by saying it was acting as a middleman relaying messages and the issue 
should be between the insurers and police now. So while I appreciate that Mr H thinks UKI 
ought to have queried or rejected his terms during that conversation, UKI wasnt party to that 
agreement  so the terms werent theirs to reject. Ive also noted what Mr H has said about having difficulty raising a complaint, but during the call UKI refer to his existing complaint 
being referred to a different department. So it had been raised by then, and before he got his 
car back. 
Based on the email exchange between Mr Hs representative and the agent in the days 
leading up to that call, I think the basis on which the payment was made was clear. The 
agent set out that the initial amount asked for was the cost of the tow pole at £275 plus VAT 
at 20 % totalling £330. The following day this went up to £500 to include a contribution 
towards the cost of the rear bumper and the rear panel which will require renewal of these 
parts fitting painting and then re striping to suit. So Im persuaded that Mr H was aware it 
was a contribution towards specific damage costs, despite what he later said to UKI on the 
phone. I also think he paid the amount in full and final settlement of the claim to avoid the 
matter escalating to their respective insurers  and that was a condition stipulated by his 
representative. Because I consider that Mr H would still have likely chosen to settle the 
matter directly with the agent even if UKI had recovered his car sooner, Im not directing UKI 
to refund that payment. 
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold Mr Hs complaint about U K Insurance Limited, and direct the 
insurer to:
refund the hire car cost of £285.47 together with 8% yearly simple interest from the 
date this payment was made until the date of the refund; and
pay Mr H £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience he was caused.
If UKI considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from
the interest, it should tell Mr H how much its taken off. It should also give Mr H a tax
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue &
Customs if appropriate.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 April 2021.
 
Ryan Miles
Ombudsman