DRN-1248130
The complaint
Miss L complains that TSB Bank plc didn't cancel a standing order to pay a savings account 
after the interest rate changed. 
Miss L also complains that she was charged after a standing order was returned unpaid. 
Miss L has also raised concerns about how well TSB's text alert service and online banking 
facilities operate. 
Miss L says TSB hasn't closed three accounts as requested. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on setting out the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
When Miss L set up the standing order online her instruction was that it should run 
until further notice. The standing order was an automatic instruction to debit £250 
from Miss Ls current account each month. The interest rate payable on Miss Ls 
savings account wasnt linked to the length of her standing order instruction.
Miss L was sent a charge notification letter after a standing order couldnt be paid 
due to insufficient funds - in line with the account terms. The charge wasn't 
subsequently applied by TSB so there's has been no financial loss to Miss L. 
TSB is free to decide how its text alert service works and when it contacts customers 
with alerts. TSB has given Miss L details of its online banking technical help team in 
its final response and asked her to make contact if she experiences problems with its 
online banking facility.
TSB hasnt been able to close Miss Ls accounts because it doesnt have an up to 
date signature for her. As a result, closure by post isnt an option. Details of how Miss 
L can close her accounts has been provided by TSB. If Miss L still wants to close her 
accounts she can contact TSB in line with its instructions.
As I haven't found that TSB made an error and I'm satisfied it dealt with Miss L's complaint 
fairly, I'm not telling it to take any further action. My final decision
My decision is that I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 May 2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman