DRN-2950917
The complaint
Mr A complains that Nationwide Building Society declined his claim under Section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974.
What happened
In October 2019 Mr A ordered an electric car as part of a personal contract hire agreement 
and paid a fee of £150 to the leasing company on his Nationwide credit card.
Later in October 2019 Mr A paid £300 to have an electric vehicle charging point installed at 
his house.
In May 2020 Mr A cancelled the order for the electric car due to the length of time it had 
taken the leasing company to supply it. The leasing company cancelled the order and 
refunded the fee of £150.
Mr L asked the leasing company to refund his costs of installing the charging point. He was 
unbale to resolve this issue with the leasing company, so he complained to Nationwide 
under section 75.
Mr L raised his section 75 claim in June 2020. In November 2020 Nationwide asked Mr L for 
proof of when the leasing company had promised the car would be delivered. Mr L provided 
this evidence. Following this, Nationwide declined the claim on the grounds that there hadnt 
been a breach of contract or a misrepresentation.
Mr L complained to Nationwide about the decision, and about the way it had handled his 
claim. In response, Nationwide said it didnt agree that the section 75 claim was valid, but it 
acknowledged that it had given poor service tom Mr L and paid him compensation of £100.
Mr L remained unhappy and complied to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said she thought Nationwide had handled 
the claim correctly.
Mr A didnt agree. He said hed been told by Nationwide that if he could provide proof that 
the car was promised to be delivered in February 2020, it would refund the £300. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer a right to claim against a supplier of 
goods or the provider of credit if theres been a breach of contract or a misrepresentation. In 
order to uphold Mr As complaint, I would need to be satisfied that theres been a breach of 
contract or a misrepresentation, that the financial loss was a direct result of the breach of 
contract and wasnt reasonably foreseeable, and that Nationwides response to the claim 
under section 75 wasnt fair or reasonable. Mr A hasnt said that theres been a  
misrepresentation so Ill focus on whether theres been a  breach of contract.
Ive taken into account the leasing companys terms and conditions. These says that delivery 
dates given are only indications. Ive also taken account of what Mr A has said about being 
told on the phone that the car would be delivered in February 2020. Based on what Ive 
seen, Im unable to safely conclude that there was a breach of contract by the leasing 
company, because no specific delivery date was given and the terms and conditions say that 
delivery dates are only an indication. Because Im not satisfied that theres been a breach of 
contract, the grounds for a section 75 claim arent made out.
Even if Im wrong about that and there was a breach of contract, I think the financial loss 
suffered by Mr A was foreseeable. This is because he paid to have the charging point 
installed some time before the car was due to be delivered. Mr A would have known, when 
he installed the charging point, that he would be incurring this expense before he was in 
possession of the car and that there was a risk  albeit a small one  that the car wouldnt be 
delivered on time or at all.
Further, Ive taken into account the fact that it was Mr As decision to withdraw from the 
agreement, and not the leasing company who cancelled the order. I understand why Mr A 
did this. But had he not withdrawn, he wouldve used the electric vehicle charging point for a 
vehicle and wouldnt have incurred a financial loss.
I understand that Mr A is unhappy about the way in which his section 75 claim as handled by 
Nationwide. Hes explained that there were delays and that when he provided information 
that Nationwide had asked him to provide, it declined his claim. Looking at what happened, I 
dont think the delay was excessive, nor do I think it was unreasonable for Nationwide to ask 
Mr A to provide information to support his claim. I havent seen any evidence to suggest that 
Nationwide promised Mr A that his claim would be successful if he provided evidence that 
the car was due to be delivered in February 2020. Ultimately, its up to Nationwide to 
consider all of the evidence provided and decide whether it thinks there is a good prospect of 
a section 75 claim succeeding. In this case, I agree with Nationwide that the evidence in the 
round doesnt support a breach of contract, which is a requirement of section 75. So, Im 
unable to say that Nationwide handled the claim unfairly.
I can see that Nationwide took a few weeks to respond to the section 75 claim and I 
understand that this delay wouldve been frustrating for Mr A. As Ive said, I dont think the 
delay was excessive. In the circumstances, I think the compensation already paid to Mr A for 
poor service is fair.
Taking everything into consideration, Im unable to uphold the complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman