DRN-2922135
Complaint
Mr and Mrs B has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) unfairly continued applying 
charges to their overdraft when they were in difficulty.
  
Background
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and thought that Lloyds should have 
realised that Mr and Mrs Bs overdraft had become unsustainable for them in November 
2014 and so it needed to refund all the interest, fees and charges it added to Mr and Mrs Bs 
overdraft from this point. Lloyds didnt agree so the case was passed to an ombudsman for 
review.   
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I also think Lloyds acted unfairly when it 
renewed Mr and Mrs Bs overdraft in November 2014. By this point, it ought to have been 
clear that Mr and Mrs B werent using the facility for short-term emergency borrowing and 
therefore in line with its purpose. 
Mr and Mrs Bs statements leading up to the renewal shows theyd spent prolonged periods 
in their overdraft. Although they werent right up to their limit, they nonetheless hadnt seen a 
credit balance for an extended period of time. Ive also thought about what Lloyds about the 
facility being repaid by means of further borrowing. 
But Lloyds ought to be aware that rules and guidance in place stated borrower should be 
able to repay any credit advanced without borrowing further. And Im particularly concerned 
that Mr and Mrs B had to realise security by re-mortgaging, in order to finally clear 
themselves from their overdraft.
So having carefully thought about everything, Im satisfied that think that Lloyds should have 
stopped providing the overdraft on the same terms in November 2014, stopped adding fees 
and charges and instead treated Mr and Mrs B with forbearance. 
Mr and Mrs B ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on their overdraft and 
this ended up causing difficulty. So I think that Mr and Mrs B lost out because of what Lloyds 
did wrong and that it should put things right.  
Fair compensation  what Lloyds needs to do to put things right for Mr and Mrs B
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr and Mrs Bs complaint for Lloyds to put things right by:
Reworking Mr and Mrs Bs current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and 
charges applied to it between November 2014 and April 2020 are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made Lloyds should contact Mr and Mrs B to arrange a suitable repayment 
plan for this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on         
Mr and Mrs Bs credit file, it should reflect what would have been recorded had it 
started the process of taking corrective action on the overdraft in November 
2014.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr and Mrs B along with 8% simple interest on the 
overpayments from the date they were made (if they were) until the date of 
settlement. If no outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been 
made, then Lloyds should remove any adverse information from Mr and Mrs Bs 
credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds to take off tax from this interest. Lloyds must give 
Mr and Mrs B a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if they ask for one.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, upholding Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. Lloyds Bank PLC 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 October 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman