DRN-3115968
The complaint
Mr H and Miss G complain that ERGO Reiseversicherung AG (ERV) hasnt settled a claim 
under their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr H and Miss G held an annual travel insurance policy which covered them between 
9 October 2019 and 8 October 2020. The insurer was ERV.
Mr H and Miss G had booked a trip abroad between 20 and 23 June 2020. The flight wasnt 
cancelled, but Mr H and Miss G didnt travel because the Foreign, Commonwealth & 
Development Office (FCDO  formerly the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO)) 
advised against all but essential international travel. Mr H and Miss G say the airline offered 
to reschedule the flights as long as they travelled in 2020  which they didnt want to do.
ERV declined the claim because the cancellation section of Mr H and Miss Gs policy 
excluded expenses arising from a catastrophe. The definition for this in the policy terms 
included a medical epidemic. So, ERV said that as the cancellation was due to the FCDO 
advice as a result of Covid-19, this wasnt covered by the policy.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He thought that Mr H and Miss G cancelled 
their trip due to the Covid-19 pandemic, and the policy terms excluded cancellation claims 
arising from a catastrophe, which included a medical epidemic. Our investigator said the 
World Health Organisations (WHO) definition of a pandemic was an epidemic occurring 
worldwide, or over a very wide area, crossing international boundaries and usually affecting 
a large number of people. 
Our investigator also didnt think the exclusion was unclear as the policy clearly defined what 
was included under a catastrophe. Overall, our investigator didnt think ERV had acted 
unreasonably by declining the claim.
Mr H and Miss G didnt agree with our investigators findings. They dont think the terms of 
the policy are clear. They say that after Covid-19 was declared a pandemic, ERV shouldve 
clarified that anything related to this wasnt covered.
As no agreement was reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must 
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules, and 
other industry guidance, into account when deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of Mr H and Miss Gs complaint.
The cancellation section of Mr H and Miss Gs policy provided cover if they had to cancel 
their holiday in certain circumstances. But this specific section also outlined what was 
excluded:
What is not covered []
9. Any costs of expenses arising from a Catastrophe.
The policy defines a Catastrophe as avalanche, landslide, explosion, earthquake, fire, 
flood, hurricane, lightning, medical epidemic, storm, tempest, tsunami or volcanic activity.
Mr H and Miss G say they cancelled their holiday abroad due to the FCDO advice. The 
FCDO advised against all but essential international travel from 17 March 2020 onwards. 
This was in response to the Covid-19 pandemic.
I dont think the exclusion of a catastrophe is unclear in the policy terms because this is 
outlined in the cancellation section of the policy, and the policy also defines what is meant by 
it. The definition includes a medical epidemic, and Im satisfied the internationally accepted 
definition of a pandemic includes an epidemic  which Covid-19 was at the time.
Overall, I dont think it was unreasonable for ERV to conclude that Mr H and Miss G 
cancelled their holiday due to catastrophe, which was excluded under the relevant section of 
the policy. So, I dont think ERV did anything wrong when it declined the claim.
I also dont think there was any requirement for ERV to notify Mr H and Miss G about this 
exclusion after Covid-19 was declared a pandemic. Thats because there was no change in 
the policy terms. ERV have assessed the claim in line with the policy terms that were in 
place when Mr H and Miss Gs cover started in October 2019.
Taking everything into account, I dont think theres anything ERV needs to do, to put things 
right.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr H and Miss Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G and Mr H 
to accept or reject my decision before 16 November 2021.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman