DRN-3684089
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy with the way Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G) handled his claim 
for a replacement TV under his breakdown and accidental damage insurance policy.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ws complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr Ws main complaint is that he was given conflicting information by D&G during his TV 
repair claim. D&G paid £70 as a gesture of goodwill for any service issues he experienced, 
and it settled his claim.
Having looked at the evidence and listened to the calls between Mr W and D&G, I agree with 
the conclusions reached by our investigator for these reasons:
Mr W was waiting for his call to be answered for over an hour on one occasion.
D&G gave Mr W information about the claim and repair process which wasn't wholly 
consistent.
There was some dispute about the TV specification which meant D&Gs first offer 
was less than the final settlement agreed.
However, Mr W didnt allow D&G time to handle his claim according to the usual claims 
process.
He wanted D&G to set timescales for the return of his TV before it knew what was 
wrong with it.
He called D&G repeatedly  up to 13 times on one day  meaning it didnt have the 
opportunity to look into his claim.
D&G didnt exceed its promised response times before Mr W called it again to chase 
a response.
D&G settled the claim by paying for a replacement TV even though it hadnt had the 
opportunity to repair the faulty TV.
Although Mr W didnt agree with our investigators conclusion, I havent seen any new 
evidence which persuades me that a different outcome is warranted. 
In summary, Mr W wanted D&G to make some guarantees about the time hed be without 
his TV during the repair service. Unless D&G took the TV away to see what was wrong with 
it, it couldnt offer a guaranteed timescale. After Mr W made many calls to various 
departments within D&G, it decided to settle his claim with retail vouchers for a replacement 
TV without ever having had an opportunity to repair the broken one. 
While there were clearly times during the calls when Mr W was frustrated at the possibility of 
being without his TV for up to 21 days, I havent identified any evidence of a poor service 
that would warrant compensation greater than the £70 D&G has already paid.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman