DRN-1680776
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
Mr and Mrs S took out a PPI policy at the same time as they applied for a mortgage in 1994. 
The sale took place in one of the banks branches. The policy was in Mr Ss sole name and 
gave him accident, sickness and unemployment cover. They paid a monthly amount for it.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs S 
disagreed so the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive 
followed it here.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs S say they thought they would have a better chance of getting the mortgage with 
insurance. And they add there's nothing on the PPI application form which suggests the 
policy was optional. I cant know what was said in the meeting but Ive considered their 
comments carefully and looked at the available paperwork.
On the mortgage application form they both signed there was a section about PPI that read 
'If you wish to join the Scheme enter the amount of monthly benefit you require' and their 
form shows they asked for £250 of cover. Mr S then signed a separate PPI application form, 
answering a number of eligibility questions. The cost of the PPI was set out separately on 
this form. I can't find anything on either form that I think could reasonably have led them to 
believe the PPI was mandatory. Mr S points out that their mortgage offer strongly advised 
them to take out cover. But the wording said the bank strongly advised they consider PPI 
and I don't find that it could have led them to believe it was compulsory.
Overall, I think Halifax made it clear that the PPI was optional and Mr and Mrs S chose to 
take it out for Mr S. I can understand they might not remember this given how long ago the 
sale was.
Halifax recommended the PPI for Mr S to Mr and Mrs S so it had to check that the PPI was 
right for him  and based on what I know of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. 
Mr S said he was entitled to up to 26 weeks' sick pay in a 12-month period. But the PPI 
wouldve paid out in addition to his work benefits and for up to 12 months for each 
successful accident and sickness claim. It also gave him up to 12 months redundancy cover which would have allowed him to protect any lump sum redundancy payment from his 
employer, giving increased financial stability whilst he wasnt working.
Mr S also said he had a company pension that paid ample benefits to his wife in the case of 
his death, but that's not suitable alternative protection. It wouldn't help with the monthly 
mortgage repayments in the same circumstances as PPI. He said that claims were not 
payable until the 31st day after the date of sickness or unemployment, but I don't think that 
meant the policy wasn't right for them. Given what I know about their circumstances I don't 
think it would have been the first month that they needed the cover for, rather it would be any 
long term period when Mr S wasn't working.
Mr and Mrs S were borrowing a large sum over a long period, secured on their home. So the 
effects of not keeping up the repayments could have been serious for them. Overall, I think 
the PPI would have been useful for Mr and Mrs S if Mr S was sick, had an accident or lost 
his job.   
Its possible Halifax didnt give Mr and Mrs S all the information they needed before deciding 
to buy PPI. The cost was made clear on the PPI application form and the cover was 
apparently affordable. But I dont know that the bank pointed out the main things the PPI 
didnt cover. But Mr S doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the main exclusions.  
So I dont think better information about the PPI wouldve changed their mind about buying it.
This means Halifax doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs S.
But Halifax has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs S because:
- Halifax got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) so it should have told Mr and Mrs S about that. Because Halifax didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs S, that was unfair.
- To put that right, Halifax has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium, and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) does not have 
to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs S.
But Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs S any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand 
it has already done this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 April 2020.
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman