DRN-3917176
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B have complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold them fee-paying 
Gold Service, Platinum and two Premier packaged accounts.
In summary, Mr and Mrs B say that they were all mis-sold as they required them to secure 
an overdraft without interest occurring, which they say they needed whilst waiting for 
company expenses to be paid to them. They say the other benefits were not discussed and 
no claims were made.
Account history
Mr and Mrs Bs account was as follows:
Fee-paying sole Gold Service account since at least September 2001
Upgraded to a fee-paying sole Platinum account 12 September 2003
Upgraded to a fee-paying sole Premier account 10 October 2007
Downgraded to a fee-free sole Classic account 6 June 2009
Upgraded to a fee-paying joint Premier account 9 February 2011
Changed to a joint Premier Club Lloyds account 20 March 2017
Changed to a Club Lloyds account 24 September 2020
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and they didnt think they had been mis-
sold. 
Mr and Mrs B disagreed so the complaint was referred for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged accounts on our website and 
Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. 
I think it may also help to explain that where matters are in dispute and evidence is 
incomplete, I need to decide what I think most likely happened, based on everything that is 
available. And having considered everything, I dont think the packaged accounts were mis-
sold. 
Mr and Mrs B said that they were sold the packaged accounts to secure an interest free 
overdraft. But what they say is correct. One of the features of the accounts is that they 
provided an interest free overdraft, and then lower rates of interest on overdrawn balances 
above that amount (up to the arranged limit). 
So for example, the Gold Service account included a £100 interest free overdraft benefit, the 
Platinum provided a £250 interest free overdraft benefit and the Premier included a £500 
interest free overdraft benefit. These benefits were not available on fee-free accounts at the 
time  so having the relevant packaged accounts was the only way to secure the above-
mentioned interest free overdraft benefits on the account.
I note that since Mr and Mrs B initially submitted their complaint, theyve also said that they 
were told they needed the packaged accounts to maintain a larger overdraft. However, I 
cant see any evidence to support this. I say this as I can see the account included an £800 
overdraft facility in 2001, but this then dropped to £500 whilst it was still a Gold Service 
account and did not increase when the account was upgraded to a Platinum account. I can 
also see that the limit did then increase to £2,000 on 28 September 2007  which took place 
before the account was upgraded to the Premier package. And when the account was 
downgraded to a fee-free account, the overdraft limit remained at £800.
So given the overdraft history on the account, Ive not seen anything that suggests Mr and 
Mrs B were led to believe that they had to keep a specific package account to obtain a 
specific overdraft level. On the contrary, the limit changed both up and down independently 
of the upgrades and downgrades of the packaged accounts. And Mrs B was able to retain an 
overdraft on the account when it was downgraded to a fee-free account. 
So I dont think its likely that Mr and Mrs B agreed to the packaged accounts because they 
thought they had to have them to maintain their overdraft limit.
As such, I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs B agreed to the accounts because they were 
attracted to the benefits that they provided. And I think they did so, knowing packaged 
accounts were optional and that fee-free alternatives were available to them, if they didnt 
want to pay a monthly fee for their account. 
I understand that the accounts mayve been sold on an advised basis. If that was the case, 
that means that Lloyds had to make sure they were a reasonable fit for Mr and Mrs Bs 
circumstances.
In terms of the Gold Service account, it provided worldwide travel insurance, and also 
included banking benefits such as the aforementioned overdraft benefit. It also provided 
preferential interest rates on loans, and I can see that a Gold Service Loan was taken out in 
September 2000. So even if Mrs B didnt need the insurance benefits (although I think its 
possible that she did), the recommendation looks to have been reasonable given the savings 
that Mrs B was able to receive as a result of having the account.
When the Platinum account was sold, this included a larger interest free overdraft facility, 
and lower rates of interest on balances overdrawn above that amount. It also provided other 
benefits such as enhanced levels of Worldwide travel cover and enhanced levels of 
breakdown cover. And based on what Mrs B has said about her circumstances, it looks she 
mayve been able to make use of the benefits. So again, I cant say that recommending the 
account to Mrs B was unreasonable.
The Premier account included benefits such as worldwide travel insurance, enhanced levels 
of breakdown cover, mobile phone insurance, Identity theft insurance and home emergency 
cover. It also provided other benefits such as the overdraft benefit that I mentioned above, 
UK Airport Lounge access and access to Lloyds premier banking service. Again, it looks like 
Mrs B was able to make use of some of these benefits, so it seems that Lloyds 
recommendation (if one was made) wouldve been reasonable. And it appears that Mrs B 
chose to downgrade back to a fee-free account once she felt that the benefits were no 
longer needed in 2009.In February 2011, when Mrs Bs account was upgraded for the second time to a Premier 
account, I note that it was also changed to being a joint account. The notes Lloyds has 
provided from the time say that the account was changed to being a joint account essentially 
so that Mrs B and Mr B were both able to access the features of the Premier account. Again, 
it appears that Mr and Mrs B were able to make use of the bulk of the benefits. I also think it 
unlikely that Mrs B would agree to upgrade back to a Premier account for a second time 
unless she felt that it would be worth her while - bearing in mind she already held a fee-free 
account with an overdraft in place at the time of the sale. 
As well as making sure that the accounts were appropriate for Mrs B (and more recently Mr 
B as well), Lloyds was required to provide Mr and Mrs B with information about the accounts, 
so they understood what they were agreeing to.
Unfortunately, due to how long ago the sales took place, there is now limited information 
available about what information was provided during the sales. However, I think it likely that 
Mrs B and later Mr B were given at least some information about the accounts, the cost and 
the associated benefits. Otherwise, I doubt that they wouldve kept on agreeing to 
successively more expensive packaged accounts if they didnt know what they included. I 
say this especially given that they were clearly aware that fee-free accounts were available 
to them without it affecting their overdraft limit.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs B may not have been given all of the important information 
during each sale. But Ive not seen anything that makes me think they wouldve been put off 
from agreeing to the accounts, had they been given even more information about them. And 
while I appreciate that Mr and Mrs B may now feel that they were poor value for money, that 
does not mean that Lloyds was wrong to have sold them when it did.
As such, based on what I have seen, I dont think it likely that the packaged accounts were 
mis-sold.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 March 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman