DRN-2687035
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy that Monzo Bank Limited (Monzo) asked him to confirm his tax residency.
What happened
In mid December 2020, Monzo sent Mr C an email, which explained that it needed him to 
confirm his tax residency. Mr C told Monzo that he wasnt happy to click the on link in the 
email to verify his residency and complained to Monzo.
Monzo explained that it had a legal obligation to confirm Mr Cs tax residency annually and 
that it couldnt log this information on Mr Cs behalf, which is why it asked him to complete 
the declaration himself. 
Mr C was unhappy with this response, so he brought his complaint to our service. He wanted 
our service to advise Monzo about its processes.
Our investigator explained that the role of this service is to decide in individual cases 
whether a business has done anything wrong, but that it was not our role to comment on the 
processes of a business in general. That would be for the Financial Conduct Authority who is 
the regulator here. 
Our investigator said that Monzo had asked for information in line with its regulatory 
requirements and hadnt done anything wrong. 
Mr C wasnt happy with this, so the case has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr C is unhappy about being asked to confirm his tax residency status and 
that he was taken aback at the request as hadnt been asked to do this before. 
 
Monzo explained that it asked Mr C to provide this information to comply with its legal 
obligations. It explained that it couldnt log this information on his behalf due to the 
requirements of the UK tax authority (HMRC). As Monzos request was in line with its legal 
obligations, and in line with its normal processes, I cant say that it has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably here.
With regard to Monzos processes, as our investigator explained to Mr C, it is not our role to 
comment on Monzos processes in general, so I cant comment on this or suggest how 
Monzo should operate.
I understand that Mr C will be disappointed with this outcome, but I havent seen anything to 
suggest that Monzo did anything wrong, so I wont be asking it to anything.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 May 2021.
 
Rosemary Campbell
Ombudsman