DRN-3264296
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy with the quality of a car he acquired through a hire purchase agreement 
with Go Car Credit Limited.
What happened
In December 2019, Mr C acquired a used car through a hire purchase agreement. Mr C said 
soon after acquiring it, two tyres needed replacing as one had a nail in it. Mr C said it cost 
£180 to replace the two tyres. In addition to this, Mr C said he paid £90 for the heating to be 
fixed. Mr C has told us hes unable to provide us with evidence of these payments.
In March 2020, Mr C said he started experiencing more issues with the car  in particular, 
the engine management light kept coming on intermittently and that the engine started to cut 
out. Mr C says he stopped driving the car as he didnt feel safe and contacted the dealership 
to ask them to assess the car as it was still under a three-month warranty  this was due to 
expire on 17 March 2020.
Mr C says the dealership collected the car on 9 March 2020 and it was sent to a garage for 
inspection. An engine fault was diagnosed on 16 March 2020 and the dealership explained 
to Mr C that a part was required to repair the car. Mr C says he was told the part would cost 
around £780 (not including any labour costs), but that the warranty would only cover £500 
worth of repair costs. Mr C says he didnt have access to the car during this time, so he had 
to get taxis to and from work as well as having to use taxis to take his father to hospital 
appointments.
 
Mr C said this was costing him a lot of money, so he contacted Go Car Credit on 18 March 
2020 to ask for their help. Go Car Credit contacted the dealership and were told that it would 
take two weeks for them to receive the required part that was needed to repair Mr Cs car. 
The dealership explained this was because the part was coming from a different country. So, 
Mr C asked Go Car Credit if theyd reimburse the travel costs he was incurring as a result of 
not having his car.
Mr C says he was told Go Car Credit would offer £11 a day towards the cost of a courtesy 
car, which would be paid once Mr C had returned the courtesy car and submitted the 
invoices. Mr C said the cheapest rental car he could find was at a cost of £19.85 a day. So, 
Mr C initially rented a car from 19 March 2020 to 2 April 2020.
By this point, the country the part was coming from had entered into a lockdown due to 
Covid-19. And the UK entered into a lockdown soon after, which meant the dealership had to 
close. Therefore, as it was unclear when Mr Cs car would be repaired, he continued to hire 
a courtesy car. Mr C has provided us with invoices to show he extended the hire of the 
courtesy car until 14 April 2020. Mr C said he couldnt afford to continue hiring the courtesy 
car as hed spent around £588 in hire costs by this point.
Initially, Go Car Credit didnt allow Mr C to reject the car as they say he agreed to the 
repairs. However, Mr C disputed this and said he was told the dealership had the right to 
repair the car at no cost to him.
Go Car Credit then agreed to end Mr Cs agreement in May 2020. They offered to reimburse 
Mr C £616 to cover travel costs Mr C had incurred  they say this was calculated at £11 a 
day for 56 days. Go Car Credit also refunded Mr C the £200 deposit he paid plus an 
additional £98.11 from the monthly payments Mr C had made towards the agreement after 
fair usage was deducted from the total cost. So, the total amount refunded to Mr C was 
£914.11. Mr C has told us he received this amount from Go Car Credit.
Although Mr C accepted this settlement at the time, he believes hes owed more. Mr C says 
hes unhappy he made his monthly payments of £254.38 even though he didnt have use of 
the car from 9 March 2020. So, Mr C has asked for a refund of the monthly payments he 
made towards the hire purchase agreement in March, April and May 2020. Mr C has also 
asked for a refund of the courtesy car costs, compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience Go Car Credit caused him and a refund of his car insurance premiums which 
Mr C says was around £133.70. Mr C says hes also owed more in terms of travel costs and 
the amount Go Car Credit offered doesnt cover what he spent.
Our Investigator looked into Mr Cs concerns. In summary, he said he thought it was clear 
there was a fault with Mr Cs car and he had grounds to reject the car once the repair 
couldnt be completed within a reasonable timeframe. Our Investigator considered the 
amount already paid to Mr C by Go Car Credit and thought this offer was fair in the round. 
He said he worked out what he wouldve recommended which was for Go Car Credit to:
Refund Mr C his £200 deposit.
Refund two monthly payments of £508.76
Pay 8% simple yearly interest on both these amounts from the date of payment to 
date of settlement
Pay £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr C.
Remove any adverse information from Mr Cs credit file.
However, as the £914.11 Go Car Credit refunded Mr C was similar to what our Investigator 
wouldve recommended, he didnt ask that Go Car Credit do anything more as he felt theyd 
done enough to fairly resolve Mr Cs complaint.
Mr C disagreed. He said the £914.11 paid by Go Car Credit was only in recognition of the 
travel costs hed incurred. And that he still felt he was owed the monthly payments he made 
towards the agreement when he didnt have use of the car. While Mr C says he made three 
payments towards the agreement, Go Car Credit have provided a breakdown of the 
payments Mr C made and I can see there were only two payments made when Mr C didnt 
have use of the car - one in March 2020 and one in April 2020. There wasnt a payment in 
May 2020 because this was when the agreement was ended. Mr C said he also wants a 
refund of the warranty he paid for. In the round, Mr C feels hes owed over £2,500. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. The agreement in this case is a regulated consumer hire purchase agreement  so we can 
consider a complaint relating to it. Go Car Credit is also the supplier of the goods under this 
type of agreement, and responsible for a complaint about their quality. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA 2015) is relevant to this complaint. It says that under a 
contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is 
satisfactory. 
To be considered satisfactory, the goods would need to meet the standard that a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into account any description of the 
goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. So, it seems likely that in a case 
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might 
include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history. 
The quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and other things like their 
fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety, and 
durability can be aspects of the quality of goods. 
Go Car Credit supplied Mr C with a car that was just over three years old and had travelled 
around 36,700 miles when it was supplied. And the price of the car was lower than it would 
have been if it had been supplied new. 
So, I think its fair to say that a reasonable person would expect that parts of the car might 
have already suffered some wear and tear. And theres a greater risk the car might need 
repair and/or maintenance sooner than a car which wasnt as road-worn when it was 
supplied. 
Based on both parties testimonies, its not in dispute that there was a fault with the car  Mr 
C contacted the dealership to let them know of the issue he was experiencing with the car 
which kept cutting out. And a fault with the engine turbo was diagnosed on 16 March 2020. 
Mr C was told the engine turbo needed to be replaced.
Ive already explained why Im persuaded the car has a fault with it. So, Ive gone on to 
consider whether the goods were of satisfactory quality when they were supplied. It seems 
both parties agree that the fault with the engine turbo made the car unsafe to drive and the 
car was no longer road worthy. Even considering the price of the car, its age and mileage 
when it was supplied, I dont think a reasonable person wouldve expected this type of fault 
to have occurred just three months after acquiring it. So, with this in mind, I dont think the 
car was of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. 
Under the CRA 2015, outside of the first 30 days after delivery, Go Car Credit had one 
chance at repairing the car. But if this wasnt possible within a reasonable timeframe and 
without significant inconvenience to Mr C, then hed have the right to reject the car.
I note the dealership were waiting for a particular part to come from a different country which 
was then delayed due to the Covid-19 lockdown. By this point, Mr C had waited two months 
for the repairs to be carried out. I acknowledge that this delay was outside of Go Car Credits 
control as it was due to the global pandemic. But it seems the fault couldnt be fixed within a 
reasonable timeframe as Go Car Credit were unable to say when the part would be 
delivered and when Mr Cs car would then be repaired. 
I acknowledge Go Car Credit initially said on 23 April 2020, that they wouldnt allow Mr C to 
reject the car as he agreed to the repairs. But after Mr C said he was unhappy with this, Go 
Car Credit then let Mr C know on 12 May 2020 that they would allow him to reject the car 
and the agreement was then ended. And I think this is fair in the circumstances.Summary
When thinking about if Go Car Credit should do anything to put things right, Ive thought 
about what theyve already done. Firstly, Go Car Credit have ended the agreement which is 
what I wouldve expected.
Next, Ive thought about the £914.11 Go Car Credit have already paid Mr C. Had this amount 
not been offered to Mr C, I would have made the recommendation that Go Car Credit refund 
Mr Cs hire car costs which were around £588 in total - as I think this would have been fairer 
than recommending a refund of his two monthly payments, along with his deposit which was 
£200 and £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr C. The total 
of these amounts would have been around £988, so I recommend Go Car Credit pay Mr C a 
further £74. Go Car Credit must also award 8% simple interest from the date of payment of 
the hire car costs and the deposit Mr C paid to the date of settlement, as it wasnt clear 
whether this was factored into the £914.11 Go Car Credit paid Mr C.
I put this recommendation to Go Car Credit and Mr C. Mr C agreed. Go Car Credit 
responded saying they reviewed the original amount theyd awarded but acknowledged that 
it didnt include 8% simple interest. So, Go Car Credit revised the costs theyd be refunding 
(inclusive of 8% interest) and proposed a refund of the hire car costs of £671.80, a refund of 
Mr Cs deposit of £233.49 and compensation of £200  totalling £1,105.29. So as of the date 
of these calculations, Go Car Credit said theyd pay Mr C an additional £191.18.
I appreciate Go Car Credit have provided these calculations, but they havent provided an 
explanation as to how each figure was reached. So, I cant be sure these figures are in line 
with my recommendations. To bring matters to a close, I maintain the appropriate way to put 
things right is what I set out in the paragraph above. 
In addition to the above, Ive also thought about the circumstances in which things went 
wrong. Ive had to bear in mind that this happened during an unprecedented time when the 
country went into lockdown due to Covid-19, which contributed to the distress caused to Mr 
C. However, this was also out of Go Car Credits control. 
I note Mr C has asked for a refund of the two monthly payments he made in addition to the 
refund of the hire car costs. But I wont be recommending that Go Car Credit do this. I say 
this because Mr C would have always had to incur some costs during the agreement - he 
wouldve either made the two monthly payments if the car wasnt faulty or incurred other 
costs to keep himself mobile as a result of the car being faulty. So, it wouldnt be fair to 
suggest Go Car Credit refund the two monthly payments plus the hire car costs Mr C 
incurred.
Mr C says he incurred further costs as a result of his faulty car. Mr C says he had to pay bus 
and taxi fares in the time he didnt have use of either his car or a courtesy car. We asked Mr 
C for evidence of these fares, but hes not been able to provide us with this. Due to the type 
of bank account Mr C owns, he doesnt have a contactless card and Mr C says he paid for 
these fares in cash. Mr C says this was also the case for the two tyres he said were replaced 
and the heating that needed to be fixed. Unfortunately, without evidence of these expenses, 
I cant fairly ask Go Car Credit to reimburse Mr C these costs. I note Mr C has told us he 
understands this.
Mr C has asked Go Car Credit to refund his car insurance premiums he paid for the months 
he wasnt able to use the car. I appreciate Mr Cs frustrations, but I dont think it would be fair 
for me to recommend that Mr C receives a refund of the hire car costs plus the insurance. I say this because these costs amount to more than a refund of Mr Cs monthly payments. I 
put this to Mr C and he said he agrees.
In relation to the warranty Mr C said he paid £200 for, I dont think I can fairly require Go Car 
Credit to reimburse Mr C for this cost. I say this because even though Mr C may not have 
had use of it and I appreciate things went wrong with the car shortly before the warranty 
expired, he had benefit of the cover for the time the warranty was in place. I also put this to 
Mr C which he agreed with.
The only thing left for me to recommend is that Go Car Credit remove any adverse 
information from Mr Cs credit file in relation to this agreement, if they havent done so 
already.
Putting things right
In order to put things right for Mr C, Go Car Credit Limited should:
Pay Mr C a further £74.
Award 8% simple interest* from the date of payment of the hire car costs and the 
deposit Mr C paid, to the date of settlement.
Remove any adverse information from Mr Cs credit file in relation to this agreement, 
if this hasnt been done already.
*If Go Car Credit Limited consider that theyre required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
withhold income tax from that interest, they should tell Mr C how much theyve taken off. 
They should also provide Mr C with a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one so he can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate
My final decision
For reasons explained above, I uphold this complaint and I require Go Car Credit Limited to 
take the actions Ive set out in the putting things right section of this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2022.
 
Leanne McEvoy
Ombudsman