DRN-4126885
The complaint
Mr Ps complaint is that Barclays Bank UK PLC irresponsibly provided him with two loans.
What happened
Barclays approved Mr P with the following two loans:
Loan Date of loan Capital 
amountTerm 
(months)Monthly 
repaymentsTotal repayable 
value
Loan 1 11 March 2022 £1,200 12 £104 (approx.) £1,250 (approx.)
Loan 2 24 March 2022 £12,500 60 £243 (approx.) £14,590 (approx.)
Mr P says he complained to Barclays in June 2022. His complaint was that Barclays didnt 
complete reasonable and proportionate checks to ensure the loans were sustainably 
affordable for him. Mr P says had Barclays completed more detailed checks it would have 
identified he couldnt sustainably afford the loans; and as a result, it was irresponsible for it 
to have lent to him. 
Mr P referred his complaint to our service in October 2022. Our investigator reviewed the 
complaint and ultimately didnt uphold it. He said Barclays checks werent reasonable and 
proportionate; but on review of what Barclays would likely have identified had it completed 
more detailed checks, he concluded that it would still have reached the same decision to 
lend, which he considered was fair. 
Mr P didnt accept our investigators outcome. He said Barclays checks should have 
identified he was in financial difficulties and as such it shouldnt have lent to him. 
Mr P asked for an ombudsmans review, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
All parties appear to agree that loan one was approved and repaid within a day; and that 
there was no interest or charges applied to loan one. As such, and as there was no loss or 
detriment to Mr P as a result of loan one, my decision here solely focuses on loan two.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigators latest outcome, and 
for broadly the same reasons. I appreciate this will be disappointing to Mr P.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending as 
well as the key rules, regulations and what we consider to be good industry practice on our 
website. 
Barclays needed to take reasonable steps to ensure it lent responsibly to Mr P. The relevant 
rules, regulations and guidance at the time Barclays provided the lending required it to carry 
out reasonable and proportionate checks. These checks needed to assess Mr Ps ability to 
afford the loan and repay it sustainably over its term, without causing him financial difficulties 
or harm.
There isnt a set list of checks Barclays needed to carry out, but the checks should be 
proportionate, considering things like the type, amount, duration, and total cost of the credit, 
as well as Mr Ps individual circumstances.
And it isnt sufficient for Barclays to just complete proportionate checks  it must also 
consider the information it obtained from these checks when going on to provide the lending. 
This includes not lending to someone in financial hardship; and ensuring repayments can be 
made sustainably without the need to borrow further.
Barclays says it completed the same level of checks when arranging loan two as loan one; 
and as the lending was within such a short period of time it partly relied on the information 
obtained from its checks at loan one when assessing the affordability of loan two. This 
included reviewing the income and expenditure through Mr Ps bank accounts, completing a 
credit check to understand Mr Ps existing credit commitments, and reviewing the 
management of his other accounts held with Barclays. 
Barclays hasnt provided our service with the results of these checks; however, it says these 
checks were reasonable and proportionate, and that it went on to make a fair lending 
decision when approving loan two. 
Having carefully considered Barclays argument, I cant be satisfied its checks were 
reasonable and proportionate in this instance. I say this because I dont have the results of 
the checks it completed, and therefore the information it based its lending decision on. 
Barclays has retrospectively reviewed Mr Ps affordability for loan two at the point of the 
complaint, and has provided us with its calculations. Barclays has assessed Mr Ps income 
and expenditure across the accounts to be on average around £2,590 and £1,080 per 
month. It has therefore concluded that Mr P had an average monthly disposable income of 
around £1,510 a month; which it considers a reasonable level for Mr P to have covered his 
monthly living costs, existing credit commitments and repayments to this loan. It therefore 
maintains its argument that it made a fair lending decision when providing Mr P with this 
loan. 
Both Mr P and Barclays have provided our service with copies of statements which cover a 
number of bank accounts Mr P held with Barclays. In the absence of any other information, 
and as Barclays had this information readily available to it at the point of application; I 
consider reviewing the three-month period before the loan was approved allows me to obtain 
an understanding of what proportionate checks would likely have shown Barclays.
Mr Ps statements cover two sole and one joint account. He appears to receive two regular 
credits on a monthly basis totalling around £1,500 on average across the three-month 
period. I can see regular non-discretionary commitments debiting the joint account on a 
monthly basis averaging around £1,050. This includes items like Mr Ps joint mortgage 
payment, council tax, insurances and utilities, and his gym and mobile phone subscriptions 
taken from one of his sole accounts. Bearing in mind that Mr P has confirmed his mortgage 
was joint, and that he was living with his ex-partner at the time, I dont consider it 
unreasonable that Barclays would have looked to use 50% of this regular non-discretionary 
expenditure towards housing costs as part of its calculations. After taking into account the 
repayment towards this loan Mr P would have been left with around £650 of disposable 
income per month, which I consider reasonable to cover the other two credit commitments 
Barclays was aware of, together with his general living costs. There is a large volume of internal transfers between the accounts, as well as a large 
volume of credits and debits from a number of individuals for varying values. These credits 
and debits do significantly increase the turnover through the accounts, and this is reflected in 
Barclays affordability calculations. Having reviewed these transactions I do agree with 
Barclays position; that this would only lead to Mr P being left with a higher level of 
disposable income in which to cover his existing credit commitments and living costs.
Mr P has told us that he was gambling around the time of this loan, and that Barclays ought 
reasonably to have identified this from its checks. 
Ive seen some transactions across the three months leading up to this loan to online betting 
companies; but these are generally low in number and value, and I dont consider ought 
reasonably to have been of concern to Barclays.
However, Ive seen a large volume and value of cash withdrawals across the accounts over 
this same period, which I do consider ought to have been of concern to Barclays and 
prompted it to obtain information from Mr P around their purpose. Having considered these 
cash withdrawals I cant safely conclude Barclays would have, or ought reasonably to have, 
identified that these may have been used for gambling. I say this because I consider, on 
balance, it more likely Mr P would have provided Barclays with an answer which he 
considered wouldnt risk the approval of the loan. And I dont consider it would have been 
unreasonable for Barclays to have accepted a rational answer for the cash withdrawals. 
Overall Mr Ps existing accounts with Barclays appear to be well run, they are all maintained 
in a credit balance across the three-month period with no unauthorised overdraft fees or 
charges, or returned direct debits; all of which could possibly suggesting signs of financial 
difficulties that ought to have been of concern to Barclays.  
Taking all the above into account, and what I consider Barclays would likely have obtained 
and identified had it completed proportionate checks, Im satisfied it would have reasonably 
concluded that this loan was sustainably affordable for Mr P and reached the same decision 
to lend.
It therefore follows Im satisfied Barclays made a fair lending decision when approving loan 
two; and as such I dont require it to take any further action in resolution of Mr Ps complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Ps complaint about Barclays Bank UK PLC 
and as such Im not directing it to take any further action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2023.
 
Richard Turner
Ombudsman