DRN-3054892
The complaint
The estate of Mrs W complains that National Savings and Investments has repeatedly
refused to provide information needed to apply for letters of administration, and to calculate
the amount of inheritance tax due on the estate.
This complaint has been brought by Mr M, who is the appointed representative of the one
remaining executor.
 
What happened
Mr M says that he is the sole representative of the estate, and hes sent NS&I proof of this.
But he says it refused to release the balance of the holdings of Mrs W on her date of death.
The estate needed this information to apply for probate and to pay inheritance tax, and Mr M
says that delays caused by NS&I were likely to mean that the estate would be fined for not
recording how much tax is owed by the relevant deadline.
There has been an extensive correspondence between Mr M and NS&I, which has also
involved Mr Ms legal representative. This has been confused at points. But the position of
the parties can perhaps be summarised as follows 
NS&Is position appears to be that the PA11 form Mr M relies on, to appoint him as
the attorney for an executor, is addressed solely to obtaining letters of administration
for the estate from the Probate Office, and doesnt require NS&I to release 
information about the deceaseds accounts to him.
Mr Ms position appears to be that he has all the relevant documentation to allow
NS&I to release information to him, and indeed, that he cannot proceed to the next
step in obtaining probate without this information  so in short, that he cant get the
probate documentation NS&I wants, because it wont tell him whats in the accounts.
When this case came to our service, the impasse was continuing. Our investigator thought
this complaint should be upheld. She said that there were three executors named in the will.
Mr M had provided two PA15 forms (the form used for an executor to give up the right to act)
for two of these named executors, and one PA11 form (the form used when an executor or
beneficiary wants to appoint a separate person to act as their representative) which is signed
by the third executor, and names Mr M as the attorney.
Our investigator said that she appreciated that NS&I wanted all three executors to complete
its own internal document, but she didnt think it would be reasonable to ask executors who
had renounced their positions, to sign. She thought NS&I had been given enough to provide
the figures Mr M wanted. It didnt have to release any funds at this stage, and could wait for
probate to be granted to do that.
Our investigator explained that we couldnt compensate Mr M for his time, or the stress this
has caused him, because this complaint is brought by the estate, not by him personally. But
our investigator said we could ask NS&I to cover the additional costs Mr M told us the estate
had incurred. She thought NS&I should pay that.
NS&I objected, saying that it was just following the advice of the Probate Office. But our 
investigator still thought this complaint should be upheld. She asked NS&I to go back to the
Probate Office for further information, and it was her view that what the Probate Office said
meant NS&I could release the values Mr M needed. She said that NS&I should now do so,
and it should pay any penalty costs, additional interest costs, and additional solicitor costs
incurred because of this issue.
Mr M said the additional solicitors costs were £420, and provided an invoice showing that.
He said that the estates accountant might also charge specifically for work dealing with
NS&I, and there may be penalties or interest charged by HMRC.
NS&I disagreed again. It said that the Probate Office had set out that form PA11 is solely for
obtaining letters of administration. Whilst some businesses would release information about
the value of the accounts with this, or a similar request, NS&I said that it wasnt obliged to
release this information on receipt of a PA11 form. It would only do so on the signed
authority of the remaining executor. It felt that this was reasonable, particularly as it said Mr
M wasnt a named executor or next of kin.
Our investigator queried NS&Is stance, because it appeared to be saying it would accept
form PA15 which an executor uses to renounce his power to act, but not a PA11, which an
executor uses to confer that power on another. NS&I has since set out that this is its
position. It said it was acting on information supplied by a Probate Office, and our 
investigator asked to see that. NS&I sent this through to our service.
The email exchange included this question and answer 
- Is it the intention that these Powers of Attorney are issued solely for obtaining 
Letters of Administration, or would there be an expectation that the Attorney 
appointed may provide the Power of Attorney to firms, as evidence of their 
entitlement to deal with the estate?
Yes - solely for obtaining Letters of Administration and no other purpose
NS&I said it wouldnt share information on the value of the accounts until it has authority
from the executors. And it said it didnt think our service could force it to do so.
But then NS&I wrote again, in early 2021 and said it would make an exception in this case,
and supply the relevant figures to Mr M, apparently as part of an offer of settlement. NS&I
said it still didnt think our service was right about this, and it didnt think it should have to pay
the solicitors costs Mr M had mentioned. It also didnt think Mr M shouldve sent in figures if
he didnt have full details, so wouldnt pay any costs if Mr M had to submit figures again.
Mr M didnt accept this offer. He said that the estate had complied with an external deadline
to submit estate valuation figures. He hadnt chosen to do this, and the estate would have
been fined if he hadnt made the submission.
Our investigator wrote to the parties again, to say that she still thought the complaint should
be upheld. She said that she wasnt convinced NS&I had asked the Probate Office the right
questions, and she thought that was why the problem happened. She shared the following
from the Probate Office 
It is indeed the intention that the Powers of Attorney form PA11 is solely for
authorising someone to obtain Letters of Administration on your behalf and it gives
NO other powers and the PA11 specifically states:
To be my lawful attorney for the purposes of obtaining Letters of AdministrationHowever, if you have a situation where someone that wishes to apply for Letters of
Administration needs to obtain the values of the assets of the deceased BEFORE
making their application, then the Bank or Building Society will release this
information WITHOUT ANY SORT OF POWER OF ATTORNEY if the person
requesting the information states that they need these values in order to apply for the
Letters of Administration.
Sometimes asset holders will not be willing to give exact values but they will supply
an approximate value that can be used to then complete the IHT form as part of the
application for Letters of Administration.
Our investigator said that she thought NS&I should also have released this information. But
for quite some time, NS&I had refused to, and instead insisted other forms should be
completed. Our investigator didnt think this was fair or reasonable, and she thought that
NS&I should cover additional costs of the estates solicitor, and any interest or penalties the
estate had to pay.
NS&I didnt agree. It said that it hadnt asked the Probate Office about this case, the
questions were asked some time ago about a different case. And in this case, NS&I said that
the Probate Office hadnt made a direct comment on what NS&I should or should not do. It
had simply made the purposes of the PA11 form clear.
NS&I said it was still entitled to ensure that the person to whom it was releasing info was
authorised or entitled to receive it. NS&I said it was just asking for the signed authority of the
remaining executor, which it felt was quite reasonable, and if that had been provided, it
wouldve given Mr M the information he wanted. NS&Is position was that it only required a
letter of authority signed by the remaining Executor. If Mr M had sent that, NS&I said that
may have been enough for it to confirm he was eligible person to receive information.
This case was then passed to me for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I proposed to uphold it in 
part. This is what I said then: 
I think there are some key issues in this case, which Ill need to think about as I review 
what has happened here. I need to think about whether NS&Is position has been 
reasonable, particularly in light of its position as a public body (which it says means 
that it should be more risk averse) and in light of the advice it has received from the 
Probate Office. I also need to think about whether NS&I made its position clear to Mr 
M, so that he knew what he needed to provide to get it to release the relevant 
information. And I also need to think about whether it was reasonable for Mr M to incur 
additional costs on behalf of the estate  or was there any other option, which couldve 
avoided these costs.
I said above that the correspondence between Mr M and NS&I has been confused. I 
have considered all the documents supplied to our service, but Ill set out here what I 
understand to be the key pieces of correspondence from both sides.
Mr M initially sent a completed copy of NS&Is own form, together with form PA11 
appointing him as the attorney for an executor, and a death certificate for Mrs W. Mr M 
signed the NS&I form.
Although NS&Is own form appears to be designed for those who are claiming the 
funds in the deceased persons account, Mr Ms covering letter makes clear that at this stage, all he is asking for the balances as at the date of death, so he can apply for 
probate.
I note that although NS&I has at some point claimed to our service that the PA11 it 
received was unsigned, the copy of this form that it has sent to us is signed.
NS&I originally responded to say that it wanted its own form to be completed by the 
legal personal representative(s) for the estate.
Mr Ms position is he is the sole legal representative of the estate. He says this on the 
basis that he knows the two other executors have ceased to act, and he understands 
the form he possesses, PA11, confers on him the authority to act for the estate.
NS&I then wrote to Mr M a number of times, requesting the original power of attorney. 
This appears to be based on the assumption that Mr M must have a separate 
document, forming a power of attorney, which allows him to act for the third executor.
Mr M wrote to NS&I and he also asked the solicitors working for the estate to write. In 
a letter dated 21 August 2020, those solicitors wrote explaining their understanding of 
how form PA11 worked. In short, Mr Ms solicitors said that form PA11 validly 
appointed Mr M as attorney for the executor of Mrs Ws estate. Those solicitors also 
pointed out that all other businesses holding accounts for the late Mrs W had told Mr M 
the value of the holdings, and they felt that NS&I should do so too.
NS&I wrote again on 29 September, requesting the actual power of attorney, or letters 
of administration, to allow it to release the information Mr M wanted. It also wrote to the 
estates solicitors on 1 October.
The estates solicitors wrote again at this point. That letter is dated 8 October 2020 and 
says NS&I is mistaken about the process for becoming a properly appointed attorney.
It does appear to me that up until this point, NS&I has been under the impression that 
there is, or will be, a separate piece of paper (not letters of administration or a PA11) 
that Mr M can use to prove that he has power of attorney. Mr Ms solicitors have 
suggested strongly that NS&I is wrong about this, and it doesnt appear to me that the 
Probate Office has suggested differently.
NS&Is position following this appears to focus more on the purpose of the PA11 form. 
It understands that this PA11 form has to be submitted with a probate application, and 
that it simply cannot be used separately. NS&I also then said to Mr Ms solicitors, in a 
letter dated 8 November 2020, that it had only received one PA11, and had no 
authority from the remaining executors. It says it would need that too. And I note that 
NS&I has said more recently that this was always its concern.
Im not clear why NS&I would say this. Only one executor needs to apply for probate, 
and NS&Is own form doesnt appear to specify that all the potential executors named 
in a will need to sign it.
NS&I has also asked our service to consider the information it received from the 
Probate Office, which it interprets to mean that Mr M can use the PA11 form to apply 
for letters of attorney, but he cannot use this same form to show businesses such as 
NS&I that he is authorised to receive information on behalf of the estate.
NS&I has, more recently, suggested that all Mr M may have needed to do was to send 
it a letter from the executor, saying that he was authorised to act.NS&I says that the PA11 form Mr M sent only authorises him to apply for letters of
administration. It has focussed on the part of the form that says it Mr M is authorised  
To be my lawful attorney for the purpose of obtaining Letters of Administration with 
will annexed of the estate of the said deceased to be granted to them for my use 
and benefit and until further representation be granted.
The first bit of the form does authorise Mr M to make this application, but the form 
goes on to say this 
And I hereby promise to ratify and confirm whatever the said attorney shall lawfully 
do or cause to be done in the Premises.
The form itself contains an explanation of this text, and it says this means
to give authority to the attorney to deal lawfully with the deceaseds estate.
That does appear to me to do a little more than simply authorising Mr M to make the
application. And Mr M has argued powerfully that the information he requested is 
required in order to make the application he is authorised by this form to make, which 
does suggest the form ought also to be used to permit some limited information 
sharing for this purpose.
But I think its most important to note here that NS&Is final position appears to be that 
if Mr M had sent it a letter that gave him authority to act, it may have released the 
information he wanted. I dont think thats particularly different to what Mr M did send, 
albeit in the shape of a PA11 form.
I also note that, although NS&I has maintained the position that it is not obliged to 
release this information, and also questioned whether our service had any authority to 
force it to do so, it then offered to release this information, if Mr M would withdraw at 
least some of his requests for costs. So, although NS&I has stressed it needs to be 
risk averse, it doesnt appear that NS&Is objection to releasing this information to Mr 
M is a fundamental one.
Mr M now has letters of administration. So our service will not be forcing NS&I to 
release this information. It will clearly need to do so in response to these documents. 
But I need to think about whether NS&I has been reasonable throughout this process.
Mr M has never asked NS&I to release the funds in the accounts of the late Mrs W. He 
has asked NS&I to tell him how much money was in there. NS&I has asked Mr M to 
provide a document which his solicitors explained is no longer part of the process for 
becoming authorised to act for an executor. Or he could supply another copy of NS&Is 
own form, signed by all the executors.
Ive considered carefully whether it wouldve helped if Mr M had explained to NS&I that 
two of the executors had renounced their position (and lived overseas so could not 
reasonably be expected to complete the form) and had offered to supply the authority 
of the third in a different form.
This alternative course of action doesnt appear to have occurred to Mr M, or to his
professional representatives, who have continued to believe that if they explained to 
NS&I that it was mistaken about the current process for appointing someone to act for 
an executor, and indeed, the impact of the PA11 form, then it could simply give the 
information the estate needed.
I think its possible that proactively offering information about the position of all threeexecutors could have resulted in NS&I requesting the PA15 forms (showing two 
executors no longer wish to act) and its own form signed by the third executor. And 
that may have avoided further costs to the estate. I also think this may be clearer with 
the benefit of hindsight than it wouldve been at the time. However, Ill still need to take 
account of the fact that this option wasnt explored by Mr M when I consider redress.
I also need to take account of the fact that NS&I appears to have been guided by what 
the Probate Office said. It has understood that office to be setting out a very restrictive 
view of what the PA11 form achieves. Our investigator said the Probate Office wasnt 
telling NS&I it mustnt release information on the basis of a PA11 authorisation, and I 
think thats right. The Probate Office does also appear to expect businesses will 
choose to give enough information to allow an application for letters of administration.
I think thats what NS&I should have done in this case. Because it didnt, but instead
appeared to at least initially pursue a request for documentation that Mr M wouldnt 
have (leading Mr M to think that it had just made a mistake, rather than had a 
fundamental objection to releasing this information to him) I dont think it has been 
entirely reasonable. And I think it has been at least partly responsible for additional 
costs incurred by the estate.
I think NS&I should make a contribution to those costs. I dont think it should pay the 
whole of those costs, because I cant ignore that NS&I did give Mr M another option (to 
have the named executors complete its form) which he didnt explore, and which could 
potentially have avoided additional costs. But I do think it should contribute to them.
When this case came to me, Mr Ms solicitors had already evidenced the additional 
costs of £420, being solely attributable to dealing with NS&I.
As Mr M now has letters of administration, and has been given the information he 
sought from NS&I, he has been able to quantify further costs to the estate.
Mr M says he doesnt expect the estate will be fined by HMRC, as the difference 
between his estimates of the late Mrs Ws NS&I holdings and the actual values was 
fortunately small. And his solicitor has kindly confirmed that there will be no additional 
legal costs associated with a revised IHT filing. His accountant has confirmed that the 
estate will incur additional costs of £850 plus VAT (being £1,020) for a revised IHT 
filing. And importantly, she has confirmed that this revised filing is required as a result 
of NS&I not supplying figures earlier.
So I think that NS&I should pay to the estate £720, being half of the additional costs 
that Mr Ms solicitors and his accountant attribute to dealings which were only 
necessary because of the issues raised in this complaint.
I understand that Mr M has found this a deeply frustrating process. I have explained to 
Mr M separately the limitations on awards of compensation which mean that I cannot 
ask NS&I to pay him compensation for the stress that this issue has caused him. I 
have no powers to do this in a complaint brought by the estate.
Mr M has told us that he thinks that NS&I should be financially penalised as a result of 
what happened here. Whilst I understand Mr Ms position on this, our service isnt a 
regulator, and I dont have powers to penalise NS&I either. So Im sorry to have to tell 
Mr M that Im not able to do what he wanted.
I asked the parties to make any final points before I finalised a decision. Both parties replied. 
  What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NS&I sent a short reply, to say it had nothing to add, except that all closure payments had 
now taken place, at the start of this month.
Mr M sent detailed comments. He began by saying that he felt my provisional decision didnt 
fully take into account the David v Goliath element of the situation. He wanted to stress that 
all the other financial bodies hed dealt with, as executor, had been professional and helpful. 
He said this contrasted strongly with his dealings with NS&I. And the difference was, in his 
view, purely down to the failure of NS&I to fully understand the legal processes that need to 
be followed in order to obtain the letters of administration or grant of probate. 
He said there was no one at NS&I he could speak to who understood the situation, and 
writing was also frustrating due to abnormally long turnaround times at NS&I. He said NS&Is 
systems mean no one person takes responsibility for resolving an individual case. He said 
that if NS&I had dealt with all the relevant queries in one go then the estate may have been 
able to avoid the need to refile the IHT tax return as well as the additional legal costs.
Mr M said it was hard to believe that a body like NS&I had no specialist bereavement 
service. He said the method of his appointment as executor wasnt that unusual, so he was 
amazed that NS&I hadnt come across this before. He felt that the responses NS&I relied on, 
from the Probate Office, werent directly relevant to his case, and NS&I was simply trying to 
use earlier responses on a different point to blag its way through this matter. 
Mr M suggested that if NS&I had asked the Probate Office if the PA11 form could be relied 
upon to obtain the date of death values, earlier on, then this would have resolved matters. 
He said that when NS&I did ask this, it was told it could accept the form for this purpose. 
Mr M didnt believe NS&I would have accepted a signed letter of authority from the one 
remaining executor, then released the information requested. He asked what the difference 
was between this and what hed provided. And he said if NS&I wasnt prepared to accept 
government prescribed forms then it wasnt clear what the point of those forms was. 
Mr M said NS&I appears to have only focused on the first bit of the PA11 form and failed to 
notice the form contains an explanation which confirms it can be used by the appointed 
attorney to deal lawfully with the deceaseds estate. He asked why NS&Is legal team 
couldnt read and understand the form. He also noted that NS&I then seemed to be more 
concerned about whether hed withdraw his request for costs than getting the correct 
information. He said he felt this fundamentally undermined NS&Is argument about risks.
Mr M said it was irrelevant that two of the executors had renounced their role to act, so he 
said that he was confused as to why I had inferred that proactively offering information about 
the position of all three executors could have resulted in NS&I requesting the PA15 forms. 
He said this was just speculation on my part. He said he could also speculate that a 
conversation with NS&I would have broken the deadlock, but it wasnt possible to have that 
conversation. And he said even if he sent PA15 forms, that would not have got around the 
problem with the PA11, which NS&I refused to accept.
Mr M said hed been validly appointed to act as attorney for the one remaining executor. He 
didnt think he should have had to ask for further paperwork. He said NS&I had already been 
told previously by the Probate Office that A power of attorney is not issued as it is effective 
from the point of signing so he felt NS&I should have accepted the PA11 form then. Mr M didnt believe there was an alternative course of action available to him or the solicitors 
acting for the estate. He said it would have been unfair and inappropriate to ask the executor 
to sign further letters of authority. He repeated that NS&I should simply have asked the 
Probate Office, early on, a direct question about whether it could accept the PA11 form for 
the purpose that it had been supplied in this case. 
Mr M said NS&I should have been able to resolve this issue easily. Hed told NS&I 
repeatedly that the estate needed the date of death values to be able to meet the deadline 
set by HMRC. So he thought it was unreasonable for him to have to shoulder 50% of the 
blame for the issues which he felt resulted from NS&Is incompetence. He didnt believe he 
could (or should) have done anything different. He believed NS&I had acted unfairly and 
unreasonably throughout this process and should therefore be held fully responsible.
I appreciate that Mr M has found dealing with NS&I markedly different to dealing with other 
businesses, and that he considers hes been put to a lot of inconvenience by NS&Is failings. 
And he also feels I have not allowed for this in my provisional decision. But, as I explained 
briefly in my provisional decision, and in more detail in separate correspondence with Mr M, 
Im simply not permitted, under the legislation which empowers our service to make awards, 
to ask NS&I to pay him compensation for the stress that this issue has caused him. I have 
no powers to compensate Mr M in a complaint brought by the estate. 
I appreciate that Mr M will feel that this leaves a part of this complaint unresolved. I cannot 
change this. All I can do is make sure that his concerns are recorded in some detail, so that 
NS&I is clearly aware of these. Ive sought to do that above.
That isnt to say that I endorse those concerns unreservedly. There are some points where I 
have reached a different conclusion.
I dont agree with Mr Ms description of the advice that NS&I received from the Probate 
Office. Thats because I do not read that advice as providing a clear endorsement of the 
PA11 form, in the way that Mr M does. And that applies equally to the advice that NS&I got 
when it asked a direct question about Mr Ms case. What the Probate Office said was merely 
that banks would usually release the same information as Mr M wanted in this case, without 
insisting on a power of attorney. It didnt say that the form he offered provided that authority.
I had inferred, from reading the PA11 form, that it does confer some authority on Mr M to 
deal with the estate. But Im not an expert on estates law. And I cannot ignore that the 
advice NS&I received from the Probate Office in this case, doesnt appear to me to say the 
same thing at all. So I cant endorse Mr Ms view that NS&I ignored clear advice saying he 
did validly represent the estate.
Mr M said that he didnt think he should have proactively offered additional information on 
the position of the executors, or asked them to complete a different form. I would note that 
NS&I has repeatedly suggested Mr M could alternatively send its completed bereavement 
form. Whilst I understand Mr Ms frustration that NS&I wouldnt accept the documentation he 
had sent it, I do think there was a reasonable prospect of breaking the deadlock in this case, 
if the option of completing NS&Is own form had been explored. I do not agree with him that 
it would have been unfair or inappropriate to ask the remaining executor to sign this form, if 
that were a possible way of avoiding extra costs to the estate. And because that was not 
explored, I still dont think NS&I should cover all the costs in this case.
Finally, I note Mr Ms view, that NS&Is concerns about risk in this case cant have been well 
founded, as it offered to share information in return for his agreement to waive costs. Whilst I understand why Mr M would reach that view, I should also note that by this time, NS&I did 
have the added comfort that our service had accepted him as validly representing the estate. 
Ive reconsidered my provisional decision in the light of Mr Ms detailed comments above. 
But, for the reasons Ive set out above, I havent changed my mind. Ill now make the award I 
originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that National Savings and Investments must pay the estate of Mrs W the 
sum of £720.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs 
W to accept or reject my decision before 19 October 2021.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman