DRN-3961894
The complaint
Mr M complains about Telefonica UK Limiteds (trading as O2) handling of his complaint 
relating to the quality of a mobile phone he was provided.
What happened
Mr M entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Telefonica UK Limited in August 2019 to 
finance the purchase of a mobile phone. He was also provided with an unregulated service 
agreement for airtime, as well as an insurance policy which covered the device. It seems 
that all of the products were sold in a store under the same brand or trading name  O2.
It's not quite clear which of Mr Ms subsequent interactions regarding the matter were with 
Telefonica UK Limited or the firm which handed his insurance claims. It seems that they 
work closely and under the same trading name. So, Ill refer to Telefonica UK limited where 
its clear that it was involved. Ill otherwise refer to O2 where its not clear.
I understand that Mr M subsequently lost the device and was provided with a replacement 
under his insurance policy in February 2021. In July 2021, Mr M told O2 the device hed 
been provided with was faulty because it was intermittently overheating. I understand that he 
was told the device was  by that point  outside of its warranty period, and hed need to 
make a further insurance claim.
Mr M told O2 hed been mis-sold his insurance policy because hed not been made aware 
hed be required to pay an excess when making a claim, or that hed be provided with a 
refurbished device, rather than a new one.
O2 credited one of Mr Ms accounts with £90 to cover the excess hed been charged. It also 
sent a replacement device, but that went missing in the post. It seems that because of what 
had happened O2 then offered to provide Mr M with a brand-new device, but it wasnt 
possible due to stocking issues. I understand that O2 attempted to send Mr M a refurbished 
device but he refused the delivery. In recognition of the service issues Mr M had 
experienced, O2 made a number of credits to his airtime account, totalling £282.
Mr M raised a complaint with O2 and asked for further compensation due to the poor service 
hed received. He also asked to be provided with a brand-new device as he says he was told 
hed be given one.
Telefonica UK Limited responded to Mr Ms complaint. It agreed hed received poor service 
but said that the credits it had applied totalling £282 was enough to put things right. It also 
said Mr M wasnt entitled to a brand-new device under his insurance policy. It offered to clear 
the remaining balance of Mr Ms fixed sum loan - which was £414 at that point  on the basis 
that he returned his device to it.
Mr M referred a complaint to this service. He said that hed spent over 30 hours on the 
phone to O2 trying to resolve matters which had caused him a loss of wages, lost time with 
his family as well as stress and anxiety. He asked that O2 should do what it said it would and 
provide him with a brand-new device as well as further compensation.
Our investigator accepted that Telefonica UK Limited had made mistakes, but they said that 
it had already done enough to put things right. They also said that it wasnt required to 
provide Mr M with a brand-new device.
Mr M disagreed. He maintained that O2 had offered to send him a brand-new device so 
thats what it should now do. He also said it wouldnt be fair for him to have paid a significant 
portion of his fixed sum loan to be left without a device if he accepted Telefonica UK 
Limiteds offer.
The case was passed to me and I issued a provisional decision on it. In summary, I said:
Our jurisdiction to consider complaints can be a complex matter. Its understandable if Mr M 
considers his complaint should be directed at O2. But, in reality, thats simply a trading name 
under which more than one firm provided Mr M with goods or services.
Mr M was provided with three different products at the same time; a fixed sum loan and an 
unregulated service agreement which  based on what Ive seen  were provided by 
Telefonica UK Limited. He was also provided with an insurance policy which, significantly, 
was underwritten by a different business.
Nonetheless, Telefonica UK Limited has told this service it takes responsibility for the sale of 
all three of the products Mr M was sold.
Telefonica UK Limited comes under this services compulsory jurisdiction. The fixed sum 
loan agreement it provided is regulated and one which this service has the power to consider 
a complaint about. Under that type of agreement, Telefonica UK Limited is responsible for a 
complaint about the quality of the goods supplied to Mr M.
We dont have the power to consider a complaint about the unregulated service agreement 
Telefonica UK Limited provided. Broadly speaking our rules allow us to consider complaints 
about regulated activities as well as a few others specified. Complaints about that agreement 
arent covered by our rules.
We can consider complaints about the provision, performance and mis-sale of insurance 
contracts. But I need to be mindful of which business is party to this complaint and what I 
can require it to do. Telefonica UK Limited responded to Mr Ms complaint, and thats the 
entity that this complaint is against.
So, in the context of this complaint I can say whether I think the goods Telefonica UK Limited 
supplied to Mr M under his fixed sum loan were of satisfactory quality. I can also find on 
whether Telefonica UK Limited handled matters relating to that agreement fairly. And, given 
that its taken responsibility for the sale of Mr Ms insurance policy, I can say whether or not I 
think it was mis-sold, as hes asserted.
I cant, for example, decide whether Mr Ms insurance claims were handled appropriately or 
whether the goods he was provided under those policies were of satisfactory quality. Those 
matters relate to an insurance policy provided by a different firm which isnt party to this 
complaint, so I cant require Telefonica UK Limited to do anything in relation to these 
matters. I appreciate that this will be frustrating for Mr M to hear, particularly given that the 
policy was likely sold under the same brand or trading name as his fixed sum loan.
From what Mr M has said, I dont think that he disputes the quality of the device supplied 
under his fixed sum loan, rather, he disputes the quality of a device he was supplied with 
under an insurance contract. For the avoidance of doubt though, I find it likely that the 
original device Mr M was supplied with was of satisfactory quality given that it appears it worked fault free for 16 months.
Even if Telefonica UK Limiteds responsibility to ensure the goods supplied to Mr M 
extended beyond that, the complaint he now makes about the quality of the device hes been 
given was made some 23 months after the start of his agreement. Given the time which had 
passed, I dont think itd be fair to hold Telefonica UK Limited responsible for the quality of 
the device Mr M complains about.
So, given that Im persuaded that Telefonica UK Limited fulfilled the terms of the fixed sum 
loan agreement it had with Mr M, I cannot fairly require it to repair or replace the device he 
complains about. I understand it might have made a number of offers to put things right for 
Mr M in response to his complaint. However, I wouldnt have required it to make any offer 
considering its obligations under Mr Ms fixed sum loan.
It's somewhat unclear as to what extent and in which capacity Telefonica UK Limited was 
involved in Mr Ms subsequent dealings with O2. I say this because subsequent events 
were all regarding Mr Ms insurance policy, specifically administration issues regarding the 
supply of a replacement device as well as the application and interpretation of the terms of 
that policy. Because Mr Ms complaint is centred on the claims made against an insurance 
policy as well as the quality of a device supplied under it, I think its more appropriate for the 
insurer or underwriter to address those issues. Ill otherwise address the peripheral issues 
which seem to have had involvement from Telefonica UK Limited.
The point Mr M made about the mis-sale of his insurance policy could be a point Id be able 
to consider in a complaint about Telefonica UK Limited. That is, if Im satisfied that 
Telefonica UK Limited brokered the policy when it was sold to Mr M, because its authorised 
to do that.
I note that in its response Telefonica UK Limited said it had referred the matter to its 
Insurance Team and offered to register a complaint about it. It also said that Mr M had 
been provided with a copy of the terms of his insurance policy when it was taken out.
Telefonica UK Limited subsequently told this service that its taking responsibility for the sale 
of the insurance policy. Its shown a script which wouldve been followed during the sale in 
store. Part of that includes the requirement to share the key facts document with Mr M and 
offer to show him other key policy documents. Telefonica UK Limited pointed out that the 
policy document says that any replacements provided could be new, re-manufactured or re- 
packaged. And that an excess would apply. It also pointed out that Mr M was provided with 
links to all of the relevant information and given a 14-day cancellation option.
Based on what Ive seen, I find it likely that Mr M was provided with a reasonable level of 
detail about the policy hed agreed to, both in respect of his need to pay any excess and the 
condition of any goods provided in relation to a claim. Im not persuaded that Telefonica UK 
Limited misled Mr M about those aspects of the policy. It also seems to me that Mr M ought 
reasonably to have been aware or the policy terms, having made a claim in February 2021, 
through which he was provided with a refurbished device and required to pay an excess.
Lastly, I acknowledge the point Mr M has made about being offered a brand new device and 
the poor service he was given. As Ive explained above, its not clear whether those offers 
and events were handled by Telefonica UK Limited or the underwriters of Mr Ms insurance 
policy. In any case, and for the avoidance of doubt, even if it had been handled by 
Telefonica UK Limited, I dont require it to provide Mr M with a new device.
I say this because its clear that it wasnt possible to do so and the offer was made in error. 
Whilst I accept that wouldve been frustrating for Mr M, it wouldnt be fair to require Telefonica UK Limited to take steps to put him in a position he otherwise wouldnt have been 
in, had things been handled correctly. Overall, taking into account the role which Telefonica 
UK Limited seems to have played in the events which led to Mr Ms complaint, I think its 
handled matters reasonably.
Given all of the above, and whilst I appreciate Mr M will find it very disappointing, for the 
reasons explained above I dont find that Telefonica UK Limited needs to take any further 
action in relation to Mr Ms complaint.
Telefonica UK Limited had no further comments. Mr M said he wanted to be provided with a 
brand new device as he was told he would. 
The case has been passed back to me to make my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party responded to my provisional decision with evidence of information which I 
consider to be materially new. As such, I find no reason to depart from the conclusions I 
reached in my provisional decision. 
In summary, I remain of the view that Telefonica UK Limited is responsible for a complaint 
about the device it supplied under Mr Ms fixed sum loan. But, Mr Ms concerns were raised 
some 23 months after that device had been supplied, so I think the device he was supplied 
with was likely of satisfactory quality. Additionally, the device Mr M complains now about was 
supplied under an insurance claim, not Mr Ms fixed sum loan. For those reasons I dont 
think itd be fair to ask Telefonica UK Limited to repair or replace the device Mr M complains 
about. 
As my provisional decision explained, Mr M might be able to raise a complaint with the 
business which provided his insurance contract under which his device was supplied. He 
may wish to seek independent advice about how to do so. I make no finding in this decision 
on any point that Mr M might be able to raise against the insurer. 
From what Mr M has said it seems to me that his main issue is that he wants to be provided 
with a new device as he says he was told he would. As Ive explained above, it seems all 
parties accept that Mr M was told that at some point during his dealings with O2, but it wasnt 
possible. Its also not clear whether that erroneous offer was made by Telefonica UK Limited 
or Mr Ms insurer, as both seemed to trade as O2. Telefonica UK Limited didnt clarify that 
point in response to my provisional decision. 
However, for the avoidance of doubt, even if that offer had been made by Telefonica UK 
Limited, I dont require it to now provide Mr M with a brand new device for two reasons. 
Firstly, I think its clear the offer was made in error. It wouldnt be fair to put Mr M in a 
position he otherwise wouldnt have been in but for that error. Secondly, as Ive explained, I 
dont think that Telefonica UK Limited has any responsibility to provide a replacement under 
relevant legislation pertaining to Mr Ms fixed sum loan. 
Lastly, to the extent that is it responsible in the context of this complaint, and for the reasons 
explained above, Im not persuaded that Telefonica UK Limited misled Mr M about his fixed 
sum loan or associated insurance policy when those products were sold to him.
In conclusion, I remain of the view that Telefonica UK Limited need not take any further action in relation to Mr Ms complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 March 2023.
 
Stephen Trapp
Ombudsman