DRN-3563703
The complaint
Mr S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard unfairly reduced his 
credit card limits. 
What happened
Mr S Barclaycard had a credit limit of £8,100. In August 2020 Mr S contacted Barclaycard 
after finding transactions he didnt recognise on his statements. Over the following weeks, 
Barclaycard investigated and refunded the transactions Mr S disputed. 
In December 2020 Barclaycard reduced the credit limit to £250 and cash limit to £75. Mr S 
went on to complain that Barclaycards actions had been taken as a result of the disputed 
transactions hed raised. 
Barclaycard sent Mr S a final response on 18 February 2021 but didnt agree it had acted 
unfairly by reducing the limits on his credit card. Barclaycard said its decision was unrelated 
to the fraud transactions hed reported and was taken following a review of Mr S account. 
Barclaycard offered Mr S £100 to apologise for delays in receiving refunds for the fraudulent 
transactions. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr S complaint but thought Barclaycard had dealt 
with it fairly. Mr S asked to and said more recent requests to increase his credit limit had 
been declined. As Mr S asked to appeal, his complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand why Mr S feels theres a strong chance the reduction in his credit limit is linked 
to the disputed transactions that occurred a short time before. Weve asked Barclaycard to 
send us evidence to show why his credit limit and cash advance limits were reduced in 
December 2020. Barclaycard has sent in systems evidence that shows the decision was 
taken as part of a review of his account. The decision was systems driven, having taken 
information about Mr S account usage and credit history into account. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr S but Im satisfied Barclaycard did review his account in December 
2020 and took the decision to reduce the borrowing limits. I havent seen any evidence that 
shows the decision was linked to the transactions he reported. 
Barclaycards terms and conditions say it will set the credit limit according to the cardholders 
circumstances, account usage, history, information it holds from other parts of the business 
and information from the credit reference agencies. The terms also says Barclaycard will tell 
a card holder what their credit limit is when the account is opened and that it can go up and 
down over time. Ive looked at the account history and contact records. Im satisfied 
Barclaycard reviewed and reduced the credit limit on Mr S credit card, I havent found 
information that shows its treated him unfairly. 
Whilst it didnt form part of his original complaint, Mr S has applied online for Barclaycard to 
increase his credit limit again but it declined. I can see Mr S is upset by Barclaycards refusal 
to proceed. But each request he makes is essentially an application for Barclaycard to 
increase the level its willing to lend. Each request is assessed and considered on its own 
merits. So even though Barclaycard hasnt approved Mr S subsequent requests to increase 
his credit limit, that doesnt mean its made a mistake. Ultimately, Barclaycard will only 
proceed if the credit limit increase requested is in line with its lending criteria. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr S but as Im satisfied Barclaycard has dealt with his complaint 
fairly Im not telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman