DRN-4441834
The complaint
Mr J complains that he was sent a promotional offer from American Express Services 
Europe Limited (AESEL) trading as American Express (AMEX) which he was not eligible for. 
What happened
Mr J says he was sent a personalised promotional leaflet through the post which offered 
60,000 membership reward points and a £200 travel voucher if he took out a Platinum credit 
card and reached the eligible spend. However, he later found out the offer was only available 
to new customers, so he was not eligible as an existing AMEX card holder. 
Mr J has now provided a copy of the promotional offer leaflet he says was sent to him in the 
post and he would like AMEX to honour the £200 travel voucher to settle his complaint. 
AMEX have acknowledged that they spoke to Mr J on 3 November 2022 about this offer and 
they didnt make it clear that it only applied to new customers. So, they have apologised and 
have paid Mr J a total of £145 in compensation.
AMEX says while Mr J was not eligible for the offer outlined above, he was eligible (and has 
benefited from) an upgrade offer - which gave him 40,000 reward points after reaching the 
eligible spend.  
Our investigator considered the complaint and felt that AMEX did not have to honour the 
new member offer for Mr J and that the compensation already paid was fair. Mr J was not 
happy with this outcome, so it has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Js testimony is that he was personally invited to take up the offer via multiple invitations 
and so he thought this was an exclusive offer for him. Ive looked at the leaflet supplied by 
Mr J, which he says was sent to him in a named and addressed envelope. Understandably, 
he doesnt have the envelope anymore. But looking at the pictures of the leaflet I cant see 
Mr Js name or address included anywhere. So, without the envelope or anything else 
showing his name or address, I cant conclude that this offer was personalised to him. And 
without more persuasive evidence to the contrary, I think its more likely that this was a 
generic offer designed to attract new customers.
The leaflet headlined the offer of 60,000 membership reward points plus £200 with AMEX 
travel online. However, the in important information section at point (1) it says that all 
introductory offers:
are not available if you currently hold or have held any personal Membership Rewards-
enrolled American Express Cards in the past 24 months.
This information was included on the same document as the initial offer, and I am satisfied 
that it was clear and not misleading.  
On 3 November 2022 Mr J called AMEX to discuss the Platinum Card offer. AMEX have 
agreed that during this call they did not make it clear that the 60,000 points and travel 
voucher was only available for new customers. AMEX recognised that this couldve given 
Mr J the impression he was eligible for the offer, and they shouldve provided better 
customer service. AMEX have apologised for this and initially paid Mr J £25 in 
compensation, and then later an additional £120. As Ive said above, information about it for 
new customers only was outlined in the offer leaflet in a clear and not misleading way, but I 
agree this shouldve also been mentioned on the phone. Mr J has confirmed that he is happy 
with the Platinum card, and he is not complaining about the benefits it offers. He has also 
been able to benefit from an upgrade offer of 40,000 - so I think the total £145 Mr J has 
received in compensation is fair in these circumstances.
I have seen evidence of another leaflet from AMEX which included Mr Js first name. This 
offered him 40,000 membership points if he upgraded to a Platinum card and spent £4,000 
in the first three months. Mr J upgraded his card, and AMEX have provided evidence that he 
received 40,000 membership points after reaching the spend criteria  and I think this is fair 
as this is the offer Mr J was eligible for as an existing AMEX card holder.
Mr J would like AMEX to also give him a £200 travel voucher, because he believes they 
mis-lead him. But based on everything Ive said above I dont think AMEX needs to do this. 
Ultimately, I am not persuaded that AMEX personally invited him to take up the new 
customer offer and it was clear on the leaflet that that this was for new customers only. 
AMEX have honoured the existing customer offer that Ive seen on a leaflet personalised 
with Mr Js first name, so I am satisfied that he has received the benefits her was eligible for. 
I acknowledge that AMEX shouldve also told Mr J that the 60,000 member reward points 
and £200 travel voucher were for new customers when on the phone  but I think the £145 
Mr J has already received is fair compensation for this. 
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2023.
 
Sienna Mahboobani
Ombudsman