DRN-4018658
The complaint
Mr M complained Phoenix Life Limited were wrong to tell him a market value reduction 
(MVR) would apply if he accessed benefits from his pension plans held with them. 
What happened
Mr M complained to us because he was unhappy that having started two personal pension 
plans (PPPs) some years previously, the adviser had never contacted him for a review and 
he didnt think his plans were right for him. He more recently arranged a review with a 
different firm of advisers as he was looking at accessing benefits from the plans. He was 
unhappy to be told that a market value reduction (MVR) would apply if he took benefits 
ahead of the selected retirement date.
 
Mr Ms PPPs were started in January and February 1992, both are invested in the with-
profits fund (one plan has been paid-up since 2004). Both PPPs were arranged by a firm of 
advisers. Both PPPs have an assumed pension date in June 2034.
Phoenix are the providers of his plans, having taken over their administration from a 
previous entity. There is no suggestion Phoenix were involved in the original advice given to 
Mr M to start the plans.
Phoenix have explained that any complaint about whether the PPPs were suitable for Mr M, 
would need to be made to the advisers who originally advised him to start these plans. 
Phoenix have let Mr M know that any complaints about these advisers are now being 
handled by the Financial Service Compensation Scheme (FSCS) and so would need to be 
referred to them. Phoenix were unable to do this on Mr Ms behalf.
Phoenix havent upheld Mr Ms complaint. They say they did not advise Mr M on whether 
these plans were suitable for him. Phoenix say that the MVR would be applied if he took his 
benefits early in line with the terms that apply to these plans. They let Mr M know they 
understood why he was unhappy with the level of MVR being applied currently to his PPPs 
(said to be approximately 25%). They acknowledged it was at a significant level but set out 
why they said MVRs were used and how he had been informed that such adjustments may 
be applied. Phoenix said the application of the MVR wasnt wrong and was something 
allowed for by the way this type of fund was run. Phoenix sent Mr M several factsheets on 
with-profits funds and performance and the application of the MVR.
Mr M wasnt happy with the information he was given and feels he never agreed that the 
scheme could be operated in the way it is being run.
Phoenix sent us copies of some annual statements for both PPPs sent to Mr M containing 
explanations around how the with-profits fund worked and was managed and confirming that 
Phoenix are unable to provide advice.
Mr M wasnt satisfied. He let us know that he had been planning to reduce his hours of work 
from the age of 55 and that he is unhappy a number of events are causing him to rethink 
this, including that the MVR will be applied if he accesses his PPPs.
He said he had not yet complained about his original advisers, having not realised this was 
something he could do. Mr M let us know he hadnt understood his concerns about the plans 
not being suitable for him would come under a complaint about mis-selling. Mr M was 
concerned about the level of MVR and this not having been raised with him.
Investigators view
The investigator explained why she didnt think Phoenix had done anything wrong in 
explaining an MVR would be applied on transfer and why the application of an MVR was 
unlikely to be wrong.
The investigator went on to let Mr M know a bit more about MVRs and how they are used 
with unitised with-profits funds, such as his plans and why. She also explained the regulator 
monitors the management of with-profits funds but that our service doesnt have the power 
to tell a business what level of MVR (if any) ought to be applied. 
Mr Ms response
 
Mr M let us know he understands why an MVR might be applied but doesnt feel it can be 
said here an MVR has been applied fairly. He doesnt accept Phoenix have a discretion to 
decide the level of MVR to be applied. He thinks there needs to be some financial security 
for plan holders which is missing if a business can do what they want, and he is worried 
about a lack of regulation if this is the case. Mr M has gone on to stress to us that:
He never wanted a retirement age of 65 and always intended to retire at 55. 
So he doesnt think these plans are right for him if the plans dont offer this.
He would never have chosen a plan where taking early retirement might be 
penalized.
Mr M has asked for our assistance about whether these are issues for the regulator and/ or 
the FSCS. He feels we are taking Phoenixs side against his.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint against Phoenix, for broadly the same reasons as those 
provided by the investigator. Phoenix is the provider of the PPPs, they (and the previous 
providers) were not responsible for recommending the plans to Mr M or considering whether 
they were suitable for him. Any complaints about these issues, and whether Mr M was 
suitably advised about the possibility of any MVR as part of the advice he was given, would 
need to be made against his original advisers. It has been explained that any complaint 
would need to be referred to the FSCS.
In respect of the complaint made about Phoenix whilst I can understand why Mr M was 
disappointed when he looked into accessing and, or, transferring out of his current PPPs 
prior to the selected retirement date and was told of the MVR to be applied, this doesnt 
mean Phoenix did anything wrong.
Ultimately the terms of the PPPs allow for an MVR to be applied in these circumstances. Im 
satisfied Phoenix provided this information to Mr M regularly in statements. Whilst the level of application of an MVR is usually at a providers discretion (provided its in 
line with the terms of the plan) this doesnt mean there isnt oversight and accountability. 
From 2004 the regulator has required all providers to publish a Principles and Practices of 
Financial Management (PPFM) document. It explains the steps theyre taking in managing 
the returns and level of guarantees within the fund. 
Its the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) who oversees the management of with-
profits funds, and if Mr M has any concerns about this element he can consider referring 
these to the regulator. I do want to let Mr M know that the regulator doesnt usually 
communicate with individuals directly, so it might be unlikely he would receive a response 
from the regulator. 
Mr M has been provided with a quantity of information about with-profits funds and market 
value adjustments (MVAs) also known as MVRs. I dont intend to repeat what he has been 
told as I have seen he has let us know he understands why they are used, but I hope I can 
assist by providing a little further information.
With-profits funds were a common way of investing in a pension in the 1980s and 1990s. 
They were generally thought to be more cautious than an investment which was linked 
directly to the rise or fall in the value of particular assets, such as shares (equities). This was 
because the provider took on some of the risk of providing the benefits to the consumer. 
Rather than passing on all the investment growth (or reductions) to plan holders, the 
provider often provided certain guarantees in return for the contributions they were expecting 
to receive. It was then the providers job to manage the fund in such a way that it could 
afford to meet those guarantees. 
Mr Ms PPPs are unitised with-profits plans. This was a more modern version of a with-
profits fund, which became common later on in the 1990s. It provided a more flexible way of 
passing on the returns the with-profits fund made to plan holders but tended to offer fewer 
guarantees. 
Each of the consumers premiums bought some units in the fund at a certain price. Each unit 
was guaranteed to be worth at least its original price providing it was held all the way until 
the selected retirement date. Any bonuses the provider decided to pay were passed on to 
consumers through increases in the unit price. If a consumer wants to transfer to another 
provider before their selected retirement age, an MVR is often used to reduce their fund 
value. The use of MVRs is effectively to allow a provider to determine a consumer's fair 
share of the value of the fund when they decide to cash in their plan. Including for example 
reflecting that the providers ongoing management of the fund will involve calculations and 
assumptions using selected retirement dates, and so an adjustment may be needed if funds 
are withdrawn early. An MVR will usually reduce the amount (usually by a set percentage). 
Here Mr M was looking to access his funds more than ten years before his selected 
retirement date in 2034. This doesnt mean the MVR might not alter at a different time.
I am sorry Mr M feels we are being unfair to him here. But I dont think Phoenix have done 
anything wrong and theres nothing that makes me think an MVR would be unfairly applied if 
Mr M did transfer based on the information available. This service isnt able to tell a business 
what level of MVR ought to be applied. This is part of the ongoing management of the fund 
and is overseen by the regulator. 
I cant reach a decision on whether these plans were right for Mr M, this isnt a complaint to 
be considered against Phoenix. Nor can I consider Mr Ms dissatisfaction his advisers had 
not contacted him over the years as a complaint against Phoenix. My final decision
For the reasons given I am not upholding Mr Ms complaint about Phoenix Life Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 April 2023.
 
Louise Wilson
Ombudsman