DRN-2781360
The complaint
Mr P and Mr P represent the estate of Mr P. Mr P and Mr P complain that St Jamess Place 
UK plc (SJP) didnt deal with instructions to liquidate the late Mr Ps account correctly and 
they suffered a financial loss.
Mr P and Mr P would like compensation for the financial loss when SJP did not close all the 
investments at the same time. They would also like compensation for the stress involved in 
dealing with the complaint and an apology from SJP for all their mistakes. 
What happened
Mr P passed away on 7 May 2019 and Mr P called SJP a couple of days later to notify them 
of the death. Mr P says that he told SJP that the beneficiaries didnt want to take any 
investment risk and once Probate had been granted, they would be withdrawing the money.
On 19 May 2019, SJP wrote to the solicitors representing the estate with the requirements 
for each investment that was held for Mr P. It appears that letters were exchanged between 
SJP and the solicitors to clarify exactly the investments held on the account.
There appeared to be confusion about one of the investments held and whether this was 
part of Mr Ps estate. On 17 June 2019, SJP sent a letter to the solicitors saying the one of 
the bonds formed part of the estate but as there was a life assured, it didnt need to be 
encashed.
In November 2019, the solicitors acting for Mr Ps estate sent SJP instructions for withdrawal 
of two of the bonds. This was processed by SJP and proceeds paid on 25 November 2019.
Further instructions to close an ISA account were sent and this was processed in February 
2020.
In February 2020, Mr P received an account statement showing that one bond remained 
open and he contacted SJP for an explanation. It was also noted that ongoing advice 
charges had been applied to the account.
In reply to Mr Ps complaint, SJP said that they had not received any instruction to close the 
other bond and it remained open. They offered to waive the fees for the ongoing advice 
totalling £527.30. SJP also offered Mr P £250 compensation in recognition of the trouble and 
upset they had caused.
Unhappy with SJPs decision, Mr P referred the complaint to the service and one of our 
investigators investigated the complaint. The investigator agreed with SJP and didnt think 
they had done anything wrong and didnt uphold the complaint.
Unhappy with the investigators view, Mr P has asked for an ombudsman to look at his 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr P and Mr P but I agree with the outcome reached by the 
investigator and will not be upholding the complaint. I know that the complaint is important to 
them and I will explain why I have reached this decision.
The facts of the complaint are understood by both Mr P and Mr P and SJP so its not my 
intention to go over all the facts again. Instead, I will focus on the bond that remained open 
and the circumstances behind this.
In his submission to the service, Mr P said that SJP blamed the solicitor acting for the estate 
in not closing the bond in the correct way. Mr P says that this is not true, and it was not 
known that there was another bond that needed to be closed in a different way.
In SJPs responses to Mr Ps complaint, they say that they do not have a record of receiving 
an instruction to request funds to be released from the account and as a result, the funds 
have remained invested.
Having reviewed the documentation available to me, it seems that there has been confusion 
over the status of one of the investments that was held by the late Mr P. This investment 
was a bond which appeared to have a life assured.
SJP wrote to the solicitors on 17 June 2019 saying 
I refer to your letter dated 4 June 2019 and can confirm that the above Bond does form part 
of the estate but as there is still a life assured it does not need to be encashed.
In his view to Mr P, the investigator said that he thought that this presented the solicitors with 
a choice  either to encash the bond or keep it open. The investigator also noted that there 
was no follow up from the solicitors to this email.
I have considered the wording used by SJP in the letter dated 17 June 2019 and I think that 
they answered the question that was asked. I agree with the investigator when he said that 
the response didnt say that the bond couldnt be encashed  just that it didnt need to be 
encashed. 
In his submission to the service, Mr P has said that he had spoken to SJP about the bond 
and was told that it could not be moved into safer cash base funds. Mr P believes that this 
call is crucial to the investigation of the complaint.
I can see from the file that the investigator has made several requests to SJP for a copy of 
this call recording. SJP initially said that if the call was made via the switchboard then it 
would be unlikely that the call would be recorded.
SJP then said that despite an extensive search, they have been unable to locate the call. 
They said that they migrated their systems and it does not appear to have been saved to 
their new platform.
It is regrettable that this call is unavailable, but I understand that system issues sometimes 
dont always work the way they are supposed to. I dont doubt Mr Ps recollection of the call 
but as the call is not available, I need to make my decision on the information available to 
me.From the documentation on file, SJP made the solicitors aware that three bonds existed and 
provided information that one of the bonds didnt need to be encashed. The solicitors 
provided SJP with instructions to encash two of the bonds.
Instructions to encash the third bond were given some time after the initial instructions and 
following Mr Ps receipt of a statement showing that the bond was still open.
I sympathise with Mr P that the call recording is not available but based on the 
documentation that I have seen, I think SJP gave the solicitors information on the third bond 
and the decision to provide encashment instructions lay with them. As SJP didnt receive 
instructions until later, I cant hold them responsible for any market movements that may 
occurred so Im not going to ask them to do anything else.
I have looked at how SJP have handled the complaint and what they have offered. SJP have 
offered to refund fees for the ongoing advice charge that was applied to Mr Ps account. I 
think that this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
SJP have also offered compensation of £250 in recognition of the trouble and upset caused. 
I think that this is in line with what the service would suggest and Im not going to ask them 
to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr P 
to accept or reject my decision before 11 October 2021.
 
Brian Gray
Ombudsman