DRN-2095124
The complaint
Mr C complains his beneficiary on death had not been updated by Aviva.
What happened
Mr C complains his beneficiary on death had not been updated by Aviva. It said it had 
received his expression of wish form in September 2019, but it wasnt processed due to 
error. It confirmed this was corrected and the details recorded on 23 January 2020. Aviva 
apologised and sent a cheque for £100.00, £75.00 for compensation plus £25 for cost of 
calls and letters.
But Mr C said his online account wasnt updated. Aviva said there wasnt an error on the 
website. It was designed to request a call if the beneficiary is a charity as this required more 
information. No change was needed. He wouldnt be able to view his beneficiary online, but 
his beneficiary was showing correctly as of 27 January 2020. Mr C was disappointed. He 
also said that his online account still showed a message to call even though he had spoken 
to them.
He also raised some issues about his investments but that is covered by a separate 
complaint.
The investigator said she was satisfied Aviva had correctly recorded Mr Cs requested 
beneficiary and she had seen screen shots showing this. However, Mr C wasnt able to see 
this when he logged in. She said Mr C had found this very stressful. But she thought Aviva 
had done as much as it could to solve the online issue and didnt think she could 
recommend further compensation and didnt recommend the complaint was upheld.
Mr C didnt agree. He thought Aviva had been given more than enough time to fix the online 
issues. He had pensions with other providers and was able to see his beneficiaries clearly. 
He was frustrated that this service couldnt do anything about his complaint. While he had 
confirmation of his beneficiary in writing that wasnt enough.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Cs frustration. Firstly, when requested in September 2019 Aviva failed 
to record his requested beneficiary. He had to chase and in January 2020 they made the 
change, but he couldnt see it online. After several months of investigation, it became clear 
the system was set up so that it wouldnt display a beneficiary that was a charity and that 
would always be the case. However, the system kept requesting a call back when Mr C had 
already done this. Aviva said it would look at the wording to make clear no call was needed if 
hed already called back.
With respect to the initial failure to record Mr Cs desired beneficiary Aviva accepted the 
mistake and corrected the error. I think the payment £100 was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
As to his ongoing frustration that he cannot see his beneficiary online I cannot direct Aviva to 
change its internal systems and it isnt required to ensure a beneficiary is visible online. I 
have seen a screenshot for Mr Cs account with Aviva. I can see this shows the charity he 
named as a beneficiary of 100% of the lump sum benefit and this was recorded on 27 
January 2020. Aviva has also given written confirmation that his beneficiary is recorded. So I 
think Aviva has done all that could reasonably be required to reassure Mr C. 
Aviva has considered the issues Mr C raised about the website and is seeking to make a 
change to the telephone call back message. This is helpful as I cannot direct it make that 
change.
So while I am aware Mr C remains frustrated I think Aviva has taken reasonable steps to 
deal with Mr Cs complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2020.
 
Colette Bewley
Ombudsman