DRN-3116318
The complaint
Miss G (through a representative) has complained that Ferratum UK Ltd (Ferratum) didnt
carry out proper affordability checks.
What happened
Our adjudicator partly upheld Miss Gs complaint about loans 3 and 4 because she thought 
Ferratum should honour the offer it made in the final response letter. Ferratum didnt agree 
with the adjudicators opinion. The complaint was then passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision explaining the reasons why I was intending to not uphold 
Miss Gs complaint. A copy of the background to the complaint and my provisional findings 
follow this and form part of this final decision.
What I said in my provisional decision:
Miss G took four loans from Ferratum between February and April 2017. A summary of her
borrowing, based on the information provided to us from Ferratum can be found below:
loan number loan amount received date actual repayment 
date
1 £150 03/02/2017 06/02/2017
2 £250 09/02/2017 28/02/2017
3 £100 14/04/2017 28/04/2017
4 £300 28/04/2017 outstanding
Miss G has had some problems repaying her loan, at the point Ferratum provided this
service with its business file it said it hadnt received any repayments from Miss G.
Following Miss Gs complaint, Ferratum initially said it couldnt locate any loans for Miss G.
However, it then issued a final response letter (FRL) on 8 September 2020. In this FRL
Ferratum said that something may have gone wrong when it approved loans 3 and 4. But as
there was an outstanding balance due for loan 4, the refund had the effect of reducing
Miss Gs liability from £538.80 to £286.39.
Miss Gs representative said it didnt receive the FRL issued in 2020. But wanted this service
to continue with the complaint.
When Ferratum provided this Service with its file it had believed the offer it made in
the FRL had been rejected and so it was withdrawing it.
One of our adjudicators looked at Miss Gs complaint. She didnt uphold her complaint about
loans 1 and 2. The adjudicator concluded that Ferratums offer for loans 3 and 4 was a fair
and reasonable outcome for the complaint. She thought, that Ferratum should honour this
offer.
Ferratum didnt agree with our adjudicators opinion. It explained that as the case was now
being considered by this service, it was withdrawing the offer and wouldnt reinstate it.
Our adjudicator had some further correspondence with Miss Gs representative. It was at this
point, the representative said that it didnt receive the FRL issued in 2020. It also sent us
copies of comments it had received from Miss G. She said; yes please progress with [this
Service].
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry
practice at the time the loan was provided.
Ferratum needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure
Miss G could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts, and
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Ferratum should fairly and reasonably have
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Miss G. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become or was becoming
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Ferratum was required to establish
whether Miss G could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments
were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre
unlikely to be able to do so without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Miss Gs complaint.It isnt clear if Miss G was unhappy with the outcome for loans 1 and 2 (only) or the outcome
reached for the whole complaint. So, in this case, Ill be looking at all the loans.
We also asked Miss Gs representative whether she was happy with the offer and / or would
like to accept it. But this service was told to carry on with the complaint.
Also, Ive taken on board the comments from Ferratum about the offer, and while its
disappointing that it has withdrawn the offer that it made, it is entitled to do this and means
Ive had to consider the complaint as a whole.
Ive therefore had to think about what a fair and reasonable outcome is, taking into account
what Ive said above about our approach.
It looks like for each of the four loans that Miss G was given a credit limit of £500 (this was
the maximum amount she could borrow). This sum needed to be repaid within 37 days, and
if it was repaid in that time, then Miss G wouldve needed to repay £648. But Miss G didnt
draw down that amount of money, instead she took the loan amounts listed at the start of the
decision. But we do know that interest was charged on the drawdowns at a rate of 0.8% of
the drawdown amount per day. Up to 37 days, which was the term of the agreement.
Loans 1  3
For these loans Ferratum knew that Miss Gs income was about £2,000 per month and it
took some details of her employment. Based on what Ferratum told us Miss G declared the
same employer and income for all of her loans.
Again, based on what Miss G declared to Ferratum, looking solely at her income it seems
likely shed be able to meet the repayments she was committed to making for these loans.
Ferratum has told this service it didnt collect any expenditure information from Miss G, so it 
didnt know what she was spending her money on or what, for example, her other credit 
commitments may have been.
Ferratum has also told us a credit search wouldve been carried out for each loan, but due to
the passage of time the results of those checks are no longer available. But it has provided a
document that shows its logic when working through an application. Unfortunately, the cells
arent dated, so I dont know what entries relate to which loan, so Ive not been able to put
any weight on the credit checks.
Ive also considered that Miss G repaid loan 1 fairly quickly before taking out loan 2, There
was then nearly a two-month gap between Miss G repaying loan 2 and taking loan 3.
So, thinking about all the factors above, for Miss Gs first 3 loans, I think Ferratum carried out
proportionate checks which showed Miss G was likely to be able to afford the repayments
she was committing to making.
I also havent seen any further information that shows its likely Ferratum was made aware of
any financial problems Miss G mightve been having. Or anything that wouldve prompted it
to investigate her circumstances further. So, I think it was reasonable for Ferratum to rely on
the information it obtained and approve these loans.
Loan 4
This was Miss Gs largest loan to date and therefore Miss G had the largest repayment to
make to Ferratum around 37 days after drawing down the funds. This loan was also taken
out on the same day that Miss G successfully repaid loan 3.Miss G again, appears to have told Ferratum that she had the same income for this loan as
she did for loans 1  3. A credit check was carried out, but again, I cant rely on what
Ferratum may have seen. Finally, like the other loans no expenses information was
gathered.
But, given Miss G had applied for a loan that was significantly larger than her last loan. The
fact that Ferratum didnt have very much information about Miss Gs wider financial
circumstances, so in my view, the checks it carried out werent proportionate. The checks it
ought to have done, needed to go further than just relying on Miss Gs declared income.
I think Ferratum needed to have a greater understanding of Miss Gs financial position, so it
ought to have made enquires with her to check whether she had any living costs (and what
they may have been). It also needed to check whether Miss G had any outstanding short-
term loans when this loan was approved.
Ferratum didnt go into the level of detail I think it needed to do when this loan was
approved, so I dont think the checks were proportionate. But that isnt the end of the matter.
For me to be able to conclude that Ferratum shouldnt have given this loan, I have to be
satisfied that not only did Ferratum not carry out a proportionate check, that by not carrying
out such a check Miss G has been caused a loss.
However, Im not able to do that here, because Ive not been provided with any information
about Miss Gs actual financial position at the time the loan was approved, I dont know what
her living costs where, and or whether she had any outstanding short-term credit
commitments. In the absence of this information, I cant conclude Ferratum made an error
when it approved this loan. Therefore, as it stands, Im proposing not to uphold this loan as
well.
As it stands, Im intending to not uphold Miss Gs complaint about her loans. I appreciate
Miss G will be disappointed by the outcome of this complaint, but I hope my explanation has
been useful in explaining why Ive reached the outcome that I have.
Both Ferratum, Miss G and her representative were asked to provide any further comments 
and evidence to this Service no later than 16 October 2021. 
Neither Ferratum, Miss G or her representative responded to the provisional decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has responded to the provisional decision by the deadline, I see no reason 
to delay the issuing the of the final decision. 
As no new information, evidence or comments have been provided, I see no reason to 
depart from the findings in the provisional decision. I still dont think Ferratum was wrong to 
have lent loans 1  3. And while it ought to have carried out further checks before loan 4 was 
granted, Ive not seen enough to suggest that the final loan was unaffordable for Miss G. 
Im therefore, not upholding her complaint. 
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained above and in my provisional decision, Im not upholding 
Miss Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 November 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman