DRN-3646125
The complaint
Mr H complains that Chubb European Group SE (CEG) failed to add the mobile phone 
insurance policy he requested when he took out a new mobile phone contract. He also 
complains that CEG now require him to pay premiums from the date of his initial request in 
order for the requested insurance to be applied now.
What happened
Mr H asked CEG to provide him with mobile phone insurance at the same time as he took 
out a new mobile phone contract in October 2021. His insurance cover was going to cost 
£14 each month. And would have a £120 excess fee for any successful claim. But in March 
2022, he found out that his new phone was listed as not having insurance. Mr H didnt need 
to make a claim under the policy at this point. He complained to CEG.
CEG issued their final response on the complaint. They agreed that theyd failed to add the 
requested insurance cover to Mr Hs account when hed asked them to. They apologised, 
and offered Mr H £50 in acknowledgement of their error.
In respect of Mr Hs complaint that he shouldnt have to pay backdated premiums for his 
insurance cover, CEG told Mr H that he would have to pay them if he wanted to make an 
insurance claim for his handset. CEG also said that the amount of backdated premiums 
would continue to increase as the days went by. And that if he decided not to pay the 
backdated premiums, he wouldnt be able to make a future insurance claim under the policy. 
Mr H asked CEG why they needed him to pay backdated premiums for a period he felt hed 
had no cover for. He said they told him it was company policy. But that they couldnt provide 
him with written confirmation of the policy. Mr H felt that CEG were acting unreasonably, so 
he brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt consider that the complaint should be upheld. She felt that CEG had 
acknowledged that the requested insurance hadnt been added. And that the £50 
compensation they'd offered as an apology for their oversight was reasonable under the 
circumstances. She also felt it was fair for CEG to require back payments of premiums 
before the cover could be put in place. And noted that if Mr H was unhappy with this, he 
could look for other insurance cover elsewhere without the need to pay any back payments. 
Mr H didnt agree with our investigator. He didnt think that paying back payments would put 
him in the same position he wouldve been in but for CEGs oversight. He also didnt agree 
that looking for cover elsewhere was a fair solution. He still didnt think it was fair that he 
would have to make back payments for a period he felt he wasnt covered for. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint came to me for a final review.
CEG felt that the complaint might be out of the jurisdiction of this service. But our 
investigator told CEG that she felt that it was in our jurisdiction. As CEG made no further 
comments to our investigator on this point, and based on my own understanding of this 
complaint, I consider that it in within our jurisdiction. Therefore I have considered the merits 
of the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. I understand this will be disappointing to Mr H. 
But Im satisfied that although CEG made an error, theyve taken reasonable steps to put 
things right. Ill explain why.
I first considered whether CEGs requirement that Mr H must make back payments for the 
missed premiums is fair. 
I acknowledge why Mr H considers that the request is unfair. He feels that he received no 
cover for the time of his request to date. 
CEG have told this service that the insurance Mr H requested can only be added at the point 
of sale/upgrade of a handset. They said that this was explained on their website, and 
provided a link which confirmed that to be the case. 
Therefore its not possible for Mr H to start the insurance now. The only way he can add the 
policy he requested is to effectively add it from the point of sale, which means that he would 
have to pay premiums backdated to March 2022.
CEG also said that Mr H wasnt right to think that it wasnt fair to ask him to pay backdated 
premiums for a period when hed not been covered. They said that if a claimable event had 
occurred, and hed only found he had no insurance at the point he was calling to make a 
claim, the claim wouldve been covered. They said they wouldve investigated and found the 
insurance had been left off in error. And they wouldve offered to cover the claim as long as 
Mr H paid the backdated premiums.
Ive carefully considered both parties points. Im satisfied that CEG wouldve acted in the 
way theyve outlined. Therefore I consider that it is fair to ask Mr H to pay backdated 
premiums if he still wants the cover he initially requested. Im of the view that this would put 
Mr H in the same position he wouldve been in had the error not occurred. 
I appreciate that Mr H doesnt agree. He said that he doesnt have the required lump sum 
payment for the back payments available. But this doesnt change my view. Mr H is still able 
to get the cover he required with another provider on terms which dont require a lump sum.  
I next considered if the £50 compensation CEG offered Mr H as an apology for their 
oversight was fair under the circumstances. 
As our investigator stated, when a business makes a mistake, we expect it to put the 
customer back in the same position that they wouldve been in had the mistake not been 
made.
The insurance policy wasnt added when it shouldve been, but Im satisfied that £50 fairly 
reflects the inconvenience CEG caused by this mistake. I say this because Mr H hasnt 
experienced a financial loss because of the error, but he has experienced some 
inconvenience in identifying the issue and trying to resolve it. 
Overall, I dont uphold this complaint, for the reasons Ive outlined above.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman