DRN-3758176
The complaint
Mr K and Mrs K have complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited trading as 
RSA unfairly declined a storm claim under their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr K and Mrs K contacted RSA when they found damage to a flat roof following a storm. 
RSA sent a surveyor to view the damage. Mr K and Mrs K then complained to RSA because 
they were concerned by the attitude of the surveyor and hadnt heard anything further about 
their claim. 
When RSA replied, it said there had been delays in providing Mr K and Mrs K with the 
outcome of their claim. RSA said it was unable to comment on the conversation during the 
surveyors visit but that it would be dealt with internally by the surveyors company. RSA also 
said the claim had been declined as there wasnt evidence of storm damage. It said some 
boards had deteriorated and rotted, which was longstanding damage. It offered £100 
compensation for the claim delays.
Mr K and Mrs K complained to this service. Our investigator upheld it. He said the roof had 
only been replaced a few years earlier and there wasnt enough evidence to show the roof 
had deteriorated in that time. It was more likely the boards had deteriorated due to their 
exposure to heavy rainfall in the five-day period before the surveyor visited. He said RSA 
should reimburse the cost of the repairs and pay interest on that amount. He also said the 
£100 compensation offered by RSA was reasonable in the circumstances.
RSA disagreed there had been heavy rainfall or that the damage was caused in the period 
between the storm and the surveyors visit. So, the complaint was referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 1 November 2022. In my provisional decision, I 
explained the reasons why I wasnt planning to uphold this complaint. I said:
When we look at a storm claim complaint, there are three main issues we consider:
1.    do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to 
have happened?
2.    is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Were only likely to uphold a complaint where the answer to all three questions is yes.
Ive looked at the weather conditions around the time the damage was found. This showed 
windspeeds of up to 59mph, which would be considered storm conditions. I also think that a 
storm could cause damage to a flat roof. So, I think the answer to the first two questions is 
yes.
So, Ive thought about the third question. Its my understanding that the roof was made of 
fibreglass and resin installed over new Oriented Strand Boards (OSB). This was installed in 
2018 and was laid over the existing felt roof. When the surveyor visited, part of the 
fibreglass/ resin roof and the OSB had detached, leaving the felt roof exposed with some of 
the OSB still attached to it.
Ive looked at the surveyors assessment of the roof, including the photos. This said:
There is an OSB board laid on top of the felt flat roof, the wind has lifted and moved this, 
however the boards have rotted. The damage hasn't been caused by storm.
The main issue seems to be whether, as the surveyor said, the roof was affected by long 
term issues or whether the OSB deteriorated in the five days before the surveyor visited. 
Mr K and Mrs K have recently provided a roofers assessment based on what they found 
when they inspected the roof. This was after RSAs surveyor visit. This said:
Upon inspection It was clear that about a third of the flat roof was missing. We found that 
lead flashings had been lifted on one side of the property and the neighbours property 
where the roofs meet. This had allowed the wind to get underneath the boards and detach 
them. The damage was only on the windward side of the property, coming down [a named 
road] towards the rear end of the terraced house.
When we began working, we removed the remaining boards and underlying felt, although 
these boards were solid and in relatively good condition, we recommended that the whole 
roof was replaced as new, in order to provide our 20 year guarantee.
This doesnt describe a storm as being the main cause of the damage. It also doesnt 
provide an assessment of the damaged OSB. So, Im not currently persuaded this shows the 
damaged part of the roof was due to a storm.
Following our investigators findings, RSA also provided a more detailed explanation of the 
condition of the roof. It said:
the photos and evidence here suggest that the recovering was defective in some way and 
there was water penetrating beneath the fiberglass to the OSB board. 

If OSB boards of external specification were used (as they should have been) then it would 
take quite some time for them to disintegrate to the level they have done. They are 
hardwood boards- they do not have the same properties as a chipboard used on internal 
floors that would be damaged very quickly. There is also evidence on the photos of the nails 
securing the OSB boards having rusted and corroded away. Both of these processes would 
occur over a period of several months of water ingress. We believe that water had been 
allowed to penetrate under the fiberglass for a number of months and cause the OSB boards 
to lose their structural integrity, and therefore, the bond of the fiberglass covering to the 
original roof.
The lack of bonding of the fiberglass to the OSB boards and original roof has caused them to 
be more susceptible to damage and whilst it did occur during a period of storm, this is not 
the dominant cause of the damage. Had this been in adequate condition and without the loss 
of bonding, then the covering should not have come off during the winds.
I find this evidence to be more persuasive and consistent with the photos. Ive also looked at 
the volume of rain in the days before the surveyor visited. On some days there was no, or 
very little, rain recorded, on two days there was 4mm of rain recorded in a 24-hour period 
and on one day there was 7mm in a 24-hour period. I dont think these can be regarded as a 
large or significant amount of rain. This combined with RSAs view that external specification OSBs would take some time to disintegrate mean that Im currently of the view that the storm 
wasnt the main cause of the damage, but instead highlighted existing issues with the roof. 
Based on what Ive currently seen, I think its more likely than not that the disintegrated OSB 
was evidence of a longstanding issue with the roof rather than something that happened 
within about a five-day period. As a result, I currently think it was reasonable for RSA to 
decline the claim.
Im also aware Mr K and Mrs K were concerned by the attitude of the surveyor. I think it was 
reasonable that RSA reported this to the surveyors company and said it would be dealt with 
internally. Ive also thought about the compensation RSA offered for the delays in telling Mr 
K and Mrs K the claim decision. I think the £100 offered was reasonable and in line with the 
amount I would have said it should pay. So, I dont currently intend to require it to pay 
anything further.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 29 November 2022. Both parties replied before that date.
RSA agreed with my decision.
Mr K and Mrs K disagreed with my decision. In summary, they said:
They were surprised RSA had submitted new and very different evidence to the 
surveyor.
BVS hadnt referred to rotten nails or water penetration and the photos didnt support 
this.
They queried whether RSA had asked the surveyor to write another survey and fabricate 
evidence against his claim.
They queried why these observations hadnt been made in the original report.
They queried why if there was water penetration over several months this wasnt 
showing inside the property and why RSA hadnt taken photos. Mr K and Mrs K said this 
was because there was none.
They quoted their own roofers report and said they failed to understand how their 
roofers findings werent related to the winds of 59mph.
They said they were willing to concede there might have been some existing 
deterioration to the roof after five years, but it wasnt the main reason a third of it had 
blown away.
They said surely the point of insurance was to contribute to the cost of disasters rather 
than refusing to pay at all. They said this particular instance might not be a black and 
white case so asked why RSA and I didnt agree to compromise on their behalf.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and for the reasons given in my 
provisional decision. As part of that, Ive considered the points raised by Mr K and Mrs K.
As I explained in my provisional decision, the comments I quoted were from RSA. They 
werent from the surveyor or his company. The photos are the ones in the surveyors report, 
which Mr K and Mrs K already have. The comments were provided following our 
investigators findings being issued. Both parties are able to provide information and 
evidence to this service that they think is relevant to the complaint. It isnt unusual for one or 
both parties to provide additional comments, including where they think this provides further 
explanation of what happened. It also isnt unusual for the insurer itself to provide comments 
in addition to what the surveyors report said.
The surveyor said the damage wasnt caused by a storm. In my view, the comments from 
RSA build on what the surveyor said and provide further explanation. In terms of the water 
penetration, what RSA said was: the photos and evidence here suggest that the 
recovering was defective in some way and there was water penetrating beneath the 
fiberglass to the OSB board. The damaged roof sat on top of the original felt roof. The water 
penetration was into the fibreglass roof and damaged the OSB. The OSB sat on top of the 
felt roof. I havent seen any suggestion from RSA or the surveyor that the water penetrated 
the felt roof. So, as Mr K and Mrs K said, there wouldnt have been internal damage.
In terms of Mr K and Mrs Ks roofer report, I was aware of its full content before I commented 
on it. The report said the roof was inspected after the storm. It referred to lifted lead flashing 
but didnt say this was caused by the storm or when this was likely to have happened. It said 
this had allowed wind to get underneath the boards and detach them. It gave no timeframe 
for this and didnt say this was caused by the storm. Something happening because of 
wind isnt the same as it being caused by a storm. The policy doesnt cover all damage 
affected by weather conditions. It covers one-off storm events. Although I can understand 
that Mr K and Mrs K think the windspeeds caused the roof to lift, the roofer didnt say the 
roof was damaged by storm speed winds or say the damage was caused by a one-off storm 
event or why he thought this was likely to be the case.
It isnt in dispute that the roof lifted during a storm. However, the issue is whether the storm 
was the main cause of the damage or whether it highlighted pre-existing issues. I remain of 
the view that it was reasonable for RSA to decide there was a long-term issue with water 
penetrating the roof and for it to decline this claim. As a result, I dont uphold this complaint 
or require RSA to do anything further.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that this 
complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 December 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman