DRN-3770628
The complaint
Mr K complains about the transfer of his self-invested personal pension (SIPP) to Halifax 
Share Dealing Limited (trading as IWeb).
What happened
Mr K complained that it had taken more than one year to transfer his SIPP. While he had 
been offered a good will payment of £250 for the delay, he said this wasnt sufficient to cover 
the additional fees he had to pay his more expensive previous provider. From October 2019 
to May 2020 he had incurred SIPP fees with his transferring provider of just over £915.00. In 
contrast he would have incurred fees of just £45 per quarter with IWeb. Due to the delays he 
had paid about £780 of which the transferring company had offered £400. When added to 
the £250 offered this still left him short of the extra costs.
IWeb said it provided the investment/stockbroking services for the SIPP but administration 
was undertaken by a third party. IWeb said the delays were not its fault but offered £75.00 to 
restore Mr Ks confidence. The administrator responded separately and said that the transfer 
could have started from 17 July 2019. Usually it took 3 working days to respond but had 
actually taken 7 but it didnt think that was unreasonable. On 15 April 2020 it confirmed it 
would send its transfer instruction to the transferring provider but due to human error the 
transfer was not initiated for 28 working days. It said that it was clear it had contributed to the 
delay but was not responsible for the main delays to the transfer. It did not receive a full list 
of assets until January 2020 and was unable to progress without it. There was a further 
delay between February 2020 and April 2020 where it was waiting for confirmation of the 
assets which could not be transferred. It had been proactive in the time from July to 
November 2020 in chasing the transferring provider. While it was not responsible for the 
main delays it offered an ex gratia payment of £250.
I issued a provisional decision in this case. I said the following.
Firstly considered whether Halifax Share Dealing Limited (trading as IWeb).was the correct 
party to this complaint. IWeb said it provides stockbroking services but the administrative 
aspects are performed by a third party.
While I had not seen a copy of Mr Ks application to join the IWeb SIPP, nor seen any terms 
and conditions, I do think IWeb is the correct party. I say that because IWeb has responded 
to Mr Ks complaint, rejecting it and saying that it didnt do anything wrong. For that reason it 
seemed clear that IWeb accept that Mr K is a customer and has reason to complain about 
matters connecting to his IWeb SIPP.
However IWeb disputed that it was responsible for the matters relating to the complaint and 
directed Mr K to deal with a third-party company that I understood provided administrative 
support for the IWeb SIPP. That third party had responded but is not a party to this 
complaint. It was my understanding that it is contracted to IWeb to provide those 
administrative services. IWeb is therefore able to hold it to account under the terms of that 
contract.
I had not seen any evidence to show that Mr K had any direct contractual relationship or 
agreement with the third party. It seemed to me that his only contract was with IWeb. It was 
up to IWeb how it delivered services under the contract with Mr K. If, as seems to be the 
case here, it had used a third party to do some of the administration that did not absolve 
IWeb from responsibility for performance of the contract with Mr K.
The law would say that the third party was performing those administrative functions as 
agent for IWeb and it remained wholly responsible to Mr K for that performance whether 
delivered by it or by the third party. It was possible that the terms of the agreement between 
IWeb and the third party apportion responsibility and liability for errors behind the contractual 
relationship. But that did not mean Mr K had to deal with the third party in a way that mirrors 
the contract between IWeb and the third party. I said that because he was not a party to it. 
For those reasons I think IWeb and not the third party was the correct party to this complaint.
If IWeb disagreed, then before I issued my final decision, I invited it to provide evidence that 
there was a contractual relationship between Mr K and this third party such that it was not 
responsible for the matters that were the subject of this complaint.
Secondly, I considered the complaint. It was clear to me that there was a considerable delay 
in the transfer of Mr Ks SIPP from his current provider to IWeb. The process started in July 
2019 but did not complete until November 2020. I had therefore considered what evidence 
there was that IWeb was responsible for all or part of that delay. There are four parties 
involved in the transfer, Mr K, IWeb, the third-party administrator and the transferring SIPP 
provider. While the third party administrator was not a party to this complaint (for the reasons 
given), it had responded to Mr K and I had therefore used its replies in considering this 
complaint and on the basis that IWeb was responsible for its actions or inaction as agent for 
IWeb. The transferring provider was not party to this complaint but this service had dealt with 
a complaint against it. This had enabled me to verify some aspects of what had been said 
based on the records we hold from the transferring provider.
For ease of reference I set out a timeline of events. This was based on the timeline supplied 
by IWEB in its reply to Mr K and also the timeline supplied by the administrator in its reply to 
Mr K. I had further added comments in italics which are items I had been able to validate 
from the transferring provider file. I had not repeated the timeline of events here as neither 
party disputed it.
From the evidence in the timeline it did seem there was a delay from July 2019 to January 
2020. It seemed much of that initial delay was due to the transferring providing. The 
transferring provider said it issued a valuation to IWEB in November 2020. The transferring 
providers file screenshot does show valuations produced in November 2019, April and June 
2020. But IWEB and its administrators timeline suggest it first received a valuation in 
January 2020. I have also seen a copy of the letter from the transferring provider sending out 
a valuation to the administrator under cover of a letter dated 15 January 2020.
So it seemed that IWEB, its administrator and transferring provider say a valuation was sent 
in January 2020. While the transferring provider file records a valuation was produced in 
November it does not record one being produced in December or January and nor had I 
seen a copy letter sending it out. It was possible that the valuation sent in January 2020 was 
the one produced in November 2019 but in the absence of a copy of that valuation I could 
confirm that.
Based on the evidence I had seen and the conflict within the transferring provider records I 
didnt think I had sufficient evidence to conclude that IWEB received a valuation in 
November or December 2020 nor that one was sent to them. But I did have evidence it 
received one in January 2020. For that reason I didnt think I could agree with the investigators suggestion that a valuation was sent earlier than IWEB said it was. So I didnt 
think I had sufficient evidence to conclude it was responsible for any of the delays up to 
January 2020.
The next period where there appeared to be a delay was between 12 February 2020 and 14 
April 2020. But it seemed that during this time IWEB was waiting for Mr K and his 
transferring provider to arrange encashment of the non transferrable investments. Even by 
April 2020 this still had not happened. So I didnt have evidence that IWEB was responsible 
for delay in that period.
However the administrator confirmed on 15 April 2020 it would send its transfer instruction to 
the transferring provider but admitted that due to human error the transfer was not initiated 
for 28 working days. So it was clear there was a delay of 28 days at this point for which 
IWEB was responsible as the administrator was acting as its agent.
I reviewed the remainder of the timeline after 15 April and couldnt identify any clear 
evidence of further delays by IWEB or the administrator.
In summary the administrator had accepted that it caused 28 working days of delays in April 
2020. I therefore considered an award for financial loss and distress and inconvenience due 
to that delay.
Mr K said that the reason for his transfer was to save fees. The 28 days delay must therefore 
have meant he paid higher fees for an additional 28 days. I thought the measure of Mr Ks 
loss was that he had to pay an additional 28 working days of fees that he would not 
otherwise has had to pay.
I therefore proposed that IWEB should pay Mr K for 28 days of fees incurred by him from 15 
April to May 2020. It would assist if Mr K could produce copies of the amounts deducted 
from his SIPP account with the transferring provider for fees at that time. I could then state a 
specific amount to be paid in my final decision.
I also considered that Mr K lost the use of the money he had to pay to his transferring 
provider as fees at that time. I thought it was reasonable to compensate him for that loss of 
use of that money by making an award that IWEB should also pay interest on the fee 
amount from the date of deduction by the transferring provider to the date of payment by 
IWEB to Mr K at the rate of 8% per annum simple.
I considered an award for distress and inconvenience. Such an award was to reflect the 
impact on Mr K not to punish IWEB. I could see that the delays have been frustrating for Mr 
K.
I noted however that IWEB offered £75 and the administrator offered £250, so a total of 
£325. I thought this was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
I proposed to uphold this complaint and direct that Halifax Share Dealing Limited (trading as 
IWEB) should pay Mr K:-
1. compensation for financial loss for fees on the basis set out above.
2. £325 for distress and inconvenience (but for the avoidance of doubt this payment shall be 
reduced if and to the extent that £75 has already been paid by IWEB and £250 by its 
administrator).
Before I issued my final decision I said it would assist if:-1. IWEB provided evidence that there was a contractual relationship between Mr K and this 
third party such that it is not responsible for the matters that are the subject of this complaint.
2. Mr K could provide evidence of the fees paid to his transferring period during the 28 
working days referred to above.
Mr K said that he found himself in a position where excessive delays in the SIPP transfer 
process have not be clarified in a way that the excess charges he had incurred are being 
compensated. He provided evidence of the fees he paid in April 2020 to his old provider 
(£84.06). He also referred to the IWEB website which said that a transfer was easy 
complete and return our transfer form and we will do the rest. He said this made clear IWEB 
took full responsibility for completion of the transfer commencing with receipt of the transfer 
form. He said I should take into account that IWEB had not lived up to its promise and in fact 
deflected responsibility back to him and their administrator on many occasions without taking 
an active role in the process. Based on its promise he felt IWEB should be responsible for 
the entire delay.
He said he had rejected a goodwill offer from the previous provider and my decision made 
no reference to that nor how to get it to honour this offer. He wanted my decision to include a 
direction to the old provider to make payment. It would be disappointing if as a result of this 
decision he ended up worse off.
IWEB did not comment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As IWEB did not reply it seems that they are the correct party to this complaint.
I note Mr Ks comments that he feels he is out of pocket overall. But I can only make a 
direction for financial loss to the extent caused by the actions or inaction of IWEB and its 
agent. While I note Mr Ks comments about IWEB doing the rest I have undertaken a 
detailed analysis of events to identify whether delays were due to it or not. Having done so 
and in the absence of any other evidence I have not changed my mind about the extent of 
the delay caused by IWEB and therefore my proposed award.
I also note his comments about the previous provider. This complaint is against IWEB so I 
cannot make a direction against the old provider who are not subject to this compliant. 
However having made enquiries I understand that the old provider did honour its offer of 
paying £400 goodwill and that amount had been credited to his account with that provider 
and had been utilised in part by Mr K, although he may not have been aware of that.
Putting things right
Mr K provided evidence to show he had paid his previous provider £84.08 in fees in 4 May 
2020 so I will direct that this should be paid by IWEB plus simple interest thereon at 8% per 
annum. 
Further I will direct payment of £325 for distress and inconvenience (but for the avoidance of 
doubt this payment shall be reduced if and to the extent that £75 has already been paid by 
IWEB and £250 by its administrator).My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I direct that Halifax Share Dealing Limited should within 30 days of this service notifying it 
that Mr K has accepted this decision, pay Mr K:-
1. £84.08 for additional fees paid to the previous provider plus interest at the rate of 8% 
per annum simple from 4 May 2020 to the date of payment to Mr K under this 
direction.
2. £325 for distress and inconvenience (but for the avoidance of doubt this payment 
shall be reduced if and to the extent that £75 has already been paid by IWEB and 
£250 by its administrator).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2022.
 
Colette Bewley
Ombudsman