DRN-3634862
The complaint
Mr S complains that Scottish Widows Limited (SW) provided a poor service in relation to the 
pension plan he held with them. And that this led to a financial loss.
What happened
Mr S had a personal pension plan with SW since 1988. In March 2020, he wanted to speak 
to SWs pensions department. 
Mr S said he wasnt able to talk to anyone in the pensions department from 25 March 2020 
to 8 June 2020 because the department was closed due to the coronavirus pandemic. He 
said that all of his communications with SW during this time were with call centre staff with 
no understanding about what he wanted to do. He also said that all calls to the pensions 
department during this time led to a recorded message with no instructions about what to do 
to manage the customers pension. 
Both parties are aware of the key dates and conversations that relate to this complaint. 
Therefore Im not going to summarise them all here. But I can confirm that Ive considered all 
the evidence provided by both parties. I acknowledge that Mr S has asked this service to 
state all of the attempted and actual communications he had with SW in this background 
section. But I have only stated key dates here, as is our usual practice.
Mr S called SW on 19 March 2020 to ask about his pension investments. Mr S said there 
was no discussion about the transfer process in this call because he had no intention of 
making a transfer at this time. During the call, Mr S asked which mixed fund his pension was 
allocated to. And confirmed that he could move any proportion into any other of the available 
pension funds at any time. SW confirmed, when Mr S asked, that the first switch in the 
calendar year is free. And that further switches would be charged at 0.5% of the fund being 
switched after that, with a minimum charge of £10 and a maximum charge of £25.
Mr S called SW again on 25 March 2020. SW told Mr S about the internal fund switch 
process. They also incorrectly told him that the bid  offer spread would be applied to any 
internal fund switch. They confirmed the same incorrect information in an email the same 
day. The email stated that there was a 5% Bid Offer spread on Mr Ss policy. Mr S said that 
this incorrect information was a serious disincentive to carry out switches on his pension. 
And that it had encouraged him to transfer his funds to another platform where the charges 
were lower. 
Mr S emailed SW on 26 March 2020 to request a call back. Hed been unable to get through 
to SW on the phone.
SW received a transfer request for Mr Ss pension plan from another provider  provider A - 
on 27 March 2020. This came through the online Origo transfer system. Mr S said that he 
had only initiated the transfer to provider A because hed been given the incorrect 
information about switching charges on 25 March 2020. He said hed never mentioned the 
idea of a transfer away from SW to them before this point. But that after hed found out that 
hed been given incorrect information, he said all his subsequent contacts with SW were 
attempts to have the transfer delayed while he reverted to his original plan of making 
switches. 
On 30 March 2020 Mr S emailed SW asked for clarification on switch charges. He said his 
documentation stated that transfers were done on a bid to bid basis. 
On 31 March 2020 Mr S told SW that hed arranged to transfer his pension plan to provider 
A. Mr S said he wanted this to be done as soon as possible. He also said he wanted the 
whole fund to be moved to cash on a bid to bid basis based on the fund prices as at 26 
March 2020. Mr S emailed SW again on 1 April 2020, telling them hed been trying for the 
last week to switch his funds to cash before carrying out a transfer to provider A. 
Mr S called SW again on 2 April 2020. He said hed been told by then that it was very 
unlikely that the 5% bid offer charge hed been told a switch would incur was correct. He said 
that this had led him to the reasonable decision to pause his transfer. During this call, SW 
confirmed that his transfer was being worked on. Mr S said he wanted to speak to someone 
regarding his intention to move his fund into cash. SW confirmed that there was no definitive 
date when their offices would be open again. They sent a follow up email the same day 
which said they couldnt process the switch to cash at this time. But that they hoped they 
would reopen the following week. 
Mr S said that he felt it was clear from the 2 April 2020 call that he wanted to pause the 
transfer and carry out the switch into cash. He said hed specifically told SW during this call 
that he didnt want to transfer into cash and then to provider A. He said it was fairly clear 
from the call recording that he wanted to switch to cash but not transfer. And that in all 
contact with SW from 2 April 2020 onwards hed only asked that the transfer was paused 
and that he should be able to continue with his plan to move to cash. 
SW sent a system generated letter to Mr S on 7 April 2020. This confirmed that his request 
to transfer his pension to provider A had been received and was being worked on. Mr S said 
he didnt receive the letter, but SW said that was out of their control. 
Mr S contacted SW again on 14 April 2020. SW confirmed that their service centre dealing 
with switches and transfers still wasnt open. Mr S said hed instructed a switch to cash and 
a transfer to provider A but neither had been confirmed. So he wanted to speak to someone 
about these. SWs notes recorded that theyd told Mr S to leave an enquiry through their 
website so that they could contact him when they were open again. 
Mr Ss transfer to provider A was completed on 23 April 2020, based on the unit prices of his 
investments as at 27 March 2020. SW wrote to Mr S to confirm the amount theyd 
transferred to provider A - £108,656.68. This also stated: The policy is now cancelled 
together with all the associated benefits. Mr S said he specifically told SW not to carry out 
the transfer during the 2 April 2020 call. And that hed been assured during his 14 April 2020 
call with SW that someone would contact him before anything would happen to his pension.
Mr S asked SW for a final statement, showing the number of units sold and the settlement 
date, on 28 April 2020. He said hed been told that his pension had been transferred so he 
wanted written confirmation of whatd happened so that he could pursue a complaint. He 
also said he never received the requested statement.
SW said this request was inadvertently closed without action on 30 April 2020, after a 
colleague believed the information had already been issued to Mr S. 
Mr S contacted SW again on 28 May 2020 as he hadnt received the statement hed asked 
for. He raised a complaint. SW notes recorded that Mr S felt they hadnt sent the statement hed requested and theyd not switched the fund into cash before his transfer to provider A. 
Mr S said he hadnt said he wanted to switch to cash before transferring to provider A on this 
call. He also said hed complained about being unable to talk to anyone in the pensions 
department for two months as well. 
On 28 May 2020, SW incorrectly sent Mr S a value for the pension plan hed already 
transferred to provider A, rather than the closing statement hed requested. This said the 
fund value at 28 May 2020 was £115,428.06. So appeared to show that the pension plan 
was still with them.
Mr S said he felt this statement reflected: exactly the state of my pension based on my 
wishes.
On 2 June 2020, SW issued their first final response letter to Mr S. They said they were 
unable to uphold the complaint about being unable to switch his funds before his transfer to 
provider A. But agreed that they hadnt sent Mr S the information hed requested. And that 
when they eventually had done, it had been wrong. They acknowledged that Mr S had been 
given the wrong information on the phone and by email. And offered £150 compensation for 
the error.
SW didnt uphold the complaint about the transfer to provider A. They said that the transfer 
to provider A had been completed using unit prices from 27 March 2020. And that as this 
was the same date at which they wouldve actioned the switch to cash Mr S had tried to 
complete on 26 March 2020, thered been no loss. They said the transfer to provider A was 
finalised on 23 April 2020. And that theyd sent confirmation to Mr S by post. This confirmed 
the settlement date of 27 March 2020. 
SW also confirmed that Mr Ss pension plan had been closed when the transfer to provider A 
was completed. They apologised for the wrong information that had been sent on 28 May 
2020, but Mr S said it hadnt reached him yet.
Mr S called SW again on 8 June 2020. SWs call notes recorded that they confirmed that the 
pension plan had been transferred. But that their internal system still showed a current value 
for the pension plan. The notes also recorded that SW called Mr S to tell him a value for his 
transferred plan was still showing. And that they would call him today or tomorrow with 
update. Unhappy, Mr S complained to SW.
On 9 June 2020, SWs file notes recorded that theyd tried to call Mr S. The notes state that 
his pension plan would be transferred to provider A. But the transfer had already been 
completed in April 2020. 
On 10 June 2020, Mr S wrote to SW to ask them to carry out the transfer at that days prices. 
And on 11 June 2020, he called SW to further complain. SWs call notes recorded that the 
transfer had taken place, but that the pension plan still had a value on their system. They 
said they had corrected the issue and apologised. They said that Mr S didnt think that the 
transfer had gone through because hed called several times and got a value. And that hed 
told them that hed told SW during his 14 April 2020 call with them that he didnt want the 
transfer to go ahead. 
Mr S said that SW told him on 10 June 2020 that he shouldve been able to control the 
timing of any transfer or cancel it entirely. He said that his request at this time was the first 
time hed specifically asked for the transfer to go ahead after previously asking that it be 
delayed so he could carry out switches. 
SW considered Mr Ss further complaint points in their 19 June 2020 final response letter. The only part of the complaint SW upheld was that despite telling Mr S during a 2 June 2020 
call that system issues had led to his pension plan being shown as still in force, SW hadnt 
included this in their letter to him. And as a result of this issue, Mr S was told a current policy 
value on subsequent phone calls. They offered £50 compensation as an apology for the 
error. 
SW didnt uphold further elements of Mr Ss complaint. They didnt agree theyd been 
uncontactable over the period Mr S had suggested. And said theyd already acknowledged 
and compensated Mr S for the incorrect information on switch charging hed been given on 
25 March 2020. 
SW didnt agree that Mr S had told them he didnt want the transfer to go ahead until hed 
spoken with their servicing team during either the 2 or the 14 April 2020 calls. They said he 
did tell them he wanted to speak to someone to find out how much was being transferred. 
SW also acknowledged that Mr S had been unable to contact them on 26 March 2020 to 
carry out the switch to cash. And said that if hed been able to contact them, the switch 
wouldve been based on the 27 March 2020 bid price. They said that as the transfer request 
had been made on the same date, there had been no effect to the value. And therefore no 
financial disadvantage as a result of not being able to complete the fund switch before 
transferring to provider A. SW also said that theyd already covered and provided 
compensation for the delays in providing a closing statement. 
Mr S replied to SW on 6 July 2020. He disagreed with their decision. He said it wasnt right 
that one of his complaints was about being unable to do a fund switch prior to transferring to 
provider A. He said hed been unable to do anything to his pension since SW closed the 
processing dept on 26 March 2020. He felt hed had no information on, or control over, his 
pension for over three weeks. And that SW had transferred his pension to provider A despite 
him requesting during the call on 14 April 2020 that they didnt process the transfer until hed 
spoken to the pensions department. He felt he shouldve had the option to make 
amendments to his pension plan during the calls of 2 and 14 April 2020. 
Mr S also said that hed received the 7 April 2020 letter from SW in which they said theyd 
confirmed that the transfer was completed. He said this wasnt correct. He said it had 
simply stated that SW had received a request to transfer and that they were dealing with the 
request. So the transfer hadnt been completed. He said he called the number on the letter 
as soon as hed received it and asked for the transfer to be stopped. 
SW responded to the additional complaint points on 17 July 2020. They didnt uphold the 
complaint points about the plan being transferred before Mr S had been able to speak to 
their pensions department. But they acknowledged that theyd taken too long to transfer the 
pension plan to provider A. They felt the funds shouldve been received by provider A on 9 
April 2020. And offered £75 compensation as an apology. And also offered to conduct unit 
price comparisons on any investments Mr S had made with provider A.
Mr S didnt agree with SW. On 29 November 2020, he wrote to SW. He said that if SWs 
offices had been open during the period when the transfer shouldve been processed he 
wouldve had control over the process. He also didnt agree that he hadnt asked for the 
transfer to be stopped. He said hed made it clear on the 14 April 2020 call that hed been 
trying to make variations on his policy for three weeks. He said hed insisted a number of 
times that someone called him before the transfer was processed. And that he was told 
someone would call him before the transfer was processed. He said he wasnt called and the 
transfer shouldnt have been processed. He asked why he hadnt been contacted.
SW issued a further response to Mr S complaints on 9 December 2020. They didnt uphold 
the complaint. They said that the information theyd requested so that they could consider Mr Ss financial position hadnt been provided. SW said there was no instruction to cancel the 
transfer during the 14 April 2020 call. And that theyd advised Mr S to contact them through 
an online form on our website and would be in contact in response to that. But they had no 
evidence that Mr S had contacted them in this way. So their servicing team wouldnt have 
been aware that they needed to contact him. They said that Mr S hadnt been told that 
nothing would be done before theyd contacted him.
Mr S didnt agree. He repeated and expanded on some of his earlier complaint points in his 
30 March 2021 letter to SW. SW responded to Mr S on 5 April 2021. They felt theyd 
addressed all of his points previously. They said they still hadnt received the financial impact 
information theyd requested from Mr S. And that they would limit any losses they would 
calculate in future given the delay in the provision of this information. 
Mr S brought his complaint to this service. He felt that the value of his pension should be 
taken at the point he said he requested the transfer on 10 June 2020, rather than the date it 
was actually transferred against his wishes. This amounted to a loss or around £12,000. He 
also felt hed lost around £4,000 due to being unable to switch funds when hed wanted to. 
And that he should be compensated £5,000 for SW removing their service for four weeks. 
And a further £5,000 for the time hed spent on this complaint. The total compensation 
requested was around £26,000. But Mr S felt that this should be increased in line with the 
gain in the FTSE between the date that the transfer was requested and the date that the 
compensation was paid.
Our investigator felt that SW had taken reasonable steps to put things right. He felt that 
although SW had made an error in May and June 2020 when theyd provided incorrect 
information which appeared to show his pension plan was still in force, theyd acknowledged 
their error and offered Mr S £50 compensation as an apology. He also felt that although SW 
had given Mr S incorrect information about switching charges, theyd acknowledged their 
error. And offered Mr S £150 compensation to say sorry. He also felt that SW had acted 
reasonably, and as we would expect them to, when theyd offered £75 for taking too long to 
carry out Mr Ss transfer. And offered to calculate any financial loss to Mr S upon receipt of 
the information they needed to make that assessment. Overall, our investigator felt that 
SWs compensation offers were in line with what he wouldve recommended. So he didnt 
recommend that SW should take any further action.
I understand that provider A received £108,656.68 from SW on 28 April 2020. Mr S told this 
service that his pension plan with provider A remained in cash until the middle of November 
2020, when he began to invest it in other funds. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. I understand this will be disappointing to Mr S. 
But I consider that SW have already taken reasonable steps to put things right. Ill explain 
the reasons for my decision. 
Mr S issued a lengthy response to our investigator after he issued his view on this complaint. 
Ive considered all of the points he made, alongside all of his and SWs previous 
submissions. But I havent covered in detail all of the points he made. Instead, Ive focused 
on what I consider to be the most important aspects of the complaint.Amongst other things, Mr S didnt agree that SW had only made the three errors our 
investigator considered. He felt that their decision to close the pensions department from 26 
March 2020 to 19 April 2020 was an error and a breach of contract. He also felt that SW 
hadnt put any process in place to enable him to manage his pension during the period when 
the pensions team wasnt available.
Mr Ss position is that when SW shut their call centre he was unable to manage his pension 
and make appropriate fund switches. And that although he had asked SW to transfer his 
pension to provider A, he had subsequently asked for the transfer to be put on hold. But that 
SW had transferred it anyway. 
SWs position is that there were aspects of poor service. Theyd acknowledged these and 
paid a total of £275 compensation for the frustration and inconvenience caused. Theyd also 
offered to calculate any financial loss.
SW have clearly made and acknowledged a number of errors in this complaint. I need to 
decide if the compensation theyve offered for these errors is fair and reasonable under the 
circumstances of the complaint. As our investigator noted, my aim is to try to put Mr S back 
to the position I consider he would most likely be in now, had SW not made any errors.
I first considered the incorrect information SW gave Mr S on 25 March 2020.
Incorrect information about fund switches
SW have acknowledged that they gave Mr S incorrect information about switching charges. 
And offered him £150 compensation to say sorry.
Mr S said that the incorrect information was a serious disincentive to carry out switches on 
his pension. And that it had encouraged him to transfer his funds to another platform where 
the charges were lower. He also said this was the trigger to initiating the transfer of his 
pension to provider A. 
Mr S said that if he hadnt been misinformed, he wouldnt have transferred his pension. And 
if SWs office hadnt been closed, their error wouldve been corrected the day after they 
made it. He said that if the office had been open and the mistake corrected, he wouldve 
been able to pause or cancel his transfer to provider A. Mr S said this error was the main 
cause of all that had happened to his pension.  And didnt agree that £150 was anywhere 
near enough compensation for what happened to his pension. 
I first considered what happened, and when. 
On the 19 March 2020 call SW correctly confirmed, when Mr S asked, that the first switch in 
the calendar year was free. And that further switches would be charged at 0.5% of the fund 
being switched after that, with a minimum charge of £10 and a maximum charge of £25. 
Mr S asked a number of detailed questions about the switching process during this call, 
which were clearly and correctly answered. One of the questions he asked during this call 
was:
If I moved my fund from you, is there a fee for that?
This shows that Mr S was considering a move away from SW at least as early as 19 March 
2020.
But then, during the 25 March 2020 call, SW incorrectly told Mr S that a 5% bid  offer spread would be applied to any internal fund switch. 
Mr S said that this led him to request a transfer to provider A. And that he only found out 
several weeks later that it wasnt correct.
The terms and conditions of the pension plan confirm that the information Mr S was given on 
the 19 March 2020 was correct. Section 2.6.3 states that the bid price will be used and that 
the charge will be 0.5% of the fund value, with a minimum charge of £10.
I understand that Mr S has a copy of his terms and conditions as he told SW that his 
documentation stated that transfers were done on a bid to bid basis.
Based on what Ive seen, I appreciate that SW made a mistake. But I consider that SW had 
already given Mr S the correct information a few days before they made the mistake. And 
that his pension plans terms and conditions also made this information clear. 
Im not persuaded that the error led to the situation Mr S has described. I say this because 
Mr S asked SW if there would be any fees if he moved away from them on the 19 March 
2020 call. So Im satisfied that SWs error didnt lead him to first consider moving away from 
them. Im also not persuaded that he really believed the incorrect information he was given 
on the 25 March 2020 call. And in any event, he couldve confirmed the charges for himself 
by looking at his policys terms and conditions. 
I agree that SW made a mistake that may have caused some confusion. But I can also see 
that the correct information was available to Mr S. And Ive seen evidence that the incorrect 
information didnt lead to the consequences Mr S said it did. Therefore I consider that the 
£150 compensation SW have offered for their error was fair and reasonable under the 
circumstances. 
I next considered whether Mr Ss transfer request was fairly handled by SW. 
Transfer
From what Ive seen, Mr S first asked SW whether they would charge a fee if he were to 
move away from them on 19 March 2020. 
During the 19 March 2020 call, and the 25 March 2020 call, its clear than Mr S wanted to 
know about switching his funds to cash within SW. His subsequent written request to SW 
confirmed that that he wanted to switch his pension into cash before he transferred it to 
another provider.
Mr S tried to call SW to request the switch on 26 March 2020. Due to coronavirus, the office 
was closed, so no one was able to deal with his request at this point. 
SW received Mr Ss transfer request from provider A on 27 March 2020. And his 31 March 
2020 email to SW told them that hed arranged to transfer his funds to provider A. He said he 
wanted: to do this as soon as possible.
SW told Mr S that if theyd been able to complete his 26 March 2020 switch instruction, the 
switch wouldve taken place based on 27 March 2020 prices. And that because they also 
received the transfer instruction on 27 March 2020, that would also be based on 27 March 
2020 prices. 
SW said that because prices of 27 March 2020 applied to both transactions, Mr S hadnt 
been financially disadvantaged due to not being switched into cash before his transfer to provider A.  
If Mr S had been able to switch to cash before the transfer, his SW pension wouldve had 
£108,656 invested 100% within the cash fund. This wouldve led to a relatively simple 
transfer process to provider A. And Im in agreement with SW that the funds shouldve been 
with provider A on or around 9 April 2020. 
SW said that the disruption caused by the pandemic meant that they didnt issue the transfer 
settlement to provider A until 23 April 2020. They transferred £108,656 to provider A. 
So the correct amount of money was transferred. But it shouldve arrived with provider A a 
couple of weeks earlier than it did.
Mr S felt that the value of his pension should be taken at 10 June 2020, rather than the date 
it was actually transferred against his wishes. He said this amounted to a loss or around 
£12,000.
As our investigator noted, where theres been a transfer delay, this service expects a 
business to base their transfer value on the policy value at the date the transfer was 
received to ensure the value wasnt impacted by any changes to investment values during 
the delay. SW have done this. 
And wed expect SW to also recognise that the unit prices of the investments bought within 
provider A would also have changed during the delay, and offer to compare the unit prices of 
the investments funds when they were actually bought to when they shouldve been bought. 
SW have also offered to do. But Mr S remained in cash for several months after the transfer. 
SW also offered £75 compensation for the inconvenience caused. 
I consider that this level of compensation for inconvenience is reasonable for the impact the 
delay had on Mr S. And Im also satisfied that SW have already taken all of the steps to put 
things right in respect of the transfer that I wouldve otherwise asked them to take. I say this 
because I dont agree with Mr S that he first asked them to transfer on 10 June 2020. Im 
satisfied that he first asked them at the end of March 2020. Therefore I dont agree that the 
fact that SW transferred Mr Ss pension in April 2020 led to a loss of around £12,000.
I next considered how SWs error in continuing to record his pension plan as ongoing 
affected Mr S. 
System error showing plan still active
SW said that after the transfer to provider A had settled, they needed to amend their records. 
But before theyd fully updated their records to reflect the completed transfer, Mr S was 
inadvertently quoted values based on current unit prices. They said these values were 
incorrect as his pension had already been transferred to provider A. And that theyd 
apologised to Mr S and paid him £50 compensation for their error. 
Mr S said that hed been given pension plan values in May 2020 and June 2020 which had 
led him to believe that his plan hadnt been transferred. He said he felt the May 2020 
statement reflected: exactly the state of my pension based on my wishes. When the 
mistake had still not been correct in June 2020, Mr S felt he should be able to ask SW to 
transfer his plan to provider A at the prices hed been quoted in June 2020.
From what Ive seen, Mr S asked for the transfer to go ahead at the end of March 2020. SW 
wrote to him on 23 April 2020 to confirm the amount theyd transferred to provider A. This 
also stated: The policy is now cancelled together with all the associated benefits. Mr S called SW on 28 April 2020 to request a final statement be posted to him. I consider that this 
shows he knew that the transfer had completed at this point. 
So while I acknowledge that Mr S was given incorrect information about his pension plan in 
May and June 2020, I consider that he wouldve known that at the time. I agree that it 
wouldve been frustrating to get further incorrect information showing higher fund values than 
Mr S had actually transferred. But I dont consider that this had any financial impact on Mr S, 
as hed already been told that his transfer had completed. Overall, Im satisfied that an 
apology and £50 compensation was reasonable under the circumstances here.
I next considered Mr Ss complaint that he shouldve been able to control the timing of his 
transfer request, or cancel it entirely. And that the closure of the pensions department led to 
him being unable to delay the transfer, or carry out internal switches.
Impact of the closure of the pensions department
Mr S said he specifically told SW not to carry out the transfer during the 2 April 2020 call. 
And that hed been assured during his 14 April 2020 call with SW that someone would 
contact him before anything would happen to his pension. But that no one did.
Mr S said that he wanted to postpone the transfer. And that he made clear this was his wish 
in his calls to SW of 2 April 2020 and 14 April 2020. He said he also said that he didnt want 
to transfer into cash and then onto provider A. He also said that all his contacts with SW 
after 26 March 2020 were attempts to have the transfer delayed while he reverted to his 
original plan of making switches.
Mr S said that he hadnt been able to make his first requested fund switch into cash. And 
therefore there was no way for him to make further investment decisions about his pension 
plan. He also felt that the call centre staff he could speak to couldnt take instructions from 
him about switches. 
SW said that they told Mr S that he would need to complete an online enquiry form in order 
to request a call back. Ive seen no evidence that he did this. 
Mr S said that if someone had called him back, he wouldnt have ended up in the position he 
had. He said he shouldve had the opportunity to make as many switches as hed wanted 
wished. But that SW had denied him. And that if hed been able to do that, his pension plan 
wouldve been worth more.
As Mr S said hed specifically asked SW to postpone the transfer, Ive carefully listened to 
the calls of 2 and 14 April 2020. But Ive found no evidence that Mr S ever asked SW to 
postpone the transfer. Ive also looked at what happened after Mr S received the 23 April 
2020 letter from SW telling him the transfer had completed. And Ive seen no evidence that 
he complained to them at that point that the transfer shouldnt have gone ahead. 
Neither the 2 April 2020 or 14 April 2020 call has any information about what other 
instructions Mr S mightve wanted to give  either about postponing his transfer request or 
making alternative fund switches within SW. The only request Mr S made was to move from 
the mixed fund to the cash fund. I acknowledge that Mr S said that the recordings of both 
calls make it clear that he wanted to delay the transfer so that he could make some 
switches. But I dont agree that they do. I say this having listened carefully to each of these 
calls twice.
Ive also considered Mr Ss complaint that he lost out financially because he couldnt make 
alternative switch requests while SWs pensions department wasnt fully open. Mr S didnt feel that the fact that he hadnt reinvested the cash hed invested with provider A 
until more than six months after the transfer was relevant to his complaint with SW. I 
understand why he said this. But this service looks at what an individual actually did do when 
any restrictions they faced were lifted. In this case, I cant know what other fund switches Mr 
S mightve made if SWs pensions department had been fully open. But I consider I can 
reasonably say that the fact that he made no changes to his cash investment with his new 
provider for over six months indicates that he wouldnt have requested further switches with 
SW during the period between 26 March 2020 and 19 April 2020. And Ive seen no evidence 
that he told SW that he wanted to make any such alternative switches.
Therefore, I dont consider it would be fair or reasonable to ask SW to compensate Mr S for 
the any loss of investment opportunity. And I dont agree with Mr S that he had lost around 
£4,000 due to being unable to switch funds when hed wanted to.
Mr S also felt he should be compensated £5,000 for SW removing their service for four 
weeks. I dont think any compensation is due for this. I say this because, as I covered in the 
transfer section above, Mr Ss request to transfer was effectively carried out when it 
shouldve been, even if the pensions department had been fully open. And Ive seen no 
evidence that Mr S wouldve taken any different action if the pensions department had been 
fully open throughout the period in question. 
I finally considered Mr Ss additional complaint points. And his request for £5,000 
compensation for the time hed spent on his complaint.
Further points
Mr S said he didnt complain that the transfer was too slow, but that it shouldnt have 
happened at all. He felt that he shouldve been able to control, pause, or cancel the transfer. 
But that he hadnt been able to because the pensions department had been closed.
SW said that if Mr S had ever told them not to proceed with the transfer they wouldve 
cancelled the transaction. They said that in that event, provider A wouldve had to submit a 
new Origo transfer instruction to them once Mr S had decided he wanted to proceed. SW 
said theyd never received an instruction from Mr S, or from provider A, to tell them the 
transfer was not to proceed. 
SW said that there was no option for Mr S, or provider A, to place the transfer on hold, 
request subsequent switches and then ask for it to resume at a later date. They said the 
request to transfer either proceeded or it didnt. 
From what Ive seen, Mr S requested a transfer on 27 March 2020. And SW completed that 
transfer on 23 April 2020. As they felt they shouldve completed the transfer sooner, SW 
offered Mr S £75 compensation and to calculate any financial losses. This wouldve put Mr S 
into the position he had asked to be in. I say this because, as I said before, theres no 
evidence that Mr S ever asked SW to stop or to pause the transfer. And, even if he had, 
there was no option to pause the transfer. So I dont agree that the transfer shouldnt have 
happened at all. I consider that if SW hadnt completed Mr Ss transfer request, he wouldve 
complained to them about that. In the end, Mr S is now in the position he wouldve been in if 
there had been no errors. 
Mr S also said that he wanted £5,000 compensation for the time hed spent on this 
complaint. As Ive said above, Im satisfied that the compensation and actions SW have 
taken to put things right is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Therefore it wouldnt be 
fair or reasonable for me to ask SW to pay Mr S additional compensation, even though he is 
unhappy with the amount he has received so far.In summary, I acknowledge that Mr S wouldve transferred a bigger fund if hed delayed his 
transfer to May 2020 or June 2020. But Ive seen no evidence that he ever asked SW to stop 
or pause his transfer request from March 2020. Therefore Im satisfied that the transfer fairly 
completed in April 2020. I appreciate that Mr S wanted to speak to someone from SWs 
pensions department about his pension, but Ive no evidence that he completed the online 
enquiry form he was told hed need to complete for this to happen. Overall, although SW did 
make mistakes, Im satisfied that theyve already taken reasonable steps to put things right. 
And I dont uphold the complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman