DRN-3784735
The complaint
The estate of Mrs J complains that Aviva Equity Release UK Limited didnt freeze the 
interest on a lifetime mortgage after Mrs J died when Covid-19 caused delays in obtaining 
the legal right to represent the estate and hence sell the property.
Mrs W is representing the estate.
What happened
Mr and Mrs J applied for a lifetime mortgage with Aviva in 2005. When Mr J passed away in 
2019 the lifetime mortgage continued in Mrs Js sole name until she passed away in 
May 2020.
In June 2020 Mrs Ws brother phoned Aviva to ask about the next steps. He was given 
information about the need for probate, and information about the mortgage was sent to him.
In November 2020 Mrs W phoned Aviva saying they now had the authority needed to act for 
the estate, and the property had been sold subject to contract. She asked if the interest 
could be frozen, and was told that it couldnt and interest would continue to accrue until the 
mortgage was redeeemed. The mortgage was redeemed in April 2021.
The estate of Mrs J raised a complaint with Aviva about the original sale of the mortgage, 
and that the interest wasnt frozen whilst the property was sold. Aviva didnt uphold either 
complaint.
Unhappy with Avivas response, the estate of Mrs J brought the complaint to our service. An 
investigator looked into things and said we couldnt consider the complaint about the sale of 
the mortgage, and he didnt think Aviva had acted unfairly in not freezing the interest.
The estate of Mrs J accepted our investigators findings about the mis-sale complaint, but 
asked that an ombudsman decide the point about the freezing of the interest. As the estate 
of Mrs J accepted our investigators findings about the mis-sale complaint I wont be 
commenting on that in this decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I hope Mrs W will accept my condolences for her loss. Ive a great deal of sympathy for the 
position she was in, losing close family members and then dealing with the estate during 
uncertain times. Things cant have been easy for her.
What I have to consider is whether Aviva acted fairly and reasonably in the circumstances. 
And if not, consider whether the estate has suffered a loss as a result.
The terms of a lifetime mortgage mean consumers dont make any monthly repayments, but 
instead interest accrues on the loan until the property is sold.
The starting point in deciding this complaint is that the terms of the mortgage allowed Aviva 
to charge interest until the property was sold, so it was entitled to do so.
The estate of Mrs J feels that more should have been done to provide support during the 
Covid-19 pandemic. It doesnt feel interest should have accrued as the process to obtain the 
legal authority to represent the estate and then sell the property was impacted due to 
circumstances outside of its control.
The estate has said the delays were outside of its control; that is, the time it took to sell the 
property and redeem the mortgage wasnt its fault. But equally the fact matters couldnt be 
progressed wasnt Avivas fault either. I can only uphold a complaint if Im satisfied a 
business has done something wrong, I cant order it to make a gesture of goodwill or order it 
to freeze the interest when it did nothing wrong in continuing to charge it.
In response to the Covid-19 pandemic, on 20 March 2020 the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) released specific guidance for lenders with regards to mortgages. This guidance didnt 
extend to equity release mortgages. In situations where the guidance did apply, payment 
deferrals were offered to borrowers but interest on mortgages would still accrue. So, Aviva 
refusing to suspend interest charged during this period, doesnt go against the guidance 
released by the FCA.
In view of all that and as interest has been applied in line with the agreement that 
Mr and Mrs J accepted, I dont consider that Aviva has acted unfairly or unreasonably in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs J to accept or reject my decision 
before 8 December 2022. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman