DRN-2946501
The complaint
Mr B complains that Zurich Insurance PLC didnt renew his household insurance policy.
What happened
The background to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 31 May 2021  a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final 
decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained why I thought Zurich had acted reasonably and fairly. 
And I outlined the reasons why I wasnt minded to uphold Mr Bs complaint. I said:
What happened
Mr B held a household insurance policy with Zurich, which he took out on 5 July 2018. He 
chose to pay for his policy by monthly direct debit.
On 8 November 2020 Mr Bs property sustained fire and smoke damage. He contacted 
Zurich two days later to report the incident as he wanted to make a claim. But Zurich 
informed him that his insurance policy had lapsed on 5 July 2019 as it had been 
withdrawn from the market. So, Mr B was told that he couldnt make a claim.
Mr B complained about what had happened. He said Zurich hadnt notified him that his 
policy had lapsed. So, he was unaware that he was no longer covered by a policy of 
insurance. But Zurich said it had written to him by post and email on 12 June 2019 to 
advise that his policy was going to lapse on 5 July 2019. And it said it also uploaded a 
copy of the correspondence it sent Mr B to his online insurance portal. So, it didnt uphold 
his complaint.
Being dissatisfied about how Zurich had responded to his complaint, Mr B referred it to our 
service. Our investigator looked into what had happened and recommended partially 
upholding this complaint. She explained that she couldnt tell Zurich to settle Mr Bs claim 
as his policy was no longer available. But she wasnt persuaded hed been properly made 
aware that his policy wouldnt renew. And she recommended that Zurich pay Mr B £150 
compensation to recognise the trouble and upset he was caused.
Zurich disagreed with our investigators view of this complaint and provided and requested 
an ombudsmans decision. So, Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here, 
I must base my decision on the balance of probabilities. Ive read and considered all the 
information provided by Mr B and Zurich, but Ill concentrate my decision on what I think is 
relevant to decide the complaint. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because 
Ive failed to take it on board and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment 
on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Im sorry to hear about what happened to Mr B  I can see its impacted on him and caused 
him some distress. I can appreciate how upsetting it must have been for him to learn that he 
wasnt insured following an incident where he incurred loss as a result of his property 
sustaining damage. Ive carefully considered what happened and whether Zurich made an 
error  such that it needs to put right. And Ill explain why I dont think it has.
The first part of Mr Bs complaint is about Zurichs decision not to settle his claim. So, 
Ill focus on that issue first.
Zurich has provided our service with evidence, which shows that Mr Bs policy with Zurich 
was discontinued in 2019. So, by the time his policy expired, on 5 July 2019, it was no 
longer available for him to purchase.
Mr B wants our service to direct Zurich to settle his claim. But when he contacted Zurich 
to make a claim it was over 16 months after his policy had lapsed. No payments had 
been made for the entirety of that period. And there was no valid cover in place. In such 
circumstances, theres no basis for me to say Zurich should meet Mr Bs claim.
Ill turn now to the second part of Mr Bs complaint, which is about whether Zurich made 
him aware that his policy would lapse in July 2019.
Ive seen a copy of the letter Zurich says it sent Mr B on 12 June 2019. This 
correspondence states:
we are writing to let you know that your current home insurance product is no longer 
being offered by Zurich. From your renewal date, 5 July 2019, we are asking customers 
with this product to seek alternative home insurance cover.
This letter reminds Mr B of the amount he paid for his insurance the previous year and 
confirms that no further payments will be taken after the final instalment is made. It 
also explains that his direct debit will be cancelled.
This letter was sent to an address that differs slightly from the address Mr B provided to 
our service via his complaint form. However, I can see that he told Zurich that the address 
on its letter was correct.
Based on the available evidence, the address Zurich used appears to be the address Mr 
B provided when he insured his property. Zurich hasnt told us it received any returned 
mail. And Mr B hasnt told our investigator that the postal address Zurich used to 
communicate with him is incorrect.
I cant reasonably infer that Zurich erred by sending correspondence to an address that Mr 
B had provided. And, given the above evidence, Im persuaded that its more likely than not 
that Zurich sent the letter Ive seen, which is dated 12 June 2016.I dont doubt Mr B when he says he didnt receive this letter. But I think this is, most 
likely, due to issues with the post. While its very unfortunate when things get lost in the 
post,   
I dont think it would be fair for me to hold Zurich responsible for that. Its not something over
which it has any control.
Zurich also stated that an automated email was sent to Mr B confirming that his policy 
wouldnt renew. Its explained that, as a result of a change to its data management system, 
it cant provide our service with a copy of the email it sent Mr B.
Mr B says he didnt receive an email from Zurich about his policy lapsing. I can see the 
email address Zurich has recorded for him is different to the one hes used to communicate 
with our service. But Ive no reason to doubt that the email address recorded by Zurich was 
the one Mr B provided. I say this because he told our service that hed previously received 
emails from Zurich, and this is the only email address it has for him.
Im satisfied that an email to Mr B, confirming the status of his policy, would have been 
generated automatically by Zurich. I say this because its provided our service with a copy 
of an automated email a staff member received about their own policy, which was the same 
as the one Mr B held. This email explained that the policy wouldnt renew and the reasons 
why.
There would be no reason why Zurichs automated email wouldnt be sent to all affected 
policyholders. And I havent seen enough to persuade me that the automated process didnt 
happen in Mr Bs case.
Mr B said he assumed his policy had renewed automatically in 2019 and 2020. But Im not 
persuaded by this argument. I say this because this would have required payment from Mr
B. And, by November 2020, no direct debit payments had been taken from his account for 
over 16 months  a prolonged period.
Mr B told our service that he didnt notice he hadnt made payments to Zurich since 2019. 
But I think the length of time over which payments had ceased is significant. Its a 
reasonable period in which a policyholder could be expected to notice that payments to an 
insurer had ceased. And I think there was an onus on Mr B to check his bank account to 
see if his direct debit payments were being taken.
Because Mr Bs policy didnt renew in July 2019, Zurich didnt send him renewal 
invitations or policy continuation documents at that time. This also happened in July 
2020. I think the absence of such important documentation, for two consecutive years, 
ought to have prompted Mr B to contact Zurich to query the status of his policy.
If Mr B had noticed that his direct debit payments had stopped and that he hadnt received 
policy renewal documentation for 2019 and 2020 its likely he would have contacted Zurich 
to discuss this. It would have then come to his attention that his policy had lapsed. I cant 
reasonably hold Zurich responsible for Mr Bs failure to notice two significant changes, 
which would have indicated that he no longer held an active insurance policy.
In the overall circumstances, Im satisfied that Zurich did enough to bring the end of Mr Bs 
policy to his attention. And I dont think it made an error in declining to settle his claim. It 
follows that Im not intending to uphold this complaint.
In my provisional decision, I invited both parties to respond with any additional information 
they wanted me to consider before I made my final decision, which is our service's last word 
on the matter.Zurich responded to confirm it accepted my provisional decision  so it nothing further to 
add. However, Mr B did not respond despite our investigator contacting him on several 
occasions to confirm whether he had anything he wished to add to his complaint in response 
to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and in light of the fact neither party has presented any new evidence or 
arguments for my consideration, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions set out in 
my provisional decision. I still dont think Mr B's complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2021.
 
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman