DRN-3751944
The complaint
Mrs S complains about what happened when she asked Barclays Bank UK PLC to take 
advance payment for her mortgage for the next twelve months. She said Barclays only set 
this up for six months, then caused hardship when it insisted on full payment after that.
What happened
This is Mrs Ss mortgage, but Mr S has supported Mrs S in her dealings with Barclays, and
represented Mrs S in dealing with this service. So Ill refer to them both below.
Mr S said that in April 2021, theyd asked Barclays to work out how much Mrs S would need
to pay to cover her mortgage for the next 12 months. They paid this amount, and agreed
with Barclays that theyd then pay just over £100 a month through Direct Debit for the next
year, to cover any interest accruing.
So Mrs S and her family were only expecting to pay a little over a hundred pounds for their
mortgage payment each month, for the next year. But Mr S said that in late October 2021,
Barclays took over £500 through Direct Debit instead of the agreed amount. He said that left
his current account (held with a different bank) in unauthorised overdraft. He said they
contacted Barclays right away, and Barclays offered £250 to say sorry, but it wouldnt give
back the amount of £400 which Mr S thought theyd been overcharged. Mr S said he and
Mrs S didnt want that, and they escalated the complaint.
Mr S said his family were left unable to apply for credit over Christmas, unable to celebrate
important life events, and unable to provide for ordinary family needs including buying
groceries. He told us Barclays just said it warned Mrs S in September that the mortgage
payments would go up in October, and offered a small amount of compensation.
Mr S said Barclays was ignoring both the 12 months advance payment that had been made,
and the agreement to reduce payments for a year. He said that no more than £104 should
be collected through Direct Debit until this issue was resolved, but Barclays was still making
them pay almost £500 each month.
Mr S said later in October Barclays confirmed the advance payment had been capitalised
into the mortgage. He said theyd never agreed to capitalise the advance payment.
Mr S said Barclays should pay a large amount of compensation, for all the suffering and
distress it had caused.
Barclays said it accepted Mrs S had made a large payment in April 2021, and that this was
intended to reduce her mortgage payments for 12 months. She and Mr S were told to call
back around nine or ten months later, to check the balance. But thats not what was done.
Instead, Mrs S was on a concession plan for sixth months to pay less than her contractual
monthly payment, starting in April. And the large payment Mrs S made at the end of April
prevented arrears from accruing. Barclays accepted that this was a mistake.
But Barclays said that Mrs S had agreed, in October, to having the rest of the prepayment
capitalised into the mortgage. That reduced the monthly payment to about £475. It would ask
for that much each month from November 2021.
When this case came to our service, Barclays offered Mrs S £500 in compensation for what
had gone wrong here.
Mr S, on behalf of Mrs S, didnt want to accept that. But our investigator thought it was a fair
amount of compensation for this complaint. He said he would also ask Barclays to re-work
the account, on the basis that the reduced payment plan was setup for 12 months. So
Barclays would refund the difference in the payments made by Mrs S and the amount of the
payment plan, plus interest. But he would only ask Barclays to do that if Mrs S wanted this,
because this would mean the balance owing on her mortgage would increase, and the
monthly payment would go back to what it was before.
Mr S still thought this wasnt enough compensation. He didnt comment on whether Mrs S
would want Barclays to rework her mortgage. Because no agreement was reached, this
case was passed to me for a final decision.
I then reached my provisional decision on this case.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
When this complaint was passed to me, it was clear that Barclays accepted it had made 
a mistake in April 2021, when Mrs S asked it to take a prepayment for the next twelve 
months. It agreed it would do that, but didnt.
But it wasnt clear whether there was then another mistake, in October 2021. Barclays 
said Mrs S agreed to capitalise the remaining overpayment then. Mr S said she didnt.
I asked for some more information, and Barclays sent the October call recording where 
it thought Mr S, on behalf of Mrs S, gave permission for the remainder of their 
overpayment to be capitalised. I have listened to this call, and I dont think Mr S 
(speaking for Mrs S) did give any such permission. He wanted Barclays to go back to 
the original agreement.
Barclays has also reviewed this call, and looked again at Mrs Ss complaint, and it 
doesnt think that it had permission to capitalise this money in October either. Barclays 
now says that things went wrong in April, then again in October. Its said sorry about 
this, and it wants to put things right for Mrs S.
This is what I now think happened, and what went wrong.
Mrs S began a six month reduced payment plan in April 2021. She then contacted 
Barclays at the end of April, explaining shed come into some money and would like to 
make a prepayment to cover the mortgage payments over the next twelve months.
Barclays said Mrs S should not have been told that was possible. An overpayment of 
this size, in fact any overpayment of more than three times the amount a customer is 
paying each month, would eventually be automatically capitalised by Barclays systems.
Capitalisation just means the system takes a lump sum off the overall amount owing on 
the mortgage, and then works out the monthly payments again so they are smaller. Its quite common for banks to treat any payment of over three times the monthly payment 
in this way.
Because Barclays mortgage systems wouldnt allow it to take a prepayment for the 
following year, I dont think that Barclays had to do this for Mrs S. But if it wasnt able to 
accept a prepayment that would cover the next twelve monthly payments, it shouldve 
told Mrs S that.
But Mrs S wasnt told that Barclays couldnt accept a payment to cover the next twelve 
months. And no notes of this discussion were input onto Barclays system. She was just 
told to call back after nine or ten months to see how the arrangement was going.
Mrs Ss payments were smaller for six months after she made this large overpayment. 
But that wasnt because the prepayment agreement with Barclays was working in the 
way she wanted. It was because shed already been put on a six month reduced 
payment plan that started in April. The money Mrs S intended to use for a prepayment 
was used to cover the arrears resulting from that payment plan. When that prepayment 
plan ended, after six months, her payments went back up to over £500 per month.
Barclays has shown us that it did write to tell Mrs S about this, in September, so it says 
she was warned her payments would change. Mrs S said she didnt get this letter. I 
understand Mrs S wouldnt have been expecting this.
Mr S told us the payment Barclays took in October was unexpected, and put his account 
into unauthorised overdraft. So he complained, on behalf of Mrs S.
At this point, Mrs S had a prepayment of around £3,650 remaining. She just wanted to 
use that to cover her remaining payments for the next six months. Again, Barclays says 
this would have been very difficult to set up  because its system will try to capitalise a 
payment of this size. So I dont think Barclays had to do this for Mrs S. But again, it 
should have explained to her this wasnt possible, and talked to her about what it could 
do. Barclays could have refunded the overpayment at that point, or allowed Mrs S to 
prepay for three months, or done both a partial refund and three month prepayment.
But instead of explaining these difficulties to Mrs S, and trying to find a way to do what 
she wanted, what Barclays did was capitalise the pre-payment right away. That reduced 
Mrs Ss payments for the next six months to around £475 per month, which she still 
couldnt afford. As I said above, I dont think Barclays had the agreement of either Mr S 
or Mrs S to do that.
I understand that Barclays now accepts this. And that means there doesnt seem to be 
any dispute now about what has gone wrong here. Barclays has accepted it made 
mistakes both when Mrs S first tried to make a large overpayment, in April 2021, and 
then again in October 2021 when Mrs S complained. So the question is what to do to 
put things right.
During the course of this complaint, Mr S told us the family would struggle to make the 
payments Mrs S was asked for, in the six months following October 2021. They initially 
considered paying less. But by the time this complaint reached me, this time had 
passed, and it looks from the transaction records I have as if full payments were made.
So its not clear what Mrs S might want now, as an outcome to this complaint. I 
understand that Mr S thinks Barclays should pay a considerable amount of 
compensation. But does Mrs S also want Barclays to undo the capitalisation it did?If I ask Barclays to undo now what it did in October 2021, when it capitalised Mrs Ss 
overpayment, Id expect that would result in a small lump sum payment to them. But it 
will also put their monthly mortgage payment back at the level it was before, which I 
anticipate will mean increasing it by around £40 a month.
If Mrs S wants that, then I will ask Barclays to undo the capitalisation it did in October 
2021. I will ask it to use some of that prepayment to put Mrs Ss mortgage in the position 
it would have been if she had made her full pre-existing contractual monthly payment 
since that capitalisation. Ill ask it then to return any excess to her, with 8% simple 
interest from the date of the capitalisation to the date the payment to her is made.
But Mrs S will need to think carefully about whether she would like Barclays to do this, 
because then, as Ive said, her monthly mortgage payments will go up. 
Whether or not Mrs S wants Barclays to rework her mortgage, I still think it should pay 
some compensation in this case. I know Mr S thinks Barclays should pay several 
thousand pounds. I do understand how frustrating Mr and Mrs S have found this, and 
Ive considered carefully everything they have said about the impact on them. But that 
impact does appear to have been limited to a six month period, after which their 
mortgage would always have increased again. So I dont think that it would be 
consistent with other awards made by this service, if I were to make an award of many 
thousands in this case.
However, that doesnt mean I think Barclays offer is quite the right amount either. I also
think Barclays should do a little more to make up for the position it has placed Mrs S and 
her family in. Mrs S has had difficulties paying her mortgage for some time. She and Mr 
S thought they had the comfort of lower mortgage payments for a whole year, because 
of their lump sum payment in April. But that only lasted six months.
Mr S set out for us the impact of the first unexpected large direct debit, taken from his
account on 25 October, and the impact of this going forward. Although the family have
managed to make the payments, theyve told us that this affected their ability to enjoy
significant family and cultural events during this time. For that reason, I think that 
Barclays should pay Mrs S £750 in compensation.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both sides replied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S replied to ask if Barclays would have to pay around £280 in interest, as well as 
compensation of £750. I replied, to say the interest Barclays would work out would be 
payable only on any monies left over, after Barclays had undone the capitalisation, and 
reworked Mrs Ss mortgage to make sure that all the full pre-existing contractual monthly 
payment was made each month. I clarified that interest would not be payable on the award 
of compensation. Mr S replied again, to say that Mrs S had decided her preference was to 
get the compensation and the refund with interest. He said he believed that when Barclays 
made the refund, it would reflect the Bank of England interest changes, not 8%. 
The award I suggested included interest at 8% simple, from the date of capitalisation, to the 
date of payment. Our service does sometimes award interest at a rate of 8% simple per 
year, to reflect the cost of being deprived of money in the past. At the time of writing, this remains considerably higher than the Bank of England base rate, and this rate hasnt been 
set here by reference to the Bank of England rate. Rather, 8% is the same interest rate that 
the courts would normally award.
I note for completeness that HM Revenue and Customs requires Barclays to take off tax 
from this interest. So Ill include in my award provision for Barclays to comply with the 
relevant tax law, and also require it to give Mrs S a certificate showing how much tax its 
taken off if she asks for one. 
Barclays said that it would be happy to amend Mrs Ss mortgage in the way Id suggested, if 
she wanted it to. And it would pay the compensation payment Id suggested. 
I havent changed my mind. Ill now make the decision I originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC must pay Mrs S £750 in compensation. It 
should also, if Mrs S wishes, rework her mortgage as follows 
Undo the capitalisation it did in October 2021,
Use some of the money it capitalised then to put Mrs Ss mortgage in the position it 
would have been if she had made her full pre-existing contractual monthly payment 
from the date of capitalisation to the date this is undone, then
Return any excess to her, with 8% simple interesti from the date of capitalisation to 
the date of payment.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2022. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman
i HM Revenue and Customs requires Barclays Bank UK PLC to take off tax from this interest. 
Barclays Bank UK PLC must give Mrs S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks 
for one. 