DRN-3682421
The complaint
Mrs A and Mr D complain that National House-Building Council (NHBC) unfairly declined a 
claim they made under their new home structural warranty.
Mrs A has primarily dealt with things, so for simplicity Ill refer to her only.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint arent in dispute, so Ill summarise the key points:
Mrs A held a new home structural warranty with NHBC. She got in touch with it about 
a number of potential building defects in 2019.
NHBC inspected the problems under its Resolution service and wrote a Resolution 
report. It found some, but not all, of the problems required the builder to take action. 
That included asking an independent electrical consultant to report on the installation 
and whether it complied with Building Regulations. The builder was given until late 
November 2019 to take these actions.
The builder didnt meet that deadline and NHBC stepped in to take over the claim. It 
arranged for the electrics to be reviewed several times. Although it accepted the 
electrical system hadnt been installed in line with best practice, it said it did comply 
with Building Regulations.
Mrs A didnt think this was fair and questioned whether the system met all the 
relevant standards. NHBC maintained it had. It accepted there had been delays and 
offered Mrs A £150 compensation.
Our investigator thought NHBC had treated Mrs A fairly. He said NHBCs standards 
were performance based and had been met, even if some of the technical 
requirements hadnt been.
Mrs A disagreed and made a number of comments. Our investigator wasnt 
persuaded to change his mind.
I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Warranty cover
The claim was made within two years of the completion date. That means the 
relevant part of the warranty is section 2. Under this section, NHBC may offer its 
Resolution service. If NHBC thinks the builder failed to meet the NHBC requirements, 
it will tell the builder to take action by a certain date. If that date passes without the 
action being completed, NHBC will step in and complete the actions.
This Service has jurisdiction to consider how NHBC handled things from the point the 
builders deadline passed without it completing the action.
At that point, the builder had been told to have the electrics reviewed by an 
independent consultant with regard to compliance with Building Regulations. There 
were other actions for the builder to take but theyre not the subject of this complaint, 
so I havent considered them.
In summary, the warranty provides cover where the builder failed to meet the NHBC 
requirements. These requirements are subject to supporting guidance and 
performance standards. If NHBCs performance standards have been met, the 
relevant requirements are also deemed to have been met.
NHBC says performance standard 8.1.7 is relevant here. That says electrical 
installations shall be provided in accordance with relevant regulations, codes and 
standards. And it will ensure safe and satisfactory operation. The standard specifies 
that electrical systems should comply with BS7671.
Mrs A says NHBC has failed to meet two of its requirements: R1, which requires the 
builder to meet statutory requirements, including Building Regulations. And R4, which 
requires the builder to carry out work in a proper, neat and workmanlike manner. 
Shes also questioned whether the standards set out in BS7671 have been met.
Electrical investigation
In 2019, an electrician inspected the electric system. In summary, they noted a 
number of problems they described as housekeeping issues, mostly to do with the 
way the cables had been arranged. But overall they didnt highlight any significant 
issues that might cause harm.
In 2020, another electrician inspected the system. They did so on behalf of an 
industry recognised professional body, N. Their report detailed departures from 
BS7671 by the builder. These observations were broadly in keeping with the first and 
noted some actions required. I understand these actions were to comply with 
BS7671.
Later in 2020, NHBC asked a third electrician to review the reports and recommend 
what work, if any, was required to ensure the system was operating safely and 
complied with Building Regulations. The electrician thought all relevant regulations 
had been complied with. And whilst they saw evidence of much poor workmanship 
they didnt think the regulations protected against that as long as the system was 
working as it should and wasnt dangerous or potentially harmful.
NHBC says these comments show performance standard 8.1.7 was met  the 
system is functioning safely and without breaching any regulations. And because its 
performing as it should, it meets the requirements.
R1 and the performance standard overlap, as they both require adherence to 
relevant regulations and standards. Ive considered the opinions and comments of 
the three electricians. They all had similar findings so Im satisfied its fair to treat 
them as being an accurate reflection of the condition of the system. None said 
regulations had been breached. The second electrician thought the standards set out in BS7671 hadnt been met. The others didnt comment on these standards one way 
or the other. But the third said full knowledge of the regulations can only be provided 
by a direct representative of [N].
Based on the comments of the electricians, I think its clear the positioning of the 
cables isnt in line with their expectation of best practice or usual levels of 
workmanship. NHBC hasnt disputed this. And whilst regulations may have been met, 
the standards of BS7671 havent been. Despite that, all the evidence shows the 
system is performing adequately  each of the electricians found it was functioning 
broadly as it should do and was safe.
Taking everything into account, Im not persuaded 8.1.7 has been fully met. I 
recognise the system is performing satisfactorily and is safe. And the evidence 
shows its compliant with Building Regulation. However, its not compliant with 
BS7671  which this performance standard specifically says it should be.
R1 says NHBC will generally accept work that accords with relevant Building 
Regulations / Building Standards. The evidence shows the work was consistent with 
Building Regulations  but not Building Standards. So Im not persuaded R1 has 
been met. R4 requires the work to be carried out in a proper, neat and workmanlike 
manner. Given the performance standard hasnt been met, and the numerous 
problems highlighted by N, Im not satisfied R4 has been met either.
NHBCs argument is essentially that the system is meeting the performance standard 
and therefore it meets the requirements  even if there are some problems with it. 
But as the standard requires the system to be compliant with BS7671, which it isnt, I 
dont think its fair to say the performance standard has been met.
As a result, Im not satisfied the system satisfies NHBCs requirements. Accordingly, I 
think NHBC should deal with the problems highlighted by N by carrying out or paying 
to carry out the actions it required.
Timescale 
NHBC accepted there were delays in relation to the electrics and offered Mrs A £150 
compensation.
It took a long time from the point the builder missed the deadline, in November 2019, 
to January 2021, when NHBC provided an answer on the electrics to Mrs A. Some of 
this was due to the impact of Covid 19 and associated restrictions and precautions 
which was beyond NHBCs control. And some of the time was also needed to check 
the system and explore the technical matters. It was reasonable for NHBC to spend 
time investigating that initially, although I think it should have done more to act on Ns 
findings sooner. Had it done so, it would have reached the current position much 
earlier. And that would have lessened the distress and inconvenience avoidably 
suffered by Mrs A.
Taking all of that into account, Im not satisfied £150 is sufficient compensation. Im 
satisfied a total of £750 would be a reasonable and proportionate figure. If NHBC has 
already paid £150, it can deduct that and pay the remaining £600.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party commented on or challenged any of the findings in my provisional decision.
As a result, I dont see any reason to change my findings or comment on them further.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require National House-Building Council to:
Carry out or pay to carry out the actions required by N
Pay a total of £750 compensation
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 October 2022.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman