DRN-3614009
The complaint
Mr M complains about information recorded on his credit file by The Royal Bank of Scotland 
Plc. 
What happened
Mr M had a loan with RBS and in April 2020 notified the business he was experiencing some 
difficulties as a result of the pandemic. RBS approved an initial three month payment holiday 
under the terms of the Financial Conduct Authoritys Payment Deferral Guidance (PDG). At 
the end of the three months, RBS approved another three month payment holiday under the 
PDG. 
Mr M resumed payments in October and November 2020. But payments were missed 
between December 2020 and June 2021. RBS initially recorded missed payments but went 
on to show a payment arrangement when it reached an agreement with Mr M to resume 
payments and repay arrears. 
Mr M has made a number of complaints about the way RBS handled his loan during the 
pandemic and information recoded on his credit file. RBS issued various responses and its 
final response was issued in April 2022. RBS accepted it hadnt given Mr M all the 
information about what would happen at the end of the six months of payment holiday. But 
RBS didnt agree it had unfairly recorded arrears and a payment arrangement on Mr Ms 
credit file. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Ms complaint. They said there was a maximum 
of six monthly payment holidays allowed under the PDG without showing as missed on a 
customers credit file. The investigator was satisfied Mr M had been able to use the full 
payment holiday allowance and that the payment arrangement agreed in July 2021 was 
fairly reflected on his credit file. 
Mr M asked to appeal, so his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to our investigator, Mr M explained he didnt think the level of support offered 
under the Financial Conduct Authoritys PDG went far enough. I appreciate Mr Ms view and 
understand why he feels more support wouldve been beneficial. But the maximum number 
of payment holidays borrowers were allowed to take without impact to their credit file under 
the PDG guidance was six. And payment holidays covering a six month period were put in 
place from April 2020. 
Business are required to report accurate payment information about borrowers. And whilst I 
understand arrears recorded after the payment holidays ended have had an impact on Mr 
Ms credit file, Im satisfied they accurately show the payments received. 
In much the same way, the payment arrangement Mr M agreed is also shown on his credit 
file. I understand Mr M feels this is unfair and fails to show the impact of the pandemic on his 
circumstances. But, Im satisfied RBS has acted in line with the options given in the PDG. 
Once the initial six month period was over, there was no option for RBS to give further 
payment breaks without recording the missed payments on Mr Ms credit file. Im sorry to 
disappoint Mr M but I havent found that RBS has acted unfairly or misreported the way his 
account has been handled on his credit file. 
As Im satisfied RBS dealt with Mr Ms complaint fairly Im not telling it to take any further 
action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman