DRN-2635135
The complaint
Mr P complains that ReAssure Limited repeatedly told him that the surrender value of his
policy was close to £14,000 and received a statement to this effect. Despite this, he
eventually received little more than £6,000. He believes this must be wrong.
What happened
 ReAssure admitted that its staff had quoted the higher figure on two occasions (and sent a
statement to this effect) but said this figure was incorrect and that it had paid the correct
amount. It offered Mr P £250 in lieu of these errors.
An investigator at this service agreed that ReAssure staff had conveyed the wrong surrender
figure on two occasions and that the subsequent statement was at best unclear. This, he
said, had understandably led to Mr P assuming the higher figure was correct. However, he
noted that Mr P had received regular valuations over the previous five years, all quoting
figures between £6,000 and £7,000.
Given all this, he felt ReAssures offer of £250 was reasonable.
Mr P did not agree, and said:
The policy had a guaranteed maturity sum plus guaranteed bonuses; ReAssures 
figures are not correct
There was a three-week gap between being repeatedly told he was due to receive 
nearly £14,000 and being told he was only entitled to just over £6,000
During this period he decided to spend the £14,000 he was expecting to receive on a 
car and paid a non-returnable deposit
The investigator said he fully understood Mr Ps concerns about the accuracy of ReAssures
figures given what hed been told. That said, he had looked into the background of this policy
and the benefits/bonuses applicable had been altered following the transfer of the business
in 2012. A High Court had approved a change which meant that anyone surrendering their
policy before the maturity date was no longer entitled to all the accrued bonuses. He noted
that the business statement failed to make clear that the bonuses and surrender value were
simply differing terms to describe the same total amount i.e. Mr P wasnt entitled to both
figures added together.
He asked Mr P to provide evidence that he had purchased the car before receiving the
corrected surrender value.
Mr P provided evidence of a £494 deposit, but this was dated after he had been given the
amended figure. He subsequently provided evidence of having paid the garage for a repair
on the new car; this was dated before he received confirmation of the lower figure.
In a Provisional Decision, I said:
I asked Mr P to provide firm evidence of when he had committed to buying the car/paying a
deposit and when he had completed the purchase. I also asked why he had gone ahead
apparently after discovering he was not entitled to £14,000.
He sent copies of various documents including evidence that he had paid for some work on
the new car before paying the full amount and, crucially, before hed fully realised he would
not be getting £14,000. In response to further questions, he said:
We contemplated pulling out but by this time my previous car had already been sold. Going
back to drawing was simply not an option at that time.
Yes, there is an argument I could have pulled out. If I had I would have possibly lost my
deposit and had to start searching for a car again and the inconvenience of not having a car
to transport the children to nursery. We had borrowed from my father-in-law in the meantime
which also needed to be returned ASAP.
I was confident (still am) that ReAssure had made a mistake in the surrender value and this
should still be around the £14,000 mark. I cannot put in words the stress caused within my
household during this period.
Taking account of all the evidence, I am satisfied that Mr P expected to receive nearly
£14,000 when he surrendered this policy and that ReAssure was completely responsible for
this misapprehension. Having listened to the key calls, ReAssure staff clearly and repeatedly
told Mr P that he would receive a figure along these lines and the subsequent statement did
not put this right. In my view, most customers would have assumed that they would receive
the sum of the two quoted figures and that the statement was therefore misleading.
While in many cases one would expect a customer to be sceptical of a large redemption
figure when they had received much lower valuations in previous years, I dont think this
argument applies here. Mr P in effect queried the higher figure and was again told it was
correct and the subsequent statement implied  to most customers  that the higher figure
was correct.
Mr P was under this misapprehension for around three weeks and was clearly shocked to
discover he was only entitled to less than half this sum. Given this, I think the £250
ReAssure offered was not sufficient to cover this significant loss of expectation.
I am also satisfied, on the balance of probabilities, that he decided to go ahead and spend
this money on a car of a similar price and that he paid some form of deposit. Given this, in
my view he is entitled to significantly more than £250 in compensation.
Mr P has not been able to provide sufficient evidence to prove that he paid a £494 deposit in
the key period but other evidence including a garage bill does strongly suggest he committed
to the car purchase before discovering he was not entitled to £14,000. If he had provided
such unambiguous evidence, I would have instructed ReAssure to pay him the £494 plus 8%
interest on this figure in addition to a larger trouble and upset payment, totalling around
£800.
Instead I currently intend to instruct it to pay £600 (including the £250 already offered), a
figure I consider fair and reasonable in the light of the significant trouble and upset this issue
caused him (and the possibility/probability that he made a firm financial commitment as a
result).
Mr P accepted my decision.ReAssure did not, saying there wasnt sufficient evidence to say that Mr P had made a 
financial commitment based on what hed originally been told to expect.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I dont believe that the £250 ReAssure offered was sufficient given the scale of Mr Ps 
understandable loss of expectation. He was repeatedly told he would receive nearly £14,000 
and so his misunderstanding about what he could expect was entirely ReAssures fault.
This also lasted for a month and I am satisfied, on the balance of probabilities, that Mr P 
made some form of commitment to buy a car costing roughly this amount during that time.
I accept that the evidence he has managed to provide falls short of being conclusive. But I 
do believe it is sufficient for me to conclude, on the balance of probabilities, that he at least 
paid a deposit during this time.
It is my role to therefore decide what feels a fair and reasonable payment for this loss of 
expectation and potential loss (if he had pulled out of any commitment). I feel £600 is well 
within what this service would consider fair and reasonable.
Putting things right
ReAssure must pay Mr P £600 (including the £250 already offered) in the light of the 
significant trouble and upset this issue caused him (and the possibility/probability that he 
made a firm financial commitment as a result).
My final decision
I instruct ReAssure Limited to pay Mr P £600.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2021.
 
Tony Moss
Ombudsman