DRN-3884627
The complaint
Mr S complains that a payment he made to his account with American Express Services
Europe Limited (Amex) in January 2022 wasnt posted to the account until April 2022.
What happened
Mr S holds a credit card account with Amex. He made a payment to the account in January 
2022, but it didnt appear on the account. He contacted Amex but it couldnt locate the 
payment. It applied a temporary credit to Mr Ss account while it investigated.
Mr S called Amex several times during March and April 2022 to find out what was happening 
with the lost payment. He says that the service he received from Amex was poor and caused 
a lot of upset. He says he had to keep chasing Amex and didnt receive calls back. In April, 
Mr S raised a complaint. Shortly after this the payment was located and it was posted to his
account on 28 April 2022.
Amex responded to the complaint in June 2022. It said it was upholding the complaint on the
balance of probabilities and accepted that the service Mr S had received wasnt of the 
expected standard. It confirmed that interest had been refunded to Mr Ss account and that
no adverse information would be recorded on his credit file. It paid him £175 as a gesture of
goodwill to apologise for the poor service and to recognise the amount of time hed spent
trying to resolve the issue.
Mr S didnt think that was enough to reflect the distress hed experienced and the trouble
hed been put to. He asked this service to look at the complaint. He said that Amex still
hadnt explained what happened to the payment and why it took so long for it to be traced.
Amex said it wasnt clear what happened to the payment. It said there are several systems
involved in dealing with payments and sometimes its just not possible to understand exactly
what happened or why. It said that was the case here, but its priority was to ensure there 
was no detriment to Mr S.
Amex said that only one statement period was affected by the lost payment, as all other 
payments were received as normal. It said this meant that any interest applied after January 
2022 was payable by Mr S. But Amex has refunded all statement interest, more than £500 of 
which it said had been genuinely accrued and ought to have been payable by Mr S. Amex 
said this was a goodwill gesture, in addition to the £175. So, it said it had already provided 
enough redress for this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on 15 December 2022 indicating my intention to uphold this 
complaint and award Mr S further compensation of £125. Mr S accepted my provisional 
findings and Amex confirmed it had nothing to add. Im now making a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent seen anything which changes my mind about the appropriate outcome here. So Im 
going to uphold this complaint as indicated in my provisional decision. My reasons are 
below.
Amex says it upheld Mr Ss complaint on the balance of probabilities. But its not disputed 
that Mr S made the payment in January 2022 nor that the payment was lost until April 2022.
And theres no suggestion of any error on Mr Ss part. So, I think the starting point here is
that Mr S needs to be put in the position hed have been in if the payment hadnt been lost.
Under the terms and conditions of Mr Ss account, Amex doesnt charge interest on
purchases if he pays the full amount he owes on each statement date on time every month.
Amex has provided Mr Ss statements for the relevant period.
Ive listened to the call Mr S made to Amex in February 2022. He checked how much he 
needed to pay to clear the balance. The advisor confirmed various credits and agreed with 
Mr S how much remained outstanding. He paid this by the due date and no interest was 
applied on the February statement.
The temporary credit for the lost payment was applied to Mr Ss account on 28 February 
2022 and is shown on the March statement. But it was reversed on 21 March 2022, so the 
lost payment amount is included in the closing balance of the March statement. Mr S made a 
payment by the April due date for the March statement amount less the lost payment. So, 
Im satisfied that the interest which was applied on the April statement relates to the lost 
payment.
The lost payment wasnt credited to Mr Ss account until 28 April 2022 and is shown on the 
May statement. He had paid enough into the account by the May due date to clear the April
statement balance less the lost payment amount and associated interest. This pattern
continues throughout the period covered by the statements which have been provided to me.
Im satisfied that the interest charged on these statements arises from the lost payment.
I dont think Mr S should be out of pocket as a result of the payment being lost. So I think its
fair that Amex has refunded the interest in full. Its what Id ask it to do as part of the redress
for this complaint. Id also expect Amex to make sure it hasnt recorded any adverse
information on Mr Ss credit file as a result of this issue. It says it hasnt, so I dont need to
ask it to do anything about that.
I think Amex has put Mr Ss account back in the position it would have been in but for the
payment going missing. As a result, I dont find that Mr S has suffered financial detriment.
But he has suffered distress and inconvenience, which needs to be addressed separately.
Amex has already credited his account with £175, which it says was a gesture of goodwill as
an apology for the poor service he received. I dont think this is enough to reflect the impact
this situation had on Mr S. His payment went missing for three months. Although Amex
applied a temporary credit, this was removed after around one month, causing Mr S to worry
about interest accruing on his account and any credit file impact. He contacted Amex several
times for updates and wasnt able to get an answer about what was happening and wasnt
called back. Although the payment was located in the end, Mr S still doesnt know what
happened to it as Amex hasnt been able to provide an explanation.
He has explained the distress and inconvenience this all caused. And this has been
prolonged as Amex raised a new issue in response to our Investigators view, essentially
saying that the interest refunded after January 2022 didnt relate to the lost payment and 
therefore Mr S has benefited from the refunds. As explained above, I think the interest did relate to the lost payment and I think its right that Amex refunded it to put Mr Ss account 
back in the position hed have been in if the payment had credited his account in January.
In all the circumstances, I think a further payment of £125 is warranted here to compensate 
Mr S for the distress and inconvenience he experienced.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint. American Express Services Europe Limited 
should pay a further £125 to Mr S.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2023.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman