DRN-4286398
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy Inter Partner Assistance SA changed the upper age limit on his travel 
insurance policy and didnt tell him about this. 
What happened
Mr G has travel insurance underwritten by Inter Partner provided with his credit card. That 
includes cover for medical assistance. When he first took out the card and insurance the 
upper age limit for that cover was 80 but that was reduced to 70 from January 2012. Mr G 
says he wasnt made aware of that meaning he travelled uninsured for a number of years. 
Hes also concerned the policy didnt make clear whether that restriction also applied to 
people travelling with him who were under 70. 
Our investigator said it was for Inter Partner to decide what benefits it wanted to offer under 
this policy. He was satisfied Mr G had been sent a letter in December 2011 informing him 
about the changes to cover. And he thought taken as a whole the policy terms did make the 
coverage position clear. 
Mr G asked for an Ombudsman to review the matter. Inter Partner queried whether it was 
responsible for these issues. So I need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Inter Partner has queried whether this is a complaint its responsible for. Im satisfied it does 
involve issues relating to Mr Gs policy (for example changes to coverage and its wording) 
which it is responsible for as the insurer. I can also see we told Inter Partner about the 
complaint in April this year. The relevant rules give it eight weeks from receipt to deal with 
the matter. As more than the eight weeks have elapsed since then Im satisfied this is a 
complaint I can reach a decision on. 
I appreciate Mr G has some separate concerns (about what his card provider told him about 
how the policy terms would be applied) which Ive considered in a separate decision against 
that business.
Turning to the issues raised by Mr G in this complaint I appreciate hes unhappy with Inter 
Partners decision to reduce the upper age limit for the medical assistance cover. And in 
correspondence with us hes put forward other options he thinks it could have pursued. I 
understand Mr G feels it could have acted differently but its for Inter Partner to decide what 
risks it wants to cover. And in this case it decided it didnt want to cover policyholders for 
medical assistance beyond the age of 70. I think thats a decision its entitled to take. 
However, under the relevant rules an insurer is responsible for providing information on mid- 
term changes. I think this is a change which it should have communicated (or ensured was 
communicated) to Mr G. I appreciate he doesnt recall being told about this. But Ive seen a 
letter that was sent to him in December 2011 which does explain this and other changes to 
his policy. So I think Mr G was sent the information he needed about this. 
Under the relevant rules, Inter Partner is also responsible for producing the Insurance 
Product Information Document (IPID) which should include the main exclusions where 
claims cannot be made. I can see that details of the upper age limit for medical assistance 
are contained in this.  So I dont think theres been any failing by Inter Partner here. 
In any event I understand Mr G hasnt had to make any medical assistance claims on his 
policy. So hes not suffered any financial loss. As a result even if Inter Partner had done 
something wrong theres nothing I would direct it to do to put things right. I appreciate Mr G 
has wider concerns about the impact on other policyholders but Im only dealing in this 
decision with the complaint hes brought; other complaints would need to be considered on 
their own merits if brought by the affected individuals. 
Mr G is also concerned the policy wording is unclear as it relates to cover for others 
travelling with him. Ive reviewed the policy which does say All Cardmembers including 
Supplementary Cardmembers and their Families must be under 70 throughout the Trip to 
receive Medical Assistance and Expenses benefits.
However, it also says Only Cardmembers, Supplementary Cardmembers and members of
their Family who are under the age of 70 throughout the Trip, are eligible to receive
the Medical Assistance and Expenses benefits under this Section  
My reading of that is the policy would cover someone who was under 70 during their trip. But 
ultimately these are points that would be considered in more detail if they formed part of the 
rationale for Inter Partner declining a claim. That isnt the case here so I dont see these are 
issues I need to consider further. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or reject my decision before 13 September 2023.
 
James Park
Ombudsman