DRN-4162529
The complaint
Mr M complains Shelby Finance Ltd trading as Dot Dot Loans (Shelby) didnt update his 
credit file and contacted him about an outstanding balance which was settled as part of an 
Individual Voluntary Arrangement (IVA). 
What happened
Mr M has provided a copy of his IVA completion documents, and this is dated 
7 December 2020 and Shelby is listed as one of the creditors.  
Mr M says that at the start of 2021, he noticed his credit file hadnt been updated and still 
showed he owed Shelby over £3,400  however, Mr M accepts he chose to ignore this.
 
However, in September 2022, he was contacted by Shelby asking for the repayment of 
£3,400 balance due on the loan. Mr M says he explained this loan was part of an IVA but 
was told there was no record of it on his account. On the same day, Mr M emailed a copy of 
the above-mentioned completion certificate. 
A complaint was raised, and a final response letter (FRL) was issued in November 2022.  
Shelby said it hadnt heard from Mr Ms IVA practitioner and instead had placed a hold on 
the account on 30 October 2022. It then explained that should it not hear from the 
practitioner, after the 30 days hold then collections activity will resume. 
Unhappy with this response Mr M referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
Shelby then appears to have had further contact from Mr M and in March 2023 it accepted 
Mr Ms account wasnt updated in September 2022 showing the IVA had completed. It 
confirmed it will write off the debt and close the account. It also offered Mr M £100 
compensation.
After the complaint was allocated to an adjudicator, Mr M explained why he didnt think the 
offer of £100 was fair or reasonable. Mr M says, that due to the stress of the situation he had 
to take time off work in October 2022. 
Mr M explained his mental health had deteriorated and, believing his IVA had sorted his 
debts out he was then shocked to realise that he was still being chased by Shelby. And he 
says that this brought back all the anxieties he had before. 
Mr M said after he provided the completion certificate, he didnt hear anything further and 
then the phone calls started again in October 2022. 
An adjudicator then reviewed the complaint and upheld it. He said the offer of £100 wasnt 
sufficient compensation and he instead suggested a payment of £300 was fair and 
reasonable. He explained there was a reasonable expectation that his loan was settled in 
December 2020  due to completion of the IVA. Or at the latest in September 2022, when 
Mr M provided the information Shelby had asked for. And given the impact this error had on 
Mr M the award needed to be larger. 
Initially, Shelby said it needed evidence of the distress and inconvenience that was caused 
to Mr M. The adjudicator went back and explained why, in his view this wasnt necessary. 
Shelby responded to say it didnt agree, as it believed the £100 is sufficient. 
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to an ombudsman to issue a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Shelby, in March 2023, has now accepted something went wrong in this case. In as much as 
Mr M provided details of the IVA to it in September 2022 and this really ought to have been 
enough to have updated its records and ceased contact with Mr M. As a result of Shelby not 
updating the records, Mr M received further contact from it in October 2022.  Shelby accepts 
an error was made here so I dont need to make a finding on what when wrong here. 
Instead, what Im being asked to decide is what is fair compensation for what has happened. 
And Mr M has provided detailed testimony as to the impact the calls and being chased for a 
debt that he thought was settled had on him. I can quite understand what Mr M has 
explained to us about being told he owed more money  a not insignificant sum, during a 
cost-of-living crisis and what he has told us about his familys finances.  
And clearly, the IVA was a way of Mr M being able to draw a line under his difficulties which 
he had some years ago. I accept Mr M hasnt provided any medical evidence to support 
what he says about the impact on his mental health. But I dont think I need that - it is of 
course going to be unsettling finding out he may have owed a creditor a significant amount 
of money- an amount of money that he didnt owe. 
Its also worth saying here, that Shelby had an opportunity to deal with this quickly. Had it 
made a note of Mr Ms email on his file in September 2022, then further calls wouldnt have 
occurred, and the further distress Mr M says happened wouldnt have been caused. Indeed, 
it seems to have taken around six months for Shelby to bring this matter to a close  which I 
think is far too long.
So, taking everything into account, including Mr Ms testimony I do consider a fair award of 
compensation is £300, as directed by the adjudicator. 
Putting things right
Shelby should pay directly to Mr M £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it 
has caused by not updating its records to show the IVA had been completed. 
Although Mr Ms IVA has been completed, there still could be a windfall clause in it, so he 
may wish to discuss this settlement (if he accepts the final decision) with his practitioner to 
see how this settlement may or may not affect his completed IVA. 
My final decision
So, for the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Mr Ms complaint. 
Shelby Finance Ltd trading as Dot Dot Loans should put things right for Mr M as directed 
above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman