DRN-3413174
The complaint
X is unhappy with the way Advantage Insurance Company Limited (Advantage) 
communicated with them and dealt with a claim under their car insurance policy.
What happened
X made a claim to Advantage when their car was stolen in February 2021. 
Advantage sent X a claim form to complete but the font size used was too small for them to 
easily read so they called Advantage to ask for a new one. X made Advantage aware that 
they needed letters to be written in a font size of 14 due to a medical issue.
There were a few delays in getting the correct form in the right format to X and they were 
told in one call that their claim might be suspended because they hadnt filled in the form, 
despite it being Advantages fault it hadnt supplied one in the correct format.
Xs car was recovered and put into storage. Advantage hadnt told a supplier it uses to 
collect cars, so it was left in storage. In the end, X was sent the bill for storage which caused 
them some alarm and distress. Advantage then settled the bill.
As X was unhappy with the way they had been treated, they complained to Advantage. It 
agreed its service had been poor because it hadnt arranged to collect the car, and because 
its claims handlers hadnt dealt with Xs needs well. It apologised to X and offered £150 for 
the poor service, delay and their distress.
X remained unhappy and brought their complaint to this service. They are unhappy about 
Advantage not communicating with them in the way they asked, because it discriminates 
against them, and because of the poor service they received in their claim.
Our investigator looked into Xs case. He asked Advantage for its file about what had 
happened but didnt receive it despite it being asked for repeatedly. Advantage did ask for 
various extensions to his requests but no file was sent. So our investigator had to make his 
view from the information that X supplied.
He upheld Xs complaint and said he thought Advantage hadnt gone far enough. He thought 
Advantage should pay X a total of £300 for their distress and inconvenience. X didnt agree 
with the view. They said they thought the view didnt take enough account of their distress. 
Advantage then sent its file of evidence and it didnt agree with the view either. It says X had 
to make two extra phone calls to sort out problems and sending the correct claim form took it 
an extra four days. So it thought that its original offer of £150 compensation was fair.
As both parties didnt agree with the view, the matter has been referred to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to assure X that I have read all of their submissions carefully, and even though I 
havent mentioned everything here I have focused on what I think are the main areas of their 
complaint. 
X has complained that Advantage failed to make reasonable adjustments when 
communicating with them. In other words it failed in its duty under the Equality Act 2010. Its 
not part of my role to say whether a business has acted unlawfully or not  thats a matter for 
the courts. 
My role is to consider whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. In order to decide 
that I have to take account of a number of things including relevant law. So Ive taken the 
Equality Act 2010 into account when deciding this complaint  given that its relevant law  
but ultimately Ive decided this complaint based on whats fair and reasonable.
Awards of compensation arent intended to fine or punish a business  thats the job of the 
regulator. All insurance claims come with a level of inconvenience and a degree of trouble 
attached to them. Some more than others. But when this service considers how much 
compensation to award, were looking at what trouble and upset the insurer has caused to its 
policy holder above and beyond that which wed normally expect to see associated with a 
claim of this type.
Its clear that in terms of accessibility, Advantage didnt initially comply with the request 
made by X for the form to be sent in the font size they need. I can see from Xs evidence that 
X was flexible with what Advantage could send them, but it still took a few days for the 
information to be sent correctly. 
I can see from its final response that Advantage agree its service was incredibly poor and 
that it didnt do enough to adapt the form for Xs needs. 
Advantage has since made the point that Xs claim wasnt significantly delayed by its failure 
to send the correct form and that X only had to make two extra phone calls to resolve it. The 
Equality Act 2010 means that companies like Advantage must not give someone a worse 
quality of service because of a protected characteristic. And Im persuaded here that it did.
From the information I have, Xs claim with Advantage has been settled so I believe the only 
issue that remains is the amount of compensation Advantage should pay X for the 
shortcomings in its service and their distress and inconvenience. I think Advantage have 
acknowledged its errors and given X a detailed response about other areas of their claim 
that dont form part of their approach to this service. 
X has said how very distressed they feel by Advantages words that it may suspend their 
claim because they werent able to complete a form that didnt meet their needs. I agree with 
X that the words Advantage used and its approach to their request fell far short of being 
reasonable. But I also think Advantage has admitted it made mistakes and has since tried to 
make the reasonable adjustments X needs.
Having taken all the circumstances into account, I think that compensation of £300 is fair and 
reasonable for the distress and inconvenience caused to X by Advantage. I appreciate that 
this will come as a disappointment to X but Ive thought about this services approach to 
awards made in similar circumstances and I dont think I can fairly award any more.My final decision
It is my final decision that I uphold this complaint and require Advantage Insurance Company 
Limited to pay X £300 compensation for their distress and inconvenience. If Advantage 
Insurance Company Limited have already paid X £150 then this can be deducted.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2022.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman