DRN-4351113
The complaint
Ms W complains that Avantia Insurance Limited (Avantia) has mis-sold her an insurance 
policy.
Any reference to Avantia includes any respective agents or representatives.
What happened
The background is known to all parties, so Ill summarise events.
On 13 May 2022 Ms Ws home was hit by a car. Ms W did not hold home insurance 
with any company at this time. So, later that day, Ms W took out a policy online 
through Avantia  an insurance broker.
Ms Ws policy provides her with different types of cover. Buildings and contents cover 
is provided by Company A. Home emergency cover and legal expenses insurance 
(LEI) is provided by Company D.
On 14 May 2022, Ms W called Avantia to make a claim. Both Company A and 
Company D declined the respective claims. Following a prolonged back and forth, Ms 
W says the insurers were unfair in handling the claims. So, she made a complaint.
In January 2023 Avantia provided a final response letter to Ms W. It said given the 
third-party vehicle collided with her home prior to the policy being taken out, this was 
not covered by the policy. As a result, it had not mis-sold the policy to her.
Ms W brought her complaint to this Service. She said she had taken the policy online 
as she was unable to speak to Avantia to seek further information at the time  and 
that she needed more information as shes not a building insurance expert. She had 
concerns about Company A and Company D. And shes asked for Avantia to refund 
her premiums.
One of our Investigators looked into what happened and didnt uphold the complaint. 
He said Ms W had taken the policy out online without any advice given to her, and so 
there was no mis-sale as a result.
Ms W disagreed. She said the phone calls between her and Avantia show she was 
given misleading advice. And that she had tried to call Avantia when taking out the 
policy, but this hadnt been possible.
Our Investigator obtained 11 phone calls between Ms W and Avantia. He was 
satisfied Avantia had been clear in outlining the roles of the different insurers 
involved, and that it would be for the respective insurers to determine whether any 
such claim would be successful.
Ms W still disagreed, so the matter has been passed to me for an Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
My role as an Ombudsman at this Service requires me to say how I think a complaint should 
be resolved quickly and with minimal formality. That means Ill focus on what I consider to be 
the crux of the complaint. 
Where I dont comment on every point made by the parties, thats not to say I havent seen 
or considered them. I have carefully considered the points raised by both parties, but I dont 
consider it necessary to specifically reference them in reaching my decision.
The facts of this case are largely not in dispute. Ms W had a third-party damage her 
property. She was not insured at the time of the incident and decided to take cover after this 
happened. The respective claims were declined by Company A and Company D, so Ms W 
has said that Avantia had failed her by selling the policy and giving poor advice.
Ms Ws reason for saying the policy was mis-sold would appear to be due to her saying she 
did not know the policy wouldnt cover events that have already happened. Ive been given 
no other reasons to suggest why the policy was mis-sold to her.
Given the sale took place purely online, Im satisfied this was a non-advised sale. This 
means Avantia had an obligation to provide clear, fair, and not misleading information to 
allow Ms W to make an informed choice. 
Ive been given nothing to suggest Avantias sales materials online indicated this policy 
covered existing issues. Nor has Ms W suggested this. She has indicated this matter would 
require expert knowledge to have an awareness of this, but home insurance by its nature is 
to protect against unforeseen events  so I disagree this would not be common knowledge 
or at very least, a reasonable expectation to hold. 
Ms W has suggested Avantia had failed her as she was unable to speak to an agent when 
taking out the policy. However, I dont agree with this. Even if Ms W had attempted to make 
a call, through her own admission, she was not already insured at the time of the incident. 
And if she felt she needed particular advice about a matter, Id have expected her to look 
elsewhere and find a broker or insurer she could seek advice from. So, I consider it 
unreasonable to direct Avantia to refund any premiums in the circumstances as Im not 
satisfied it has done anything wrong.
Ms W has also referenced calls that took place after the sale. She believes Avantia may 
have given her a false impression claims may have been covered. From my listening of the 
calls, I simply dont agree with this. Nor would it impact whether the policy was mis-sold or 
not as it came after the sale. 
Any complaint about Company A or Company Ds handling of a claim or outcome reached, 
would fall to those respective companies. So, if Ms W remains unhappy with the outcome or 
handling of those claims, she should complain to those companies in the first instance, if she 
hasnt done so already.
My final decision
For all of the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2024.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman