DRN-2567865
The complaint
Mrs K and Mr S are unhappy that their insurance premium payments for their landlord 
insurance were taken from the wrong bank account, by U K Insurance Limited (UKI), 
resulting in them having to set up a new policy.
 
What happened
Mr S has two policies with UKI, the policy concerned here (policy 1) held jointly with his wife, 
Mrs K, and renewed in May 2020. He set up a second policy (policy 2), in his and his sisters 
name in August 2020. He has said the property policy 2 was taken out for had nothing to do 
with him. Mr S provided the new direct debit details for policy 2. Mr S then noticed that 
payments for policy 1 were no longer being taken from his account.  He was concerned that 
he was uninsured and contacted UKI. It advised him that both policies were set up under a 
single client profile and that when he provided the new direct debit details, payment for both 
policies came out using those details. This meant his sister had been paying the premiums 
for both policies from her account. 
Mr S says this caused him a lot of difficulty with his sister and meant he had to provide a lot 
of new notifications to various parties like tenants, the local authority etc. He was also 
concerned that it would cause difficulties with HMRC and that his investors would question 
his competence. He also said that sending him a cheque in the current climate was awkward 
when UKI had his bank details.
UKI explained that under its system if a single client profile held more than one policy, all 
payments under that profile had to come from the same account. It set up a new policy for 
policy 1 under a new client profile which meant that payments for policy 1 came from the 
original bank account. There was no break in insurance. It said this should have been 
explained to Mr S when he set up the new policy. It sent him a cheque for £50 
compensation. 
UKI said that Mr S should provide it with details if he had any financial losses. It was quite 
prepared to provided him with receipts if he needed to show the payments had been made. 
Mr S didnt provide any further details. It also explained that it didnt have the facility to send 
BACS payments for compensation, but that his bank may provide cheque scanning facilities.
On referral to this service our investigator said that UKI had acted reasonably to rectify the 
situation.
Mr S didnt agree and the matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think that there was anything wrong with UKIs database. Where it was at fault was 
that it didnt tell Mr S when taking out policy 2 that both policies would take premiums from 
the same account, because only one bank account can be linked to each client profile. I 
appreciate that Mr S couldnt have been expected to know this. So UKI paid him £50 for the 
inconvenience caused.
I think UKI acted appropriately in resolving the situation for Mr S. I know this meant setting 
up a new policy and a new client profile, but all the information for this was input from UKIs 
end. It has confirmed there was no break in insurance.
As for the effect on Mr S, I cant see that setting up a new policy in these circumstances 
should have any reflection on Mr Ss competence. If he was concerned about this he has 
UKIs final response letter which sets out the situation. It also shouldnt affect his dealings 
with HMRC, and UKI has offered to provide the necessary receipts to show the paid 
premiums. 
I cant account for how Mr S says it has affected his relationship with his sister, but again if it 
caused her any financial difficulties UKI has said it is willing to look at this. I would observe 
that it was two months premiums that went out of her account and presumably Mr S would 
have been able to repay this immediately when he became aware of the situation. 
I think for the inconvenience caused and bearing in mind that UKI acted quickly to resolve 
the situation, a payment of £50 compensation is fair and reasonable. I cant tell UKI to pay 
this by way of bank transfer as it doesnt have the facility to do so within that part of the 
business. But Im aware that some banks provide the facility to scan in cheques through their 
online banking and Mr S might want to enquire about that.  
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 March 2021.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman