DRN-1636257
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R say Bradford & Bingley Plc (B&B) mis-sold them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs R took out the PPI alongside a mortgage in 1993. The PPI protected their 
monthly repayments if Mr R couldnt work due to disability or unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Mr and Mrs R disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint was passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Rs case.
Having done so, I dont uphold the complaint. Ill explain why. 
Mr and Mr R say they were pressured into buying the policy and were led to believe they had 
to have it if they wanted the mortgage. While Ive carefully considered what theyve said, 
there just isnt enough evidence for me to find that undue pressure was applied during the 
sale.
Im also satisfied the copy mortgage application form Mr and Mrs R signed also gave them a 
clear choice about whether to take or decline PPI and it seems they decided to go ahead 
with it. 
So, I dont think I can fairly uphold the complaint on these grounds.
I dont think B&B recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs R. But it should still have given them 
clear, fair and not misleading information about it so they could decide for themselves if it 
was right for them. I cant be certain as to whether B&B did that, but I cant see that would 
have made a difference given Mr and Mrs Rs circumstances.  
For example, while the PPI excluded claims for pre-existing medical conditions, I dont think 
that would have put them off. I note Mr R suffered with asthma but, from what theyve told us 
about it, the condition was controlled with medication and hadnt caused him to seek medical 
advice for some time before the sale.
I understand Mr Rs asthma worsened during the mortgage. And I dont underestimate how 
serious the condition can potentially be, but Ive seen no indication he thought that was likely 
to be the case when the PPI was sold. Overall, I dont think the condition would have been a 
significant factor for Mr and Mrs R regarding whether to buy the PPI. From what I know about Mr and Mrs Rs remaining circumstances in 1993:
Mr R was eligible for the cover. And he wasnt significantly affected by any of the 
other exclusions to, or limits on, the PPI. 
They seem to have had a need for the cover  I gather Mr R was only entitled to 
statutory sick pay and its unclear what savings he held. On the other hand, the PPI 
benefits could potentially have paid out for up to 12 months per claim. They would 
have covered him for unemployment too. 
They wouldnt have found the monthly premium  of less than £11  to be 
unaffordable. And the policy was flexible in that they could have cancelled it any time, 
at no extra cost, if they decided they no longer wanted it.
 
Which means B&B doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs R. But 
B&B will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs R because:
B&B got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it should have told Mr and Mrs R about that. Because B&B didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs R, that was unfair. 
To put that right, B&Bs basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  and I think that offers fair in 
this case.
 
What the business needs to do
B&B has to pay back to Mr and Mrs R any commission and profit share it got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premium, if it hasnt already done so. B&B should also pay back to 
Mr and Mrs R any extra interest they paid because of that.
B&B should pay back to Mr and Mrs R the extra they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. B&B should also 
pay Mr and Mrs R 8%* simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs R can claim back the tax 
if they dont pay tax.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bradford & Bingley Plc doesnt have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs R.
But Bradford & Bingley Plc does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs R any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium, if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 June 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman