DRN-3608977
The complaint
Mr S complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) was wrong not to refund two transactions 
he had disputed with it.
What happened
Mr S says that whilst on holiday abroad he paid an establishment, that I will call C, for two 
rounds of drinks that he never received.
Mr S account was debited with £43.29 on 11 August 2021 and £45.88 on 13 August 2021 in 
respect of these two disputed transactions.
On 6 September 2021 Mr S complained to Lloyds that he hadnt received the drinks for 
which his account had been debited £43.29 and £45.88 for. The same day Lloyds 
(temporarily) credited Mr Ss account with £45.88 and £43.29 and went on to raise a 
chargeback with the merchant (C).
C defended the chargeback, saying Mr S received what he had paid for in respect of both 
transactions.
On 25 November 2021 Lloyds re-debited Mr S account with the two (temporary) credits it 
had applied on 6 September 2021.
Mr S complained to Lloyds about its decision not to refund him the sums of £43.29 and 
£45.88. However, Lloyds confirmed to Mr S that it stood by its decision not to do so and it 
didnt believe it had done anything wrong. Unhappy, Mr S referred matters to our service.
Mr S complaint was considered by one of our investigators who came to the view that 
Lloyds had indeed done nothing wrong in not refunding the two sums Mr S had disputed.
Mr S didnt agree and so his complaint has been passed to me for review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I can confirm that Ive come to the same overall conclusion as the 
investigator and for broadly the same reasons. There is also very little I can usefully add to 
what the investigator has already shared with Mr S.
First, I would like to point out Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my 
comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not 
because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it but because I dont think I need to 
comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome. 
Mr S contacted Lloyds a few weeks after making the two disputed payments and shortly 
after he had returned to the UK. He told Lloyds he hadnt received the drinks he had paid for 
and he wanted help in getting the money returned to him. As Mr S made the two payments 
using his debit card, Ive thought about whether Lloyds dealt with his request fairly. 
Lloyds attempted a chargeback through the relevant card scheme. This is a way in which 
payment settlement disputes are resolved between card issuers and merchants. In certain 
circumstances the process provides a way for Lloyds to ask for the two payments Mr S 
made to be refunded. The circumstances include where goods or services arent supplied by 
the company Mr S paid.
A chargeback doesnt guarantee a refund. It can be defended by the merchant, which is 
what happened here as C provided a defence to the chargeback claim. Lloyds can make a 
further presentment to a chargeback defence and potentially also ask the card scheme 
themselves to arbitrate if the chargeback cant be settled between the card issuer and 
merchant. 
It's important to highlight that Lloyds isnt obligated to initiate a chargeback or pursue the 
chargeback process further through second presentment or to arbitration. However, I would 
consider it good practice for Lloyds to do so where a chargeback right existed and where 
there were reasonable prospects of success. 
Lloyds made a first presentment and I can see that it did so in good time and under the 
correct reason code  13.1  Merchandise/Services not received. So, what Ive gone on to 
consider is whether Lloyds, on receiving the merchants defence to its first presentment, 
could and should have made a second presentment.
As I say above, as well as there needing to be a chargeback right in existence, there also 
needs to be a reasonable prospect of that chargeback being successful.
Now I dont dispute Mr S testimony, and neither does Lloyds, but given the defence 
provided by the merchant (C) and what Mr S provided Lloyds (and then our service) Im 
satisfied that Lloyds acted both fairly and reasonably in not making a second presentment on 
the grounds of there being no reasonable prospect of success.
I appreciate Mr S will be disappointed by my findings but taking everything into account Im 
satisfied that Lloyds has done nothing wrong in the particular circumstances of this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2022.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman