DRN-1713835
The complaint
Mr T complains about Halifax Share Dealing Limited trading as IWeb Share Dealing delaying 
an investment dividend payment into his stocks and shares Individual Savings Account 
(ISA). 
What happened
Mr T says he was expecting an investment dividend payment to be credited to his stocks 
and shares ISA on 31 August 2019. He says he contacted IWeb on 3 September 2019 and 
4 September 2019 via a webchat to find out why it hadnt been paid yet. But he says IWeb 
wouldnt provide a date on when it would be paid and it wasnt willing to look into what was 
causing the delay.   
IWeb said the dividend payment was received on 2 September 2019 and it paid it into Mr Ts 
ISA account on 9 September 2019. It says it usually credits accounts within ten working days 
of receipt of any income payments. And in Mr Ts case it did so within five working days. 
Mr T was unhappy with IWebs response. He says IWeb shouldnt be able to retain funds for 
up to ten days before making it available to his account. He says the reason for the delay 
provided by IWeb when he complained was different to what it told him when he contacted it 
via webchat. So he brought his complaint to us. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint, but she didnt uphold it. She thought 
IWeb did credit Mr Ts account promptly which is line with the terms and conditions. She 
thought it was reasonable for IWeb to wait a few days to see if the funds arrived before 
chasing it. She also explained that whilst Mr T was told in the webchat that it was still waiting 
to receive the dividend payment when in fact it had it already, this was because it wasnt yet 
viewable on its system to front end advisors.  
Mr T disagreed. He says the terms and conditions dont state it could take up to ten working 
days for the account to be credited and a dividend payment to a different account with a 
different provider was credited sooner.  
As no agreement could be reached, the matter has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ts complaint for broadly the same reasons 
as the investigator. But Ill explain why.
Mr T is unhappy with the delay in a dividend payment being credited to his ISA account. He 
says hes missed out on receiving interest on that amount had the money arrived into his ISA 
sooner.  IWebs terms and conditions state, all income received by us will be paid promptly into your 
account. IWeb must adhere to its regulatory obligations too. The Financial Conduct 
Authoritys Client Assets Sourcebook (CASS) provides rules that businesses must follow 
whenever it holds or controls a customers money. CASS 7.13.36 (1) states A firm must 
allocate any client money it receives to an individual client promptly and, in any case, no 
later than ten business days following the receipt.
IWeb received Mr Ts dividend payment on 2 September 2019 and it was paid into his ISA 
account on 9 September 2019  that is within five business days. So Im not persuaded 
IWeb has acted unfairly, unreasonably or outside of its regulatory obligation when crediting 
Mr Ts account. 
I understand Mr T is unhappy that when he contacted IWeb via webchat on 3 September 
2019 and 4 September 2019 he was told his funds had not yet been received when in fact 
they had. IWeb have said this was because the funds hadnt been moved for allocation yet 
so its front end advisers were unable to see the arrival of the funds on its system. Having 
reviewed the webchat transcript I can see the adviser on 3 September 2019 did let Mr T 
know that it will chase this accordingly, we do give them a few days or so. So I cant say 
IWeb wasnt willing to look into what was causing the delay but would do so in a few days. 
I note, Mr T says he received a dividend payment on a different account with another 
provider sooner. But that doesnt necessarily mean that IWeb have done something wrong. 
As Ive already concluded above, Mr Ts dividend payment was credited within a reasonable 
timeframe. Im not persuaded how quickly another provider credited a similar payment is 
relevant. So I wont be asking IWeb to do anymore. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ts complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2020.
Asia Khanam
Ombudsman