DRN-4136806
The complaint
Mr G complains that the car he acquired financed through a hire purchase agreement with 
Blue Motor Finance Ltd wasn't of satisfactory quality.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I won't repeat them again 
here. Instead I'll focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the reasons I've 
outlined below.
It's not in dispute that the car was not of satisfactory quality when it was supplied. So it 
follows that both parties agree there has been a breach of contract which Blue Motor is 
responsible for putting right. Our investigator recommended that Mr G should be allowed to 
reject the car. 
In addition the investigator also recommended Blue Motor -
Refund the cash deposit of £70 and the part exchange value of £500 which 
contributed to the original finance agreement. 
Refund the difference between the settlement figure and the sell-on part exchange 
value of £1,037.29.
Pay Mr G £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused due to the faulty car.
Mr G accepted the investigator's recommendations. Blue Motor accepted that Mr G should 
be able to reject the vehicle as he reported issues within six months of taking out the 
agreement and because it was repaired, and those repairs failed. It also agreed with 
refunding Mr G's deposit and part exchange value along with the distress and inconvenience 
amount the investigator recommended.
Blue motor did not agree with paying the difference between the settlement figure and the 
sell-on part exchange value. It said the finance agreement had been settled as the customer 
had part exchanged the vehicle while his complaint was with our service. Blue Motor said it 
didn't have any proof the faults had contributed towards the negative equity of the vehicle. It 
said the vehicle would have naturally depreciated and will never be valued at the original 
selling price. Blue Motor said Mr G made the decision to freely part exchange the vehicle 
and would have been fully aware of the negative equity before signing up to the new finance.
I don't need to deal with the material aspects of whether the car wasnt of satisfactory 
quality. That has been agreed. And both parties agree that the cash deposit and original part 
exchange value should be refunded. The disagreement here is over the financial settlement 
concerning the sell-on part exchange value of the vehicle.
Blue Motor said if it gave Mr G both his deposit and the negative equity back that would put 
him in a position of being £570 better off than when he took out the original agreement. It 
said it would agree to refunding the difference between the negative equity and the deposit. 
It said the deposit should be used in the replacement vehicle to put Mr G back in the same 
position he was in. 
Mr G told this service that he sold the car and part exchanged it for another one because the 
faults got a bit too much. He sent a copy of the MOT details from shortly after he sold the car 
which indicated a number of problems. He said when he part exchanged he had to carry 
over £1,000 to his new finance agreement as the dealership advised there were lots of faults 
and they would cost roughly £1,000 to fix. Mr G sold the car after he received the final 
response letter from Blue Motor when it wouldnt allow him to reject the car because he 
needed to be kept mobile.
 
Blue Motor has since accepted that Mr G should be allowed to reject the car, but I think it 
reasonable that Mr G took the action he did after he received the final response letter. The 
first agreement was taken out in September 2022 and the second in December 2022. The 
car depreciated in value. 
This is only a short period of time for the car to depreciate so much. Its not clear to me how 
the problems with it affected the value but it seems likely they did. And this has cost him. 
Had Mr G been able to reject the car when he complained to Blue Motor the agreement 
wouldve ended and Mr G wouldve walked away with nothing further to pay having been 
refunded his deposit and original part-exchange value. 
But in order to be kept mobile Mr G was forced to enter into a new agreement using the car 
which Blue Motor shouldve allowed him to reject. The car was valued at £3,200 and the 
settlement figure was £4,807.29. Therefore £1,607.29 was added to the agreement which 
would incur interest. So I think the fair and reasonable action to take would be for Blue Motor 
to refund this amount less the original cash deposit and part exchange value, £1,037.29. 
Though as this amount was added to the finance agreement I wont be adding 8% simple 
interest. 
Using the APR figure on Mr Gs new agreement (which is less than his agreement with Blue 
Motor) the interest he will be charged on that amount would likely be around £500 over the 
term of the agreement. So I dont believe Mr G would be materially better off.
Putting things right
To put things right Blue Motor Finance Ltd must: 
Refund the cash deposit of £70 and the part exchange value of £500 and pay 8% 
simple interest from the date of payment to the date of settlement; 
Refund the difference between the settlement figure and the part exchange value, 
£1,037.29; 
Pay Mr G £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused due to the faulty car.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and Blue Motor Finance Ltd must put things 
right as set out above.   Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2023.
 
Maxine Sutton
Ombudsman