DRN-2075005
The complaint
Miss G complains about how Capital One (Europe) plc displays her account information and 
available credit on its banking app. She said that its misleading and entrapment. 
What happened
Miss G has a credit card account with Capital One. She said Capital One was falsifying her 
limits, advising her credit was available but then withdrawing the credit. She said that this 
had been going on for years, and had affected her credit file. She said Capital One should 
waive her balance, and pay compensation. 
Capital One said that at the time Miss G complained, she was over her credit limit. It took her 
through her spending over the last month. Capital One said Miss G had been under her limit 
in November. Shed made some purchases, which took her card up to its limit. She then 
made her minimum monthly payment by direct debit. That brought her balance down to 
about £90 below her limit. She spent £74, so when interest of about £62 was applied to her 
account at the end of the statement period, she was back over her limit. 
Capital One said that Miss G could use the estimated interest figure on her statement as an 
indication of how much interest shed be charged on the next statement. It recommended 
she left that amount available to spend on the card, so that when the interest was applied, 
shed stay within her credit limit and avoid overlimit fees. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said that when Miss G was 
using the card, she wasnt allowing for the interest which would be charged at the end of 
each month. Our investigator ran through a different one of Miss Gs monthly statements to 
tell her how the purchases she made during the month, and the interest added at the end of 
the statement period, added up to more than her credit limit. 
Our investigator didnt think that Capital One had done anything wrong. So she also didnt 
think it would be wrong if Capital One had told credit reference agencies that Miss G had 
gone over her credit limit. 
Miss G still thought it was entrapment to show that she had money available to spend on the 
app, then push her over her credit limit when she spent that money. The app didnt explain 
that interest would be added as well, and would leave her overdrawn. Miss G said she only 
uses the app to manage her account.
Our investigator also explained to Miss G that if shed gone over her credit limit, then the 
minimum direct debit payment wouldnt be enough to clear this. She would also need to 
clear the amount she was over her limit, through a separate payment. 
Miss G asked if we could send the screenshots from the app that shed shown us to Capital 
One. So we did that, and Capital One said that the information there was correct. The 
problem was that Miss G was making her minimum payment, then the account balance was 
coming down below the limit, but then when interest was added, she was going back over. 
Capital One said that sometimes Miss G spent money after making her minimum payment, 
and hadnt taken into account that interest would be applied. 
Our investigator still didnt think Capital One had done anything wrong. She said that the 
screenshots Miss G sent do reflect the correct balance. She would need to look at her 
statements as well as her current balance in order to manage her account. 
Miss G didnt agree. She said wed missed the main issue. Capital One shouldnt present an 
available amount to be spent, if it was going to later take out any interest or charges, which 
arent displayed on the app. She said that the information being displayed on the app was 
misleading and entrapment. 
Our investigator didnt change her mind, so the case was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall decision on this complaint as our investigator. 
Miss G has told us she only uses the app to manage her card. But our investigator and 
Capital One have told her shell also need to look at her statements. Thats right. Our service 
cant make Capital One display all the information that Miss G would like to see, in one place 
on the app, for her. 
Id like to set out whats happening on Miss Gs card. She has a debt balance that is carried 
forward from one month to the next. If that balance goes over the cards credit limit at any 
time, then Miss G needs to make two payments. She cant rely on her monthly direct debit to 
bring the account back within its limits AND cover her interest. It wont do that. If she doesnt 
make an extra payment, then its likely shell still be over her credit limit in the next month. 
And Miss G cant just rely on the app to tell her how much she can spend on her card at any 
one time. Shes charged interest each month on the debt on her card. Theres an estimate of 
how much interest shell be charged next month, on each of her monthly statements. 
Miss Gs billing date is the 8th of each month, so Septembers statement tells her about how 
much interest shell be charged on 8 October. But this is just an estimate. Capital One cant 
be sure how much interest it will need to charge Miss G, until the 8th. If she pays a little more 
of her debt off, or if she pays a little earlier, then the interest will be different to Capital Ones 
estimate. 
Miss G complains that her available to spend amount doesnt allow for this. I understand 
that Miss G would find it more helpful if the app reminded her that interest is due on the 8th of 
each month, and deducted this and any upcoming fees from the available to spend 
amount. But Capital One doesnt have to provide information in this format. Our service cant 
make it do that. And its not entrapment if it doesnt do this. 
Capital One has provided Miss G with the information she needs to manage her account. I 
know shed like that in a different format, but it doesnt have to do that. And Miss G has gone 
over her credit limit on a number of occasions. I dont think its wrong for Capital One to tell 
credit reference agencies about this. 
I know Miss G will be disappointed, but I dont think this complaint should be upheld.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 October 2020.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman