DRN-2416085
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Lloyds Bank PLC when it was trading as Cheltenham & 
Gloucester (C&G) mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Lloyds Bank is responsible for dealing with this complaint. So from now on Ill just refer to 
Lloyds as the seller.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M took out a PPI policy alongside a joint mortgage in 2008. The policy protected 
their monthly mortgage repayments if they couldnt work. 
Our adjudicator looked at this complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. Mr and Mrs M 
disagree and theyd like an ombudsman to review whats happened. 
Mr and Mrs M are mainly concerned that Lloyds made them feel under pressure to take out 
PPI so their mortgage application would be accepted. They told us it wasnt made clear that 
having PPI was optional. 
And Mr and Mrs M also feel strongly that PPI was mis-sold to them because it didnt cover 
the whole of their mortgage term.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
It wouldnt be reasonable to expect Mr and Mrs M to remember exactly what was discussed 
so long ago when they took out the policy. This means that what they say about the way 
they were sold PPI isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold their complaint.
I have to decide what I think is most likely given the available information and the wider 
circumstances. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
I dont know how Lloyds explained the PPI to Mr and Mrs M. But I cant see anything 
mentioned on their mortgage application form that wouldve made them think that they had 
to take out PPI with their mortgage.
And during their mortgage application process, Mr and Mrs M completed a separate 
application for Payment Protection Plus (this what C&G called its PPI.) They indicated they 
wanted to set the policy up to cover them both. They provided details of the loan they 
wanted to cover. They opted to split the policy benefits between them with the bulk of the 
protection being in Mr Ms name. 
Mr and Mrs M both signed the PPI application confirming they wanted to apply for the cover. 
And they also set up payment arrangements at their bank to cover the monthly PPI cost. 
So it looks to me as if Mr and Mrs M must have decided to take out this insurance and 
discussed how they wanted to share the cover between them. 
And they wouldve been able to see details of the PPI theyd applied for set out on their 
mortgage offer shown under the heading (in bold type) Optional Insurance. 
It also says here: You are not obliged to take this cover . 
Ive taken into account what Mr and Mrs M have said about the way they were sold this PPI. 
But I think the paperwork they completed showed that the PPI didnt have to be included with 
their mortgage and its likely they wouldve understood it was up to them to say if they 
wanted to have it. 
The mortgage was a major financial commitment repayable over a substantial number of 
years. Mr and Mrs Ms home couldve been at risk if their mortgage payments werent kept 
up to date. PPI provided dependable cover and taking into account everything theyve told 
us about their circumstances, it looks like the policy couldve been useful if theyd needed to 
claim. 
So, I can see why Mr and Mrs M mightve wanted to have the benefits that PPI offered when 
they took out their mortgage.
On balance, I find that Lloyds did do enough to make it clear that the policy was available as 
an option to protect their mortgage monthly repayments. And I think that Mr and Mrs M 
chose to take out this cover knowing they couldve declined it if they didnt want to have it. 
Lloyds recommended PPI to Mr and Mrs M. If a financial business makes a recommendation 
about PPI it has to take reasonable steps to make sure the cover it recommends is suitable 
as well as giving important policy information in a clear way. 
Looking at Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances at the time, I think PPI was suitable for them.
Mr and Mrs M were both eligible for the policy given their circumstances and the PPI terms 
and conditions that applied. And the way the benefit was split between them seems 
reasonable as they were both responsible for paying the mortgage and Mr M was the main 
earner.
Both Mr and Mrs M couldve relied on getting sick pay. But this doesnt mean that PPI wasnt 
right for them. The policy wouldve covered their mortgage repayments (plus some extra) 
and paid out in full for up to 12 months per claim on top of any sick pay. I think this couldve 
been a useful benefit at whats likely to have been a difficult time for Mr and Mrs M  
especially if they mightve faced additional costs as a result of one (or both of them) being ill 
or having a disability. 
The policy wouldve also paid out in the event that Mr M or Mrs M became unexpectedly 
unemployed.  
Mr and Mrs M told us they had some other means they couldve depended on to pay the 
mortgage if they werent working. But looking at the record of their discussion with the 
mortgage advisor, when they arranged their mortgage it looks like they mightve been experiencing some financial pressure and they were using the mortgage partly to 
consolidate debt. 
I can see they had some endowment policies. But it looks like they told Lloyds the 
endowment policies werent going to be enough to clear the mortgage and they were worried 
that there would still be a shortfall. 
And although they were expecting a substantial inheritance I dont think that was something 
they could depend on when they signed up to the mortgage. 
There was no guarantee when Mr and Mrs M took out this mortgage that they would always 
be able to rely on having other ways to pay the mortgage if they werent working because 
everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly. 
Having PPI meant that Mr and Mrs M could be sure theyd be able to pay the mortgage 
monthly repayments.  
So I think PPI offered Mr and Mrs M useful protection.  
There were some things the policy didnt cover. But Mr and Mrs M were both in full time 
employment and in good health when they took out the PPI. It doesnt look as if they were 
affected by any of the main conditions limiting the policys benefits. So, even if all the policy 
terms and conditions werent explained as clearly as they shouldve been, I dont think 
having more information about what wasnt covered wouldve put them off taking it out.
The monthly cost of the PPI was set out on their mortgage offer. So Mr and Mrs M could see 
what they would have to pay for the policy. They set up separate payment arrangements for 
the policy. And it doesnt look as if the policy was an expense they couldnt afford  so the 
cost didnt make it unsuitable for them.  
As they paid for the policy monthly they were free to cancel at anytime without losing out 
financially if they decided they no longer wanted to pay for it. 
Based on all the information I've seen, I think Mr and Mrs M chose to take out the policy. So 
it appears to me they did want to have this type of cover and were happy to pay for it at the 
time. It seems to have been affordable for them when they took it out.  
Looked at overall, its possible there were some failings in the way this policy was sold. But 
I think Mr and Mrs M still wouldve decided to buy the policy even if theyd been better 
informed as it gave them useful protection in their particular situation. I dont think better 
information wouldve put them off buying PPI given the benefits it offered them.
In coming to my decision I've taken into account Mr and Mrs Ms concern that the policy 
didnt cover them after age 65. It looks like this was mentioned when they took out the PPI 
as theres a note on the form they filled in to get the PPI saying: Both applicants are aware 
that the cover ceases at age 65. 
And on their mortgage offer it also says: The policy will end upon redemption of the 
mortgage or if you are no longer eligible.
I can completely understand how Mr and Mrs M mightve forgotten  and I dont know 
exactly what, if anything, was said about this during discussions about the policy. But it 
makes no difference. The fact that the protection the policy provided ended at age 65 years 
doesnt mean the policy was mis-sold to Mr and Mrs M in 2008. The policy offered them 
useful cover for a number of years and was suitable for them at the point of sale when they 
took it out.This means that, on balance, I dont find that Mr and Mrs M lost out as a result of anything 
that Lloyds did wrong. So it doesnt need to do anything to put things right.
I understand that what Ive said will come as a disappointment. But I hope that setting out 
the reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 February 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman