DRN-3625959
The complaint
Mrs S complained about the poor level of customer service and workmanship she received 
from British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) under her Home Emergency policy. Mrs S 
has had some representation during this complaint, but for ease and simplicity I will only 
refer to Mrs S.
What happened
Between September 2021 and May 2022 Mrs S made several claims under her policy in 
relation to issues with her home electrics, central heating and kitchen appliances. Mrs S was 
unhappy with the number appointments that British Gas cancelled and the delays in getting 
things sorted during this period. She said this had an impact on her family with time taken off 
work.
Mrs S said British Gas didnt fit a new light that it had said it would install. Mrs S was 
unhappy as she thought British Gas had made unnecessary damage when repairing one of 
her lights and washer dryer.
British Gas said, we have failed to deliver a satisfactory level of service regarding multiple 
delayed appointments and misinformation provided to you and it paid Mrs S £350 in 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused. However, it disagreed that its 
engineers had caused unnecessary damage to her property and said as the new light was 
an upgrade job, it was chargeable work and therefore, not something it could consider.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. He thought British Gas had 
compensated Mrs S fairly for the issues with the appointments. He thought the damage 
caused to Mrs S wall was reasonable for the repair that had taken place and he thought 
British Gas had repaired this in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. Mrs S 
disagreed, so the case has been referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
British Gas has accepted its standards of service fell below a reasonable level in the delayed 
and cancelled appointments during the period in question. So, I have considered whether I 
think the £350 compensation is reasonable in these circumstances for the distress and 
inconvenience Mrs S experienced. The timeline of events was well documented by our 
investigator and this hasnt been challenged, so I wont repeat this detail here.
There are a mixture of things going on here:
 Additional follow-on appointments were required from previous work as new faults 
were found when investigating the original issue
 On occasions, an engineer turned up slightly late for an appointment
 British Gas notified Mrs S in advance on a few occasions that it needed to re-schedule 
an appointment
Considering Mrs S claimed on her policy many times for different issues and some of these 
issues needed follow-up work, I dont think the number of visits by British Gas is 
unreasonable. I think it was trying its best to resolve Mrs S issues. I think with any claim 
there will be a level of inconvenience caused by the issue itself. Overall, given the number of 
issues, I think British Gas dealt with these and where there was a problem it let Mrs S know 
in advance that it needed to re-schedule an appointment. I dont think this is unreasonable.
However, I can see there were additional issues related to specifically fixing a light. An 
engineer didnt turn up at all when scheduled. Then, then when the engineer did turn up for 
the subsequent appointment it turned out the wrong lights had been ordered so the 
appointment needed to be rearranged. I think this wouldve been frustrating and wouldve 
inconvenienced Mrs S. However, I do think the £350 compensation offered is reasonable in 
these circumstances. Our service views this as a significant award and I think its suitable for 
what went wrong. So, I dont uphold this part of the complaint.
In respect to the additional light that British Gas said it wouldnt fit under the policy as it was 
an upgrade job. British Gas investigated this. It apologised that its engineer had made a 
mistake in offering this initially. It explained upgrade work wasnt covered under the policy, 
so it shouldnt have been offered. To try and make amends, British Gas provided a quotation 
to do this work which it didnt need to do. Although, Mrs S chose not to have this work done 
in the end, I think British Gas managed this situation fairly and I dont think its fair to have 
expected it to do anymore.
Mrs S said British Gas made unnecessary damage to her walls when repairing an outside 
light and had damaged her washer dryer. A British Gas customer delivery manager 
investigated the concerns that were raised. By appointing a manger to thoroughly 
investigate, I can see that British Gas has taken the complaint seriously. The investigation 
concluded the fault on the dryer washer wasnt related to the initial repair. The manager 
confirmed the holes left on the brick wall were as a result of making a repair. [The manager] 
attended and it was agreed the holes would be filled, as per our terms and conditions in
making good. We therefore cant consider replacing the bricks.
I think British Gas has followed a reasonable process in sending out a manager to assess 
the damage. He concluded it was reasonable damage when considering the repair. I havent 
seen any other evidence to suggest the damage was caused unnecessarily. I have reviewed 
the terms and conditions to see what British Gas responsibilities were. In page 3 of their 
booklet it states access and making good - getting access to your appliance or system, and 
then repairing any damage we may cause in doing so, by replacing items such as cabinets 
or cupboards that weve removed and by filling in holes we have made and leaving a level 
surface. See page 29 for more details.
British Gas said it filled the holes in line with these terms and conditions. As I havent seen 
any evidence to suggest it didnt do this I cant say it has been unreasonable. Therefore, I 
dont uphold this aspect of the complaint.
In summary, I think British Gas has compensated Mrs S fairly for the issues it has caused 
and otherwise has acted in line with its responsibilities under the terms and conditions of the 
policy. Therefore, I dont uphold this complaint.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require British Gas Insurance 
Limited to do anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2022.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman