DRN-2470588
Complaint
Mrs B says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
Its been agreed in this case that Allianz Insurance Plc (Allianz) as the insurer, should 
accept the responsibility for the complaint. So Ill refer to Allianz in my decision. 
Background
The PPI was added to the account in 1997, at the same time as Mrs B took out a card in 
store. The policy offered cover for accident, death, unemployment and sickness.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. 
In summary, she said she felt strongly that she never ticked the box for PPI. Adding, she 
would never have signed for something she didnt understand and would have left the 
section blank. In addition, she said that even if more information about the PPI had been 
provided, she wouldnt have taken it. So the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Bs case. Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mrs Bs complaint. I will now explain my reasons.
Allianz should have taken reasonable steps to make it clear the PPI was optional and gain 
Mrs Bs consent before adding it to her card. Allianz has provided a copy of Mrs Bs 
completed and signed card application form from the time of sale. Looking at the form, I can 
it has a section about PPI on it and a box for the customer to tick if they would like to take 
out PPI. On Mrs Bs form, I can see the box to take PPI has been ticked. Its not clear 
whether the form was completed by Mrs B or by a member of staff after seeking Mrs Bs 
agreement. But Mrs B signed the form, so she would have had the opportunity to read it 
before signing to agree that the details and any product selections were correct. 
Ive also noted that the application form gave Mrs B the option of selecting whether or not 
she wanted to protect the card from loss or theft. Mrs B didnt select this product, so I think 
she would have known she had a choice about taking out either product.
Looking at Mrs Bs statements, I can also see the PPI would have appeared as PAYMENT 
PROTECTION PREMIUM and I think it would have been quite prominent. So, while Mrs B 
says she didnt know she had PPI, I think its likely she would have seen this and if she 
wasnt sure what it was for, I would have expected her to query the transactions with Allianz 
much sooner than she did.
The sale took place 23 years ago, so its quite possible Mrs B may not remember all of the 
details now. But having considered all of the available information, I think its more likely than 
not Allianz made it clear that the PPI was an optional product and Mrs B chose to take it.
Allianz and Mrs B agree that PPI wasnt recommended to her. So it didnt have to check if 
the policy was right for her. But it did have to give her enough information about the policy, 
so she could decide if she wanted to take it or not.
Looking at the application form, as well as detailing what the cover the policy offered, it 
included the cost as 66p per £100 of the outstanding balance and eligibility details. While its 
possible all the information Allianz gave Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been, Im satisfied Mrs B was eligible for cover and she doesnt appear to have been 
affected by any of the main things the policy doesnt cover  such as pre-existing medical 
conditions. And based on what I know about her circumstances at the time, it looks like the 
policy could have been useful to her.
Mrs B says she would have received at least six months full pay followed by six months half 
pay from her employer if she was too unwell to work. Shes also told us she had a car which 
she could sell to help cover her store card repayments if she was unable to work. 
Having thought about what Mrs B has said about her sick pay, I dont think this means she 
wouldnt have found the policy useful. I say this because the PPI would have paid out in 
addition to any sick pay Mrs B would have received from her employer and would have 
potentially paid out for longer than she would have received full pay. The PPI also would 
have paid a benefit if Mrs B was ever made redundant and in the event of death. 
Ive also thought about what Mrs B has said about the fact that she had a car which she 
could sell. But I dont think this means the PPI wouldnt have been useful for her. The PPI 
would have meant she could keep her car which presumably she wanted.
So taking everything into consideration, I havent seen enough to persuade me on balance, 
that had better information been provided at the time of the sale, this would have stopped 
her buying it. I also havent seen anything to suggest the policy wasnt affordable for Mrs B 
at the time of the sale.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2021.
 
Donna Parsons
Ombudsman