DRN-1545630
 
The complaint
Mr O is unhappy that he didnt receive any policy details or documents for his National 
Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) home insurance policy.
What happened
In January 2018, Mr O visited a branch of NatWest to sign up for a home insurance policy. 
The policy was set up by a member of staff.
Mr O said he returned to the branch multiple times because he didnt receive any policy 
documents or a policy number. However, the direct debit had been set up and the insurance 
premiums were being taken from his bank account.
Mr O complained to NatWest. NatWest replied and said that it incorrectly recorded Mr Os 
address and as a result he didnt receive the policy documents. It said that it would have 
paid an insurance claim, as NatWest would have noted that it was its error. It paid him 
£379.19, the equivalent of what he had paid in insurance premiums, as compensation, and a 
further £50 compensation for the inconvenience caused.
Mr O complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, as he NatWest 
accepted it had made a mistake and had dealt with the complaint in a reasonable way.
As Mr O did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are a number of elements to Mr Os complaint, but in essence these seem to stem 
from how his policy was set up in the first place. NatWest accepts that it set his policy up 
with an incorrect address due to Mr Os property number being mistyped by a member of 
staff in a branch. As a result of this, Mr O didnt receive his policy documents and said that 
he therefore didnt know that he was insured. He said this also meant that he didnt claim on 
his insurance policy and instead paid to replace some items himself.
I can understand that Mr O was unclear whether he was insured and thought that his home 
might have been uninsured. I note that the direct debit payments were being taken from his 
bank account, which I think was a reasonable indication that a policy was in place, even if Mr 
O didnt know the details of the policy. Nonetheless, I accept that this isnt definitive proof of 
a policy being in place and that the only way for Mr O to know for certain was for NatWest to 
confirm this, ideally through providing details of the policy.
Ive thought about Mr Os concerns related to making a claim. Im aware that in NatWests 
response to his complaint, it said that if Mr O had made a claim it would have noted that the 
issue with the address was its error and dealt with the claim. On that basis, I have no reason 
to think that Mr O wasnt insured or that NatWest wouldnt have accepted a claim from him 
had he made one. Im also aware that Mr O had items that he said he would have claimed 
for had he been clear that the policy was in place, but I simply cant say what the outcome of 
any claim would have been because each claim would have needed to be assessed against 
the terms of the policy.
Mr O has also complained that, despite repeated attempts to get confirmation of the policy 
details, he still didnt receive the policy documents. There is a lack of records about this, but I 
have no reason to doubt that Mr O tried to resolve the issue on multiple occasions. When 
NatWest responded to Mr Os complaint, it accepted that the policy was registered at the 
wrong address, which meant that he didnt receive the documents in the post. It also 
explained to Mr O how to update his address. While this service was looking at this 
complaint, it became clear that Mr Os address details were still wrong. Mr O told this service 
that, given his long-term relationship with NatWest, he thought that it should be for NatWest, 
rather than him, to update the details. I asked NatWest if it could do this and it said that, for 
security reasons, Mr O would need to do this himself. However, it agreed to contact Mr O in 
order to help him do this. On that basis, I am satisfied that as part of resolving Mr Os 
complaint he was advised how to update his details and that NatWest has now taken 
additional steps in order to help him do so.
Mr O is also concerned that his privacy has been breached because his policy documents 
were sent to the wrong address. However, Mr O would need to raise this with the Information 
Commissioners Office, as it is outside the remit of this service.
Thinking about all of the above, NatWest accepts that it made a mistake by setting up the 
policy at the wrong address. However, I think that the way that NatWest dealt with Mr Os 
complaint was reasonable in the circumstances. I also think that the compensation it offered 
was appropriate and took into account the range and type of issues that this case involved 
and is in line with what I would have awarded. As a result, I dont think NatWest needs to do 
anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2020.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman