DRN-2721234
The complaint
 Mrs Ds complaint about National Savings and Investments (NS) relates to a failed transfer 
of funds she tried to make to NS from a third-party account I shall call SSL. 
What happened
 Mrs D had money in an account with SSL and which was being administered by another 
organisation I shall call BOS. She instructed BOS to transfer those funds to her Direct 
Saver account with NS.
BOS sent the funds on 4 May 2020 and said it used the correct account number, sort code 
and reference number, the latter being Mrs Ds nine-digit Direct Saver account number 
ending 084. BOS position therefore was that it didnt think it had done anything wrong, 
although it couldnt explain why the transfer had failed.
NS said they received the funds that day but that the money was automatically returned to 
SSL on 10 May 2020. NS say the reason that occurred was because BOS used, as a 
reference number, a ten-digit number ending 310. That they said was Mrs Ds SSL account 
number, which as a fact, it was. NS said BOS ought to have used her direct Saver account 
number as the reference number.
Whilst NS rejected Mrs Ds complaint, believing they had done nothing wrong, as a gesture 
of goodwill they made a payment to her bank account of £30.
Our investigator thought that on the balance of probabilities the evidence showed that BOS 
was responsible for the failed transfer and not NS. This complaint and Mrs Ds complaint 
against BOS were passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 In considering this complaint Ive taken account of Mrs Ds view and that of NS. Ive looked 
closely at all the available evidence considered the issues raised. I have therefore been able 
to view documents supplied by BOS and NS.
Starting first with the documents from NS. The first document NS provided is described as 
an internal record in the form of a spreadsheet, confirming payment details. There are seven 
columns and one row. The relevant columns are headed Reference and Counterparty. 
Under Reference there is a number which does not correspond to either the SSL or Direct 
Saver account number. Under Counterparty there is the SSL account number. NS believe 
this shows that BOS entered the wrong reference number, but I disagree. Whilst the 
document as a whole bares the SSL number, it is not under the heading reference, and as 
such my view is that this document is of little help.
NS has also provided a two-page list of rejected transactions from the same account number 
and sort code as Mrs Ds attempted transfer. Those are the same details as appear under 
the heading Orderer on the document above. NS say this shows numerous other failed 
transactions from the same source. Marked by hand written asterisks are two lines which NS 
say relate to Mrs Ds transaction. Neither entry helps me as the alphanumeric number under 
the heading Reference bears no resemblance to ether the SSL or Direct Saver account 
number, and on the second entry the column Counterparty contains the SSL account 
number, which takes me no further forward from the internal document above.
NS then provided a copy of a screen shot for Mrs Ds specific failed transaction. This shows 
an operation date of 4 May 2020 with the payment type and amount noted. Underneath that 
there are two boxes one headed Orderer and the other Counterparty. Under the word 
Orderer there is a sort code and account number which NS say identifies the source of the 
funds. These details are not the SSL or Direct Saver account number. Under the heading 
Counterparty there appears the SSL account number. However, within the box are also the 
words Reference Counterparty followed by Mrs Ds Direct Saver account number.
BOS have produced two documents. The first is a screenshot which BOS says shows that 
the correct reference number was used and is the document which records or initiates the 
transfer. What it shows is a series of numbers and words, the relevant part of which appears 
to be Ref/Desc under which appears Mrs Ds Direct Saver account number, and 
underneath that, the words Maturity Paid by BACS. It would appear that the correct 
reference number was used as it is written next to the Ref/Desc heading, which I take to 
mean reference and description.
The second document of note is headed contact log enquiry. It records a date of 23 April 
2020 and in the notes section it records a maturity instruction of a BACS Payment to NS. It 
also quotes a reference number, being Mrs Ds Direct Saver account number. The date is 
significant because this is when Mrs D called to request the transfer. It means this is a 
contemporaneously written document containing the correct reference number.
The central issue here seems to me to be whether the correct reference number was used in 
the correct fashion when making the transfer. It would seem to be accepted by all parties 
that NS requirements, in the circumstances which pertain here, are that the party sending 
the funds must put the customers Direct Saver account number in the reference number 
section when making the transfer. 
The documents produced by BOS indicate that it is more likely than not they used the 
correct details. The documents produced by NS show, in particular, that in the box headed 
Counterparty, the description Reference Counterparty is followed by Mrs Ds Direct Saver 
account number. That is strong evidence that NS received Mrs Ds Direct Saver account 
number as it is listed there under that very reference. I acknowledge that within the same 
box under the word Counterparty there appears Mrs Ds SSL account number and that is 
curious. NS wish me to accept that it is this entry which signifies that BOS used the wrong 
account number. However, the other entry - Reference Counterparty seems to me to be 
more indicative of the entry for the correct account number since it bares the word 
reference within its title. In my view this heavily leans towards NS actually receiving the 
correct details from BOS.
Mrs D has also produced entries from her HSBC account which show 31 successful 
transactions to NS. I dont regard this as particularly helpful as although it is evidence of 
historic successful transactions it is not evidence that this particular transaction failed 
because of an error on BOS part. I do not consider that simply because those transactions 
worked, it can rule out that there could be no future error with NS system or operation of it.I issued my Provisional Decision on 22 March 2021 and both Mrs D and NS have 
responded. Mrs D accepts the decision but NS dont. NS have provided no further evidence 
for me to consider but have re-emphasised that as their system is entirely automated, and 
with no human intervention, if BOS had used Mrs Ds Direct Saver account number then the 
payment would not have been returned automatically. That argument has some logic, but it 
overlooks the fact that Mrs Ds Direct Saver account number is in the screen shot provided 
by NS themselves, in the field Reference Counterparty. 
I appreciate that NS have provided a document which purports to show that other transfers 
for other BOS customers failed, but I have not been provided with the same level of detail as 
I have for Mrs D. It would therefore be wrong to make an assumption that the reason those 
transfers failed was for the same reason as Mrs Ds.
So, in looking at all of the evidence in the round, on the balance of probabilities I think it 
more likely than not, even though this was an automated transaction, that it failed as a result 
of some issue within NS system rather than BOS, since NS clearly held the correct 
reference number for the destination of Mrs Ds funds. 
Putting things right
 In the light of my findings above, my final decision is that I require NS to pay Mrs D £125 in 
compensation together with any lost interest at the rate of 8% for the period her money was 
out of her SSL account.
My final decision
 National Savings and Investments shall pay Mrs D £125 plus interest at the rate of 8% for 
the six day period 4 May to 10 May on the sum they received and later returned.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 April 2021.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman