DRN-3923730
The complaint
Miss P complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) unfairly declined a 
claim she made under her home insurance policy. 
What happened
In mid-2022, Miss P made a claim under her home insurance policy with RSA after 
discovering a leak from her fish tank. There was damage to her carpet, a rug, the unit of the 
fish tank and its air pump.
RSA told Miss P the claim was covered by her policy. It asked Miss P to find a like for like 
replacement for the fish tank and arranged for an assessor to visit her property to review the 
damage. However, a few weeks later, RSA told Miss P the damage wasnt covered under 
the terms of the policy. 
Miss P complained to RSA who said there was no cover on the policy. It said for an incident 
of this nature to be covered, where a fish tank is freestanding and there is water damage 
caused by the tank, accidental damage would need to be an added extra on the policy. As 
Miss Ps policy only had standard cover, there was no insured event to provide cover for the 
incident. RSA offered Miss P £100 for its mistake in initially agreeing cover, which has since 
been paid to her.
Miss P referred her complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into the matter but 
didnt think the complaint should be upheld. The investigator didnt think RSAs decision to 
decline Miss Ps claim was unfair. And she thought RSAs offer of £100 fairly reflected the 
trouble and upset caused by initially advising Miss P the incident was covered.
 
Miss P disagreed with our investigators outcome. So, the complaint has been passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ps complaint. Ill explain why.
The relevant industry rules say that an insurer should handle claims promptly and fairly and 
it shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.
When a policyholder makes a claim, the onus is on them to show that an insured event most 
likely caused the damage.
RSA says it initially agreed Miss Ps claim as being covered by escape of water. However, 
when it later reviewed the claim, RSA realised there was no cover under escape of water 
because the fish tank was freestanding. 
The policy covers loss or damage to contents caused by several events including water 
escaping from washing machines, dishwashers, fixed water or fixed heating systems.
RSA says Miss P confirmed the fish tank was not plumbed in and has provided a photograph 
of it. The photograph shows that the fish tank is part of a freestanding unit, with cupboards 
underneath. So, I think it was reasonable for RSA to have concluded that the damage wasnt 
caused by the escape of water peril under the policy.
RSA says it also considered whether Miss Ps claim might be covered under accidental 
damage. But it says there was no cover under this as Miss P had only taken out standard 
cover, rather than extended accidental damage cover.
According to the policys terms and conditions full accidental damage and loss is an 
optional extra. The terms say this additional cover is only provided if your schedule states 
Contents in your Home with extended Accidental damage and Loss.
Miss Ps policy schedule says: Contents in your Home  the level of cover is Standard. 
Extended Accidental damage and Loss does not appear on the schedule. So, Im satisfied 
Miss P didnt take out extended accidental damage cover. 
According to the terms standard accidental damage covers accidental damage to 
television, satellite, video, audio and computer equipment, and breakage of mirrors, ceramic 
hobs or glass in furniture such as glass, tables or cabinets. 
RSA says Miss P informed it that the leak resulted from the filter or pump being dislodged. 
Theres nothing to suggest that the glass of the fish tank was damaged. And even if it was, 
the policy would only provide cover for the broken glass. The replacement cost of any part 
of the item other than the broken glass isnt covered.
I know my answer will be disappointing for Miss P, but I dont think the damage shes 
claimed for was caused by an event that was covered by the terms of her insurance policy. 
So, I think it was fair and reasonable for RSA to have declined her claim.
I appreciate it was frustrating for Miss P to be told by RSA that it was declining her claim 
after previously agreeing to settle it. However, RSA gave her the correct information within a 
few weeks of Miss P making her claim. Its apologised for its mistake and has paid Miss P 
£100 compensation. I think this fairly recognises the distress and inconvenience RSAs error 
has caused Miss P, so I dont require RSA to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Miss Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 March 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman