DRN-3487030
The complaint
Miss M complains that the way Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays)applied her standing order 
on her  credit card caused her to pay more interest than necessary. She would like the 
interest adjusted and compensation.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again here 
instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions :-
Miss M has referred to several other credit card companies and their policies, but I 
need to make it clear that, in this complaint, I can only consider Barclays actions and 
their impact on Miss M
I accept , when in March 2020 Miss M set up a standing order in addition to her direct 
debit payment,  its likely  she was trying to reduce or pay off the balance on her 
credit card. I cant see why else she would have set up an additional payment.
Its unfortunate that the timing of the standing order meant that those payments were 
used towards the minimum payment due with the subsequent direct debit payment 
being reduced accordingly.  However, for me to tell Barclays to adjust the interest on 
Miss Ms account and to pay more compensation Barclays needs to have done 
something wrong.
I have read the terms and conditions for Miss Ms account and these dont explain 
the impact the timing of standing orders or other payments might have on direct debit 
payments.  However, this Ive seen this information which  is on Barclays website.  I 
cant say that Barclays  were wrong to apply the payments in the way it did since that 
is its process and its not for us to tell banks what processes to use.
I accept not everyone uses websites regularly and Ms M doesnt. We have asked 
Barclays what information Miss M would have been given when she set up her 
standing order. It cant provide contact notes relating to this but has advised its 
normal process is to tell customers at the point of set up as to how additional 
payments impact on the direct debit which is what I would expect. Miss M has told us 
she wasnt told this. Its very difficult when parties dont agree on what was said. I 
think Barclays process is to advise customers of the impact of payment dates. But  I 
cant be sure if it did, as Miss M says it didnt and Barclays cant evidence it did
I have looked at what other information Miss M had. Miss M set up her standing order 
in March 2020. I have seen from Barclays customer contact notes that from June 
2020 onwards Barclays sent monthly letters advising Miss M of her persistent debt 
and what to do to about this. It also sent  regular monthly statements. I have seen 
these, and they show the varying direct debit payments and the standing order 
payments. I think Miss Ms bank statements would also have shown this information. 
I do think Miss M had sufficient information available to her to know how her 
payments were being used. And consumers do have some responsibility to manage 
their own accounts.
Furthermore, whilst its unfortunate I dont think Barclays were wrong to classify Miss 
Ms account as in persistent debt as she was paying more in interest and charges 
than she was paying off the main balance for 18 months
In terms of the solution Miss M wanted I cant be sure of what Barclays told Miss M 
when she set up her standing order. But I am persuaded she had sufficient other 
information from Barclays to know how her payments were being used. So, I dont 
think I can reasonably ask Barclays to adjust  her interest or to pay additional 
compensation in addition to the £100 gesture of goodwill it has already paid.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 October 2022.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman