DRN-2240941
complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken in 1999. 
Mr and Mrs L say The Co-operative Bank Plc, trading as Britannia, (Co-op) mis-sold them 
the PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, including Mr and Mrs Ls 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here. The 
policy covered Mr and Mrs L for unemployment only and was free for the first 12 months.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mr and Mrs Ls representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  it didnt raise any 
new or additional points but repeated complaint points and arguments it had previously 
made. Mr and Mrs L also requested a decision. As the complaint couldnt be resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ls. I havent set out that detailed 
information here, but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ls complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
Mr and Mrs L have said the PPI was just included as part of the mortgage package. I 
give their recollections some weight, but I also take into account that they set these out 
for us more than 15 years after the sale  so it wouldnt be surprising if they didnt recall 
all the details. With this in mind, what Mr and Mrs L have said isnt enough on its own to 
make me think Co-op just included PPI on their mortgage without giving them a choice  
and I havent seen anything else to make me think this.
I note also Mr and Mrs L signed a separate sheet to confirm various points including that 
it had been explained to them that cover for accident, sickness and unemployment was 
not a condition of sale.
Also, the mortgage application form said PPI would cover accident, sickness and 
unemployment. On Mr and Mrs Ls form, next to Type of Payment Protection required it 
said Unemployment Only. This makes me Mr and Mrs L made the decision at that time 
to turn down accident and sickness cover. On balance, I think that decision is likely to 
have come about in the course of a conversation Mr and Mrs L had with Co-op about the 
cover before the mortgage application form was printed out for them to sign.
Also, unemployment cover was free for the first year and Co-op has sent us a letter sent 
to Mr and Mrs L when the free period was coming to an end. This told them what the 
monthly premium would be if they wanted to carry on with the cover, as well as giving 
some details of the cover itself, and it enclosed a direct debit for them to complete if they 
wanted to continue with cover. Mr and Mrs L completed and returned the direct debit and 
a letter on file shows Co-op sent them a letter to acknowledge this and to confirm the 
payments that would be collected. It looks from all this like Mr and Mrs L were aware, 
before they started to pay for it, that the PPI was something separate from the mortgage 
and that it carried a separate cost  and they agreed to make the payments.
Taking into account everything Ive said above, on balance what I have makes me think 
it more likely Co-op made it clear Mr and Mrs L didnt have to take the PPI and they 
chose to take it  although it would be understandable if they didnt recall this now.
Co-op didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs L - so it didnt have to check the PPI was 
right or suitable for them. But it did have to give them enough clear and timely 
information so they could decide for themselves if it was right for them.
Its possible the information Co-op gave Mr and Mrs L about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found they chose to take it - so it looks to me like they wanted 
this type of cover. It wasnt fundamentally wrong for them  for example nothing about 
their jobs or employment wouldve made it hard for them to claim (the policy terms for 
fixed-term contracts wouldnt have affected them for instance). Also any health issues 
would not have affected their ability to claim for unemployment. I dont know if they were 
told the cost at the start, but they were told the cost and told about the benefit before 
they started to pay for the cover. Overall I dont think the cover was too dissimilar to what 
its likely Mr and Mrs L thought they were buying from the information its likely they were 
given. With all this in mind, I dont think Mr and Mrs L wouldve declined the cover had 
Co-op done anything more in terms of the information it provided at the outset.
Overall, I consider Mr and Mrs L wouldve still taken the PPI. It was sufficiently close to what 
its likely they though they were getting and, given their circumstances, I think it couldve 
provided a useful benefit at what could be a difficult time were either one or both of them to 
have become unemployed in the circumstances the policy covered. And, in those 
circumstances, I think Mr and Mrs L wouldve taken the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs Ls representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a 
claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules 
and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of 
the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant Co-op should have disclosed the poor value 
and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.Mr and Mrs Ls representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ls individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Ls particular 
case. But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint. 
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 January 2022. 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman