DRN-3071259
The complaint
Mr J complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax failed to contact him as it ought 
to have done when his account was operating in an unplanned overdraft. He says its failure 
to do so meant his late partners gambling addiction went undetected, which has led to 
significant financial loss to him. 
  
What happened
The circumstances of this case are well known to both parties and so Ill summarise the 
background:
Mr Js partner (who Ill refer to as Ms T) looked after the household finances and did 
so for many years, managing all aspects and accounts.
Mr J, because of this arrangement, didnt feel the need to monitor the accounts or 
spending himself.
Ms T sadly passed away in December 2017 having long suffered with various health 
conditions. Her passing meant Mr J had to take charge of the household finances.
On doing so, Mr J discovered debt he hadnt known about, credit cards in his name 
that he hadnt applied for, and that shares he had held had been sold with the 
proceeds (of over £60,000) spent. He found that all of this activity had been carried 
out by Ms T, with large sums of money having been spent on gambling over several 
years. One of the affected accounts was a Halifax current account held jointly with 
Ms T and that is the subject of this complaint. It became clear to Mr J that Ms T had 
been hiding correspondence from him so that her gambling addiction and linked 
activities went undiscovered.
Halifax wrote to Mr J in March 2020 to let him know it was refunding £58.62 of 
unplanned overdraft charges. That was because the bank hadnt always notified him 
and Ms T about the charges, as it was supposed to. The letter didnt specify when 
exactly correspondence wasnt set but explained it would have been on occasion 
between January 2016 and November 2017.
Mr J complained to Halifax as a result of this letter. He said that had the bank written 
to him when it was supposed to he would have been alerted to the status of the 
account. Mr J says he would have questioned why the account was in an unplanned 
overdraft and that his investigations would have led to him discovering Ms Ts 
gambling addiction. And he believes he could then have prevented her from 
spending the sums that she did and stopped his shares from being sold. 
Halifax responded but said it wouldnt be refunding anything further. It said the refund 
it had already made put right its error with the missing correspondence. It said it had 
regularly produced statements and alerts for Mr J though his online banking. It also 
said that Mr J had the ability to check his balance and activity in branch and at a 
cash machine.
Mr J was unhappy with the banks response and so brought his complaint to this 
service. He thought the bank should be able to evidence exactly when it didnt send 
him the correspondence it ought to have done. And he said that the banks failure to 
notify him meant that it should bear responsibility for some of his loss, particularly 
the shares that had been sold.
Ive already discussed the outcome of this complaint with Mr J at some length and 
Ive explained my reasons for not upholding it. But because Mr J hasnt accepted my 
findings, Im formalising them in a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr J is already aware of my reasons for not upholding the complaint, I wont reiterate all 
of the detail here.
Mr Js main reason for believing the bank ought to repay his losses is that he feels, had the 
bank sent all of the correspondence it ought to have done, there was a chance he would 
have received one of the items and, if he did, it would have made all the difference.
I cant say for certain what might have happened if Halifax had sent all the correspondence it 
was supposed to. I have to make my findings based on what I believe is more likely than not 
to have happened. And I dont find the most likely scenario is that the missing 
correspondence would have made a difference. The important considerations are as follows:
Mr J had been sent at least seven notifications of unplanned overdraft charges that 
he hadnt seen/received and hadnt revealed the problems Ms T was having;
It is likely, based on the small amount refunded in March 2020, that only one or two 
such items of correspondence werent sent. And so the chances of one of those, in 
amongst all other correspondence, being discovered by Mr J was very remote;
The correspondence the bank was sending was being directed to Mr Js online 
banking inbox in any case, and he wasnt accessing it. So even had the missing 
items been sent, there was no way he would have seen them;
Looking at how the household finances were run  with overdue balances, utilities 
suppliers going unpaid and so on  its likely there would have been many, many 
items of correspondence sent to Mr Js home by different businesses over the years. 
All would have indicated what the financial situation was, or at least all was not as 
Mr J believed. But it would appear Mr J never received any of them, likely because 
of Ms Ts intervention;
Mr J has said there is a joint account held with another bank that he had no idea 
about. That account had been open for more than twenty years at the point he made 
his complaint to Halifax, but hed never seen any correspondence about it.
All of these points lead me to the conclusion that even had the bank sent the 
correspondence it ought to have done it would more likely than not have gone unseen by Mr J (not forgetting the fact it wouldnt have actually come by post). The bank hasnt been 
able to demonstrate exactly when correspondence wasnt sent when it ought to have been. 
But that inability to provide that evidence doesnt lead to Mr Js complaint being 
automatically upheld.
Ive also thought about Mr Js own responsibilities. All account holders ought to monitor their 
accounts. But Mr J appears to have not looked into the household finances or account 
balances for a period of perhaps six years prior to Ms Ts passing. I appreciate that it will 
often be the case that one person in a household, being completely trusted, looks after the 
finances. But I dont find it reasonable to say that the bank should bear responsibility for 
Mr Js losses when he hasnt checked his own accounts over such a long period of time, and 
where doing so would have made the difference he says the overdraft letters would have 
made.
Ive also found that the loss Mr J has described, including the cashing in of shares, is too 
remote from the banks error. It wasnt reasonably foreseeable that the failure to send a 
piece of correspondence would lead to Ms Ts gambling addiction and the losses Mr J has 
described, or that it would mean those things went undiscovered. Indeed, some of those 
losses had already happened by the time of the banks error. And it's also the case that the 
impact of the gambling activity was - or ought to have been  visible to Mr J long before any 
error in respect of the missing correspondence.   
Mr J has also commented that he thinks the bank ought to have reached out to him directly, 
as the as the major and only breadwinner. But I dont find that the bank had to do more than 
it did. It was frequently writing to him, providing bank statements, and could see he was 
regularly paying into the account. Halifax was also in fairly regular contact with Ms T about 
the status of the household finances. I cant see there was anything to suggest Halifax 
needed to do more at the time.
I am sorry to disappoint Mr J with this outcome. I cant imagine how much of a shock it must 
have been to discover the position Ms Ts gambling has left him in. And in reaching the 
outcome I have Im not saying that Mr J hasnt been a victim or that Ms T did nothing wrong. 
But the responsibility for whats happened doesnt lie with Halifax and so it wouldnt be fair or 
reasonable to say it should pay Mr J for his losses.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2021.
 
Ben Murray
Ombudsman