DRN-3889024
The complaint
Mr R and Mrs S complain that Lloyds Bank PLC closed their account without good reason or 
notice. Other family accounts have been affected too, as I shall explain. 
What happened
Mrs Ss father lived outside the UK, and passed away in 2001. Following lengthy legal 
proceedings in his home country, the court there decided in 2018 that Mrs S was entitled to 
a substantial inheritance.
However, overseas regulations meant that transferring funds to the UK was not 
straightforward. Agents had to be used, and the sums involved meant that funds had to be 
sent in a series of transactions.  
Mr R and Mrs S were existing customers of Lloyds. They decided however that Mrs S and 
their adult daughter would open a new joint account to receive the inheritance. When 
arranging for the new account to be opened, they explained to the bank both the reason for 
doing so and the arrangements they would have to make in order for the funds to be 
transferred. 
The money was transferred in a series of transactions in September and October 2021. 
However, the bank then contacted Mrs S and her daughter to say that it had blocked the 
new account and that it would be closed after two months. 
Around the same time, Mr R noticed that his account had been blocked as well. In total, it 
appears that five family accounts were blocked. 
On 4 November 2021 a court order was made under the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002, 
freezing the account which Mrs S held with her daughter. 
Mr and Mrs S were visited by the police, who said they were investigating the transfers into 
the account. They explained that their concerns were that agents engaged to transfer the 
money had swapped it for criminal proceeds. 
At around the same time, Mr R and Mrs S tried to switch their account to a different bank. 
Lloyds told them they couldnt do so.
Mr R complained to Lloyds. It said that it had acted reasonably, although it offered modest 
payments in recognition of some service failings it had identified. 
Our investigator considered what had happened and recommended that Lloyds pay a further 
£100, as it had not been able to recover a telephone call in which Mr R said the bank had 
been rude and unsympathetic. Lloyds accepted that recommendation, but Mr R asked that 
an ombudsman review the complaint.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, however, Ive come to the same overall conclusion as the investigator did. 
It is not for me to say whether the concerns about the transfers into the new account were 
justified or not. They were however sufficiently serious that the police felt it necessary to 
seize Mr Rs and Mrs Ss phones and to question them. They were also sufficiently serious 
that the court made an order freezing the account to which payments had been made. 
It may well be that Mr R and Mrs S are innocent victims of people posing as legitimate 
money transfer agents. Again, however, that is not for me to say. 
What I must decide is whether the banks actions were reasonable in the circumstances. In 
my view they were. I would not expect a bank to carry out its own detailed investigation 
before deciding to block an account in the circumstances which I have described. Given that 
the court was satisfied that one account should be frozen, I think it was reasonable of the 
bank to protect linked accounts too  by which I mean accounts within the family. 
Mr R has said that Lloyds applied for the court order. Looking at the relevant provisions of 
the Proceeds of Crime Act and the order itself, however, I think thats unlikely. Its more likely 
that the police made the application. 
The investigator recommended that Lloyds pay a further £100 in compensation, and the 
bank agreed. I will however make a formal award, so that Mr R and Mrs S can enforce it, 
should they need to do so.      
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that, to resolve this complaint in full, Lloyds Bank 
PLC should pay Mr R and Mrs S £100.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 June 2023. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman