DRN-3464012
The complaint
Mr F complains that The Co-operative Bank Plc trading as Smile failed to follow ISA transfer
instructions and closed his Cash ISA without permission.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. I said: 
On 9 February 2021 Mr F paid £10,000 into his existing Cash ISA with Smile which 
increased the overall balance to £30,177. On 17 March 2021 Mr F withdrew £2,880 from 
his Cash ISA and has told us he intended to transfer it to his new ISA provider. Mr F has 
explained he was unable to transfer the funds directly from his ISA as Smiles systems 
didnt allow him to add a reference number.
Smile received an ISA transfer request in Mr Fs name from P, another ISA provider. The 
ISA transfer request was for £27,120. On 29 March 2021 Smile transferred £27,346.36 to 
P and went on to close Mr Fs Cash ISA. Smile has since told us that because the amount 
noted in Mr Fs ISA transfer form was within 5% of his total balance it took the step of 
transferring the full sum and closing his Cash ISA.
Smile has highlighted a section of its terms that says it can close an account that isnt 
funded in accordance with the product specific terms and conditions. Smile says that when it 
transferred Mr Fs full balance, it had a zero balance but the minimum required was £1.
Once the transfer was completed, Smile closed Mr Fs Cash ISA.
On 1 April 2021 Mr F spoke with Smile as he wanted to transfer £8,000 into his Cash ISA 
but was told it was closed. Despite trying to resolve the matter between Smile and P, Mr F 
was told his Cash ISA had been closed and couldnt be reopened.
Mr F referred his complaint to this service and it was initially upheld. But a subsequent 
investigator thought Smile had acted fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr F asked 
to appeal so his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive been reasonably brief in setting out the background above as the general timeline in 
this case is broadly accepted by all parties. I want to assure both Mr F and Smile that Ive 
read and considered everything thats been provided when reaching my decision 
concerning how to fairly resolve this complaint. If I dont specifically refer to a point made or 
piece of evidence it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Our rules allow me to focus on 
the key issues of a complaint  an approach that is in line with the informal nature of this 
service.
Id also like to thank Mr F for his patience whilst his case has been with us.
Ive reached a different view to the most recent investigator to look into Mr Fs complaint. 
Im not persuaded that Smile has treated Mr F fairly. Ill explain why.
Smiles repeatedly pointed to the ISA transfer form it receive from P and highlighted the fact 
it contained the figure £27,120 in both the estimated value to be transferred box and the 
indicate value to be transferred box. Smile has further explained it uses a 5% tolerance 
when considering whether to transfer the full ISA funds on to the new provider. Whilst I 
understand the logic Smile used, I think its fair to say there were some assumptions made 
in terms of what Mr F wanted.
Im not persuaded its fair for Smile to say that because the estimated value box held a 
figure it needed to transfer the full funds. I say this because Mr F also gave a specific figure 
for the transfer in the following box. Where theres a disparity in the nature of a customers 
request, I think the fairest approach is to check how they want to proceed. In hindsight, its 
clear that Mr F didnt want to transfer his full ISA balance and Smile wouldve found that if it 
had checked.
Im also not persuaded its fair for Smile to cite a less than 5% difference between the ISA 
transfer request amount and the overall balance as a reason to close Mr Fs account. Ive 
read the terms and thats not specified. And whilst I understand Smile has a standard 
process for carrying out ISA transfers, in Mr Fs case its led to assumptions being made 
that werent in line with what he wanted.
Smile has also highlighted Mr Fs request to transfer all his current tax year subscriptions 
and says theres no option for a partial transfer. But the statements provided by Smile 
show Mr F paid £10,000 in the current tax year and he wanted to transfer £27,120 to P. So 
the allowance was sufficient to transfer Mr Fs full subscriptions from the current tax year 
with £17,120 remaining for preceding years.
Mr F then ticked the box that said he wanted to transfer previous tax year contributions as 
well. The form says You can transfer all or part of your previous years contributions 
And then Mr F completed the section that said If this is a partial transfer, complete one of 
the following: at which point he gave the partial ISA balance value he wanted Smile to 
transfer. Im satisfied that the fairest approach wouldve been for Smile to check how Mr F 
wanted to proceed instead of transferring his full balance and closing his Cash ISA.
Ive considered whether the decision to close Mr Fs Cash ISA was fair. Again, Im not 
persuaded it was. Had Smile checked with Mr F or only transferred £27,120 he wouldve 
maintained a balance of over £1. And the terms Smile says it relied on to close his Cash 
ISA wouldnt have been applicable. In line with the above, I think Smiles assumptions in 
this case led to Mr Fs account being closed against his will.
Smile told a previous investigator that it wouldnt have accepted further deposits into Mr Fs 
Cash ISA during the existing tax year because it wouldnt know whether the existing funds 
had been transferred into another Cash ISA or not. But Smiles ISA terms dont say it can
reject deposits on that basis. In addition, the terms say that if theres a conflict, the ISA 
Regulations take precedence. The ISA Regulations allowed Mr F to deposit up to his annual 
ISA tax allowance which is what he wanted to do when he asked to deposit a further £8,000 
on 1 April 2021. As Smiles terms allow for deposits to be made in line with the ISA 
Regulations, I havent seen anything that would indicate Mr F couldnt deposit further funds 
into his Cash ISA before the end of the existing tax year.For the reasons Ive given above Im satisfied Smile made mistakes when completing the 
ISA transfer. Ive looked at the ISA transfer form and I can understand why Smile felt it was 
unclear. But I think the fairest approach wouldve been to check how Mr F wanted to 
proceed instead of transferring his full ISA balance and closing the account. Based on the 
information Ive seen, I intend to uphold Mr Fs complaint.
Smile has told us Mr Fs £8,000 was placed in a savings account that pays the same rate of 
interest as his Cash ISA did. So hes not lost out on interest whilst the funds have been in 
his savings account. Smiles also pointed out Mr F hasnt previously utilised his full ISA tax 
allowance so can replace the funds.
In response, Mr F has told us he expected to use around £16,000-£18,000 of his ISA 
allowance for the tax year 2021-2022. Im satisfied it will take Mr F some time to replace the
£8,000 into the tax free status an ISA provides and have factored that into my decision.
Ive considered how the situation has impacted Mr F and can see its caused a reasonable 
level of inconvenience. Mr F has had to liaise with both Smile and P to try and find out 
what happened. Ive listened to the call Mr F had with Smile on 1 April 2021 and I think it 
couldve been handled better. The call handler repeatedly told Mr F Smile had done 
nothing wrong and I felt a lack of empathy for his concerns was shown. As a result of the 
distress and inconvenience caused to Mr F by the way Smile dealt with his ISA transfer, I 
intend to award £250.
I invited both parties to respond with any additional comments or information they wanted 
me to consider before I made my final decision. Smile responded to say it couldnt reopen 
Mr Fs account without undertaking a new application. Smile also didnt agree £250 
reflected the level of distress and inconvenience caused. 
After receiving Smiles response, I asked our investigator to contact both parties to explain 
I was amending the proposed settlement. I said Smile should settle by: 
- Arranging for a new ISA application to be completed for Mr F
- Pay Mr F £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused
Mr F responded and said that due to the time that passed he had been forced to make 
other ISA arrangements but felt it was unfair that Smile wasnt complying with the 
provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank both parties for their responses. Smile has explained it cant simply reopen a 
closed account. In order to open a new account, Smile has to complete its standard 
verification application process and checks. I appreciate this isnt in line with the provisional 
decision, but Im satisfied there are genuine reasons why Smile couldnt simply comply. Im 
not persuaded its unreasonably inconvenient for Mr F to carry out a new ISA application if 
he wishes to use the Smile account. 
Mr Fs response to the investigator explained hes made other arrangements for his ISA 
funds following Smiles mistakes. I leave it to Mr F to decide whether he wishes to complete 
a Smile ISA application. 
Smile said it thought £250 was too high and offered £150 instead for the distress and inconvenience caused. But I still think £250 is a fair reflection of the distress and 
inconvenience caused to Mr F by Smiles actions, for the reasons I gave in my provisional 
decision. So Im going to proceed on that basis. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Fs complaint and direct The Co-operative Bank Plc trading 
as Smile to settle as follows: 
- Arrange for a new ISA application to be completed for Mr F (if required)
- Pay Mr F £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman