DRN-3695038
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Standard Life Assurance Limited has breached the COBS 
regulations (as set out in the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) handbook) in the provision 
of the illustration for his stakeholder pension plan  with specific regard to the effect of the 
1% annual management charge and the effect of this as the plan increases in value.
Mr M considers that the pension plan was mis-sold on the basis of the breach of COBS. 
What happened
In October 2019, Standard Life sent Mr M an illustration of his stakeholder benefits with a 
retirement age of 68 and a monthly contribution of £20.
Within the section which set out the annual fund management charges, it said the following:
There is an annual charge of 1.0% of the value of the funds you accumulate. If your fund is 
valued at £250 throughout the year, this means that we will deduct £2.50 that year. If your 
fund is valued at £500 throughout the year, we will deduct £5 that year.
This was taken from Annex 3 of COBS 13 (1.3.4).
Mr M then complained to Standard Life in January 2022. He said that, according to COBS 
13, the illustration should have showed the effect of charges on pension pot sizes of £500 
and £7,500.
Mr M said that the Standard Life should have used the wording from Annex 4 (1.2), which 
was for stakeholder pensions, rather than other types of stakeholder plan such as child trust 
funds for which Annex 3 applied. The Annex 4 wording was as follows:
There is an annual charge of y% of the value of the funds you accumulate. If your fund is 
valued at £500 throughout the year, this means we charge [£500 x y/100] that year. If your 
fund is valued at £7500 throughout the year, we will charge [£7500 x y/100] that year.
Mr M said that this seemed like a case of mis-selling, as the rules hadnt been followed.
In its response, Standard Life agreed that it had used the wrong wording, but it didnt 
consider that this amounted to a case of mis-selling as the annual charge percentage was 
correct and it was a worked example which had not been strictly followed.
It said that it was meeting the COBS rules, which related to the need to provide appropriate 
charges information. This was a description of the nature and amount of charges which a 
client might be expected to bear in relation to the pension plan, it added.
It further said that, whilst the example it used didnt technically adhere to the correct COBS 
rule, it felt it was more appropriate as it used a lower fund value, which reflected Mr Ms 
current plan.
It did, however, say that, on the basis of Mr Ms observation it would be seeking to change 
the example used in stakeholder plan illustrations in the future.
Mr M didnt accept the response, saying that he found it offensive and discriminatory that 
Standard Life didnt think it was a case of mis-selling simply because the plan value reflected 
his current plan. This was because the legal minimum for a stakeholder plan was £20, and 
the whole point of the illustration was to show what the charge might be in the future, if a 
customer was to transfer or add premiums to the value of £7,500. This would then give the 
customer a sense of the impact of the charges.
Mr M asked Standard Life to review the case and said that the response had fallen short of 
Standard Lifes professional standards for respect, dignity and inclusivity.
Standard Life provided a further response to Mr Ms complaint, saying that it found it difficult 
to agree with Mr Ms interpretation of its previous letter, as the charges set out in the 
illustration were correct. As such, it maintained its view that the plan hadnt been mis-sold.
It further said that the examples shown in the illustration had been provided for all 
customers, regardless of the value of their plan, and so it didnt feel that this was 
discriminatory or selective. It did think that he wording of its previous response could have 
been clearer, in that the similarity between the illustrated plan value and Mr Ms plan value 
was coincidental  but it confirmed that they hadnt been adjusted to reflect Mr Ms pension 
plan value.
It said that it was happy to provide a monetary indication of the 1% charge for a plan value of 
£7,500  this being £75.
Mr M remained dissatisfied with the response, and referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators considered the matter, but didnt think it should be upheld. He said 
the following in summary:
He noted that Standard Life had accepted that it should have used the wording from 
Annex 4 of COBS 13 rather than Annex 3.
But he didnt think that this amounted to evidence of mis-selling, as the annual 
charge percentage was correct and could be used to calculate the applicable charge 
at a given fund value.
Appropriate charges information had been provided, and so the COBS rules hadnt 
been breached. Mr M was provided with a description of the nature and amount of 
charges Mr M would be expected to bear in relation to the product. And Standard Life 
had since also provided a representative illustration of the charge which would be 
applied to a potential future fund value of £7,500.
As the same illustration wording was used for all customers, he didnt think that 
Standard Life had been discriminatory, or had failed to treat Mr M in a respectful, 
dignified and inclusive way.
This service only deals with individual complaints. Mr M could refer the matter to the 
regulator  the FCA  if he had concerns about Standard Lifes adherence to the 
COBS rules or its wider conduct.
Mr M disagreed, however, saying that hed like the case referred to an ombudsman for 
review. As such, the case has been passed to me.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, Ive reached similar conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons.
Ive noted that Standard Life has accepted that it used the wrong wording in its illustrations, 
and that it planned to look at whether this needed to be changed.
But using the wrong wording wouldnt automatically mean that the complaint should be 
upheld. I need to think about the individual impact that this would have had on Mr M in this 
complaint, and whether, as Mr M has claimed, this would have amounted to a case of mis-
selling. In other words, whether it could fairly and reasonably be concluded that Mr M would 
have acted differently if the correct wording had been used.
Id firstly say that I dont think that this is a case of discrimination on the basis of the 
illustrations which were provided. I agree that Standard Lifes initial response could have 
been better worded, but I think it was trying to indicate that the wrong wording had actually 
been more relevant to Mr Ms plan due to the comparative values used in the illustration and 
the one within Mr Ms plan.
And as the same wording was issued to all customers, I dont think this was a case of Mr M 
being singled out for any selective treatment.
In terms of the mis-selling claim, I acknowledge Mr Ms point about the correct wording 
illustrating the effect of a much larger plan value, but I do think the purpose and spirit of the 
COBS requirements have been met here, which was to demonstrate the effect of charges, 
on a percentage basis and how this might then equate to a monetary deduction. I think the 
examples within the wrong wording adequately did so. 
But even if a different interpretation of this were possible, I dont think that the use of the 
correct wording in the illustration would have affected Mr Ms decision to invest. He would 
have observed that the percentage deduction was the same  1% of the plan value  but 
that as this would be applied to a potentially higher fund value, the actual amount would also 
be higher. But this principle had in any case already been demonstrated within the wrong 
wording through the two examples of the £2.50 charge which would apply to a fund value of 
£250 and the £5 charge which would apply to a fund value of £500.
I also accept that some people might have difficulties with working out percentages  its 
unclear as to whether that is being claimed in Mr Ms case here - but if that were the case, 
and Mr M had been concerned about the kind of deduction on a plan which might be higher 
in value than the amounts stated in the illustration, I think I would have expected this to have 
been conveyed to Standard Life when the illustration was produced.
Ive also noted Mr Ms concerns about what he considered to be the failure of Standard Life 
to adhere to its professional standards for respect, dignity and inclusivity in its response to 
his complaint.
But having considered the content of Standard Lifes responses, whilst I agree  as Ive set 
out above  that the wording relating to the comparison between the plan value used in the 
illustration and Mr Ms own plan value could have been clearer, I dont think this amounted to 
a failure of Standard Lifes professional standards, or that it failed to treat Mr M with respect, 
dignity and inclusivity. It was in essence suggesting that the illustrated figure might be more relevant, and so more indicative, to Mr Ms current plan value, which I consider to be an 
attempt at being helpful, rather than an expression of a more negative sentiment.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2023.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman