DRN-4185730
The complaint
Miss O complains that Nationwide Building Society failed to tell her that she still had an 
overdraft with it after she switched her account to another bank.
What happened
Miss O had a current account with Nationwide. She had an arranged overdraft of about 
£200. In October 2022 Miss O switched her account to another bank (Ill call this the new 
bank and the new account). She then deleted her Nationwide online banking app. She 
says she didnt realise that her debt with Nationwide had not been carried over to the new 
account, until she phoned Nationwide about another matter in late November. By then, it 
was no longer an arranged overdraft, her overdraft limit having been removed on 24 
November.
Miss O complained to both banks and then to our service. Her complaint about the new bank 
has been dealt with separately. She said that Nationwide should have told her about the 
outstanding overdraft balance. She complained that interest had been charged on it, and 
that it had been reported as arrears on her credit file since November 2022.
Nationwide said it had done nothing wrong. It said the new bank had asked it to transfer a nil 
balance. It said Miss O had continued to have an arranged overdraft until 24 November, and 
then it had written to tell her that she no longer had an arranged overdraft.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. She said that the terms of the current account 
switch service, which had been shown to Miss O, had made it clear that the switch does not 
carry an overdraft balance over from the original account to the new one. She said 
Nationwide had told Miss O about the overdraft balance by sending statements to her 
banking app, and it wouldnt be fair to hold the bank responsible for Miss O not getting them 
just because she had deleted the app. She also said that Miss O should have reasonably 
known she had an overdraft without being told.
Miss O did not accept that decision. She pointed out that the terms of the switch service say 
that if there is a problem then the bank will notify her. She said that just sending her 
statements was not sufficient, because this require her to pro-actively log in to the app and 
check them (and in any case she had not received them). She asked for an ombudsmans 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold it, for broadly the same reasons as my colleague.
Looking at the terms of the document titled Current Account Switch Service - Account 
Closure Instruction, I can see three references to debts on the original bank account, which 
is referred to in there as the Old Account. (The Instruction is written in the first person from 
the perspective of the customer.)
Paragraph 3 says:
Unless I have outstanding debt on my Old Account, closure of my Old 
Account will be effective from my Switch Date. I understand that, whether or 
not I have an outstanding debt on my Old Account, my Old Account will not 
be available for use from my Switch Date
Paragraph 11 says:
If I have outstanding debt on my Old Account (including any fees or 
charges) after my Switch Date, my Old Bank will tell me. In such 
circumstances:
 my Old Bank will block my Old Account and I will not be able to carry out 
any further transactions on it, with the exception of repaying the outstanding 
debt; and
 the terms and conditions of my Old Account will continue to apply until I 
have repaid the outstanding debt in full, at which time my Old Account will be 
closed.
Paragraph 12 says:
If there is an outstanding debt on my Old Account after my Switch Date, my 
Old Bank will be entitled to use any funds or payments it receives (including 
by cheque) in full, or part, settlement of the debt on my Old Account.
I have also read the Current Account Switch Agreement. Paragraph 1.12 says:
If you have outstanding debt on your Old Account (including any fees or 
charges) after the Switch Date, your Old Bank will tell you. You are liable for 
any outstanding debt on your Old Account remaining after the Switch Date.
Finally, paragraph 1.13 says (in part):
if there is an outstanding debt on your Old Account, your Old Bank is 
entitled to use any funds or payments it receives (including by cheque) in full 
or part settlement of the debt on your Old Account.
Neither of these documents mentions overdrafts, nor can I see anything which suggests that 
an overdraft balance will be carried over from the old account to the new. Instead, the above 
terms make it clear that an overdraft on the old account is the customers responsibility, and 
that it remains a matter between the customer and their original bank.
Nationwides responsibility was only to tell Miss O that she still had an overdraft balance. Im 
satisfied that sending bank statements to her online banking app was adequate, because 
she agreed to accept statements in this way when she downloaded the app and logged into 
it for the first time. Nationwide was not to know that she had deleted it.
Nationwide also sent Miss O a letter on 24 November 2022, as Ive said. That letter does not 
say that she had an overdraft balance; it only says that her arranged overdraft limit has been 
reduced to £0. So I dont think that this letter was enough to tell her that she still had an 
overdrawn balance with Nationwide, but I think that the statements Nationwide sent her make up for that. I have also seen Miss Os statements for her new bank account, which had 
an opening balance of £50 in credit in October 2022. So I think she was told that she didnt 
have an overdrawn balance with the new bank before the phone call with Nationwide at the 
end of November.
So Im satisfied that Nationwide didnt do anything wrong when the account was switched. 
Im also satisfied that Nationwide was entitled to report the overdraft to the credit reference 
agencies, and to charge interest on the overdraft balance, up to the date where Miss O 
referred this complaint to our service. (I refrain from making any findings about the period 
after that date, because Miss O only complained about that recently, and Nationwide has not 
had an opportunity to comment about that issue. Our investigator told her that this would 
therefore need to be the subject of a new complaint.)
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 November 2023.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman