DRN-2533603
The complaint
Ms S complains that Topaz Finance Limited trading as Rosinca Mortgages incorrectly 
recorded that she had missed a payment on her mortgage and provided poor customer 
service.
 
What happened
Ms S has a mortgage with Rosinca. She says in around April 2020, Rosinca wrote to her to 
say she had missed payment. Ms S says she hadnt missed any payments to her mortgage 
 so Rosinca was incorrect to say that she had and to record that on her credit file.
Ms S also complains about the service she received when trying to pay the arrears.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She said there was an arrears 
balance that remained on Ms Ss mortgage from 2018. The amount of the arrears was less 
than one monthly mortgage payment  until the Bank of England base rate went down in 
April 2020. That meant that Ms Ss mortgage payment also went down and the amount of 
arrears was now more than the monthly payment. So Rosinca was entitled to record this 
information on her credit file and to apply an arrears fee. 
The investigator thought Rosincas offer of £75 was fair to reflect the incorrect information 
she was given about the amount of the arrears and the overall service it gave her.
Ms S didnt accept what the investigator said. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on the evidence available to me I am satisfied that Ms Ss mortgage was in arrears by 
£176.51 from August 2018. While Ms S had cleared most of the arrears from that time, that 
amount hadnt been paid. From that point until April 2020 the arrears were less that Ms Ss 
monthly payment. So it wouldnt be recorded on her credit file.
I cant see that Rosinca has given Ms S any incorrect information about the arrears or the 
amount outstanding or that it led her to believe they had been cleared in full. And it did 
(unsuccessfully) regularly attempt to contact her by phone. I dont consider it was required to 
do anything further.
I accept that Ms S was genuinely under the impression that her mortgage was up to date  
and that it must have come as a shock when she received a letter saying that she was in 
arrears. Ive already found the arrears balance was likely to correct. I also accept Rosincas 
explanation that the change in the interest rate in April 2020 reduced Ms Ss monthly 
payment  and from that point the arrears were more than the monthly payment. So it was a 
true and accurate reflection of the mortgage to record that on Ms Ss credit file. I cant see 
that Rosinca has made a mistake or treated Ms S unfairly here. It was entitled to apply an 
arrears fee in the circumstances.
When Ms S contacted Rosinca to pay the arrears it told her an incorrect amount. That meant 
that she had to make another payment to clear the small arrears that remained. That is why 
she had to make three payments in one month  her contractual monthly payment and two 
payments towards the arrears.
It isnt in dispute that Rosinca didnt handle that phone call with Ms S very well. It should 
have given Ms S accurate information and better customer service. This has caused her 
unnecessary trouble and upset. I also accept that Rosincas first response to Ms Ss 
complaint didnt address all of the issues it should have. But looking at everything that 
happened I consider its offer of £75 is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that Topaz Finance Limited trading as Rosinca Mortgages should pay Ms 
S £75.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 March 2021.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman