DRN-2794706
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B said Santander UK Plc (when it was trading under a different business name) 
mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
In July 2002, Mr and Mrs B took out PPI when speaking to Santander on the phone whilst 
arranging a remortgage. The policy protected their mortgage repayments in the event of 
accident, sickness and unemployment. Mr and Mrs B paid a monthly amount for the policy 
and it covered them both. 
Mr and Mrs B mainly complained that PPI wasnt ever properly explained and it wasnt 
something they needed.
Our adjudicator felt this was a complaint we should uphold. Based on information Mr B told 
us about a medical condition that hed been diagnosed with in 2000 our adjudicator thought 
Mr B probably wasnt covered for absence from work related to health problems resulting 
from this condition. She felt that if Santander had explained this to Mr B, then it was unlikely 
he wouldve wanted the PPI. 
And so she felt Mr and Mrs B probably wouldnt have bought the policy if theyd understood 
this at the time and that theyd lost out as they had been paying for it.
Santander disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. It mainly said that the exclusions 
surrounding pre-existing medical conditions would have been discussed with Mr and Mrs B 
at the time. It said it would look at this again if there was documentary evidence to show how 
Mr Bs condition was managed when it sold him the PPI.
Mr and Mrs B sent me further information about Mr Bs condition and how this affected him 
when he took out the policy. 
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Im currently thinking about not upholding this complaint. Ill explain my reasons.
I dont doubt that Mr and Mrs B are sure about everything theyve told us. But it wouldnt be 
reasonable to expect Mr and Mrs B to remember exactly what was discussed when they 
took out PPI as this was so long ago. And what Mr and Mrs B say isnt enough on its own for 
me to be able to uphold the complaint. 
Where the information is inconsistent or incomplete, as some of it is here, I must make my 
decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened taking into account all the 
information thats available, what the parties have told me and also thinking about what we 
know about these types of sales at that time. This means making some reasonable 
assumptions where theres only limited information. And I must be impartial. 
The first thing Ive thought about is whether Santander gave Mr and Mrs B a choice about 
taking out the PPI. 
In order to be able to uphold this complaint Id have to find that its likely that Mr and Mrs B 
werent given a fair choice about taking out PPI or that the policy was added to their 
mortgage account without their knowledge or consent. 
Theres no call recording available now. But I wouldnt reasonably expect Santander to keep 
call recordings for more than 6 years or so and so this isnt a reason for me to uphold the 
complaint. 
Based on what this service knows about the way Santander sold PPI over the phone around 
this time, were satisfied that its sales process included explaining to customers that PPI was 
optional. Ive no reason to think that Santander wouldnt have followed its usual sales 
process when it sold PPI to Mr and Mrs B.
In order to take out the policy Mr and Mrs B were required to complete a Paymentcare* 
application form that Santander says it wouldve sent to them following the call.(*this was 
what Santander called its PPI at the time).
Although I havent seen anything signed by Mr and Mrs B to show how they took out the PPI, 
it appears they discussed this because, amongst other things, they had to choose the level 
of cover they wanted and decide if they wanted to share the policy benefits.  
It looks like Mr and Mrs B mustve decided they wanted accident, sickness and 
unemployment cover after speaking with the advisor. I say this because Santander wrote to 
Mr and Mrs B shortly afterwards setting out details of the cover theyd chosen, including 
what it would cost, showing that they were both covered and that theyd opted to split the 
policy benefit equally 
Mr and Mrs Bs remortgage was a major financial commitment, and their home couldve 
been at risk if the mortgage payments werent kept up to date. It looks like the policy offered 
Mr and Mrs B useful benefits in their particular circumstances and so I can see why 
Mr and Mrs B mightve felt PPI was useful to have at the time. 
Taking all this into account, I cant fairly say that the policy wasnt presented as optional or 
that it was added to Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage without their agreement. On balance, I think 
its likely that during the call Mr and Mrs B were persuaded of the benefits that the policy 
offered them. And PPI was added to Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage account when they chose to 
buy it. 
Santander says it recommended the PPI so it needed to sell Mr and Mrs B a policy that was 
suitable for their particular circumstances. And it needed to sufficiently highlight the 
significant details of the policy. 
The policy seems to have been right for Mr and Mrs B based on what Ive seen of their 
circumstances at the time. Mr and Mrs B were both eligible for the policy. 
I've taken into account that Mrs B was entitled to 6 months' full sick pay followed by half pay 
for 6 months from her employer. But the policy wouldve paid out for up to 12 months per 
claim in the event of accident or sickness  on top of any work benefits. As Mr and Mrs B 
mightve also had some additional costs in the event of being too unwell to go back to work or disabled, I think this couldve been a useful benefit at a difficult time  especially as Mrs B 
would only have got half her usual pay after 6 months off work and it seems Mr B would 
have had to rely on statutory sick pay only  which wouldve meant a big drop in income for 
him. 
The policy couldve also paid out for up to 12 months at a time if Mr and Mrs B became 
unexpectedly unemployed. And repeat claims were possible providing Mr and Mrs B with 
long term cover whilst they were paying for their home. 
Having PPI is more dependable than relying on other people to help out in the event of 
money problems. And Mr and Mrs B havent mentioned any other ways they couldve paid 
their mortgage if they werent able to work. So I think the policy couldve provided a useful 
benefit at a difficult time  and PPI was suitable for them. 
There were some things the policy didnt cover. Mr B wouldnt have been covered for a 
medical condition he had when he took out the PPI or that he had received treatment or 
advice for in the 12 months before the start date. Mr B told us that hed been diagnosed with 
an ongoing medical condition a couple of years before he took out the PPI. So its likely that 
he probably wouldnt have been covered for absence from work due to that condition. 
But Ive seen nothing to suggest that, when he arranged the PPI, Mr B had any reason to 
think that this condition was likely to affect his ability to work. I say this because he has told 
us that during the 12 months running up to taking out the PPI he had no symptoms that led 
to him seeing his doctor about this condition, he managed his condition with prescribed 
medication, he hadnt ever needed to take any time off work and his condition didnt affect 
his day-to-day ability to work in 2002.
So, I dont think that, when he took out the PPI, Mr B wouldve had any reason to expect his 
condition would be likely to lead to him being off work for long enough for him to need to 
make a sickness claim. And Mr B still had the benefit of other cover that the policy offered. 
So I dont think its likely that his medical condition made the policy unsuitable for him or that 
having clearer information about the circumstances when the policy wouldnt pay out 
wouldve made any difference to Mr Bs decision to take it out. 
Based on all the information I've seen and been told, it looks like Mrs B couldve taken 
advantage of all the main policy benefits. The main policy exclusions and limitations didnt 
affect Mrs B. So I dont think its likely that having more information about what the policy 
didnt cover wouldve put Mrs B off taking out the PPI.
I dont know if the PPI cost was made clear to Mr and Mrs B during the phone call. But the 
cost of the policy was shown in the welcome letter sent to them and they couldve queried it 
then if they felt this wasnt something they wanted to pay for. From what Ive seen, it doesnt 
look as if that happened. And Mr and Mrs B wouldve signed an instruction form to their bank 
to cover the monthly cost of the policy. So it seems they were happy at the time to pay for 
PPI. 
Mr and Mrs B couldve cancelled the policy and got a full refund within the first 30 days  
and as they had to pay each month to keep the policy running, Mr and Mrs B couldve 
cancelled it at any time at no extra cost if they decided it wasnt something they wanted to 
keep paying. 
Overall, its possible there were some failings in the way this policy was sold. But I think 
Mr and Mrs B still wouldve decided to buy the policy even if they had been better informed 
as the policy gave them useful protection in their particular situation. I havent seen enough to make me think that Mr and Mrs B have lost out as a result of 
anything Santander did wrong. 
This means, as things stand, Im not currently planning to tell Santander that it needs to do 
anything to put things right. 
I appreciate that what Ive said will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs B. But I hope 
that setting out the reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my decision.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mr and Mrs Bs representative has confirmed it has nothing further to add.
Santander hasnt made any further comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this complaint. Having done so, after taking carefully 
into account everything thats been said in response to my provisional decision, and as no 
further comments have been received that change what I think about this case, I still think 
its fair not to uphold this complaint for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 June 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman