DRN-2925955
The complaint
Mr D complains that TSB Bank plc didnt use an alternative way to contact him about his 
overdraft after he failed to respond to any of its letters.
Mr D wants TSB to remove the negative information about him from his credit file.
What happened
Mr D had a TSB current account with a £500 overdraft limit. In January 2019, Mr D 
exceeded his arranged overdraft limit. 
TSB sent Mr D several letters about the outstanding balance, including its intention to 
transfer the account to a third-party debt collection agency that I will refer to as W.
After Mr D heard from W, he complained to TSB and said he didnt receive the letters telling 
him that his account was to be closed. TSB didnt think it had made a mistake so wouldnt 
uphold Mr Ds complaint.
The investigator considered Mr Ds complaint and thought that TSB had dealt with his case 
fairly. 
Mr D is unhappy with the investigators recommendation. He says that the bank charges 
took the account over his overdraft limit. 
Mr D points to sections of the Banking: Conduct of Business sourcebook (BCOBS) as 
evidence that he couldnt make an informed decision in response to TSBs information as he 
didnt receive it. 
Mr D says that as he didnt take any action in response to TSBs letters, this shows the 
medium it used to be unsuitable or inappropriate. Mr D thinks that as he wasnt responding 
to TSB, it shouldve tried an alternative way to contact him
Mr D says that he owed money to another bank, but it contacted him by text and email. This 
meant he was able to resolve the problem with the other bank promptly. Mr D also points out 
that once W rang him, he settled the outstanding debt. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D told us that he wasnt aware of TSBs intention to close and default his account 
because he didnt receive any of the letters. But TSB has given this service copies of the 
letters that it sent. TSB doesnt have any record of the letters being returned as undelivered 
and Mr D says the address TSB used is still his home address. 
Although Mr D lived at a different address during term time, I cant see that he made TSB 
aware of this. I appreciate Mr D was reluctant to change his address as he didnt want to risk 
mail being opened by his housemates, but this was Mr Ds choice. 
I understand Mr D thinks that because he didnt respond to TSBs letters, it shouldve tried to 
contact him by alternative means. But there was no obligation on TSB to do so. The terms of 
Mr Ds account say that TSB can contact its customer by: post, phone, electronically  this 
means email, text message and other digital methods and through a message on your 
internet Banking. I cant criticise TSB for choosing to contact Mr D by post as this was one 
of the methods it can use. 
Just because a different bank contacted Mr D via an alternative method doesnt necessarily 
mean that TSB shouldve done the same thing. As the mail wasnt being returned to TSB  
presumably because it had been correctly delivered to Mr Ds home address  I cant say 
that TSB shouldve been alerted to a problem. I dont agree that TSB shouldve automatically 
assumed that Mr D hadnt seen its letters. And I dont agree that this means the method that 
TSB used was unsuitable.
Mr D told this service that he didnt intend repaying the overdraft until he started work in 
2019 but hadnt told TSB. So, it seems that Mr D was aware that his bank account was 
overdrawn. TSB says he had access to internet banking. Even if Mr D hadnt seen the letters 
from TSB, he couldve still accessed his account in the meantime. 
I understand the impact the negative information about the TSB account will have on Mr Ds 
credit file. But as I dont find TSB made a mistake, Im not telling it to do anything else. Im 
sorry that this will be disappointing for Mr D.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2021.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman