DRN-2659881
The complaint
Mr S has complained that 1Plus1 Loans Limited (1Plus1 or the lender) should not have 
agreed a guarantor loan for him in June 2019. 
What happened
1Plus1 agreed a loan of £6,000 for Mr S on the 27 June 2019. The monthly repayment 
was £228.75 over a term of five years, and the total amount to be repaid came to about 
£13,725. This was a guarantor loan, in other words it was granted on the basis that Mr S 
had a guarantor who would be responsible for repaying the loan if he failed to meet his 
repayments.
Mr S says that 1Plus1 was irresponsible to have agreed a loan for him. He says the loan 
was unaffordable for him and 1Plus1 would have realised that if it had checked properly 
before lending to him. He says that he had a gambling problem, his debts were increasing 
and he had defaults and late payments on his existing debt. Mr S also says that he has been 
unable to afford essential bills and has relied upon further loans both from loan companies 
and friends and family. 
1Plus1 says that it carried out reasonable and proportionate checks before lending to Mr S 
and its checks didnt raise any concerns. It noted he had defaults and minor delinquencies 
on old accounts but felt that his income was high enough for him to be able to afford the 
loan.
Our investigator assessed the complaint and found that 1Plus1 had been irresponsible in 
lending to Mr S because further checks would likely have shown that he wouldnt be able to 
meet his repayments without borrowing further. They recommended that Mr S should only 
be liable for the money he borrowed; that the lender should remove any interest and charges 
owed under the agreement and treat Mr Ss repayments as payments towards the capital. 
1Plus1 disagreed with this recommendation. It said that Mr S was able to pay an amount out 
of his income to cover household bills and still have sufficient income remaining to meet his 
loan repayment. It also said Mr [S] arguably obtained further credit to support his gambling, 
but it cannot be considered a necessity for Mr [S] to seek further financial assistance to meet 
the monthly repayments, when the figures clearly demonstrate it was and still is affordable.
The complaint has now to come to me, as an ombudsman, to review and resolve.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry 
practice at the time.
Having done so, I am upholding Mr Ss complaint for broadly the same reasons as our 
investigator. I appreciate this will be very disappointing for 1Plus1 and I hope my explanation 
below makes it clear why I have come to this conclusion.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when 1Plus1 lent to Mr S. Its rules 
and guidance obliged 1Plus1 to lend responsibly. As set out in its Consumer Credit 
Sourcebook (CONC), 1Plus1 needed to pay due regard to the interests of its customers and 
treat them fairly and it would not be doing so if it targeted customers with regulated credit 
agreements which are unsuitable for them, by virtue of their indebtedness, poor credit 
history, age, health, disability or any other reason. (CONC 2.2.2G).
When agreeing credit, 1Plus1 needed to take reasonable and proportionate steps to assess 
whether or not a borrower could afford to meet its loan repayments without having to borrow, 
without failing to meet other obligations and without experiencing significant adverse 
impacts. 
The regulations arent specific as to how lenders should carry out an affordability 
assessment but, as set out in CONC, the risk to the borrower directly relates to the 
particulars of the lending and the circumstances of the borrower. 1Plus1 was obliged to 
check not only its risk of not recouping its money, but also the risk to Mr S of incurring 
financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequences as a result of its 
decision to lend. 
Even in this case, where Mr S had a guarantor who agreed to step in and meet repayments 
in the event that he couldnt, 1Plus1 was still obliged to assess whether in the first instance 
Mr S could meet his repayments without undue difficulty. 
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mr Ss case, I have considered the 
following questions:
- Did 1Plus1 complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing 
Mr Ss loan application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way? if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have 
shown? 
- Ultimately, did 1Plus1 make a fair lending decision?
1Plus1 says that it gathered information from Mr S about his income and expenditure. It 
discussed this with him on a telephone call and also discussed his existing debts. Its 
provided the call recordings and a summary of the information it found on Mr Ss credit file. 
Mr S declared a net monthly income of £2,774 and said that his monthly living costs 
amounted to approximately £1,050. This included his share of the rent, council tax, food, 
utilities and some bills. 
Mr Ss credit file information showed four defaulted accounts, the most recent of which had 
defaulted in December 2017. Mr Ss total debts came to almost £12,000 including active 
loans from three different short term lenders. I think this information is at odds with the level 
of disposable income Mr S said he had each month. He doesnt seem to have cleared his 
older debts and was borrowing expensive credit yet appeared to have £1,700 left over each 
month after meeting his usual living costs.
Mr S told 1Plus1 that he planned to use £3,600 of the loan to consolidate his payday loans 
and a credit card but not any of his defaulted accounts, the largest of which was almost 
£8,000. This account  had defaulted in 2013 and Mr S explained that it was a joint credit card 
which his ex-partner was planning to pay off. 1Plus1 says that it checked Mr Ss income level electronically, using information from his 
bank account. It hasnt provided any details of this and so I dont know whether 1Plus1 
checked that Mr S was in receipt of this income each month, for example, or if it cross-
checked this amount with his bank account deposits. 1Plus1 said that it didnt ask Mr S for 
his payslips or bank statements. I also understand it didnt ask for evidence of his living costs 
or some corroboration of what hed said about his defaulted joint credit card. I note that 
1Plus1 compared Mr Ss expense figures to national statistics but I dont think it could be 
confident that such data reasonably reflected Mr Ss situation and was appropriate to rely on 
in this case. (CONC 5.2A.19-2)
1Plus1 says that £12,000 of debt is below the average UK household debt according to 
statistics published by The Money Charity. With respect, the charity gives an average figure 
of less than £4,000 for unsecured individual debt, excluding mortgages. Id consider £13,725 
a significant debt for Mr S, especially given the above circumstances. Bearing in mind that 
this loan was to be repaid over five years and that it wasnt all to be, potentially, used for 
debt consolidation, I think 1Plus1 ought to have done more here to verify what Mr S had told 
it about his finances in order to reasonably check that he would be able to meet his 
repayments without getting into difficulty. 
Mr S has provided this Service with his bank statements from the time and Ive looked 
through these to get an understanding of his financial situation. To be clear, Im not 
suggesting thats what 1Plus1 should have done, but I think this information gives me an 
insight into what proportionate checks were likely to have revealed. I understand that 1Plus1 
has now seen Mr Ss bank statements. It will have seen that at that time Mr S paid £1,850 
via standing order each month into what is labelled a joint account. Ive seen bank 
statements from this account which show it is his partners sole account and Mr S has told 
us and 1Plus1 that was his contribution to their living costs. He also paid some smaller bills 
directly and an amount of £269 monthly to his ex-partner for maintenance.
I dont think any of the above information would have caused concerns for 1Plus1. What 
should have been of concern is that Mr S was in a cycle of borrowing from several short term 
lenders. He borrowed £1,000 in April 2019, repaid this and borrowed £1,050 the next day in 
May, and repaid this and borrowed £2,550 the following day in late May. 1Plus1 records a 
further short term loan of £800 when it checked Mr Ss credit file in June. I dont know if 
1Plus1 saw this pattern in its checks on Mr Ss credit file but I think its more likely than not 
that a reasonable and proportionate check would have shown that Mr Ss outstanding short 
term loans were not his first.
1Plus1 says that had Mr S used its funds to consolidate his debts he would have been able 
to afford to repay the loan in a sustainable way. This assumes Mr Ss need for credit isnt an 
ongoing one and I think his reliance on expensive short term lending to meet his existing 
costs shows that this isnt a reasonable assumption. It seems to me there was a risk here 
that Mr S would need to borrow to meet his repayments on this loan, as he was currently 
doing so for his existing costs.
Mr S told 1Plus1 that he was gambling heavily at that time and its clear from the bank 
statements that this was the case, for example Mr S spent over £7,000 in April, £5,500 in 
May and £3,000 in June up to the point he borrowed from 1Plus1. Mr S had credits coming 
into his account from betting companies but his net outgoings to these companies ranged 
upwards of about £1,800 a month. I dont know if 1Plus1 would have uncovered the extent of 
Mr Ss gambling spend through further checks, but I think it would have been clear to the 
lender that Mr S was spending beyond his means and had been for some time, and that 
further credit was likely to add to his indebtedness. Mr S continued to borrow from short term and high cost lenders in the months following 
1Plus1s loan, and I think this was foreseeable. In September 2019 all Mr Ss standing 
orders and direct debits were returned unpaid, including his payment for this loan. I 
appreciate that Mr S has continued to make his repayments but, in this case, I dont think 
successfully meeting payments means he has managed to do so without difficulty. Mr S says 
hes continued to borrow from short term lenders, has borrowed from his employer and is in 
an arrangement to pay with another lender. Hes also told us that his gambling spend 
continues to be an issue.
Altogether, I think further checks on Mr Ss circumstances wouldnt have provided any 
reassurance to 1Plus1 that he would have managed his repayments sustainably or that the 
loan was suitable for him. And so I think it was irresponsible to have agreed to lend to him on 
this occasion. I think Mr S has lost out financially through paying interest and charges under 
this agreement and 1Plus1 needs to put this right for him. 
Putting things right
I understand that Mr Ss loan hasnt yet been repaid. I think its fair that he repays the capital 
he borrowed as hes had the use of this money but I dont think he should be liable for any 
interest or charges associated with the loan. 
1Plus1 should: 
-limit the amount Mr S needs to repay to the original capital borrowed of £6,000; and
-consider all payments made by Mr S as payments towards this original capital amount; 
and
-refund any payments over this amount to Mr S along with 8% simple interest per 
annum* from the date of payment to the date of settlement or come to a mutually agreed 
repayment plan with Mr S for any outstanding capital balance; and
-remove any adverse information about this loan from Mr Ss credit file once its been 
settled.
* HMRC Revenue & Customs would require 1Plus1 to take off tax from this interest. 1Plus1 
must give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
 
My final decision
Im upholding Mr Ss complaint for the reasons Ive explained above and require 1Plus1 
Loans Limited to put things right for him as Ive set out.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2021.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman