DRN-3810775
The complaint
Miss B and Mr S are unhappy esure Insurance Limited (esure) declined their claim for 
storm damage on their home insurance policy.
Mr S has primarily dealt with the claim and complaint, He is also represented. For ease my 
reference to things Mr S has said includes his representatives comments. 
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties and has been detailed by our 
investigator previously. So, Ill summarise the key points Ive focused on within my decision.
In early October 2021, Mr S made a claim for storm damage to his garage roof 
Esure declined the claim saying that there were no storm conditions around the date 
of loss; even if there were, esure say the claim would be declined as the damage in 
their opinion is due to wear and tear
Mr S says there were storm conditions in the previous week the claim was raised, 
and that his own structural engineer commented that there would be a considerable 
funnelling effect, causing the wind speed to multiply
Our investigator considered the complaint but didnt uphold it, saying that theres no 
evidence the damage was caused by an insured peril
Mr S disagreed, and the complaint has been passed to me, an Ombudsman, to make 
a final decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our services approach to storm complaints is to ask three questions:
Has it been proven, on balance, that there were storm conditions on or around the 
date the problem occurred?
Is the nature of the damage consistent with storm damage?
Were the prevailing weather conditions the dominant or main cause of the damage?
If any of the answers to the above is no, the claim wouldnt be successful.
Were there storm conditions on or around the date of loss
Esures policy defines a storm as:
A violent gale force 10 on the Beaufort scale reaching wind speeds of 55 mph or above 
and/or 25mm or more of rainfall in any 24-hour period, and/or snow to a depth of at least 1 ft 
(300mms) in 24-hours and/or hail of such intensity that it causes damage to hard surfaces or 
breaks glass, according to Our weather data.
Ive checked the weather conditions myself on and around the date of loss. There was 
recorded rainfall of 35.4mm over 24 hours on 5 October 2021. So, I consider that the rainfall 
would meet esures own definition of a storm, therefore Ive moved on to consider the next 
question.
Is the nature of the damage consistent with storm damage?
Ive reviewed the available expert reports and photos of the damage which relates to the 
pitched roof on Mr Ss garage. Mr Ss experts say the roof has racked forward which has 
disrupted some rows of tiles. In their opinion, there would need to be some cause to trigger 
the movement, i.e. wind pressure.
However, the wind measurements that were recorded around the date of loss arent showing 
winds of significant strength. The highest recorded wind was of 33mph at a weather station 
eight miles away. Whilst I recognise the engineers comments that the position of the 
property would make it more susceptible to a funnelling effect, and therefore increase the 
wind speed, Im not persuaded that it has been shown that storm condition winds have 
caused the damage being claimed for.
For the roof of that size to move forward to the extent it has, I would expect to see extremely 
high winds recorded, and perhaps over a prolonged period of time. In my opinion, the rainfall 
measurements wouldnt have been the cause to move the roof in the way that it has.
For a claim to be successful under the storm peril of the policy, Mr S has to evidence that the 
damage is a result of a one-off storm. The damage cant be due to prolonged exposure to 
the elements and there has to be identifiable storm conditions that have caused the damage. 
Without seeing such evidence, Im not persuaded that its been shown that a storm is 
responsible for the damage being claimed for. Therefore, the claim fails on question two 
above, and I therefore wont be asking esure to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B and Mr S to accept or reject my decision 
before 14 December 2022.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman