DRN-3963110
The complaint
Mr R complains that his ISA provider, Santander UK Plc, failed to provide him with a 
timescale for its advertised ISA, and when it became available, he had incurred a loss of 
interest and interest penalty from another provider. 
What happened
In October 2022 Mr R applied to Santander to open an ISA at a fixed rate of 4.2% for two 
years with the aim of transferring his existing ISA at a lower rate with another provider. He 
called Santander on 21 October 2022 and asked about the delay, and was told he would 
hear within a few days. On 28 October 2022 Mr R called Santander and was told about a 
technical glitch with certain applications and it couldnt say when this would be fixed. 
Mr R said he contacted Santander on 2 and 8 November 2022, but no progress was made, 
and Santander couldnt assure him he would still qualify for the ISA rate and any loss of 
interest may not be backdated. Mr R said Santander agreed to update him. 
In November 2022 Mr R opened a new ISA with his existing provider at a rate of 3.6% for 2 
years. He said he incurred 180 days loss of interest at about £570. On 19 December 2022, 
Santander opened its original ISA for Mr R, backdated to his application, and said that he 
should transfer the funds from his existing ISA. 
Mr R said Santander couldnt assure him about compensation for his losses and he 
complained to Santander saying his wifes application for the same ISA was completed 
within five working days. 
Santander responded to Mr Rs complaint on 6 January 2023 and apologised for its delayed 
ISA and paid him £200 compensation. Santander said it couldnt justify paying for lost 
interest or a penalty as, had he put the funds in an instant access ISA he could have avoided 
a penalty. Mr R said he chose the best option due to Santanders delays and uncertainty as 
to whether it would compensate him for his losses. He rejected Santanders response as he 
said his concerns losses hadnt been addressed and the compensation didnt reflect the time 
and effort he had spent on his complaint. He referred his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She said that since the initial 
response Santander has offered £200 more compensation, totalling £400, which she felt was 
a fair reflection of the impact of the two-month delay and the inconvenience this caused. 
Mr R wasnt satisfied with the investigators findings and requested an ombudsman review 
his complaint. He said Santanders service failings were extremely disappointing and he 
couldnt understand why there was no timeframe by which Santander was scheduled to 
resolve the technical glitch that was preventing the opening of the ISA.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key to Mr Rs complaint is the actions he took in response to Santanders inability to 
confirm it would open an ISA on its advertised terms and backdate interest or pay the 
interest penalty he would incur on the new ISA he had opened. 
Mr R still wanted Santanders ISA as it was a better rate. He has set out the detriment he 
has been caused, and said this is why he has maintained his complaint in the light of 
Santanders attempt to resolve the complaint by honouring the 4.2% interest rate, and offer 
to backdate this to the proposed start date of the ISA. Mr R wants Santander to pay the 
penalty of £1,375.64 and says he was caused stress over two months while trying to gain 
information about the ISA. 
I can see from the records that Santander had technical difficulties which prevented it from 
opening Mr R and other applicants ISAs. By their nature technical glitches are untoward and 
unexpected events that dont easily lend themselves to anticipated resolution dates. 
Santander couldnt assure Mr R the ISA would start as it didnt know, and he took an ISA at 
a lower rate with another provider. I think it was difficult for Mr R to decide on his best 
investment without knowing what Santander was going to do. However, Santander didnt 
commit to providing him with an ISA  its terms say the ISA can be withdrawn from sale at 
any time without notice - and it hadnt entered into a contract with him. 
Santander was trying to overcome its technical problems and couldnt start Mrs ISA and so 
it was his choice, on his assessment of the risk of waiting for Santander, to open a new ISA 
with another provider at a lower rate. Santanders problems werent helpful to Mr R, but I 
think it was fair and reasonable for Santander not to compensate him for the lost interest  
particularly as it said it would backdate the interest on its ISA. Santander appears to have 
acted outside the terms of the ISA in making this offer. 
Mr R was aware there would be a penalty to exit his ISA of 180 days loss of interest and 
decided to pay this. He wants Santander to reimburse this penalty, but it declined. Having 
considered the penalty, I agree with the investigator that although Mr R had reasons to open 
a new ISA with his existing provider, it was his own choice to take the risk in doing so and so 
I dont think it is fair for Santander to be liable for the financial loss involved in that decision. 
Mr R opened his alternative ISA before Santander was able to offer its product, backdated to 
Mr Rs application.
I can see that Mr R went to considerable efforts to obtain information from Santander about 
its ISA from October 2022 to January 2023. He spent a lot of time on calls and branch visits 
and sometimes didnt receive promised calls back or updates. He said Santander should pay 
him £500 to reflect the stress and inconvenience of this and of completing his complaint to 
our service.
Our service does not award compensation for bringing a complaint and Santander has 
already offered Mr R £400 compensation for its delays. Im satisfied that this represents a 
fair and reasonable reflection of the stress and inconvenience caused to Mr R by 
Santanders delays and poor service in commencing its ISA. If Mr R hasnt already received 
full payment of the £400 compensation, I recommend that he requests this from Santander.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given the complaint is not upheld. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2023.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman