DRN-3843313
The complaint
Mr B complaints that Monzo Bank Ltd refused to refund transactions he didnt authorise on 
his account.
What happened
On 31 May 2022 Mr B contacted Monzo to explain he had noticed 11 transactions on his 
Monzo account which he didnt authorise. Some of the transactions were not processed and 
refunded Mr Bs account. However, the following transactions remain in dispute:
Date of 
transactionMerchant Amount Authorisation 
Method
26 May 2022 Currys £349.99 3D Secure
26 May 2022 Currys £544 3D Secure
27 May 2022 JD Sports £691.99 3D Secure
27 May 2022 Hotspot Mobile £650 Chip and PIN
27 May 2022 Hotspot Mobile £20 Contactless
27 May 2022 Crouch End Food Central £22.58 Contactless
Monzo carried out a review of the transactions and Mr Bs account. Following this it 
explained to Mr B that it would not be refunding the transactions as it hadnt found any 
evidence that they were carried out fraudulently. In particular it said the transactions had 
been verified by Mr B using the chip and PIN or on his registered device using the necessary 
3DS  which involved entering a secure passcode. It also noted that funds were transferred 
into his account from a different savings account in order for the transactions to be made. 
Mr B was dissatisfied with Monzos response and maintained that he did not authorise the 
transactions. Mr B says a third party, who was with him at the time must have carried them 
out. Mr B referred his complaint to our service. 
An Investigator reviewed Mr Bs complaint and found that Monzo had acted reasonably. 
They explained that based on the available evidence they hadnt seen anything to show that 
the transactions were carried out by a third party.
Unhappy with the investigators review, Mr B asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint briefly. No discourtesy is intended by this.
Instead, Ive focussed on what I think is the heart of the matter here. If theres something Ive
not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. This simply reflects the informal nature of our
service.
Firstly, I am sorry to see Mr B has had cause for complaint. I dont underestimate the worry
and anguish this situation has caused, and also the stress of dealing with the complaint
about it. 
The relevant law here is the Payment Services Regulations 2017, and broadly speaking Mr 
B is responsible for any payments that he has authorised (either by making them himself or 
allowing someone else to) and he isnt responsible for unauthorised payments. Essentially if 
Mr B made the disputed transactions himself or authorised them to be made on his behalf, it 
would not be fair to ask Monzo to refund them. Throughout Mr Bs complaint he has 
maintained that he was in possession of his phone, which was the registered device for his 
account, when the disputed transactions were carried out. Mr B has however said he left his 
debit card in his flat during the period when the transactions took place, and that his PIN was 
written down somewhere in his flat too. Mr B says there was a third party at his flat at the 
time, who he says was trying to influence him. 
Monzo has provided internal information which shows the transactions were funded by Mr B 
moving money between his other accounts with Monzo. Funds had entered the relevant 
account to ensure there was a sufficient balance for the purchases. This movement between 
accounts occurred just before the disputed transactions took place. This suggests a level of 
planning and awareness on Mr Bs part about the transactions. In addition, Monzos 
evidence shows the transactions where authorised using chip and PIN, or by Mr B entering a 
passcode that was sent to his registered device as part of its 3D security system. 
All of this evidence means that who authorised the transactions wouldve had to be been 
able to access Mr Bs online Monzo accounts to move money around. They wouldve also 
had to be able to access Mr Bs debit card, know his PIN and be able to access his mobile 
device to enter the relevant passcode. I havent seen any evidence which shows that a third 
party wouldve been able to carry out these transactions without Mr B providing his authority. 
I can also see that prior to the last two disputed transactions, non-disputed ATM cash 
withdrawals were made from Mr Bs account. This confirms that Mr B was in possession of 
his card and using it as normal. 
Mr B has referred to a third party who was at his flat the time and says this individual tried to 
influence him and carry out financial abuse. Ive thought about Mr Bs comments carefully. 
Mr Bs recollection of events has been contradictory as he says he didnt make the 
transactions, but also that he was being influenced by a third party. The lack of detail and 
consistency in Mr Bs comments, alongside the pattern of the transactions means I am not 
persuaded they were carried out in the way Mr B suggests.
Overall, having considered everything, all of the available evidence points to it being more 
likely than not that Mr B carried out the transactions himself. I realise that this is not the 
outcome Mr B was hoping for, and he will be disappointed by the decision Ive reached. As 
such, I cannot fairly and reasonably require Monzo to take any further action in relation to 
this matter. This final decision ends what our service can do for him. However, Mr B can 
reject my decision and pursue the matter elsewhere if he wishes to do so.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2023.
 
Chandni GreenOmbudsman