DRN-1232382
 
 
complaint 
Mrs S, who is represented by a third, party has complained to us that Bank of Scotland plc 
(BoS)  mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy in April 1996 alongside a 
credit card. 
background
Mrs S bought the policy at the same time as taking out a credit card. She applied for the card 
and the policy by post.
She says she didnt need the cover. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so her complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Hs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think BoS made it clear that Mrs S didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to 
take it out  although I can understand why she cant remember this. From what Ive 
seen about the card application process, I think Mrs S made a decision to buy the 
policy when she applied for the credit card by filling out and signing an application 
form which she then posted to BoS or handed in at a branch. Ive seen that on the 
card application form Mrs S had ticked a separate section to show she wanted to buy 
PPI. So I think, given that she filled out the application in her own time, Mrs S had the 
opportunity to think about whether she wanted PPI to go with her new card and 
decided she did. 
 
As a postal application its likely that BoS didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs H, so it 
didnt have to check if it was right for her. But it still had to make sure that Mrs S got 
the information she needed to decide if she wanted to buy the PPI. Ive seen that the 
application form had some key information about the policy and its likely that she 
would have received further policy details soon after shed decided to buy the cover. 
 
Its possible the information BoS gave Mrs S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. And based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look 
like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  so it 
would have been useful to her if something went wrong. 
 
I say this having taken into account that Mrs S told us she enjoyed good benefits 
from her employer if she couldnt work due to accident or sickness  of up to six 
months full pay followed by six months at half pay. But the PPI would pay out in 
addition those benefits, for up to 12 months if she couldnt work due to accident or 
sickness, or if she lost her job. It also meant she wouldnt have to rely on other 
sources of funding, such as savings, to help out. The PPI also looks like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put Mrs S off 
taking out the cover. 
 
Mrs S also told us about some moderate savings she had, as well as mortgage PPI 
and also healthcare protection. If shed made a successful claim on her credit card 
PPI Mrs S would have been able to meet her monthly payments without having to dig 
into other sources of funding, such as her savings. The mortgage PPI would have 
helped cover her mortgage payments but wouldnt have helped with meeting her 
monthly credit card bills. Healthcare protection insurance  whilst certainly a good 
product to have  would only assist Mrs S if she needed medical treatment or 
hospital care. So I remain of the view that the PPI on her credit card would have 
been useful to Mrs S if she was unable to work or lost her job. 
 
Id like to reassure Mrs S that Ive looked at her complaint with care, including the points 
made by those representing her. But from the information available to me, I cannot find in 
her favour. I also appreciate that with hindsight Mrs S may feel she didnt need the PPI. But 
on balance, I think Mrs S made the decision at the time to buy the cover. Im sorry to 
disappoint her.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2020.
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman