DRN-1510705
The complaint
Mr P complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) included 
additional interest in an early settlement figure for a car he was financing through them and 
that they should honour an earlier, lower, settlement figure.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the investigators opinion. I know that will come as a 
disappointment to Mr P so please let me explain.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ive looked at the hire purchase agreement. It states at the top that it is regulated by The 
Consumer Credit Act 1974.
The Consumer Credit Act covers several areas of consumer credit including the content and 
form of credit agreements and the procedures relating to default, termination and early 
settlement. In relation to early settlement the Consumer Credit Act says that settlement 
figures should be calculated using the rules set out in the Consumer Credit (Early 
Settlement) Regulations 2004. It says that the settlement date becomes 28 days after receipt 
of the settlement request and it goes on to allow the creditor, if the loan is for more than one 
year, to defer the settlement date by 30 days. So that explains the 58-day charges Mr P is 
complaining about. 
These terms arent explicitly referred to in the credit agreement and I understand Mr Ps 
concern. But theres a balance to be struck between defining and explaining each and every 
term of a contract and keeping a contract to a reasonable length. The credit agreement 
refers, under early repayment to the applicable statutory rebate. So, whilst I understand 
that the terms dont explicitly refer to the Regulations early settlement calculation; I think 
when calculating the statutory rebate the business would be using it. So, I dont think 
VWFS were wrong to apply these charges.
Mr P is disappointed that VWFS initially told him his settlement would be less than it was. It 
wouldnt be fair to tell VWFS to honour a mistake theyd made. The payment was always 
due, and Mr P was therefore not financially disadvantaged. But VWFS should compensate 
him for the distress and inconvenience caused. In the circumstances they offered £50 
compensation. I think thats fair and Im therefore not asking VWFS to take any additional 
action. Although theyll need to make that payment to Mr P as hes not received it.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint as I think Volkswagen 
Financial Services (UK) Limited offer of £50 compensation is reasonable.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 September 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman