DRN-4332238
The complaint
Mr S has complained about the amount Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited has paid in 
settlement of his claim under his Car Insurance policy. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Admiral is required to consider claims promptly and fairly in accordance with ICOBS 
8.1.
Mr Ss policy required Admiral to pay him the market value of his car at the time it 
was damaged. This is defined as the cost of replacing his vehicle with one of a 
similar make, model, year, mileage and condition based on market prices 
immediately before the loss happened.
Admiral valued Mr Ss car at £3,093. However, the three guide values our 
investigator obtained were £2,825, £3,360 and £3,754. And I agree the lower of 
these should be disregarded, as what we would describe as an outlier. 
I agree that an average of the other two guides is a fair value and this is £3,557. This 
means Admiral should pay Mr S a further £464, plus interest at 8% per annum simple 
from the date it paid its settlement amount to the date of actual payment of the 
additional £464. The interest is to compensate Mr S for being without money he 
should have had. 
I appreciate Admiral considers the lower valuation should be counted as part of a 
broad range, but I do not agree. I appreciate its borderline, but the lowest guide 
value is over £500 lower than the next lowest guide value, whereas the other two are 
just under £400 apart. 
Putting things right
It therefore follows that I consider the fair and reasonable outcome to Mr Ss complaint is for 
Admiral to pay him a further £464, plus interest at 8% simple from the date Admiral paid its 
settlement amount to the date of payment of the additional amount due. 
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ss complaint and order Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to do what I have 
set out above in the Putting things right section.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2023.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman