DRN-1562928
Complaint
Mr T complains that Gain Credit LLC trading at the time as Lending Stream irresponsibly 
lent to him. 
Background
Mr T took out two loans in September 2012. Mr Ts borrowing history is set out on the table 
below.
LoanDate 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayment
121/09/2012 27/09/2012 5 £135.00 £74.25
227/09/2012 outstanding 6 £395.00 £177.75
From the information provided, I can see that theres still an outstanding balance on loan 2. I 
understand for this loan that Lending Stream has confirmed it will not recover the 
outstanding balance on this loan.
In his complaint to this service, Mr T said that the loans were unaffordable. 
In its final response, Lending Stream told Mr T that it did not uphold his complaint. It said it 
had carried out rigorous affordability assessments for all its customers and for these two 
loans it concluded that the checks were proportionate, and the loans were affordable.
Our adjudicator didn't think this complaint should be upheld. She said Lending Stream had 
undertaken proportionate checks. She didn't think there was anything about the number of 
loans Mr T took, the amounts they were for, or the period of time over which Mr T was 
borrowing, which meant his loan history, on its own wouldve led  Lending Stream to 
conclude  that he might have been experiencing financial difficulty.
Mr T didn't agree with our adjudicators view. He said the interest on the loans and the 
penalties charged placed him in financial hardship. The checks Lending Stream carried out 
weren't at all thorough, and he said he had more than two loans.
As Mr T didn't accept what our adjudicator said, the matter has been passed to me to make 
a final decision. To be clear, my decision is about the loans set out above. There appears to 
be no further information about any other loans taken by Mr T.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Mr T could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Lending Stream was required to 
establish whether Mr T could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesn't automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ts complaint.
As I said above, early in the lending relationship, I wouldn't necessarily expect Lending 
Stream to undertake a full review of Mr Ts financial circumstances.  In this case, when 
thinking about what it knew about Mr T at the time as well as the monthly commitments he 
had, I think the checks Lending Stream carried out were proportionate. 
Lending Stream has provided copies of both application forms. When he applied for the loan, 
Lending Stream asked Mr T about his income and his expenditure. I can see that for both 
loans, Mr T declared his income to be £1,300 per month. For his first loan Mr T said he had 
outgoings of around £400. For loan 2 Mr T told Lending Stream his outgoings were £300. 
So overall, in these circumstances, I think Lending Streams assessment for these loans was 
proportionate and the checks it carried out showed it that Mr T was able to afford the 
repayments he was committed to. It follows that I think that when Mr T applied for this loan, 
Lending Streams decision to lend was reasonable. 
Nevertheless, Lending Stream has confirmed it will not recover any balance outstanding on 
loan 2 and I remind it of its duty to treat Mr T fairly.Ive also thought about what Mr T says about other loans taken out but I have looked at 
these two loans as there is no further information about any other loans taken by Mr T.
I am sorry to disappoint Mr T. But it follows that for the reasons set out above, I havent 
upheld the complaint. I dont need to tell Lending Stream to take any further action in respect 
of it. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint about Gain Credit LLC. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2020.
Nicola Woolf
Ombudsman