DRN-3210718
The complaint
Through his representative, Mr S has complained that he was unsuitably advised by Central 
Markets Investment Management Ltd (CMIM), as a trustee of his Small Self-Administered 
Scheme (SSAS), to invest in a Cape Verde hotel development of The Resort Group (TRG). 
 
What happened
 In 2013 Mr S was a self-employed tradesman aged 48, earning about £25,000pa, and
subject to an Individual Voluntary Arrangement (IVA). He says he had no investment
experience: his only asset other than his mortgaged property was a personal pension with
Zurich Assurance. He believes he was cold-called by someone Ill refer to as Mr D who
was promoting investments involving fractional ownership in property.
Mr D visited Mr and Mrs S at their home and told them he could obtain better returns by
transferring the Zurich pension to a SSAS. Mr Ss recollection was that this was a loan to 
build property, which would provide a return when the property was built.
Mr S and his wife have referred to some confusion over how many companies they dealt
with, and Mr S has little recollection of signing terms of business on 1 October 2013 for an
unregulated introducing agent Your Choice Pensions Ltd (YCP, of 37-39 Welford Road,
Leicester). Mr Ss representative says that another unregulated firm about which Mr S only
has a vague recollection (Consumer Money Matters Limited, also based at that time at 37-39
Welford Road, Leicester) actually referred him to CMIM for a pension review.
As part of the arrangements to transfer Mr Ss pension, on 3 October a new employer was
incorporated; named after the road in which he lives. Mr S later signed an employment
contract with that company on 14 October, and on the same day Mr S signed terms of
business agreeing that CMIM would provide a letter of advice in relation to TRG for the
purposes of s.36 of the Pensions Act 1995. The terms clarified the following:
- CMIM was a regulated firm, but that the service it would provide was not regulated, 
as it related to an unregulated investment.
- It was providing the service to trustees of a SSAS.
- No advice was being given on investments regulated under s22 of the Financial 
Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) and other than the Cape Verde investment.
- No individual suitability advicewhich takes into account your personal financial 
circumstances was being given.
Notwithstanding that this advice hadnt yet been provided, Mr S also signed an indicative
investment form, stating that his intention was to invest 80% of his pension in TRG and 20%
in CMIMs discretionary fund management (DFM) service. He also applied for a custody
account with Jarvis for the DFM service.
Consumer Money Matters then requested a transfer pack and discharge form from Zurich
Assurance on 28 October, with Mr Ss authority. On 31 October a SSAS was established by
trust deed for Mr Ss new employer with him as sole trustee, and Cantwell Grove Ltd as
SSAS administrator. The fee to set up the scheme was £750+VAT, followed by an annual
administration fee of £500+VAT.
On 27 February 2014, a letter was sent to Mr S bearing Cantwell Groves logo but showing
YCPs address (and a phone number that Cantwell Grove says it doesnt recognise as one
of its own). It said:
Please find enclosed written advice on your proposed investment into commercial property in
Cape Verde and separate advice on your proposed investment into a discretionary account
management service provided by Central Markets Investment Management Limited for your
consideration.
Mr S has provided two undated dear trustee letters written by CMIM separately covering
TRG and the proposed DFM arrangement, which appears to be the advice referred to. The
letters do not refer to Mr S by name and mention that the business has been introduced by
YCP. They repeat that CMIM is providing the trustee with advice that it understands to be
unregulated, because a SSAS is not regulated (and furthermore, the TRG investment
involves direct ownership in property). The letter in respect of TRG says:
We have researched the commercial property investment, The Resort Group, the hotel operator
(Melia Hotels International), and the wider aspects of ownership and security; and our conclusion
is that it is an appropriate investment albeit when considered in the light of sensible diversification
of a portfolio of an investor's overall wealth and that an effective "exit" strategy is planned in order
to coincide with the needs of the investor. The Resort Group have cooperated with our research.
In the letter CMIM explained the reference to diversification meant that its advice would be to
consider other investments alongside the property investment that were low risk and
unconnected with it. And the reference to an exit strategy was that the trustee needed to
plan ahead if they wanted to draw benefits from the SSAS  in particular purchasing an
annuity. It went on to say (with my emphasis):
The investment is not suitable for a cautious investor who needs the protection of the UK investor
compensation and regulatory environment, as both a SSAS and the overseas investment have no
such regulatory protection. There are a range of risks that we have seen have been clearly
documented to the investor and should be considered carefully: The value of any investment can
fall as well as rise. Land or commercial property should not necessarily be considered as a liquid
investment; it may therefore not be suitable should you need access to the capital at short notice
or the timeframe desired by the trustee.

Commercial property investments tend to incur ongoing costs and charges, which may not always
be covered by any possible rental returns. The value of rental returns is dependent on occupancy
demand, which cannot be guaranteed.
Investments held overseas may have additional risks such as currency fluctuations, which may
impact on any returns when converted back into sterling; political risk to ownership and title; and
commercial risk to the delivery and management of a property/resort.
You may wish to take independent legal advice to ensure you understand all these issues.

Our view is that the investment is appropriate but only as part of a diversified holding according to
an investor's attitude to risk and capacity for withstanding loss.
You should ensure that you only invest what you can afford to loseWe believe as core principles
that where an investor is looking to retire within ten years then no more than 50% of their
investment. Our advice to investors is to consider the need for diversification carefullyWe have
not reviewed other overseas commercial property investment opportunities and accordingly are not
providing you with advice as to the merits of the proposed investment as against other such
investment opportunities. If you still have any doubts we recommend that you seek independent
financial advice.

Ultimately, you, as trustee, will take your own decision in the light of your personalcircumstances, which we have not assessed.
The letter in respect of the DFM service went on to discuss a proposed solution to this lack
of diversification: the CMIM Global Growth Portfolio, involving a spread of Exchange Traded
Funds (ETFs). It concludes:
Our opinion on the appropriateness of the above investments, subject to the considerations listed,
is valid as of the date of this letter. We are to be invited to update our opinion on a regular basis in
order to provide ongoing dialogue to investors. The decision on specific investments and any
proportionate investment must be that of the trustee's responsibility. If in doubt about your choice
you are strongly recommended to seek professional independent advice.
On the same day as these dear trustee letters were sent to him, Mr S signed a SSAS bank
account application, followed on 19 May by forms requesting the transfer of his Zurich policy.
On 9 July he further signed a letter giving investment instructions as trustee of his SSAS:
The purpose of this letter is to confirm that, in accordance with the power of investment under the
SSAS trust deed and rules and after due consideration of the investment advice I have received
(referred to below), I wish to proceed to invest my SSAS fund as follows
£36,547.37 of the value of my SSAS fund in the Cape Verde investment opportunity
offered by The Resort Group and
£10,000.00 of the value of my SSAS fund in [CMIM]s discretionary fund management services
The advice Mr S had considered was explained as follows:
Prior to issuing this letter I have obtained and considered the advice letter [CMIM] has produced in
relation to the Cape Verde investment opportunity. I believe [CMIM] to be an appropriately
qualified advisor for the purposes of section 36 of the Pensions Act 1995, in relation to the
question of whether that investment opportunity is satisfactory in terms of
(a) its suitability as an investment in the SSAS, and
(b) the need for diversification, in so far as is appropriate to the circumstances of the SSAS.
Also on 9 July, Mr S signed an agreement to invest about £36,547 in the Llana Beach Hotel
at Dunas Beach Resort. This involved his SSAS becoming a member, potentially along with
other investors, of a UK limited company owning a 45 square metre plot. Mr Ss SSAS would
receive a discount of 7%pa on the purchase price, repaid by monthly instalments for a
maximum period of the first two years  after which rental income was expected to be
payable when the resort opened. The UK limited company had entered into separate
contracts with developers to build the property, and to pay a third party to manage it.
On 22 September 2014 £36,547 of the proceeds from the Zurich transfer was paid to TRG,
and £10,000 to Jarvis as custodian for CMIMs DFM service. However shortly afterwards in
March 2015 Mr S seems to have been otherwise advised to switch the £9,855 with CMIMs
DFM to Organic Investment Management  and add further contributions from the SSAS
bank account, producing a total of £16,453. This arrangement was managed by Gallium
Fund Solutions on advice from Organic. The custodian of the Organic arrangement changed
several times, and with Organics demise in January 2019 management of the portfolio
passed to Philip J Milton & Co.
Mr Ss SSAS started receiving the monthly discount payments of about £213 from December 
2014. TRG informed Mr S that building of one of its other resorts had now completed and 
was being operated by Melia International in conjunction with the UK travel brand TUI. The 
Llana Beach Hotel appears to have opened largely on schedule in December 2016 and by 
July 2017 was paying Mr Ss SSAS a quarterly rental income. 
Payments have varied: as an example, a letter sent to Mr S in October 2019 says that the 
resort is 57% occupied, providing a quarterly room revenue of €708  but explains that after a deduction for occupancy and attraction costs (€389) and TRG retaining a 50% net share, 
Mr S is receiving a net return of about 1.5%pa on his investment. However a further 
quarterly deduction of €75 in management fees reduces his quarterly return to only about 
€85. The current global situation will have affected this further.
Mr Ss representative complained in August 2019 that CMIMs advice had been unsuitable.
CMIM didnt respond to the complaint, so the representative referred the complaint to this
service. CMIM initially told us that it had a file, but subsequently stated that it had no records
 so the above summary is based on evidence obtained from other parties including
Cantwell Grove and Mr S. CMIM has since confirmed the existence of Mr Ss signed terms
of business with it and an introducer agreement it had with YCP  and it hasnt disputed that
it authored the dear trustee letters.
In January 2020 £18,211 was encashed from Mr Ss Organic/PJ Milton account in order for
him to go into flexi-access drawdown. Mr S received about £13,745 of tax-free cash from his
SSAS but took no income at that time. As of August 2020, Cantwell Grove was still reporting
a value of £36,547 for the investment in TRG  i.e. the amount he originally paid  and a
residual amount of £70 with Organic plus £1,326 held at bank, which it had retained to meet
fees. Mr S reports that TRG are asking him to pay £24 per month to cover the lack of return
on the investment, which he has so far refused to do. 
CMIMs submissions
CMIM made a number of submissions before I issued a provisional decision on the 
complaint on 28 September 2021, including in response to a view one of our investigators 
originally sent. The original investigators view here was detailed in my provisional decision. 
But a summary of the key points CMIM has made follows:
CMIM was first approached by YCP in mid-2013 and knew customers were in the 
process of establishing Cantwell Grove SSASs to invest in TRG. Its only financial 
benefit arose out of the opportunity to promote its DFM service for the residual funds.
To the best of its recollection, all communications were routed through Cantwell 
Grove  even its terms of business.
If it had been asked to provide a personal recommendation under COBS 9 in the 
FCA handbook it would have declined, as it did not have an adviser suitably qualified 
to provide individual advice in relation to a SSAS. 
The dear trustee letter isnt a suitability letter as per COBS 9, as these are only 
required for regulated collective investment schemes. (CMIM has accepted that TRG 
appears to meet the legal definition of a collective investment scheme, albeit an 
unregulated one, following Asset Land v FCA [2016] UKSC 17).
So the terms of business it prepared specifically for this purpose differed from those 
used in FCA-regulated advice in a number of material respects.
Its role was minimal in that Mr S was being led in these matters by Mr D and Cantwell 
Grove, to the extent that he was setting up his SSAS without CMIMs involvement. 
He also had separate duties as a trustee to invest prudently. 
There was no evidence Mr S considered its advice before investing in TRG. Rather, 
Cantwell Grove told Mr S it would accept the investment (after presumably carrying 
out its own due diligence into TRG), and required Mr S to sign the instruction letter  
stating he had relied on CMIMs advice - without CMIM's knowledge. 
As this was nine months after Mr S became a client of CMIM, it would have been 
prudent for him to check if CMIMs advice still held. 
Mr Ss submissionsOur investigator made a phone call to Mr S to obtain his recollections of events. Mrs S also 
listened in on this call, as she was present when they spoke to Mr D. A lot of what they said 
has been incorporated into the background above. They also added:
Mr D was the person they met every time, and was so accommodating and polite. 
They werent sure who he worked for. The investigator suggested it might have been 
Consumer Money Matters, to which they responded We would have thought so. 
They couldnt recall YCP, but vaguely recalled they received something from CMIM 
which they could send us (if they hadnt since passed it on to their representative).
They were told there would be a 75%/25% split in property vs other investment in 
order to draw out their 25% tax-free cash sum later on.
They had previous experience with time-share property, so they asked particular 
questions and wrote all the answers down (these notes havent come to light).
Mr D diminished the prospects of them getting a return on their Zurich pension and 
suggested TRG would involve no risk. There were recommendations from people 
that were in public sector jobs, police, judges etc, all sorts of investors. 
They probably didnt pay as much attention as they should have done, but if it had 
sounded too good to be true they wouldnt have believed it as much as they did. Mrs 
Ss pension is in the NHS so they know theyre at least guaranteed something. 
Cantwell Grove directed Mr S to TRG when he tried to take benefits at age 55  he 
was told he would need to sell to someone else who is in the ownership programme. 
They believe Cantwell Grove made the switch of DFM provider for them (which the 
investigator explained was unlikely)  someone sent documents for them to sign.
The investigator asked to see the documents Mr and Mrs S referred to. The main new 
discovery was a covering letter proving the dear trustee letter was sent to Mr S  and some 
earlier advice Mr S had received on TRG from a regulated adviser (Firm B). Copies of 
these letters and a recording of the phone conversation have also been provided to CMIM, 
as well as Cantwell Groves documents on this case.
Cantwell Groves comments
- It disputes that it acted as a funnel for communications between CMIM and Mr S. It 
believes CMIMs involvement was co-ordinated from the outset by Mr Ds firm. 
- It was unaware that YCP appears to have been including Cantwell Groves logo on 
its own correspondence. Its copy of Mr Ss signed CMIM terms of business was likely 
provided to it by YCP for information purposes.
-Prior to consenting to investments, as the scheme administrator, we would fully 
expect that the trustee would consider advice. The investment advice wouldnt 
necessarily need to be obtained from a regulated firm, however, it should be from a 
person or firm that has the relevant knowledge and experience.  
CMIMs submissions about Firm B and Cantwell Groves involvement
Its clear that the same third parties (Mr D, Consumer Money Matters or YCP) had 
referred Mr S to Firm B. Mr and Mrs S had shown they didnt rely on the dear trustee 
letter  they were unable to recall it at all, whereas they recalled dealing with Mr D.
Firm B had clearly advised Mr S that the TRG opportunity in Cape Verde was high 
risk. It had said that whilst it was prepared to set up a SIPP for him it would not 
process the investment itself, even if he acted as an insistent client.
This was a personal recommendation under COBS 9 not to invest, which evidently 
Mr S chose to disregard and then acted as an insistent client with Cantwell Grove. 
That was an intervening act which ends any liability on CMIMs part. Firm Bs advice also shows Mr S had an understanding of the investment, contrary to 
the vague impression portrayed in the phone call with the investigator. 
Firm B noted Mr S was of balanced risk, but contradicted this by saying he was 
comfortable to potentially hold all or a large proportionin one type of investment. 
That conflicted with the assertions in Mr Ss complaint that he was a low risk investor.
It set out the liquidity risk and that Mr S may lose everything if the development failed 
- as it wasnt covered by the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS).
By later going ahead Mr S demonstrated that he was prepared to risk the near-entire 
value of his pension fund on a single, overseas, illiquid property investment. 
YCP refers to Cantwell Grove as its partner SSAS Administrator. [G]iven their 
declaration as experts in the field of SSAS pensions, Cantwell Groves lack of 
consideration of Mr S as a suitable candidate for a SSAS Pension [as a sole trader 
with limited funds and income] was both reckless and negligent.
Hearing request
At an earlier stage, CMIM had also argued that Mr Ss assertions and Cantwell Groves 
culpability had not been adequately tested. It asked for a hearing so that the facts and 
circumstances pertaining to Mr Ss complaint must be tested (if not necessarily through 
cross examination but through questions via the Ombudsman) in an open forum. And 
then for the complaint to be dismissed and handled by a court or alternative arbitration such 
as the Pensions Ombudsman.
I considered that the evidence CMIM was seeking to obtain (given that a hearing is not a 
process of cross-examination) was now available from the phone call the investigator had 
since had with Mr S. So on 16 July 2021 I told CMIMs representative that I didnt agree 
there was a need to hold a hearing on this case. Nor did I consider there were grounds to 
dismiss the complaint as being better dealt with by a court  and I noted that the Pensions 
Ombudsman was unable to consider disputes about financial advice.
My findings in the provisional decision of 28 September 2021
My findings began with a restatement of the position on the Financial Ombudsman Services 
jurisdiction to look at this dispute  because we keep jurisdiction under review throughout the 
duration of the complaint. CMIM had accepted that TRG had the characteristics of a UCIS 
(as clarified in case law). But to set out the position I referred back to the following pieces of 
legislation which the investigator had covered in his original view:
s22 of FSMA refers to specified activities and investments as set out in the FSMA 
2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 2001 (the RAO). Advising on investments was a 
specified activity and was defined (amongst other things) as advice on buying, 
selling, subscribing for or underwriting a particular investment which is a security or a 
relevant investment.
The main consideration in concluding TRG was an unregulated collective investment 
scheme (UCIS) was that it was managed as a whole by the scheme operator and 
investors did not have day-to-day control over it. In turn, it was therefore a security or 
relevant investment and so advising on it was a regulated activity.
Promotion of UCIS was heavily restricted under FSMA and supporting legislation. It 
would be in contravention of s.238 of FSMA, unless a valid exemption applied  
either at COBS 4.12 in the FCA handbook or in the FSMA (Promotion of Collective 
Investment Schemes) (Exemptions) Order 2001 (the PCIS Order).
The proper advice CMIM said it was giving instead was due to a requirement 
imposed on the trustees under s.36 of the Pensions Act 1995 (PA95) to obtain and 
consider written advice on the question whether the investment is satisfactory having 
regard to the requirements of regulations under subsection (1), so far as relating to the suitability of investments. But s.36 warned that this advice may constitute the 
carrying on of a regulated activity under FSMA.
The rest of my findings are reproduced in full below:
Jurisdiction
The regulated activity of advising on investments, defined above, doesnt contain a
restriction as to the extent to which that advice is personalised to a particular consumer. At
8.27.5G in its Perimeter Guidance (PERG), the regulator confirms (with my emphasis) that:
Advice will still be covered by article 53 even though it may not be given to or directed at a
particular investor (for example, advice given in a periodical publication or on a website). The
expression investor has a broad meaning and will include institutional or professional investors.
The regulator adds at PERG 8.28.7G(1): A person can give advice without saying (or implying)
categorically that the customer should invest. The adviser does not have to offer a definitive
recommendation as to whether the customer should go ahead.
PERG 8.28.1G, 8.28.2G and 8.29.1G are also relevant:
In the FSA's view, advice requires an element of opinion on the part of the adviser. In effect, it is a
recommendation as to a course of action. Information, on the other hand, involves statements of
fact or figures.
In general terms, simply giving information without making any comment or value judgement on its
relevance to decisions which an investor may make is not advice.
Advice must relate to the buying or selling of an investment  in other words, the pros or cons of
doing so.
Im satisfied that the dear trustee letter did constitute a value judgement on the pros or cons
of buying what were in effect units in the TRG scheme, and its relevance to a decision Mr S
was going to make. CMIM broadly said in this letter that it was an appropriate investment for
the trustee to hold as part of a portfolio, with some caveats  including that they were not
cautious, diversified it with other investments, and understood the risks and lack of
guarantees. That to me is advice on the pros or cons of buying the investment.
And CMIM hasnt disputed that under full analysis, TRG was a UCIS (even if it didnt realise
that at the time of the advice). I agree that the TRG investment had the hallmarks of a UCIS
for the reasons the investigator gave  so I wont go into detail on that again here. And that 
means it met the criteria to be a specified investment under the Regulated Activities Order.
But whilst advising on a UCIS  even in this impersonalised way to a group of investors 
would be a regulated activity, I think Mr S would need a closer connection to CMIM than this
for his complaint to be in the Financial Ombudsman Services jurisdiction. Thats because
Mr S (as trustee of his SSAS) must have one of the relationships with CMIM defined under
DISP 2.7.6R. The most relevant one here is that Mr S was a customer of CMIM, and clearly
the existence of terms of business between Mr S and CMIM underlines the fact that he was
its customer.
Finally in my view, I must be satisfied that CMIM reasonably knew that the dear trustee
letter  given that this seems to be the sole determinant of whether it gave Mr S advice 
was going to be sent to him. I say this given that its clear CMIM didnt actually send that
letter to Mr S itself. It wouldnt for instance be appropriate for a letter CMIM had intended for
a different client to be copied (it seems here by YCP) to Mr S without CMIMs authorisation,
and for CMIM to have a liability as a result.However I dont think thats the case here. We know that CMIM had entered into an
arrangement with YCP to advise a number of clients, albeit that it believed it was only doing
so for the purposes of PA95. Those clients presumably each signed terms of business with
CMIM like Mr S did, so CMIM knew who they were. CMIM evidently drafted a dear trustee
letter to be provided to those clients  and thats what happened here. Whether Cantwell
Grove or YCP actually forwarded the letter to Mr S doesnt change the fact that CMIM
intended the letter to reach him. And it hasnt argued otherwise.
So in conclusion, Im satisfied that the Financial Ombudsman Service has jurisdiction to
consider this complaint  and the basis of that complaint is the dear trustee letter which
constitutes the advice CMIM intended Mr S to receive.
Did CMIM make a personal recommendation for Mr S to invest in TRG?
Advice given in 2014 that wasnt a personal recommendation wasnt caught by chapter 9 of
COBS  the regulators rules governing suitability.
It appears that CMIM didnt set out to make a personal recommendation. It evidently didnt
believe at the time that the advice it was giving was regulated at all, and thought instead it
was only being given to suffice for s.36 of PA95. It said in the terms of business that it
wasnt giving individual suitability advicewhich takes into account your personal financial
circumstances. And the end of its dear trustee letter reminds Mr S that it hadnt assessed
those circumstances.
But my consideration of this point doesnt end there, as what the firm intended doesnt solely
determine what rules apply. Firms can even be mistaken as to whether what they are doing
is regulated or not, as is the case in respect of the TRG investment here. And COBS 2.1.2R
sets out that:
A firm must not, in any communication relating to designated investment business seek to:
(1) exclude or restrict; or
(2) rely on any exclusion or restriction of;
any duty or liability it may have to a client under the regulatory system.
The FCA definition of a personal recommendation, with my emphasis, is:
a recommendation that is advice on investments, or advice on a home finance transaction and is
presented as suitable for the person to whom it is made, or is based on a consideration of the
circumstances of that person.
A recommendation is not a personal recommendation if it is issued exclusively through distribution
channels or to the public.
So this indicates a personal recommendation is targeted at one person specifically. However
the word or highlighted above indicates that its possible to make a personal
recommendation without having gone through a process of considering that persons specific
circumstances  if the recommendation is presented in such a way that the recipient
reasonably believes that the firm is endorsing the investment as being suitable for them in
particular. That stands to reason, as one of the objectives of regulation is consumer
protection  and the perception of the firms advice to a client is equally important, from a
regulatory perspective, as the actual mechanics of how the advice is given.
I consider I should therefore approach this from the point of view of what a reasonable
person in Mr Ss position would have perceived from CMIMs advice, whether that was its
intention or not. That involves weighing up everything, including the fact that CMIM told Mr S
it was not making a personal recommendation; it would have been evident to Mr S that he
hadnt met anyone from CMIM; and no fact finding had been done by it.On balance, I think Mr S ought to have been mindful of the limitations of the advice CMIM
was giving him  and that from the way it was written, the dear trustee letter was a prompt
for him to consider if he met the circumstances of the person being described in that letter as
an appropriate investor into TRG. It left him to some of the work: was he cautious or more
tolerant of risk? Did he require access to the funds during the expected duration of the
investment? And so on.
I can also see the contrary point of view that if Mr S did feel he met the criteria CMIM was
setting out as an appropriate investor, he might have felt that CMIMs advice carried a
significant amount of weight to him personally  and certainly more weight than one issued
to the public at large. After all, he had personally contracted with CMIM for it to provide this
advice service. But that doesnt of itself mean it was truly a personal recommendation. I dont
think Mr S would have inferred from the dear trustee letter that it was written with him
specifically in mind  and in fact it appears it was forwarded to him personally by YCP rather
than CMIM. That is of course consistent with what CMIM told him in its terms of business
and the letter itself  that it wasnt considering his circumstances specifically.
Im not persuaded overall that the dear trustee letter was a personal recommendation. That
means COBS 9 doesnt apply, although various other parts of COBS and the wider
regulatory principles under PRIN do still apply. And as TRG was a UCIS, the restrictions at
s.238 FSMA would also apply if CMIM was deemed to be promoting it to him. So Ive
considered this aspect next.
Did CMIM promote the TRG investment to Mr S?
The glossary definition of promotion is the FCA handbook is an invitation or inducement
to engage in investment activity that is communicated in the course of business. But the words
invitation or inducement are not defined in the glossary or under the corresponding section
21 of FSMA. At the time of CMIMs advice, PERG 8.4.5G said this about invitations:
An invitation is something which directly invites a person to take a step which will result in his
engaging in investment activity. It follows that the invitation must cause the engaging in investment
activity. Examples of an invitation include:
(1) direct offer financial promotions;
(2) a prospectus with application forms; and
(3) Internet promotions by brokers where the response by the recipient will initiate the activity
(such as register with us now and begin dealing online).
In my view CMIMs dear trustee letter didnt have the characteristics of such an invitation,
essentially because it seems other third parties had already invited Mr S to consider TRG as
an investment. But at PERG 8.4.7G the FCA went on to say this about inducements, with my
emphasis:
An inducement may be described as a link in a chain where the chain is intended to lead
ultimately to an agreement to engage in investment activity. But this does not mean that all the
links in the chain will be an inducement or that every inducement will be one to engage in
investment activity. Only those that are a significant step in persuading or inciting or seeking to
persuade or incite a recipient to engage in investment activity will be inducements under section
21.
I appreciate CMIM is arguing that Mr S had already decided to invest in TRG  he had
completed an indicative investment form  and did not even recall getting the dear trustee
letter. Apart from the fact Mr S may be excused for not having a detailed recollection of
events from around eight years ago, I dont think this is relevant to what CMIMs intent was,
as Ive highlighted above. The FCA clarified this further at PERG 8.4.4G, again with myemphasis:
The FCA considers that it is appropriate to apply an objective test to decide whether a
communication is an invitation or an inducement. In the FCA's view, the essential elements of an
invitation or an inducement under section 21 are that it must both have the purpose or intent of
leading a person to engage in investment activity and be promotional in nature. So it must seek, on
its face, to persuade or incite the recipient to engage in investment activity. The objective test may
be summarised as follows. Would a reasonable observer, taking account of all the circumstances
at the time the communication was made:
(1) consider that the communicator intended the communication to persuade or incite the
recipient to engage in investment activity or that that was its purpose; and
(2) regard the communication as seeking to persuade or incite the recipient to engage in
investment activity.
Its clear that CMIMs advice was intended to lead trustees to making an investment. The
typical conclusion to be drawn from reading the dear trustee letter was that only trustees
who were cautious and/or needed short-term access to the money shouldnt invest. And I
think CMIM would have appreciated this was an unlikely conclusion for most of the recipients
to draw, in the context of:
- the advice being given on a pension, which is typically held for the long-term;
- no assistance being provided (such as by way of showing tolerance for loss in 
example scenarios) for them to understand whether they met this cautious definition 
 and counteract the tendency they may otherwise have to follow the herd;
- the impression given that the risks CMIM did highlight in the letter were being 
mitigated by the strategy it was proposing to diversify their investment with a DFM 
arrangement held alongside it.
I dont think its a coincidence that the dear trustee letter was written in this way. CMIM says
that it wasnt collecting a fee for its recommendation, or commission from TRG  but it stood
to gain business from being able to provide DFM services on the remainder of the portfolio, if
a trustee went ahead with the TRG part of the investment. I think it would have been
apparent to CMIM that other third parties had quite a lot of influence over what the trustees
did, and it was unlikely to receive the DFM business if its advice tended to discourage the
investment in TRG.
I also think that given this clear intention, CMIMs dear trustee letter was a significant step
in persuading Mr S to make the investment. Notwithstanding CMIMs observations about
how much attention Mr S paid to it at the time, he then signed an investment instruction
declaring that he had regard for CMIMs advice. There was, of course, a reason for that:
Mr S was required under PA95 to consider advice before making the investment. Whether
or not Mr S was simply signing where a third party told him shouldnt in my view have
diminished the importance that this step should have held to CMIM  or that it ought to have
realised its advice was an inducement that meant it was promoting the investment as well as
advising him.
This is underlined by the fact that on 1 January 2014  more than a month before Mr S
received the dear trustee letter  FCA revised the list of exemptions allowing promotion of
UCIS (by then included in a wider category of non-mainstream pooled investments) at
COBS 4.12.4R. The new exemption for solicited advice only allowed a promotion where the
communication met all of the following requirements:
(a) the communication only amounts to a financial promotion because it is a personal
recommendation on a non-mainstream pooled investment;
(b) the personal recommendation is made following a specific request by that client for advice on
the merits of investing in the non-mainstream pooled investment; and(c) the client has not previously received a financial promotion or any other communication from
the firm (or from a person connected to the firm) which is intended to influence the client in relation
to that non-mainstream pooled investment. [See Note 3.]
Note 3 read as follows: A person is connected with a firm if it acts as an introducer or appointed
representative for that firm or if it is any other person, regardless of authorisation status, who has a
relevant business relationship with the firm.
Ignoring that a personal recommendation wasnt made, its also clear that the introducer
agreement YCP had entered into with CMIM would always have made this exclusion
unavailable (in effect because the introducer, rather than the trustee, was soliciting the
advice). But more relevantly, the wording of the exclusion itself confirms that advice can also
amount to a promotion  even where a third party had previously promoted the investment.
That is what happened here: CMIM promoted and advised on the investment (although
didnt make a personal recommendation).
Did Mr S qualify for a relevant exemption from the restrictions on UCIS promotion?
The investigator explained in his view that Mr S is unlikely to have qualified under the criteria
set out in the PCIS Order, because he didnt appear to be a high net worth or sophisticated
investor. This was not established at the time by CMIM (as required under the regulations)
and has not been challenged since, so I wont go into that here in detail  as I agree with
what the investigator said.
This leaves the range of exemptions set out at COBS 4.12.1R. Not only was the solicited
advice one unavailable, for the reasons above, I also cant see that any of the others were
available  not least because Mr S doesnt appear to have been a high net worth or
sophisticated investor and didnt have any of the other professions or roles specified.
The January 2014 changes to COBS 4.12 reflected a clamping down on the promotion of
UCIS, which had been publicised by the regulator for some time. They meant that the former
exemption of A personfor whom the firm has taken reasonable steps to ensure that
investment in the collective investment scheme is suitable was no longer available either.
The only conclusion I can therefore draw from this is that CMIM unlawfully promoted the
TRG investment to Mr S as part of its advice, in contravention of s238 of FSMA. Moreover it
ought reasonably to have been aware that other parties who promoted the investment to
Mr S previously were likely also in contravention of FSMA  because they were themselves
unregulated and/or because it appears unlikely they could rely on a valid exemption.
What should CMIM have done instead?
In addition to the FCA Principles, CMIM was bound by COBS 2.1.1R (the client's best
interests rule) and COBS 4.2.1R (ensuring a communication or a financial promotion is fair,
clear and not misleading).
At the time Mr S received his dear Trustee letter, COBS 4.12.5 also said that where a firm
communicated any promotion of investments such as UCIS in the context of advice, it
should have regard to and comply with its obligations under COBS 9. So this implies a
personal recommendation. This is also clear from the wording of the one exemption allowed
where a client genuinely solicits independent advice: the regulator expects a personal
recommendation to be made, or the exemption isnt available. The regulator seems to have
taken the view that  given how restricted the promotion of UCIS had become  any advice
had to be more than simply generic and non-personalised to that investor.
CMIM had chosen to advise on TRG, so it ought to have established whether or not it was aUCIS  as if it was, then it (and others) were promoting it in breach of FSMA. Amongst the
FCAs Principles, it was required to:
- conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence (Principle 2);
- pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly (Principle 6)
- take reasonable care to ensure the suitability of its advice and discretionary decisions 
for any customer who is entitled to rely upon its judgment (Principle 9).
All of these are relevant but I think Principle 9 is particularly apt here, as it refers to the care
CMIM should take in formulating advice. In observance of these principles and rules, there
were only really two routes CMIM had in this situation:
Decline to get involved in the introducer-adviser relationship with YCP, and therefore 
come into contact with clients like Mr S at all; or
Agree to accept introductions from YCP, but proceed on a basis which was 
fundamentally different in a number of respects in order to ensure that it was 
complying with the principles and rules:
- Taking reasonable care to make a personal recommendation to Mr S, which was 
tailored to his specific circumstances and thus was more likely to pay due regard 
to his best interests and treat him fairly.
- Being mindful that if the recommendation was not to invest, this would not 
amount to promotion and so the restriction wouldnt be breached.
- Issuing that recommendation to Mr S directly, rather than supplying it to YCP 
(where there was potentially some doubt whether it would reach Mr S, if the 
advice didnt give a favourable impression of investing).
Ive carefully considered what the possible consequences of CMIM taking either of these two
routes might have been. Clearly YCP or the other parties involved couldnt make CMIM give
advice that was positively in favour of investing in TRG. So if CMIM declined to get involved
or warned that it would need to advise Mr S, and other investors of a similar background to
him, not to invest in TRG (and Ill explain below why this is likely to be the case), I accept its
possible that those parties would have looked to tie up with a different adviser hoping to get
a more favourable outcome.
However the wording of PA95 meant that the proper advice Mr S was required to take
couldnt be given by just any adviser. And evidently Cantwell Grove or the other parties
involved, presumably in not wanting to jeopardise the successful operation of the SSASs
being established, were keen to ensure that this legislation was observed. s36 states:
For the purposes of this section proper advice means
(a) if the giving of the advice constitutes the carrying on, in the United Kingdom, of a regulated
activity (within the meaning of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000), advice given by a
person who may give it without contravening the prohibition imposed by section 19 of that Act
(prohibition on carrying on regulated activities unless authorised or exempt);
(b) in any other case, the advice of a person who is reasonably believed by the trustees to be
qualified by his ability in and practical experience of financial matters and to have the appropriate
knowledge and experience of the management of the investments of trust schemes
Whether or not the other parties realised that any advice on TRG was a regulated activity, it
wasnt surprising that typically the relevant knowledge and experience to give that advice
was more likely to be found amongst regulated firms. And in this context I think its also
reasonable to expect any regulated adviser to be as mindful of the FCAs principles and
rules as CMIM should have been. So I would have expected any regulated adviser toconsider the position on promotion and the consequences for that of it giving any advice in
favour of investing that couldnt be supported by a valid exemption.
The relevance of Firm Bs earlier advice
CMIM has suggested that Firm B did indeed give advice not to invest in TRG  in line with
what Ive said above  and says that Mr Ss rejection of that advice meant he was an
insistent client. It also says that this is an intervening act that breaks the chain of causation.
However, I dont share the same view of Firm Bs advice. Its relatively straightforward to see
how its advice was similarly intended for the investment in TRG to go ahead. It
recommended Mr S switch his personal pension to a SIPP for a stated objective of investing
in TRG, but appeared to be under the mistaken impression, based on what it initially wrote in
this letter, that it could recommend this without advising on the suitability of that objective
under the regulators rules. The regulator had already issued an Alert in January 2013 that
this approach was incorrect.
Perhaps because of this, Firm Bs letter included a further report where it did say that
investing a significant proportion in TRG would not normally be considered suitable, before
proceeding to indicate that as Mr Ss balanced attitude to risk (which is then said to be
more speculative) may make him comfortable to invest. The report proceeds to give a
somewhat positive forecast of how the TRG investment would work  albeit that a number of
risk warnings are then given, as CMIM notes.
Firm B actually recommended mainstream investments that would generally be considered
more suitable for most of Mr Ss portfolio, but overtly failed to include £10,000 of the funds 
evidently so that Mr S could proceed to make the TRG investment. There was no attempt to
advise on something more suitable for that part of the funds  and once Firm B had arranged
the SIPP transfer, Mr S was free to do whatever he liked with them. So I dont think Firm Bs 
refusal to process the TRG investment itself (on the basis that it does not market such
investments) would have been much of a barrier to Mr S investing at all. Firm B also
presumptively included a form for Mr S to sign on the basis that he would be going ahead.
We dont know why Mr S didnt proceed with Firm Bs recommendation, and there is some
confusion in his recollections about the number of firms involved. But I dont agree with
CMIM that this makes him an insistent client. An insistent client is someone who asks a firm
to arrange a transaction for them, having been given clear advice  by the same firm 
against making the transaction.
I dont agree Firm Bs advice to Mr S was clearly against him making the TRG investment,
but rather it seems to be advice carefully designed to allow him to invest  because the
same introducers seem to have been involved at the time of Firm Bs advice. And in any
event, Mr S didnt instruct Firm B to make the investment. When he later invested he wasnt
insisting against advice Firm B had provided, as he had the benefit of further advice from
CMIM. For the same reasons, I cant see that Firm Bs advice was an intervening act 
because it was actually superseded by CMIMs advice. This seems to be a poor attempt by
CMIM to distance itself from the consequences of the advice it actually gave.
If Mr S had been insistent on investing in TRG as CMIM suggests, he could have told Firm B
that he accepted its advice in part (and potentially wanted to flip the proportion of
mainstream investments versus TRG in the final instruction). So why didnt he do this? On its
face it seems more likely that Mr S was either put off by Firm Bs stance towards arranging
the investment, or the willingness of the SIPP provider to accept it. Its well-known that the
regulator was carrying out thematic reviews into the level of SIPP operators due diligence.Notably, when the investment did proceed it was into a SSAS, not a SIPP. And over those
ensuing nine months the introducers involved had plenty of opportunity to highlight the
attractions of the investment and/or find a more amenable method of investing. But crucially,
their method still seemed to involve requiring a regulated adviser to be involved. Although
now, the concern seemed to have become that Mr S needed to ensure he complied with
PA95.
What I think its important to take into account here is that CMIM had the option to refuse to
get involved in advising Mr S at all. And it chose not to take that route. So I think its fair and
reasonable that CMIM is held to the standard of the advice it should have given to Mr S.
What advice should CMIM have given?
CMIM appears to not have realised its advice on TRG was regulated, leading it to advise in a
somewhat contrived fashion without making a personal recommendation. That decision is
difficult to reconcile with its regulatory obligations, given the high likelihood that UCIS would
not be suitable for most retail investors  even those of a broadly balanced risk outlook that
Firm B appears to have assessed Mr S as. And a personal recommendation would be
necessary to demonstrate that it was suitable (in circumstances where promotion was
allowed).
But in fact this decision is also difficult to reconcile with the stated purpose of the advice
(agreed with Mr S in the terms of business): to enable him make investment decisions for his
SSAS under s36 of PA95. PA95 says very little about what should underpin a trustees
decision, apart from references to suitability and diversification  as it says other regulations
may specify further criteria. These are the Occupational Pension Schemes (Investment)
Regulations 2005, although owing to the small size of Mr Ss SSAS it was not covered by
many of the regulations. The relevant part is regulation 7 which states that:
the trustees of the scheme in exercising their powers of investment, and any fund manager to
whom any discretion has been delegated under section 34 of the 1995 Act in exercising the
discretion, must have regard to the need for diversification of investments, in so far as appropriate
to the circumstances of the scheme.
It doesnt seem to be a coincidence that this precise wording was reflected in the investment
instructions Cantwell Grove required Mr S to sign. So the question to be asked is whether it
was possible for Mr S to obtain advice on whether TRG was suitable, and provided adequate
diversification for the circumstances of his SSAS  without a recommendation being made
specifically in respect of the requirements and objectives of that SSAS.
Its no easier to see how a generic recommendation, leaving Mr S to draw his own
conclusions, would assisting him in making investment decisions as a trustee under PA95. 
And Im not persuaded it discharged CMIMs FCA obligations either, including to act in 
accordance with his best interests and communicate in a clear, fair and not misleading way.
Whichever way this is approached, Im satisfied that CMIM ought to have known that any
investment in UCIS taking up the vast majority of a SSAS  which was that consumers sole
pension provision  was plainly unsuitable for a retail investor; even one of balanced risk,
which had been Firm Bs assessment of Mr S (noting that CMIM didnt carry out its own
assessment). There was nothing about this UCIS in particular  being an off-plan, offshore
property development subject to a variety of currency, counterparty, construction and
occupancy risks  to counter that presumption. Yet it proceeded to give advice that indicated
that TRG would be appropriate for all but the more cautious investor, on the basis that it
would recommend diversification in the rest of the SSAS.
This is a long way off what any firm acting fairly and reasonably in observance of COBS andFCA Principles should have advised. It also displays a careless disregard for the regulatory
clamping down on UCIS that in my view would have been known about when CMIM was
preparing its letter (and which culminated in the January 2014 changes to COBS 4.14).
Im also interested in CMIMs suggestion that it was obvious that the SSAS itself was
inappropriate as Mr Ss only form of pension provision. If it thought this, there was nothing to
prevent it investigating and establishing this at the time (other than it was likely to mean it
lost the prospect of being able to recommend a DFM service  which depended on the
existence of the SSAS.) So I dont think this argument assists CMIM at all.
Importantly, I dont think the outcome of this case depends on whether CMIM told Mr S that
the whole SSAS  or just TRG  was unsuitable for him. Its evident that the whole reason
for the SSAS (and the SIPP before it) being promoted to Mr S was in order to invest in TRG.
And at the time Mr S received CMIMs dear trustee letter, he hadnt asked Zurich to send
his funds to the SSAS. So I need to consider how he would have acted, if CMIM had made a
proper personal recommendation that didnt involve TRG  for example, to employ DFM on
his whole portfolio.
Demonstrably Mr S wouldnt have obtained advice that was in favour of investing in TRG, so
I find it unlikely that the third parties keen to ensure Mr Ss TRG investment would have been
interested in him proceeding to transfer to the SSAS on that basis. It was evidently important
to them that the advice he took for the purposes of PA95 supported the investment decision
he made. As Ive said above, I think its reasonable to conclude that any other regulated firm
they might have approached instead should have given the same advice as CMIM.
Crucially and again in observance of the FCA principles and rules, CMIM should also have
ensured it gave that advice directly to Mr S in writing as its client  and not left the task of
distributing it to an intermediary. And even though theres a possibility Mr D or connected
parties could have tried to locate an unscrupulous and unregulated firm that was prepared to
advise Mr S, that begs the question why they didnt go straight to one of those firms in the
first place.
Firstly, I think such a firm would have been more difficult to find  I note even CMIM says it
did not have an adviser suitably qualified to provide individual advice in relation to a SSAS,
which was plainly what was required here. Secondly, I expect they believed Mr S was likely
to take advice from a regulated firm more seriously. And thirdly, pension providers like Zurich
would have introduced checks to comply with the Pensions Regulators Scorpion guidance
introduced in 2013 to prevent the possibility of pension liberation. Those checks might
include asking Mr S whether he was being advised by a regulated adviser, and I think the
parties involved in securing Mr Ss investment were likely anticipating this.
From what I can see in this case, Mr S didnt have particularly close ties to making the
investment  such as a connection with friends or family. He had simply been cold-called. He
told our investigator himself that he wouldnt have invested had anything stuck out as being
too good to be true about the investment. The success of the sales operation seems to
have been based on bringing a regulated firm on board to legitimise Mr Ss investment in
TRG. But that advice should have far from legitimised the investment. It should have made
very clear that it was unsuitable for Mr S. And had that opinion been given I cant safely say
it could easily have been overcome by the opinion of an unregulated adviser hastily brought
in to undo the professional advice its reasonable to expect CMIM would have given Mr S.
Im satisfied the more likely outcome is that any further attempts to secure Mr Ss TRG
investment would have failed in the light of CMIMs advice. As a result, he would never have
had a reason to give the instruction for his Zurich funds to be transferred, and he would have
remained in the Zurich plan.Responses to my provisional decision
In addition to reaching findings in my provisional decision (as set out in full above), I 
proposed how the complaint should be redressed and considered matters of causation. 
Mr Ss representative replied that it had no further points to make. I wont summarise those 
of CMIMs comments which restate points it made previously. Ive brought together the new 
points it raised under a series of headings as follows:
Basis on which CMIM was engaged
- CMIM had no knowledge of the proposed investors until they indicated an intention to 
invest in its DFM service (which a considerable number did not). It wasnt promoting 
TRG to any investor. It had prepared a generic Dear Trustee letter for all and sundry 
to see regarding the suitability of a TRG investment to a SSAS Pension, that could 
not have satisfied the test for compliant suitability advice
- Its involvement with YCPL was limited to paying introducer fees in the event any 
investor wished to invest in CMIMs DFM arrangement. No criticism or complaint is 
being made of CMIMs DFM investments. 
- Assuming Mr S also read CMIMs terms of business he signed which were neither 
lengthy nor difficult to comprehend then he also understood the Limitation of Liability 
clauses, including the fact that CMIM wasnt providing a suitability letter. 
- Contrary to my view, CMIM did discharge its duty to Mr S in accordance with the 
terms of business, not to provide generic advice beyond the requirements of the 
proper advice regulations under PA95. 
- COBS 2.1.1 (the clients best interests rule) isnt relevant here, as it only applies to 
designated investment business and doesnt have the same general application as 
the FCAs Principles. 
- CMIM was under no contract or duty to investigate and establish the suitability of the 
SSAS for Mr Ss pension requirements (a matter which it has already suggested 
should have been apparent to Cantwell Grove).
- There was very little else CMIM could do to warn Mr S it wasnt advising him of the 
suitability of TRG relative to his personal and financial circumstances.
- Instead, it made fair and honest statements to warn the recipient trustee of the pitfalls 
of being a self-investor and that any concerns they might have, must be referred to a 
professional independent adviser. This falls far short of a firm demonstrably seeking 
the investors business regardless of the consequences.
Reliability of other parties evidence
- The arguments made by Mr Ss representative were self-serving and incorrect, and 
the investigator had asked Mr S leading questions. Neither they nor Cantwell Grove 
was providing credible evidence.
- There is no evidence to suggest Consumer Money Matters referred Mr S to CMIM for 
a pension review; nor did it undertake any pension review for him or other trustees.
- CMIMs employees can provide witness evidence of Cantwell Grove sending its Dear 
Trustee letter to customers. The sharing of a logo between Cantwell Grove and YCP 
confirmed the commercial and legal partnership between them, even though the 
typical investors werent suitable candidates for SSASs. 
- The wording employed by Cantwell Grove in their letters of 27 February and 9 July 
2014 is deliberately misleading and designed to get the deal over the line. 
- Cantwell Grove provided the ceding scheme with the necessary comfort that pension 
liberation wasnt taking place, and that was sufficient for Zurich not to need to confirm 
what advice Mr S was taking on the transfer.Firm Bs involvement 
- It would have expected the investigator to have reverted to Mr and Mrs S to ask them 
about the letter from Firm B, which they hadnt mentioned at all in their phone 
conversation.
- Paragraphs 3.1 and 3.2 of Mr Ss terms of business with YCP said it wasnt 
authorised to provide investment advice, and he could appoint his own adviser 
(which he did, taking advice from Firm B).
- Firm B undertook a thorough investigation of Mr Ss personal and financial 
circumstances, including his attitude to risk. The natural and ordinary meaning of its 
advice was not to invest in TRG. Firm B made it abundantly clear that, given his 
capacity to loss, he should think very carefully over this level of self-investment 
[and]should this development fail or not be completed [Mr S] may lose all [his] 
investment in this development.
- Firm B said Mr Ss medium investment risk profile wouldnt necessarily preclude him 
from investing, providing it did not form a significant part of his overall wealth 
strategy which, in fact, it did. But Mr S chose to invest without further reference to 
Firm B.
- It was the only party acting as an independent agent for Mr S. I said it had advised 
£10,000 was retained in cash in order to facilitate the TRG investment it didnt 
recommend. But Firm B was bound by the same FCA Principles governing its 
integrity and fair treatment of customers as CMIM was. There is no evidence Firm B 
has been questioned about this.
Causation
- CMIM didnt cause the losses Mr S has incurred. Legally, a causation defence is an 
overarching one that, in this instance, overrides the regulatory implications.
- That approach was supported by another investigator in a similar complaint against 
CMIM. Given that Mr S cannot even recall CMIM or the Dear Trustee letter, and had 
no direct contact with CMIM, where can it be said that he starts to take responsibility 
for his own actions?
- The regulatory status Ive attributed to the Dear Trustee letter is outweighed by the 
fact that it arrived after Mr S had been advised by Firm B, had committed himself to 
investing in TRG, entered into a service contract for the SSAS and established the 
trust deed. In fact he signed the SSAS bank account application on the same date of 
this letter. So he couldnt have relied on that letter in committing to proceed.
- I expected that the other parties referred Mr S to CMIM believing that he was likely to 
take advice from a regulated firm more seriously  yet Mr S had not done this with 
Firm Bs advice. He and Mrs S also had previous property investment experience. So 
its likely they would have ignored advice that wasnt in favour of investing in TRG. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent been persuaded to depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional 
decision. Ill explain why.
Basis on which CMIM was engaged
CMIM was under no obligation to enter into these terms under which it agreed to provide 
advice, or the agreement it separately formed with YCP to accept referrals of this business. 
As a contracting party it was free to set the parameters of its advice and my point here is that 
as a regulated firm, it needed to do so in a way which was compliant with the FCAs rules. CMIM now seems to be suggesting that it didnt know who the clients that had signed its 
terms of business were  even though the SSAS provider Cantwell Grove has copies of 
these documents (presumably supplied to it by YCP). It must be likely the intention was for 
YCP to also pass a copy to CMIM, given that CMIM was the other contracting party. Whilst I 
cant rule out that YCP forgot to do so, CMIM has also referred to documents from this time 
period having gone missing at its offices.
In any event the funds of Mr S and many others went on to be sent to the custodian for 
CMIMs DFM service. So if CMIM did genuinely remain unaware throughout that Mr S was a 
client for its advice on the TRG investment and DFM service, it seems to me this would be a 
further failure to follow PRIN 2.1.1R, Principle 3: A firm must take reasonable care to 
organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management 
systems. CMIM would be exercising inadequate control over how its paperwork was to be 
used, or checking which funds had reached the custodian  and leaving itself at risk of its 
advice being given to unintended clients.
I wouldnt expect a regulated firm in observance of these principles to exercise a complete 
lack of control to this degree, but I have to accept due to the lack of evidence here that its 
possible  but a less likely scenario  that CMIM did do that. If so, it would be in breach of 
Principle 3 and in my view liable for the consequences that resulted. However more likely in 
my view was that CMIM was to some degree mindful of its obligations here and did (at the 
time of the advice) know who the clients were  even if it has since lost records of them.
In terms of how CMIM believes it had successfully limited the scope of the service it provided 
to Mr S, I would refer it back to COBS 2.1.2R and the regulators Principles as discussed in 
my provisional decision. I would also refer it to the reasonable expectation that advice it 
provided for the purposes of PA95 could not be generic and should take into account the 
suitability of TRG for Mr Ss specific SSAS. 
I find CMIMs argument that it was not bound by COBS 2.1.1R somewhat contrived. In effect 
it says advising on investments (which would count as designated investment business) is 
defined in the RAO as advice on buying a particular investment  so, as the Dear Trustee 
Letter doesnt mention the specific property Mr S would be buying, it doesnt meet that 
definition. But I think that interpretation also compounds the apparent misunderstanding 
CMIM had at the time (as opposed to now) that TRG didnt have the characteristics of a 
UCIS. 
In my view the particular investment in this case was that Mr S would be participating in a 
(named) pooled property scheme where the hotel resort (including shared facilities) would be 
operated as a whole. It wasnt necessary for CMIM to refer to the number of the apartment 
that TRG denoted Mr Ss investment by to meet that definition. And in any event, I dont 
agree with CMIM that the separate application of Principle 6 (to pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers and treat them fairly) is not of wide enough application so as to 
also impact this case.
Reliability of other parties evidence 
I was aware at the time of declining CMIMs hearing request that the reliability of verbal 
testimony from Mr S, assertions from his representative or the other parties involved in this 
dispute are inevitably open to some challenge. But I have to weigh this up against the clear 
evidence of what CMIM knowingly entered into when establishing terms of business with the 
clients it now appears to be seeking to distance itself from. As I explained above its likely 
CMIM knew, or should have known, which clients would receive the Dear Trustee letter. So 
Ive considered its concerns about the evidence of other parties to this dispute in that light. Mr Ss statement on our complaint form (which I accept was likely formed in discussion with 
his representative) said I was cold called by a company who I believe were called Consumer 
Money Matters Limited who referred me to Central Markets Investment Management Limited 
for a pension review. I was told in a meeting that I could obtain better returns in transferring
my Zurich Pension to a SSAS with Cantwell Grove
Mr Ss representative provided this service with the Dear Trustee letter. I agree this isnt 
written as a holistic review of whether a SSAS is better than a private pension - and it 
doesnt appear that the person Mr S met (Mr D) actually worked for CMIM. Nevertheless we 
know Consumer Money Matters was also involved as they made requests for information 
from Mr Ss ceding scheme  again something found out by Mr Ss representative. 
Its also evident that Mr and Mrs S are somewhat confused in their recollections of events. I 
think the quote above was likely intended to mean they were cold called for a pension 
review, which an introducer carried out at their home, and they were then referred to CMIM. I 
dont consider this undermines their allegations about the suitability of CMIMs advice. Nor is 
it true of their comments to suggest they hadnt heard of CMIM at all. CMIM transcribed the 
phone call and agrees Mrs S said, we have something from them (meaning CMIM). Given 
it was seven years ago, they didnt meet someone from CMIM, and believed they had given 
what they received to their representative, this isnt particularly surprising.
I dont dispute that YCP was as much in partnership with Cantwell Grove as it was in a 
relationship with CMIM through their introducer agreement. CMIM says its staff can testify 
that Cantwell Grove (and not YCP) issued the Dear Trustee letters to investors, but all that 
goes to confirm in my view is that CMIM was happy to hand over control of who received this 
generic advice letter to other parties  when my point all along has been that CMIM should 
have taken responsibility itself for giving that advice. 
As Mr S and CMIM are the only two parties to this complaint we may not fully get to the 
bottom of whether Cantwell Grove did issue the letters itself, or it was actually YCP 
borrowing Cantwell Groves logo (with Cantwell Groves knowledge or not). But I dont think 
this affects the end result: CMIM intended the letters to reach prospective clients for its DFM 
service, in return for providing advice on TRG, and that outcome was achieved.
I accept CMIMs points that investors like Mr S were unlikely to be suitable candidates for 
SSASs, and it wasnt bound to establish that in its terms of business. But as I explained in 
my provisional decision, it was still free to take that into account when deciding whether or 
not to enter into its arrangements with the introducer. It was always apparent that none of 
the other parties in the transaction were regulated by the FCA and CMIM could not, as a 
result, expect them to have the same duty of care to clients as a regulated firm.
CMIM believes Cantwell Groves letters were intentionally misleading, but I neither find them 
misleading to the extent it suggests, or in a way which materially alters CMIMs own 
responsibility in these arrangements. For instance CMIM says that although Cantwell Grove 
didnt refer to suitability advice, it encouraged Mr S to confirm that he believed CMIM to be 
an appropriately qualified adviser for the purposes of PA95  meaning that in effect Mr S 
did think hed received suitability advice.
All of this pre-supposes that Mr S would have understood the difference between advice and 
suitability advice. Mr S wasnt professionally qualified as a trustee and was unsophisticated 
in financial matters. So I think he the most he would have understood, and reasonably so, 
was that he was getting advice on whether TRG was suitable for his SSAS and that the 
person giving that advice was appropriately qualified to do so. That is a correct reflection of 
the regulations he as trustee was subject to. I cant see that Cantwell Grove misled him if 
CMIM now considers that it wasnt appropriately qualified to give that advice.I dont dispute that Cantwell Grove had an interest in this transaction going ahead, but my 
point was that no party could be sure the assurances given on pension liberation would 
satisfy the ceding scheme, who might well still ask Mr S if he was dealing with a regulated 
adviser. Mr S might then become concerned as a result. That was why I said it was likely 
preferable to all parties to find a regulated firm such as CMIM to give the proper advice (as 
defined under PA95), rather than an unregulated one. 
Firm Bs involvement
Ive considered what purpose would be served in questioning Mr S further about Firm Bs 
advice. He and Mrs S had limited recollections of the specific businesses (such as YCP and 
Consumer Money Matters) that the investigator already asked them about. Understandably 
their more vivid memories are of the person who visited their home  Mr D (who I think likely 
was involved throughout, including when Firm B advised Mr S).
CMIM appears to be suggesting that YCPs terms of business allowed or encouraged Mr S 
to seek his own independent advice, thus explaining why he sought advice from Firm B. But 
the full quote from those terms reads:
If you wish to get independent investment advice about the features of a SSAS or any of the 
investment opportunities or investment products we bring to your attention, we will refer you to an 
independent financial adviser (or you can appoint your own financial adviser).
It seems to me that on both occasions Firm B and CMIM were the firms YCP referred Mr S 
to and Mr Ss willingness to follow such referrals was based on the cordial relationship he 
and Mrs S had formed with Mr D. To suggest that Mr S sought out Firm Bs advice of his 
own volition  making it truly independent in a way he was then wholly reliant on it, as 
opposed to the next firm the sales model moved on to (CMIM)  is in my view misplaced. I 
dont see it as strange that Mr S didnt go back to Firm B to question its advice once he was 
being asked by the introducers to take advice from CMIM instead.
Ive also explained in my provisional decision why I dont think Firm Bs advice, from reading 
the letter Mr S received, was as pivotal in what followed as CMIM suggests. I would have 
expected Firm B to act in a significantly different way if it was acting in Mr Ss best interests 
and didnt think he should invest in TRG at all  including by making a recommendation for 
all his funds, not leaving out the £10,000 Mr S was at that time proposing to invest in TRG.
In my view Firm Bs letter was largely an earlier variation of a similar contrived advice 
situation to that of CMIM: advice that at first blush looks to balance out the pros and cons of 
investing in TRG, but leaves the recipient with the overall impression that it could be suitable 
for them if theyre comfortable with the risk. Yet both Firm B and CMIM should have been 
aware that an unregulated party outside their control would be encouraging Mr S to take 
those very risks, justified by the claimed returns on the investment. 
That was why it was so important for the advice to firstly be a personal recommendation, and 
secondly to provide a viable alternative to the unsuitable investment the introducers were 
pushing Mr S towards. Firm B and CMIMs advice have the similarity that neither 
demonstrated what investments would be suitable for all of the portfolio - instead of TRG 
(which was unsuitable). And in both cases that invites questions as to whether they were 
truly acting in Mr Ss best interests.
So, I remain of the view that Mr S wasnt acting against Firm Bs advice by the time he 
invested (following an evolution in the sales model) on CMIMs advice. Im not surprised 
Mr S didnt mention Firm B in the phone call with the investigator, nor do I think it would be 
realistic to expect him to be able to recall it in detail.Firm B is now in default to the FSCS. So any issue of whether it breached (for example) the 
FCA Principles in the way it set out its advice would strictly be for the FSCS to answer. But it 
may be helpful to point out that its difficult to see that a claim to FSCS could succeed, when:
- Firstly, the FSCS is tasked with establishing if Firm B had a civil liability to Mr S 
rather than, more broadly, whether it acted fairly and reasonably (which is the test 
under the Financial Ombudsman Services rules).
- Secondly, the very same causation problems that CMIM suggests apply to its advice 
because of Firm B actually apply to a much greater extent in reverse: CMIMs advice 
seems to be the intervening event, chronologically, between Firm Bs advice and the 
transaction going ahead; rather than the other way around. 
Causation
In a further section of my provisional decision Should I only apportion part of Mr Ss losses 
to CMIM? which Ill summarise and add to here, I addressed CMIMs claims that Cantwell 
Grove in particular should bear some responsibility for Mr Ss loss. 
I didnt know whether Mr S intended to make a complaint to the Pensions Ombudsman 
about Cantwell Groves actions as administrator. But it was entirely understandable that 
having weighed up the relative responsibilities of an adviser with duties to ensure the 
suitability of their advice, with those of a scheme administrator, he or his representative 
decided to bring a complaint against the adviser. There is a higher bar against financial 
advisers, and this is reflected in the way they are regulated and rules they must follow.
I do understand the argument that it could have been apparent to Cantwell Grove that the 
Dear Trustee letter couldnt satisfy the requirements of PA95. It does seem that as the 
scheme administrator, Cantwell Grove played some part in identifying that these 
requirements existed and needed to be followed, but nevertheless it didnt act as a 
professional trustee. CMIM was the one providing FCA-regulated advice to Mr S as trustee. 
CMIM should have established what the parameters of the advice it agreed to provide Mr S 
(and others like him) needed to be. Mr S and others were required to be the sole lay-trustee 
of their individual SSASs  so it should have been apparent to CMIM that its intended clients 
were wholly reliant on its advice in order that they could meet their obligations as trustees 
under PA95. I cant see a basis here on which it would be fair or reasonable for me allow 
CMIM to avoid the consequences of its own failings, even in part.
I agree that if I were to agree that Mr S would have chosen to invest in TRG come what 
may, it wouldnt be fair for me apportion any responsibility for compensating Mr S to CMIM. 
Its not that principle that is in dispute. Rather it is whether I can, in fact, fairly say that on the 
balance of probabilities Mr S would still have gone ahead with transferring his pension in 
order to invest in TRG, had CMIM treated him fairly. I still find that I am not, on balance, 
persuaded of this. 
Its more likely than not that Mr S wouldnt still have been amenable to investing on the 
advice of a third appropriately qualified adviser  as Cantwell Grove required this  once 
CMIM had given him the advice it should have given. I dont need to be 100% sure of this in 
order to make a finding that CMIM is responsible for Mr Ss losses. I only need to be 
persuaded on the balance of probabilities. In particular Ive noted that any further adviser the 
TRG sales operation might have attempted to use may well have had to be unregulated, 
given that one regulated adviser (Firm B) had already declined to facilitate the investment; 
and the other (CMIM) should have said in no uncertain terms why it was not an appropriate 
investment for Mr Ss specific SSAS. I think the compounded effect of both Firm B and CMIM placing barriers in Mr Ss way would 
have been more likely to deter his ultimate investment than not. Notwithstanding that Mr S 
had previous experience of investing in a time-share, what I take from his comments to our 
investigator is that hed become more careful about scrutinising investments because of that 
experience. On that basis Im satisfied its likely he would have heeded the proper advice he 
was told he would get, and was entitled to expect, from CMIM.
Ive already explained in earlier sections why I dont agree with CMIM that Firm Bs advice 
would outweigh the regulatory status Ive attributed to CMIMs Dear Trustee letter. And as I 
explained in the provisional decision, Mr S received this letter and signed the investment 
instruction before his funds were even transferred across by Zurich. So I dont agree CMIMs 
involvement came too late for it to have caused Mr Ss losses.
For the avoidance of doubt, as CMIM has mentioned there is no complaint about the 
discretionary managed portion of the SSAS, Im satisfied the losses or indeed gains (if any) 
there form part of his overall loss. Ive reached the conclusion that Mr S would have had no 
reason to be transferring his pension from Zurich at all, but for CMIMs failings  and Zurich 
wouldnt have permitted DFM in its plan. So including its value in the calculation is part of 
putting Mr S back into the position he would have been in, had CMIM not acted as it did.
If an investigator has taken a different view on causation on another complaint, then CMIM 
ought to bear in mind that either party can refer the initial view to an ombudsman. I may not 
have agreed with the initial view on the other complaint it has mentioned.
  
Putting things right
My aim in awarding fair compensation is to put Mr S in the position he would have been in,
had CMIM given him appropriate advice in relation to including the TRG investment in his
SSAS. Im persuaded on the balance of probabilities that Mr S would not have gone ahead
with the transfer from Zurich to the SSAS at all.
Central Markets Investment Management Limited must therefore contact Zurich Assurance
to obtain a notional value for Mr Ss policy as at the date of my final decision, assuming that
it continued to be invested in the same funds after it was transferred-out on September
2014.
Zurichs valuation should assume that Mr S withdrew the same amount of tax-free cash
(£13,745) on 13 February 2020 as he did from his SSAS. CMIM should check that no further
income payments have been taken  if they have, the gross amounts of these payments will
need to be allowed for accordingly. I will set out under a separate heading below what CMIM
should do if Zurich is unable to provide this value.
This notional value should be compared with the actual value of Mr Ss Cantwell Grove
SSAS as at the date of my final decision.
The actual value is difficult to determine where an investment is illiquid (meaning it cannot be
readily sold on the open market). That may be the case with the TRG holding in the Cantwell
Grove SSAS. Therefore as part of calculating compensation:
CMIM should agree an amount with Cantwell Grove SSAS as a commercial value for 
this investment, then pay the sum agreed to Cantwell Grove SSAS plus any costs, 
and take ownership of the investment. The actual value used in the calculations 
should include anything CMIM has paid to Cantwell Grove SSAS. Alternatively, if CMIM is unable to buy those investments from Cantwell Grove SSAS 
it should give them a nil value as part of determining the actual value. Its also fair 
that Mr S should not be disadvantaged while he is unable to close down the Cantwell 
Grove SSAS and move to a potentially cheaper and more strongly regulated  
arrangement. Third parties are involved and we dont have the power to tell them 
what to do. So to provide certainty to all parties I think its fair that CMIM also covers 
five years worth of future administration fees at the current tariff for the Cantwell 
Grove SSAS as part of the compensation, to allow a reasonable period of time for the 
Cantwell Grove SSAS to be closed.
Any currently outstanding administration charges yet to be applied to the Cantwell Grove
SSAS should also be deducted from the actual value.
If illiquid investments are being left in the Cantwell Grove SSAS, CMIM may ask Mr S to
provide an undertaking in return, to account to it for the net amount of any payment he may
receive from the investment in future. CMIM will need to meet any costs in drawing up the
undertaking. If CMIM asks Mr S to provide this undertaking, payment of the compensation
awarded may be dependent upon provision of that undertaking.
Payment of compensation
If there is a loss, CMIM should pay into the Cantwell Grove SSAS, to increase its value by
the amount of the compensation. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and
any available tax relief. CMIM shouldnt pay into the Cantwell Grove SSAS if this will conflict
with any protections or allowances.
If CMIM is unable to pay the compensation into the Cantwell Grove SSAS, it should pay that
amount direct to Mr S. But had it been possible to pay into the Cantwell Grove SSAS, it
would have provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr Ss actual or expected marginal rate
of tax at his selected retirement age. Here, its reasonable to assume that Mr S is likely to be
a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%.
CMIM must also pay Mr S £300 for distress and inconvenience in view of the disruption
caused to his retirement planning.
Details of the calculation should be provided to Mr S in a clear, simple format.
If Zurich cannot provide a notional value
In this eventuality, CMIM will need to use a benchmark to provide a fair value for Mr Ss
investment instead, and use it in the same way in its calculations. An appropriate benchmark
will depend on Mr Ss contemporaneous attitude to risk. CMIM highlights that Firm Bs
assessment of him as balanced is at odds with the claim in Mr Ss complaint that he was
cautious.
I agree that its unlikely Mr S wanted to take a cautious approach at the time of advice, given
the content of both Firm Bs and CMIMs advice letter which indicated that risk was involved
in the TRG investment. But I dont agree that fundamentally undermines Mr Ss complaint.
This service has an inquisitorial rather than an adversarial role  and the point underlying
Mr Ss complaint is that the TRG investment was fundamentally too risky for him: a point with
which Ive agreed above.Mr S was 48 at the time of advice and not particularly close to retirement, and he referred in
the phone call to our investigator that he was taking his wifes public sector pension into
account in his retirement planning. Taking all of this into account, if Zurich cannot provide a
notional value I agree with the investigator that the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total
Return Index would be the appropriate benchmark to use for the fair value. Ive chosen this
as Mr S likely wanted capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index is made up of a range of indices
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return. Although it
is called an income index, the mix and diversification provided within the index is close
enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison given Mr S's
circumstances and likely risk attitude.
CMIM chose to provide misleading and unsuitable advice that should instead have
unequivocally told Mr S not to include this UCIS in his SSAS. The likely outcome of it acting
appropriately is that Mr S wouldnt have transferred his Zurich pension at all, as Ive
explained above. So all of Mr Ss losses would have been avoided, but for CMIMs advice.
That includes any losses (if there are any) arising from the use of a DFM arrangement, the
concept of which CMIM also introduced to Mr S. I cant fairly say Mr S would have been
exposed to any of these investments had it not been for CMIMs advice on TRG.
In these circumstances I think its fair and reasonable for me to hold CMIM responsible for
100% of Mr Ss loss. Its a matter for CMIM whether it wishes to attempt to recover any of
the compensation Im requiring it to pay from other parties. It may take an assignment of
Mr Ss rights to pursue those parties as a further part of the above-mentioned undertaking if 
it wishes to do so.   
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ss complaint and require Central Markets Investment Management Limited to 
pay him compensation as set out in the putting things right section above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2022.
 
Gideon Moore
Ombudsman