DRN-3419287
The complaint
Mr S says Calpe Insurance Company Limited unfairly cancelled his motor insurance policy 
and didnt pay a claim he made on it, due to fraud.
What happened
Mr S says he arranged for a mechanic to collect his car on 19 January 2021 to take it to a 
garage for an MOT assessment. Shortly after collecting the car, the mechanic called Mr S to 
say hed parked it on the road whilst he collected some food and it had been damaged by 
another car. The other driver left a note with his details. As it was a non-fault claim, Mr S 
initially used the services of an accident management firm. It said it would provide a hire car 
and would contact the other drivers insurer. Delays followed, initially as the other insurer 
couldnt locate the other driver. In March 2021 Mr S made a claim on his own policy. 
Subsequently, Mr S was told by his finance provider that Calpe had decided to write off his 
car. Mr S wasnt happy, but he wanted the claim to be finalised quickly, to pay off the finance 
on the car. In June 2021 he complained to Calpe about its claims-handling. 
Calpe responded to the complaint on 10 August 2021. It said Mr S had claimed on the policy 
in March 2021 after it told him the other insurer had concerns about the incident and was 
unable to cover the damage to his car. Calpe said it had instructed an engineer to inspect 
the car and an investigator to interview Mr S. Mr S was sent a copy of the engineers report 
in July 2021 which set out why the car was an economic write-off. Calpe said the claims 
investigator had concerns about the incident in January 2021. It didnt accept that there had 
been any undue delay whilst it investigated the claim and said its enquiries were continuing. 
Shortly after that, on 14 August 2021 Calpe told Mr S the policy had been cancelled, as hed  
provided false information in relation to the claim. It said hed breached a policy condition 
that entitled it to cancel or avoid the policy and decline any claim. Mr S asked for further 
details, but he didnt get a response. Meanwhile, he had temporary repairs done on the car, 
but he says as a result of the write-off its market value dropped a lot, so he couldnt sell it. 
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Ss complaint. She didnt think Calpe had caused any 
delays - and she thought the total loss decision was correct. But she thought Calpe had 
acted unfairly in declining the claim and in cancelling the policy. In her opinion, it hadnt 
shown that Mr S had made a false or fraudulent claim. She said Calpe should reconsider the 
claim and deal with the total loss settlement, paying interest as appropriate. She also said it 
should pay Mr S £200 compensation for distress and inconvenience.  
Calpe said the incident was contrived and that the damage to the car didnt fit with the 
accident circumstances. It said the mechanic didnt take a direct route to the garage and that 
Mr S hadnt provided an invoice as requested. The investigator said Calpe hadnt provided 
evidence of Mr S acting fraudulently, or evidence of the damage being inconsistent. 
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think there were undue delays in the claims-handling, and I think the decision to write 
the car off was reasonable. I appreciate that Calpe has concerns about the incident in 
January 2021, but as far as I can see, it hasnt shown that it has evidence to support those 
concerns, as far as Mr S is concerned. The other insurers concerns are about someone 
else, and there doesnt seem to be any evidence of a link between that person and Mr S. 
Calpes investigator thought Mr S was credible and reliable. And although the report said he 
had concerns about the incident, he didnt say in what respect he thought Mr S may have 
acted fraudulently or provided false information. Mr S was only able to give the investigator a 
partial account of what happened, as he couldnt comment directly on what occurred after 
the mechanic took the car away. He reported what the mechanic had told him, which I think 
was all he could be expected to do. Theres no evidence that Mr S knew the mechanic 
wasnt going to take the car straight to the garage. And it seems the mechanic wasnt 
interviewed, nor was anyone from the garage where the MOT was to be carried out. 
Calpe says it cant pay fraudulent claims - and we wouldnt expect it to do so. But fraud is a 
serious matter, with significant consequences for a consumer. So we expect to see clear and 
persuasive evidence for an insurers decision. I dont think Calpe has shown that Mr S said 
anything he knew to be false in relation to the incident, or even that he was reckless about 
whether anything he said was false. He hasnt been asked to comment on any particular 
issue thats of concern to Calpe, and I havent seen anything that shows the damage to the 
car was inconsistent with the reported accident. In these circumstances, I dont think Calpe 
can rely on Mr S having breached the policy term that allows it to cancel the policy and 
decline his claim. So, based on the details Ive seen, I dont think it has acted reasonably. 
In order to put matters right, I think Calpe needs to reconsider the claim, in line with all other 
policy terms and conditions. If a total loss settlement is paid, it should add interest to the 
settlement sum. It should also remove any cancellation or fraud markers from databases. 
And as Mr S has been inconvenienced as well as distressed by Calpes decision, I think it 
would be fair and reasonable for it to pay him £200 compensation.  Mr S says his premiums 
have risen significantly, but his insurer may adjust the premium and provide a partial refund 
once any markers are removed.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Calpe Insurance Company Limited 
to do the following:
Reconsider the claim, in line with all other policy terms and conditions
If a total loss settlement is paid, add interest to it, at the simple yearly rate of 8%, 
from the date the claim should have been paid in 2021 to the date of settlement
Remove any cancellation and fraud markers from internal and external databases 
Pay Mr S £200 compensation for distress and inconvenience 
If Calpe thinks its required by HM Revenue and Customs to withhold income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr S how much it has taken off. It should also provide a tax deduction 
certificate if required, so he can reclaim the tax if appropriate.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2022. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman