DRN-3501206
The complaint
Mr E complains about the end of contract charges hes been asked to pay by PSA Finance
UK Limited (PSA) at the end of a car hire agreement.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in April this year. An extract from that 
provisional decision is set out below.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst I agree with most of the investigators findings I dont agree that Mr E
should have to pay everything PSA are asking. Ill explain why.
Mr E acquired his car under a hire agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.
The terms of the finance agreement held Mr E responsible for keeping the car in good
condition. He would be responsible for any damage if the car wasnt returned in the correct
condition and a charge could also be made if the car wasnt serviced correctly.
Was there an agreement to close the case with nothing to pay?
Mr E received an email from PSA on 15 July 2021 in which they said:
Thank you for your email, our team cannot respond as this case is now closed.
He says that PSA should honour this and that charges should therefore not apply.
I dont think that would be fair. Whilst I accept the phrasing of the email is a little misleading I
dont think PSA ever agreed to close the case. Whilst they had agreed to remove a missing
service charge I dont think they agreed to do anything else. PSA clarified their position in a
further email on 19 July 2021. So, even if the first email was misleading I think Mr E would
have quickly understood PSAs proper stance on the matter.
Were the damage charges fairly applied?
The industry guidelines for what is considered fair wear and tear when vehicles are returned
at the end of their lease, is provided by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association
(BVRLA). So, I think that industry standard is the fairest gauge of whether charges have
been levied fairly and Ill use that when considering the damage in the inspection reports.
Our investigator explained what the guidance said in relation to the charges PSA levied for
the damage to the bumper, doors, door moulding and alloy wheel. Mr E hasnt disputed the
investigators findings on these issues and I wont comment any further on them other to say
that the investigator has stated the BVRLA guidance correctly and I would agree that the
damage is fairly chargeable as it exceeds the guidance for what could be considered fair
wear and tear.
Mr E did dispute the charge for the windscreen damage. The BVRLA guidance says:
Damage in excess of 10mm in the drivers line of vision or in excess of 40mm elsewhere in
the area swept by the vehicles wiper blades, is not acceptable.
Mr E has pointed out that the photographs provided by PSA werent originally provided by
them, but I cant say thats unreasonable as the damage is evidenced by them and the
contract allows a charge when the damage is excessive.
Mr E says the guidance refers to damage in the drivers line of vision and that cant be
assessed from an external photograph. I dont agree. I think the photographs clearly show
damage in excess of 40mm across the area swept by the wipers and the charge has
therefore been fairly made.
I dont think any of the charges are too high. They all seem consistent with similar charges
Ive seen levied by PSAs competitors and I can see the extent of typical charges was
explained to Mr E in PSAs pre-collection literature, so he had an opportunity to put things
right before collection.
Were the charges for missing services fairly made?
The investigator said that Mr E had originally been charged £600 for three missing services
and that PSA had agreed to remove £400 of that. I dont agree.
The service book explained that services on the car are due when either 16000 miles or 1
year is reached. This was a three-year hire agreement so ordinarily three services would be
due.
The service book was stamped with two services completed in 2019 and 2020.
In an email to Mr E on 19 July 2021 PSA agreed to remove one service charge. Theyve
explained this was because they appreciated it would have been problematic for Mr E to
have the last service carried out during lockdown.
So that would mean there are no missing service charges due or chargeable as two were
completed and PSA agreed to remove a further one.
PSA offered to reduce the bill by a further £200 and explained that was because they had
failed to reply to Mr E when he contacted them on 5 August 2021. I think that was fair.
Taking all that into account I think the final bill should be £739.18, as follows:
Missing services £0.00
Windscreen damage £315.18
Bumper corner £75.00
Front door moulding £40.00
Rear door L £122.00
Front door L £122.00
Alloy repair £65.00
My provisional decision
Im expecting to tell PSA Finance Limited to charge Mr E £739.18 in end of contract chargesas Ive detailed above.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
PSA didnt provide any further information, but Mr E did. He said I was wrong not to take 
PSAs email of 15 July more seriously. He explained that in his professional role a message 
of that type would be accepted, and he questioned when, if ever, a consumer could ever be 
expected to rely on such a message. He went on to explain that the correct legal test should 
be what an ordinary man in the street would believe and he thought it was clear he would 
consider the case closed.
I understand Mr Es strength of feeling but Im afraid I still dont think that would be fair. I 
dont think it was ever PSAs intention to close the complaint and I think thats demonstrated 
by the fact they clarified their position in a further email to Mr E only a few days later. I think 
the contractual basis for the charges was clearly made out and the charges Ive detailed in 
my provisional decision should therefore be due.
Putting things right
Ive not therefore been provided with any information that has led me to change my 
provisional decision. That provisional decision now becomes my final decision on this 
complaint.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part and tell PSA Finance Limited to charge Mr E £739.18 in end of 
contract charges as Ive detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 June 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman