DRN-3631961
The complaint
Ms Y has complained that Ageas Insurance Limited paid less than they should have done 
in settlement of her claim under her motor insurance policy following the theft of her car.
What happened
Ms Ys car was stolen and she made a claim under her policy with Ageas. They asked her 
to provide various documents and then told her shed have to wait 14 days before they 
could settle the claim in case the car was recovered by the police. Ms Y was unhappy 
about this, as she was struggling without a car. However, she waited the 14 days. Ageas 
sent her an email with their initial offer after the 14 days were up. This was £7,200, less 
the £200 policy excess. The claim handler said in his letter that the value of Ms Ys car 
had been assessed at £7,200. Ms Y wasnt happy with this and sent some adverts to 
show she couldnt replace her car like for like for this amount. She had several telephone 
conversations with the claims handler who said he would do some research. He then 
made a revised offer of £8,210, less the excess. In his letter he said that Ageas had 
consulted a number of recognised vehicle valuation guides and considered the engineers 
findings and the mileage of Ms Ys vehicle. And that  as a result of this  theyd 
increased their valuation to £8,210.
Ms Y still wasnt happy with the valuation and complained to us. In the meantime, Ageas 
paid what theyd offered. And Ms Y borrowed some money from friends and family to add 
to this to buy a replacement car. Her car was later recovered by the police, but  as 
Ageas had already paid the settlement amount  they took ownership of the car.
One of our investigators considered Ms Ys complaint and said that what Ageas had 
offered was fair, as it was in line with the guides we used for checking the market value of 
vehicles.
Ms Y didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 20 July 2022 and I set out what Id provisionally decided as 
follows:
Under Ms Ys policy if her car is stolen and not recovered, it is classed as a total loss. 
And the policy says the maximum Ageas will pay in this situation is the market value, 
less the policy excess. The market value is defined as the cost of replacing the insured 
vehicle with another of the same make, specification, model, age, mileage and condition 
at the time it was stolen.
The original offer made by Ageass claim handler was clearly wrong and he should not 
have made this. He clearly had access to two recognised valuation guides and both of 
these put the value of Ms Ys car, that is the cost of replacing it, at over £8,000. So, it was 
inappropriate and unacceptable for him to make an offer based on a market value of 
£7,200. This would clearly have caused Ms Y a great deal of unnecessary concern and 
frustration.
And I can tell from listening to recordings of her telephone conversations with the handler 
how concerned and frustrated she was. And it is clear it was quite an arduous process for 
her to go through in waiting for the handler to reconsider and to later refer the matter to his 
manager. Also, he said he was carrying out research, but he had the correct value 
according to the guides from the outset.
The handler did eventually offer a settlement based on the market value in the higher of 
the two guides he had access to. However, I dont think he paid enough attention to the 
adverts for similar cars Ms Y had provided. These suggested similar cars were being 
advertised for sale at between £9,000 and £11,000. And I think this should have alerted 
him to the possibility that the guides he had access to were wrong. Its unusual for guides 
to be wrong, but the handler should have been aware this could happen and that 
sometimes more research is needed and more weight needs to be placed on adverts. 
There are also other guides, which Ageas have chosen not to provide their claim 
handlers with access to, so the handler couldnt check these. But, if he had been able to, 
these would have suggested a market value of around £9,200. I know this because Ive 
checked these guides and one gives a value of £9,187 and the other £9,299.
So, the evidence I have shows me that the handlers failure to carry out enough research 
and stick rigidly to the value in the guides he had access to meant he failed to realise the 
guides he was using were likely to be wrong. I think this meant he offered Ms Y £1,000 
less than he should have done in settlement of her claim. I say this because if hed 
carried out the right level of research I think hed have realised the correct market value 
was around £9,200 and not the £8,210 hed suggested.
This means I think as part of the fair and reasonable outcome to Ms Ys complaint Ageas 
should pay her a further £1,000 in settlement of her claim. They should also pay interest 
on this amount at our normal rate of 8% per annum simple from the date they settled her 
claim to the date of actual payment. This is to compensate Ms Y for being without money 
she should have had.
I also think the inappropriate settlement offer and the arduous process Ms Y had to 
endure in achieving this caused her a considerable amount of distress and 
inconvenience in what was already a very stressful time for her. Therefore, I think Ageas 
should pay her a further £300 in compensation for this.
I gave both parties until 3 August to provide further comments and evidence. Ageas 
have said the reason their claim handler initally based his offer on less than the guides 
suggested it would cost Ms Y to replace her car, was because at the time he was 
considering the matter it hadnt been recovered. And he took into account that it had had 
three previous owners and was more likely to have existing damage on it because of 
where Mrs Y parked it. Ageas also pointed out that their revised offer was more than Ms 
Y had paid for her car around six months previously. Theyve also said that adverts are 
often not for cars that are exactly the same as the one insured under the policy and not 
indicitive of the actual market value based on sold prices like the guides that they use. 
Ageas feel the award Ive suggested for distress and inconvenience is high, as the time 
between their initial valuation to Ms Y and the increased valuation was short, as they 
increased thier offer the same day. 
However, Ageas have said they are prepared to accept my provisional findings and 
make the payments Ive suggested. 
Ms Y initially said she accepted my provisional decision. However, she has since made 
some further points shed like me to consider. She said she should have been told that Ageas paying her claim was going to increase her premium. That Ageas have never told 
her what was recovered from her car when it was found. She also thinks the 
compensation for distress and inconvenience should be higher, as she is still left with 
problems she cant resolve. And shes said Ageas needs to look at the way they speak 
to customers, as they shouldnt be made to feel small if they are trying to explain 
something. Ms Y has also mentioned shes unhappy that Ageas didnt call her back to 
discuss her complaint before issuing their final response. Shes also said she thinks her 
car was worth more than Ive suggested. Plus, Ms Y has raised a number of concerns 
about conversations she had with her insurance broker and is unhappy that she was not 
told her no claims bonus would be impacted by her claim.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted Ageass comments and I am pleased theyve accepted my provisional findings. 
However, I think it is worth me pointing out that the guides Ageas use  in the main  use 
advertised prices to work out likely selling prices, as opposed to sales data. And one of the 
guides we now use does actually include sales data. However, my point was that  whilst 
adverts arent usually an indication that the guides are wrong, they can be; and close 
attention needs to be paid to them if they are for like for like vehicles and the advertised 
prices in them are higher than the prices suggested by the guides the insurer is using. Its 
also common knowledge that cars now sell much more often at the advertised price and 
there is much less room for negotiation.
Im concerned with Ageass explanation for offering less than the replacement cost the 
guides they were using suggested. This is because  in my opinion - it is not appropriate or 
fair for an insurer to assume a car has pre-existing damage simply because it is usually 
parked on the street or somewhere similar. And the data the guides uses obviously reflects 
the fact some cars have had more owners than others. 
It remains my view that the process Ms Y went through with her claim was arduous. Ive 
listened to recordings of all the telephone conversations she had. And whilst these were over 
a fairly short period, she did have to keep chasing and arguing her case. Plus, the claim 
handler said he was carrying out research despite already having the correct guide figures. 
The amount Ive awarded for distress and inconvenience also reflects the fact that Ms Y 
received a lot less for her car than she should have done and this in itself caused her 
significant issues. 
Ive noted Ms Ys comments in response to my provisional decision. First of all I should 
make it clear that if she wants to complain about her broker she will have to raise a separate 
complaint with us. Secondly, as our investigator mentioned when Ms Y spoke to her quite 
recently, we cannot consider complaints that are specifically about complaint handling, so 
Im not going to comment on Ms Ys concern that Ageas didnt contact her to discuss her 
complaint before issuing their final response. 
Ms Y hasnt previously complained about the fact she wasnt told her premium could go up if 
she made a claim and that her no claim discount would be affected. So, I cant consider 
these points either. But I can say that even if she had known these things its still likely shed 
have claimed, as she couldnt have afforded to replace her car without doing so. However, if 
she feels not being told about these things has caused her additional distress she can make 
a new complaint about them; although this would probably be better directed at her broker 
than Ageas. Ive noted what Ms Y has said about the value of her car. And Id like to make it clear that the 
amount Ive said Ageas should have paid is the market value less the policy excess, as set 
out in the policy terms. The market value is what it would have cost Ms Y to replace her car 
with one of a similar make and model at the time of the loss. And Im satisfied that she would 
have been able to do this for the figure Ive suggested. This doesnt necessarily mean she 
would have been able to find a car for that amount locally or particularly close to her home, 
as cars come on the market at different times and in different places. But  with a bit of 
shopping around and by widening her search area - Ms Y should have been able to find a 
suitable car for £9,200. 
I can understand Ms Ys concerns about the way Ageas spoke to her and the problems she 
has been left with. But the amount Ive awarded for distress and inconvenience reflects the 
impact of the poor service provided by Ageas and the issues that came directly from them 
offering less than they should have done in settlement of her claim. I appreciate there may 
be other issues, but I think these were more to do with the fact she didnt have guaranteed 
replacement car cover and the finance arrangements she had for her car.
Ms Y has not raised the issue of what was in her car when it was recovered previously, 
although I note she did ask Ageas if she could claim for some personal effects that were in it. 
But it would be helpful if Ageas could let Ms Y know whether there was anything in it when it 
was recovered and return any items that were still in it. Ageas should of course consider any 
payment due for personal effects and make one if appropriate and if it has not done so 
already. 
Putting things right
For the reasons Ive set out above and in my provisional decision, it remains my view that 
what I provisionally decided is the fair and reasonable outcome to Ms Ys complaint. This is 
that Ageas should pay her a further £1,000 in settlement of her claim, plus interest on this 
amount at 8% per annum simple from the date they paid what they had offered Ms Y to the 
date they actually pay the further £1,000. And Ageas should also pay her £300 in 
compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
My final decision is to uphold Ms Ys complaint and I require Ageas Insurance Limited to pay 
her what Ive set out above if it has not done so already. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2022.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman