DRN-3067080
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as first direct (HSBC) didnt take 
sufficient care with the paper title deeds to their property. Most of our communication has 
been with Mr M, so Ill keep things simple and refer only to him.
What happened
 In 2004 Mr M took out an HSBC residential mortgage. He redeemed this mortgage in 2020 
and asked HSBC for the paper title deeds to his property. In May 2020 HSBC told Mr M it 
hadnt had the paper deeds. But Mr M obtained confirmation from his previous mortgage 
lender that it had sent the paper deeds to HSBC. 
In its final response of September 2020, HSBC confirmed it received the paper deeds in 
2004 but they were now held electronically by the Land Registry, so HSBC no longer had 
them. HSBC accepted it initially gave Mr M incorrect information. It apologised and offered 
£50 compensation for the frustration it caused.
Unhappy with this, Mr M contacted our service. He said HSBC was wrong to say it hadnt 
had his paper deeds  he thought it had lost them, and that thousands of other HSBC 
customers would be similarly affected. He said the paper deeds held great sentimental 
meaning for him.  And that HSBC had breached the Financial Conduct Authoritys principles 
for treating customers fairly, and its handling of the paper deeds was a data breach. He 
wanted HSBC to pay £2,500 compensation for his time spent dealing with this issue based 
on his professional rates, and to provide a reconstituted copy of the paper deeds along with 
an apology and a statement to say it had misled him. 
HSBC told our service it wasnt HSBC policy to destroy paper deeds and suggested either it 
would have posted them to Mr M, or the Land Registry may have destroyed them once it 
registered them electronically. But it said the time passed meant it didnt have records of this 
now. And while Mr M thought HSBC had destroyed the deeds, there was no evidence of this.
Our investigator said in 2003 it became usual for paper title deeds to scanned, registered 
and destroyed. But he thought HSBC initially gave Mr M incorrect information about the 
paper deeds, and that it should pay him a total of £200 for the distress and inconvenience 
this caused. He also thought HSBC should pay Mr M the £7 Land Registry fee for obtaining 
electronic copies of the deeds, once Mr M had showed hed paid this. 
HSBC agreed. But Mr M asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman, as he was 
still concerned about what happened to the paper deeds and wanted HSBC to prove theyd 
been destroyed. Mr M thought HSBC should pay his Land Registry costs. And he provided 
copies of his communication with the Land Registry, including a call recording with it 
regarding his deeds. 
As Mr M asked, his complaint has come to me for consideration. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to be clear that the role of our service is to look into individual complaints. So here, 
Im only considering Mr Ms individual complaint against HSBC regarding his title deeds. Im 
not considering the other HSBC customer title deeds hes suggested are lost. 
The crux of Mr Ms complaint is that HSBC didnt take sufficient care of his paper title deeds, 
and hes outlined the principles for treating customers fairly that he says HSBC has 
breached. But I dont agree thats the case, and Ill explain why. 
Documents from Mr Ms previous mortgage lender shows it sent the paper deeds to HSBC in 
2004, which HSBC doesnt dispute. The Land Registration Act (2002) meant it became 
normal practice for title deeds to be scanned, registered and then destroyed. And electronic 
versions became sufficient instead of the previous practice of holding the original paper 
deeds. So banks like HSBC no longer needed to hold paper deeds. Therefore HSBC wasnt 
obliged to keep them. 
Its not clear what happened to the paper deeds in this case. But HSBC told our service it 
wasnt HSBC policy to destroy paper deeds and so either it would have posted them to 
Mr M, or the Land Registry may have destroyed them once it registered them electronically. 
But the time passed meant it didnt have records of this now. While I know Mr M believes 
very strongly that HSBC has lost his paper deeds, Ive not seen enough evidence to be able 
to fairly conclude thats what likely happened. And given HSBCs policy, it seems unlikely it 
would simply have destroyed the paper deeds. Mr M also strongly believes there has been a 
data breach here, but hasnt provided any supporting evidence of such a breach. Its not for 
our service to say whether there has been a data breach. Mr M can instead raise those 
concerns with the Information Commissioners Office. 
In the Land Registry call Mr M has provided, the Land Registry was able to find a record of 
his property and confirmed it received a legal charge from HSBC in 2004, followed by a 
mortgage discharge document in 2020. So Im satisfied Mr Ms property was registered 
electronically with the Land Registry from at least 2004, and Mr M would therefore be able to 
obtain his title deeds electronically, as is usual practice now. 
Taking all this into account, Im satisfied HSBC hasnt caused an error that left Mr M with an 
unregistered property, or unable to obtain the title deeds electronically if he needed them. 
Even if I thought HSBC had made some sort of error that meant it had lost the paper deeds, 
I dont think that caused Mr M any financial loss or inconvenience. Because as I say, Mr Ms 
property was registered with the Land Registry.
However, HSBC itself accepts it initially gave Mr M incorrect information about whether it 
had held the paper deeds or not. I think this would have caused him unnecessary confusion, 
frustration and inconvenience given it meant he needed to get confirmation of this from his 
previous mortgage lender.  And I think this also caused Mr M distress, given what hes told 
us about the sentimental value he clearly placed on the paper deeds. HSBC has already 
acknowledged it gave Mr M incorrect information initially, and it apologised for this in its final 
response letter. 
But given the confusion, frustration and distress HSBC caused Mr M over some months 
regarding this matter, I think an award of compensation is warranted here. However, Im not 
compensating Mr M for his time spent bringing this complaint, as hes suggested. Thats 
because Mr M wasnt bringing this complaint in his professional capacity. And when a 
business has made an error, our approach is to award compensation for distress, 
inconvenience and financial loss. Which Ive already set out my thoughts about. Putting things right
Im satisfied the total of £200 suggested by our investigator is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances - this includes the £50 HSBC has itself already offered. HSBC has agreed 
with our investigators suggestion that it should pay Mr M the £7 Land Registry fee once 
Mr M shows it this is something hes paid, so I dont think thats unfair.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as first direct should pay 
Mr and Mrs M a total of £200 compensation for the unnecessary confusion, frustration and 
distress it caused them. It should also pay Mr and Mrs M £7 for the Land Registry fee, once 
theyve shown this is something theyve paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 October 2021.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman