DRN-4156641
The complaint
Mr U complained that he was given unsuitable advice to transfer his defined benefit (DB) 
Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS), to a type of personal pension plan. 
Quilter Financial Services Ltd is now responsible for answering this complaint. To keep 
things consistent throughout this final decision, when referring to the business, Ill refer 
mainly to Quilter.
What happened
Mr U approached Quilter in 2020 to discuss his pension and retirement needs. Quilter 
completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Us circumstances and objectives. 
Information gathering and discussions then took place over several months and his 
circumstances of that time were as follows:
Mr U was 60 years old and married; he was in good health. His wife, Mrs U, wasnt 
working but was 55 and also in good health. They still had one dependent child aged 
16 at the time.
Mr U was a deferred member of a DB scheme having previously worked for a 
company until the late 1990s. As of early 2020, the cash equivalent transfer value 
(CETV) was around £274,805 (a further value was recalculated in August 2020, and 
the final transfer value was £296,675). 
Mr U earned around £65,000 per year in his current job and had a small defined 
contribution (DC) pension associated with this employment. Neither Quilter nor Mr U 
himself could say what the exact balance of this was at the time. But Mr U estimated 
this DC scheme would have had around £5,000 in it. Both he and his employer were 
contributing at the respective rates of 5% and 3%. This pension isnt the subject of 
any complaint.
Mr and Mrs U didnt own a property as they lived in rented housing. They had £5,000 
each in savings described as being for emergencies. According to information 
collected by Quilter, they had no other investments or assets.
Quilter set out its advice about Mr Us pensions in a suitability report it issued on 5 April 
2020. It advised him to transfer out of his deferred DB scheme and take a tax-free lump sum 
to buy a property to live in. Quilter said he should invest the rest of the funds in a personal 
pension fund. It categorised Mr Us attitude to risk (ATR) as dynamic.
Mr U first complained to Quilter about its advice in 2022. In response, Quilter denied it had 
done anything wrong and said it had acted on Mr Us objectives at the time. He then referred 
his case to our Service. One of our investigators looked into it and said the complaint should 
be upheld. 
Quilter still doesnt agree. So, as the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, its come to 
me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account all relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than 
not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Quilter's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability and the provisions in COBS 19 which 
specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.
I have further considered that the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in 
COBS 19.1.6 that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is 
unsuitable. So, Quilter should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate 
that the transfer was in Mr Us best interests.. 
Ive therefore used all the information we have to consider whether transferring to a new 
personal pension arrangement was in Mr Us best interests. 
I dont think it was, so Im upholding Mr Us complaint.
Financial viability 
To demonstrate the financial comparisons between his current DB scheme and transferring 
out to a personal pension arrangement, Quilter referred in its transfer analysis to a transfer 
value comparator (TVC).  
The TVC is essentially a measure of what sum of money a consumer would need to buy an 
annuity providing equivalent benefits to the DB scheme at retirement. The idea is to give 
consumers a lump-sum figure which can be compared directly with their CETV. 
In its transfer analysis Quilter said the TVC was £452,289. This figure is clearly substantially 
above the CETV which was only £274,805 at the time. So, in my view, the TVC provides a 
revealing window into just how much Mr U could be giving up by leaving his DB scheme.
I also considered the critical yield rate. This was also recorded on the transfer analysis. The 
critical yield is the average annual investment return that would be required on the transfer 
value - from the time of advice until retirement - to provide the same benefits as the DB scheme. It too, is therefore part of a range of different things which help show how likely it is 
that a personal pension arrangement could achieve the necessary investment growth for a 
transfer-out to become financially viable. In its transfer analysis Quilter said the critical yield 
required to match Mr Us DB scheme benefits at the normal retirement age (NRA) of 65, was 
15.13% if taking all the benefits in a pension form. If taking a reduced pension and tax-free 
lump-sum, the critical yield was 10.83%
The advice was also given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as 
to how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor. 
In Mr Us case, the relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given was only 3% 
(for a retirement at age 65). This is substantially below the critical yield figures Ive set out 
above and so it implies that exceeding the critical yield was not reasonably achievable. 
Ive also kept in mind that the regulator's upper projection rate was 8%, the middle projection 
rate was 5%, and the lower projection rate was 2%. So again, this implies that exceeding the 
critical yield rate of around 15% was almost certainly not achievable.
I have further considered that Quilter assessed Mr Us ATR as dynamic. However, I think 
Mr Us ATR was categorised much too high by the adviser. Quilter stands by its ATR 
categorisation, it said it followed an industry-wide assessment protocol when assessing his 
ATR, and that given some of the questions about risk Mr U answered, it fails to understand 
what else it could have done. 
However, by Quilters own guidance information, a dynamic investor would need to have 
investment experience and high levels of financial knowledge. They would typically be 
someone who would have used a range of investment products in the past. They would also 
be willing to take risk with most of their available assets. In my view, this was inappropriate 
for Mr U; there was simply no evidence that he had personally used any similar investment 
products in the past, such as money market investment funds. He had no such independent 
investments at that time and Ive seen his small DC pension was most likely an auto-
enrolment scheme where the investments were pre-determined for most members. Ive also 
noted that on the fact-find the adviser themselves noted Mr U was an inexperienced 
investor. So, to be clear, there was no justification for categorising Mr U as a dynamic 
investor.
Whatever questions about theoretical investment risks Mr U answered on a form, the 
advisers job was to assess this and come to a realistic judgement. Mr U had no apparent 
investment experience to call upon when answering these questions. This was also a man 
who had reached the age of 60 and for whatever reason, didnt own a home. His pension 
provisions, although certainly better than some, were projected to pay him a comfortable, but 
not a substantial, annual amount. With this in mind, and with his emergency savings, I think 
Mr Us limited capacity for loss was also something that needed to be borne in mind. Any 
transferred funds would also have much less time to iron out investment peaks and troughs, 
due to Mr Us age. So, I think all this demonstrates a more hands-off approach rather than 
the dynamic criteria the adviser applied - a much lower ATR was warranted in these 
circumstances. 
However, in my view, even this failure if it were put right, wouldnt have made any difference 
to the financial viability of transferring away from his DB scheme. This is because everything Ive said above still shows there was a strong likelihood of Mr U receiving inferior and lower 
overall benefits as a result of leaving the DB scheme anyway. The TVC was showing the 
very high cost of buying what Mr U already enjoyed with his existing DB scheme. The critical 
yields were also substantially above what he could reasonably expect to grow a personal 
pension fund by, especially in a period of sustained lower growth and ultra-low interest rates. 
Ive also considered the financial models put forward by Quilter. These variously set out 
some scenarios that might see Mr U having the annual pension he might need well into his 
retirement years if he transferred to a personal scheme. However, the money ran out in 
these models at various points depending on which one was applied. And these certainly 
didnt compare like-with-like: various assumptions were used and the valuable benefits and 
guarantees were lost to Mr U by transferring away. Alternatively, we know that his DB 
pension would have lasted his whole life.
As Ive said, I think there was every reason to think that Mr U would receive lower overall 
pension benefits when he took retirement as a result of transferring away from the DB 
scheme. There would be little point in transferring if this were the case so I think this should 
have showed that transferring, from a financial perspective, was not right for Mr U. But of 
course, these straightforward financial comparisons arent the full story here. This is because 
Quilters recommendation that he should transfer out to a personal pension wasnt wholly 
based on the growth comparisons with his current scheme alone. Rather, Quilter focussed 
on what it saw were the wider benefits in transferring away from the scheme. These were 
mainly focussed on what Mr Us apparent objectives were. Ive considered these issues 
below. 
Other reasons for transferring
Ive used a combination of what was in Quilters recommendation report in April 2020 and 
the various client information forms it completed about Mr U, to help determine what Quilter 
said were the main objectives for transferring out of the DB scheme. Quilter said the reasons 
for its recommendation to transfer away from his DB pension were as follows: 
Mr U wanted to use part of his CETV as a deposit of approximately £68,000 to 
purchase a new home valued at approximately £240,000.
Mr U wanted to be able to take his pension flexibly, as this was likely to be surplus to 
requirements.
Mr U wanted to ensure that his wife would be fully supported in the event of his death 
and didnt want a high value of his pension funds to be lost.
It therefore seems Quilters recommendation to transfer his DB scheme to a personal plan 
was broadly focused on the flexibility this offered to Mr U. Much of the flexibility referred to 
was based on a combination of him buying a home using the 25% tax-free lump-sum 
allowed and investing the remainder to grow with inflation. 
The case for buying a new home
In making his complaint now, Mr U has said that he had a desire, rather than a need, to buy 
a new home. This is a substantial basis for bringing the complaint  that the transfer just 
wasnt necessary and he didnt buy a home.
I dont think theres any doubt that the subject of using Mr Us pension to fund buying a home 
was discussed. But theres no evidence that this was part of an advanced or formulated 
plan. The suitability report said Mr U planned to go on working until he was aged 70. It said he wanted to buy a home for approximately £240,000 the deposit for which would come from 
transferring his pension and taking an immediate tax-free lump-sum of around £68,000. It 
said Mr U could seek a mortgage with a 10-year term which would mean hed pay it off 
around him fully retiring, at the age of 70. 
However, Ive already made reference to Mr Us overall pension provisions being relatively 
moderate. So, I think it was important here that these funds would be used as efficiently as 
possible. In reality, there was no new home yet identified. And so, the estimate of £240,000 
as a purchase price was, in my view, no more than that. Ive also noted that the amount of 
deposit Mr U apparently wanted to put down for a purchase, coincided almost exactly with 
the maximum allowed from the 25% tax-free lump-sum. 
Because no property had yet even been identified, there was no recording of where the 
property might be located. However, Ive made the assumption that with a dependent child 
still at home, and no mention of him leaving his current job, the new house would be located 
near to where he lived at the time. I think the location is relevant because Mr and Mrs U lived 
in an expensive part of the country and one where I think £240,000 wouldnt have gone very 
far. Against this backdrop then, evidence shows that to afford this, Mr U would need to 
remain fit and able to work in full-time employment until he was at least 70 years old if he 
was to afford to buy a local property. We also know their youngest child was still only 16 
years old, so I think there was a reasonable expectation that the property would need to be 
big enough for at least three people.
Looking at all these facts, I therefore think that any reasonable degree of inquisitiveness 
(from the adviser) would have exposed these aspirations as being somewhat flawed. I say 
this because everything was pointing to the costs of buying a reasonable family home being 
higher than those set out above. And as Ive said, the fact that Mr U was saying he needed 
more or less the exact tax-free lump-sum available for a deposit should have raised an alarm 
that what he was proposing might not be either affordable or realistic.
Of course, its possible that using the whole tax-free lump-sum element might have just 
about supported a purchase of £240,000 when considering all the associated taxes and 
fees. But this left virtually nothing for unforeseen costs. Ive noted the adviser accepted, also 
without further inquiry, that Mr U could access his emergency savings to help with a house 
purchase. I think this too indicated he was coming up short of what was needed to buy a 
family home.
However, not only was there no actual property identified, but there was also no mortgage 
offer in place. Nor was there even a mortgage enquiry for the adviser to refer to, to see if all 
this was reasonable. In fact, I think theres some good evidence recorded in the 
documentation Ive been sent showing that the adviser wasnt entirely comfortable with this 
lack of factual information about buying a house. I say this because they themselves 
remarked about there being no mortgage agreement in principle present. The adviser also 
noted that a mortgage might be declined. And of course, as a consequence of this, the 
pension lump-sum (and therefore the pension transfer) wouldnt be required at all.
So, in my view, the obvious risks here were that the reasons given for transferring away from 
the DB pension  and certainly the viability of the so-called plan to buy a house  were not 
mature reasons to the extent that warranted Mr U leaving his DB scheme. What was actually 
being proposed here was for Mr U to irreversibly leave his DB scheme on the basis of an 
unrealistic financial plan to buy a home, yet to be even identified or properly costed. I think 
its also fair to reiterate that there was likely some complexity around Mr U even getting the 
mortgage suggested. Mr U was approaching his 61st birthday and we know Mrs U didnt 
work. So, I dont think the house purchase plan was properly costed or thought through, 
from a number of perspectives.I do accept Mr and Mrs U may have resented paying monthly rent, rather than having a 
home they owned, as I understand this rent was relatively high. But again, the cost 
demonstrated the expensiveness of the area in which they lived and it should have raised 
concerns from the adviser about buying a family home for a ceiling price of £240,000 with so 
little known about it. The adviser was unable to see any costed plan associated with what Mr 
and Mrs U wanted to do. In this context, the recommendation to transfer away was based on 
incomplete and indeed, unrealistic information. And as far as I know, there was no reason 
why Mr and Mrs U had to buy a property.
In my view, there was an opportunity here for the adviser to challenge Mr U on whether his 
aspirations were even achievable given the financial resources he had at the time. A 
challenge in these circumstances would have been entirely reasonable in attempting to get 
what was best for Mr and Mrs U overall. But the adviser also failed to assess other options; 
mainly ones that might have included remaining in the DB scheme. In short, what happened 
here is that Mr U went to Quilter with some preconceived ideas. Theres no doubt these were 
important to him, but the adviser simply approached this situation with a view to transacting 
what Mr U wanted, rather than providing advice that was in his overall best interests. 
Flexibility
In the suitability report, the adviser said the following about the remaining funds in Mr Us 
pension after hed used the circa £68,000 to help buy a home. 
As you do not require an income from your pensions at this time, you would 
like your pension funds to be invested in a manner which at least keeps pace 
with inflation. You would like to move your final salary scheme to a new 
pension provider, which offers a modern approach and a wide range of funds. 
As Ive said, Mr U wasnt experienced in these matters. Theres certainly no indication that 
he either had the capacity or desire to manage his own funds. So everything Ive seen 
indicated that Mr U would need help managing the £200,000 or so that remained invested 
after the recommended transfer. Theres no indication what the adviser meant by a modern 
approach and in my view this was portraying Mr Us existing scheme in a negative 
dimension. In fact, I think Mr U would have found the size and complexity of the remaining 
funds something he required help with, from a financial adviser. The documents reflect 
discussions about this and the ongoing charges Mr U would have to pay. The costs of the 
Regular Review Service would need to be met by way of a deduction from his overall fund. 
For the services described, an annual fee of 0.75% would be deducted each year. In Mr Us 
case this would amount to over £1,500 a year.
On the other hand, Mr Us existing DB scheme didnt have these same types of charges. I 
think the overall costs of membership of the DB scheme would have been very low and the 
scheme was overseen for him by trustees. I think this more suited Mr Us approach.
I also dont think Mr U required financial flexibility from his retirement funds implied in the 
suitability report. We know, for example that at the age of 65 Mr U would have been able to 
take an estimated lump-sum of around £53,806 from his DB scheme if he wanted. This 
would have enabled an annual pension of £8,070. Alternatively, he could have drawn a full 
pension with no lump-sum. At £11,658 this was close to what Mr U thought he might 
eventually need in retirement and he and Mrs U were evidently due state pensions in their 
mid-60s. 
We also know there was some flexibility to draw benefits from the DB scheme earlier than 
the age of 65. As this would have involved accessing the pension for longer, I do accept the 
benefits would have looked quite different. But, as Ive said, it doesnt look like the alternatives of remaining in the DB scheme were really discussed or analysed. I have looked 
carefully at everything we have from the time of this advice and I dont think this ever came 
into focus; the discussions were simply based on Mr U leaving his DB scheme. 
Death benefits
In this case, its difficult to assess to what extent the death benefits in Mr Us DB scheme 
were discussed. As Ive pointed out, the main rationale for the transfer advice was for Mr U 
to apparently buy a property by accessing his DB tax-free lump-sum once transferred. But 
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. Given what Mr U said about Mrs U not 
having any personal pension of her own and the need for her to have some money passed 
on to her if he died, I think the lump sum death benefits on offer through a personal pension 
were likely made to look like an attractive feature to Mr U. 
However, I think its highly likely the DB schemes death benefits were significantly 
underplayed by the adviser. These were guaranteed and they escalated  they were not 
dependent on investment performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal 
pension was. The death benefits with Mr Us DB scheme were also good and I think would 
have been of great comfort to Mrs U from a financial perspective. If Mr U died either before 
or after accessing the schemes benefits, then Mrs U would have received some financial 
benefits - up to half his pension in retirement, for example. With no personal pension of her 
own, I can see she was five years younger than Mr U. I therefore think these benefits would 
have been of use to her.
Also, the main purpose of a pension is to fund a retirement and there may not have been 
anything left for Mrs U to inherit in a personal plan at all if Mr U transferred out of his DB 
scheme. This would have been particularly true if Mr U went on to live a relatively long life 
and exhausted the funds. 
I cant say the extent to which life insurance was discussed although I see it probably was. 
But basing a quote on a life policy on his whole CETV, assuming Mr U could die soon after 
taking it out, would only have produced a very expensive quote. Its implied that Mr U 
already had some life insurance and as he also had a DC pension scheme which he 
intended to continue contributing towards. Mr U could have nominated his wife as the 
beneficiary of this in the event of his death. If hed predeceased Mrs U relatively early 
therefore, this would have ensured his whole pension funds provisions didnt just die with 
him. In such a scenario, Mrs U would have received different financial benefits, from both a 
DB and DC schemes.
Other issues
Quilter says that close to the culmination of advising him, it sent some information to Mr U 
which required him to confirm his understanding. Quilter says this reply shows he 
understood the advice and accepted the risks. 
Ive considered this issue with care. However, as Ive said, Mr U was not experienced in 
these matters. I think its reasonable to say that he went to Quilter with the expectation that 
hed be correctly advised based on the advisers experience and knowledge. Whether he 
accepted certain risks doesnt change the fact that the adviser specifically and clearly 
recommended that he ought to transfer away from the DB scheme. And as Ive explained, 
that advice was unsuitable and based largely on incomplete information. Quilter has also asked me to consider that several months after transferring, Mr U declared 
that he wanted to cash-in the remainder sums in the new personal pension arrangement. 
This apparently amounted to over £230,000 and Quilter says it demonstrates his dynamic 
ATR and his intention to use all the pension money to purchase a home. 
Again, Ive considered this. But this was after the advice which Quilter provided, to transfer 
away from his DB scheme. It therefore does not change the unsuitability of the original 
advice and in any event, such considerations only became possible as a consequence of 
Quilters unsuitable transfer advice in the first place. If the money hadnt transferred, Mr U 
wouldnt have asked to take it all out.
Quilter recommended that upon transferring his DB pension, Mr U should invest in certain 
funds. As Im upholding his complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme 
wasnt suitable, it follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the investment 
recommendation. This is because Mr U should have been advised to remain in the DB 
scheme and so the investments in the funds wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice had been 
given.
Summary
In this case, Quilters main rationale for recommending that Mr U should transfer away from 
his DB scheme was to buy a property. 
Mr and Mrs U were in rented accommodation and had an aspiration to buy their own home, 
if somewhat relatively late in life. I have no doubt that Mr and Mrs U considered renting to be 
unnecessarily using up their finances every month, and that buying a new home may have 
been something they had genuinely aspired to do for some considerable time. So, when they 
first approached the Quilter adviser, Im sure that using Mr Us pension to achieve their goal 
was high on their agenda.
However, it was Quilter which was the regulated party here. The advisers job wasnt simply 
to transact what Mr U thought he wanted. Their job was to really understand his and Mrs Us 
circumstances and advise what was in their best interests. 
Ultimately, I think the advice was unsuitable. What Quilter advised Mr U to do was to 
irreversibly transfer away from his DB scheme. The plan was to immediately take 25% of his 
funds as a tax-free lump-sum and invest the rest in a fund to grow for the future. However, in 
my view, the ATR applied to Mr U was wrong and the analysis carried out clearly 
demonstrated that Mr U would likely end up with lower pension benefits as a result of 
transferring. I think the adviser failed to properly explain these issues to Mr U and there was 
no case made for transferring based on these financial comparisons alone. In fact, the 
opposite was true and Mr U should have been told this clearly.
As for any other reason for recommending the pension transfer, this was mainly based on 
the sole reason of buying a home. I think this reasoning was also flawed. No home had yet 
even been identified and so the amounts required were all supposition. As Ive explained, Mr 
Us upper affordability limit for buying a property seemed at odds with his and Mrs Us need 
for a family home in an expensive area. In addition to this, no mortgage had been identified 
and no due consideration was given for the potential of a mortgage being declined, or the 
upper affordability limit being too low. 
I also explained, that whilst Mr U had a reasonable amount saved for his retirement, there 
was limited room for manoeuvre when considering buying a home. In my view, these plans 
simply werent thought through and they certainly didnt justify transferring away from Mr Us 
DB scheme, something he wouldnt be able to reverse.Mr Us DB scheme also had good guarantees and good death benefits. In retirement, the DB 
pension was uplifted every year (within certain upper limits). And as Mrs U had no pension of 
her own I think the death benefits would have been of use if Mr U passed away before her. I 
think the adviser underplayed the importance of this and allowed Mr U to think hed be able 
to pass on a large pension fund, tax-free, to his family members if he died. In fact, the 
outcome was always likely to be much more complex than Mr U had been allowed to think 
and in any event, he already was able to pass on certain assets in the event of his death.
I accept Quilter gave Mr U a certain amount of information. The adviser estimated his 
financial needs in retirement and made Mr U aware of the financial benefits and guarantees 
hed be giving up. Nevertheless, the advice was still firmly that he should transfer away. 
Understandably, Mr U relied on that advice, which he was paying a significant amount for. 
There were other things I think the adviser could have discussed. These might have included 
delaying buying a home or using his existing DB scheme to fund it a different way. However, 
its not my role to set out all the potential advice that could have been given here. But I do 
think Quilter ought to have advised him against transferring out of his DB scheme.
 
In light of the above, I think Quilter should compensate Mr U for the unsuitable advice. It 
should use the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr U, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr U would have 
most likely remained in the DB pension scheme if suitable advice had been given. 
Quilter must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
Compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Us 
acceptance of the decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Quilter should:
always calculate and offer Mr U redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr U before starting the redress calculation that:
- the redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pensionoffer to calculate how much of any redress Mr U receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr U accepts Quilters offer to calculate how much of their redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr U for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of their redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Us end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr U as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, Quilter may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to 
take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to Mr Us likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £375,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. 
Where I consider that fair compensation requires payment of an amount that might exceed 
£375,000 I may recommend that the business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and I direct Quilter Financial 
Services Ltd to pay Mr U the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £375,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £375,000, I also recommend that 
Quilter Financial Services Ltd pays Mr U the balance. If Mr U accepts this decision, the 
money award becomes binding on Quilter Financial Services Ltd.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr U can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. 
Mr U may want to consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to 
accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2023.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman