DRN-3928567
The complaint
Mr H seeks to complain about the way in which NewDay Ltd dealt with a claim he has made 
against it in connection with a contract he entered into with a third party B for work carried 
out on his property. NewDay provided credit towards the financing of the work. Mr H is 
assisted in bringing the complaint by a claims management company C.
What happened
In 2013 Mr H was contacted by B in relation to a wall coating product that B said would 
improve the condition of his home. As a result of further discussions, Mr H entered into a 
contract with B to supply and apply the wall coating to his property at a total cost a little over 
£20,000. He paid for the work by different means, including use of a NewDay credit card.
A few years later Mr H began to notice problems with the wall coating, which had started to 
deteriorate. In 2019 he obtained an independent report into the property condition, which 
indicated that the wall coating was not applied correctly and recommended remedial action. 
Its unclear whether he did so in pursuance of a claim he had made to B, who had in any 
event by January 2017 ceased trading. Mr H subsequently instructed C to act on his behalf.
C contacted NewDay in 2021 detailing a claim it was looking to bring against the card 
provider under the connected lender liability provisions of section 75 of the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974 (section 75). Cs letter detailed a number of perceived failings on Bs part for 
which it considered NewDay was liable. In summary, these were:
the work B carried out didnt meet a suitable standard. The wall coating was mis-applied 
leading to problems and property damage
Bs sales representative made misleading and/or false statements that induced Mr H to 
enter into the contract, and failed to assess product suitability for his property
Bs sales practices involved pressurising Mr H into entering into the agreement without 
being afforded the opportunity to read or understand it, and preventing him from making 
an informed decision
C said Mr H had been caused loss due to Bs negligence, misrepresentation and breach of 
regulatory and/or statutory duty, for which it held NewDay responsible pursuant to section 
75. It asked NewDay to reimburse payments made under the credit agreement, to restore Mr 
Hs property to the condition it was in prior to application of the wall coating product, pay 
interest and cover out of pocket costs such as the independent report.
NewDay declined to do so. It took the view that it was not liable to Mr H, on the basis that the 
Limitation Act 1980 afforded a complete defence to the claim due to the time passed since 
the cause for action arose. It also said that the negligence claim fell outside the parameters 
of section 75 as that provided only for claims in misrepresentation or breach of contract.
NewDay acknowledged it had taken some time to provide its response and paid Mr H £45 in 
recognition of this. Responding through C, Mr H was unhappy with NewDays position and 
ultimately, the matter was referred to us for review.
The complaint has been reviewed by two of our investigators, neither of whom considered 
NewDay was acting unreasonably in defending the claim. On behalf of Mr H, C has asked 
for this review, which represents the final stage in our process for dealing with the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I shall deal firstly with the issue of Bs sales practices. Its possible NewDay might have 
responsibility for Bs actions prior to Mr Hs entry into the wall coating contract due to the 
antecedent negotiations provision in section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act (section 56). 
This has the effect that B is deemed to be the agent of NewDay in respect of discussions 
about the wall coating transaction. 
C has said that B used high-pressure sales techniques, saying that Bs representative 
remained at Mr Hs property until he signed the contract and didnt give him the opportunity 
to read and understand it. In her initial assessment our investigator felt this was something 
Mr H ought reasonably to have been aware of at the time he signed up, and that it was 
therefore time-barred under our rules.
C disputed this, suggesting a significantly later point when Mr H started to have concerns 
about the damage to his property. I dont find what C has said to be particularly persuasive in 
terms of the point at which someone in Mr Hs position might reasonably have had cause to 
be unhappy about Bs sales techniques. Someone that was genuinely unhappy about feeling 
pressurised into entering an agreement on the basis of the time the sales representative was 
in their home ought reasonably to have known they were unhappy about that matter at that 
point, and been on notice to make reasonable enquiries about making a complaint.
So under our rules, Mr H would need to have raised that aspect of the complaint with us or 
NewDay by 2019. This didnt happen until 2021, and I see no reason to conclude that there 
were exceptional circumstances at play that explain the failure to comply with that time limit. 
I therefore find that I have no power to deal with those aspects of Mr Hs complaint that 
relate to NewDays responsibility for Bs sales techniques.
I now turn to the matter of the section 75 claim. It's important to note that Im not making a 
finding in respect of NewDays potential liability to Mr H under the various heads of claim that 
have been referenced. Im dealing with a complaint about NewDays handling of the claim 
made to it, not the claim itself.
Im satisfied NewDay understood and had due regard for its obligations under section 75 
when it considered the claim C brought to it on behalf of Mr H. Its response to the claim 
makes that clear. I appreciate that C doesnt agree with the stance NewDay has taken. But 
that isnt in itself indicative that NewDay is acting unfairly in seeking to defend the claim. 
I appreciate the arguments C has made in relation to its claim of negligence and, effectively, 
latent damage; that is, that  for England and Wales  the Limitation Act does not prevent 
such a claim being made within the timescale from when Mr H had the requisite knowledge 
and right to bring such an action. However, as NewDay pointed out, section 75 provides for 
connected lender liability only in cases of breach of contract or misrepresentation. The 
argument has not been made out as to how Mr H might be able to bring a negligence claim 
in tort against NewDay for alleged transgressions by B in applying the wall coating product.
Im conscious our investigation contemplated whether, while defining the claim as one of 
negligence, the claim could also be considered as one of breach of contract. This would be on the grounds that the failings described amount to a failure by B to exercise due skill and 
care, as would have been required under relevant consumer protection legislation applicable 
at the time.
However, that would mean the date of cause for action would have arisen at the point that 
duty to exercise due skill and care was breached, not the point at which it was realised it 
might have been breached. And that means such an argument would thus fall within the 
ambit of the defence NewDay has sought to make.
I can see a similar situation applying to the claim of misrepresentation, whether brought 
against NewDay under the provisions of section 75 or indeed, the antecedent negotiations 
provisions of section 56 of the same Act. The allegations made by C on Mr Hs behalf would 
appear to suggesting negligent misrepresentation by B; that is, that B made statements 
without reasonable belief in their accuracy that induced Mr H to enter into the contract.
Actions founded on tort generally require the claim to be brought within six years of the date 
on which cause for action accrued. In this scenario, that would be 2013, being the point at 
which the representations were made. I dont consider it apparent from the claim description 
that it is founded on any other reason under which a longer limitation period might apply.
That is not to say that Mr Hs claim is bound to fail. Whether the defence NewDay has raised 
would be successful should Mr H pursue the claim through legal proceedings is by no means 
guaranteed. The position here is that Im not persuaded it would be fair for me to say its an 
argument NewDay shouldnt be entitled to make in the event of such proceedings.
If NewDay had failed to have regard for its potential liability, or had put forward an argument 
that clearly has no reasonable prospect of success or is without foundation, I would be 
minded to conclude that it hasnt dealt with the claim properly. Here, I dont consider that to 
be the case. Rather, I find NewDay has received the claim and offered a defence based on 
the facts of the case, as it is entitled to do. I find it has not acted unreasonably by offering 
what might well be a defence to the claim.
I note the argument C has put to us citing a High Court decision1 and the possibility of an 
action arising under s140A to 140C of the Consumer Credit Act. That was not something it 
raised in its claim to NewDay other than in the context of an enquiry as to any commission 
NewDay might have paid B. So I dont find NewDay remiss in not addressing those particular 
points in its response to the claim. It is, of course, open to Mr H to make further arguments to 
NewDay, and for NewDay to respond to them. But it isnt for me to consider them in the 
context of a complaint about how NewDay dealt with the claim Mr H actually made.
Finally, there were acknowledged delays in NewDay providing its response to Mr Hs claim. I 
dont consider they caused material loss or harm to Mr H such that it would be appropriate to 
increase the amount NewDay paid him in compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out here, my final decision is that I dont uphold those aspects of Mr 
Hs complaint that fall within my power to deal with.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2023.
 
1 Patel v Patel [2009] EWHC 3264 (QB)Niall Taylor
Ombudsman