DRN-3708893
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as O, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc declined to provide 
it with a Bounce Back Loan despite initially approving its application and entering into a loan 
agreement. 
Os director, Mr A, brings the complaint on the companys behalf. 
What happened
O banked with HSBC and applied to the bank for a Bounce Back Loan of £50,000 in June 
2020.
HSBC initially approved Os application and it sent the company a loan agreement, which 
Mr A signed and returned on 19 June 2020. 
HSBC didnt provide the loan to O. It reviewed its relationship with the company and its 
Bounce Back Loan application and decided to withdraw its services from O and cancel the 
loan agreement in February 2021.
Mr A doesnt think HSBC has treated O fairly. He says the bank hasnt explained why it 
reneged on the agreement to provide a Bounce Back Loan. He said O relied on that legally-
binding contract and committed funds on the expectation of receiving the loan  so being left 
without it has prejudiced the companys position.
My provisional decision
As my initial conclusions differed from those of our investigator, I sent both parties my 
provisional findings earlier this month and invited them to make any final representations 
before I finalised my decision. I said:
Under the rules of the Bounce Back Loan Scheme, an applicant could borrow up to a 
maximum of 25% of their annual turnover. For businesses established prior to 1 
January 2019  as O was  this percentage was to be based on their turnover for the 
calendar year 2019.
On Os behalf, Mr A applied to HSBC for a loan of £50,000, so the company needed 
to have a turnover of at least £200,000. O signed a declaration confirming that its 
turnover was at the requisite level to be eligible for the £50,000 loan it requested. So 
HSBC approved the application on this basis  with applicants required to self-
declare that they met the eligibility criteria.
Os accounts and tax returns, however, show that the company did not have a 
turnover of this level. Instead, its turnover in the tax year 2019/20 was under 
£10,000. It was not, therefore, eligible for the loan it had requested. 
While the loan was approved  with an agreement having been entered into  this 
had only happened on the basis of the incorrect information that Mr A provided in Os 
application. To process applications quickly, lenders were entitled to rely on an 
applicants self-declaration as to their eligibility. 
The application form that Mr W completed included declarations that set out the 
importance of providing accurate information and the potential consequences of any 
errors in this regard:
I/We recognise that by providing information that is inaccurate in any 
material particular, I/we may be regarded as attempting to gain, or 
gaining, a financial advantage dishonestly and as such will be liable 
to criminal prosecution for fraud  as well as to the forfeiture of all 
loan proceeds 
It was not, therefore, an error on HSBCs part that the loan agreement was entered 
into initially.
The bank was entitled to keep things under review and reserved the right not to 
provide the loan and/or to terminate the agreement in certain circumstances. Of 
relevance here, it was explained within the loan agreement that HSBC would only 
allow O to draw down the loan if no Event of Default is continuing or would result 
from the making of the Loan. Such events of default included:
any of the representations and warranties you make to us under 
this Agreement is or becomes materially misleading or incorrect.
That was the case here. Os representation of its turnover was significantly different 
from the true position, such that the company didnt meet the eligibility requirements 
under the Bounce Back Loan Scheme rules. That was grounds for HSBC to decline 
to provide the loan  with an event of default entitling the bank to cancel the facility 
without further obligations to O. 
It follows that I dont think HSBC did anything wrong in declining to provide O with a 
Bounce Back Loan, despite an initial agreement being in place. And I dont think the 
bank is responsible for any losses that the company may have incurred in reliance on 
that agreement, as it was only entered into on the basis of a misrepresentation on 
Os part. Ive also noted that it took HSBC some time to confirm the position to O, but 
given all Ive said above I dont think that any compensation is warranted in the 
circumstances.
Neither party responded with any further comment or information.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and in the absence of any new information or evidence for me to take into 
account, Ive not seen reason to depart from my provisional decision. So this final decision 
simply confirms my provisional findings, as set out above.
My final decision
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman