DRN-2860072
The complaint
Mr B complains that Curve OS Limited trading as Curve has unfairly applied fees to
payments he makes whilst abroad.  
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. In my provisional decision I said: 
Mr B pays a monthly subscription to Curve to use its Metal service. The service allows
customers to withdraw up to £600 a month fee free at cash machines as well as providing
other benefits like mobile phone insurance.
Mr B says that, over a long period, Curve has unfairly applied a £2 fee to transactions. Mr B
also says some of the associated benefits that come with his Metal membership arent
suitable.
Mr B has told us the situation has impacted him further whilst hes been abroad during the
pandemic. Mr B complained and Curve responded on 11 November 2020. Curve said
customers can spend up to £60,000 while abroad without paying a foreign exchange fee and
£600 a month at cash machines. Curve explained the limits are calculated on a rolling 30
day period, not per calendar month. After the £600 limit is reached in a 30 day period, Curve
applies a 2% or £2 fee. Curve also said there were features available in its app to help
monitor the account and ongoing spending. Whilst Curve didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint, it
said he could use the service free for the next three months.
Mr B referred his complaint to this service and sent in screenshots he says shows a £2
hidden fee was often applied by Curve. Curve sent us its case file and has told us the
charges applied are in line with the account terms. But Curve has also confirmed there was
an error with its app that meant the exchange rate displayed made it appear as if a £2
charge had been added to some transactions.
An investigator looked at Mr Bs complaint but felt Curve had dealt with it fairly. Mr B asked
to appeal, so his complaint was passed to me to make a decision. I recently asked Curve to
send me additional systems information to show the charges it has applied were correct.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mr B has spent a lot of time putting together the information provided in support of
his complaint. And I agree that many of the screen prints hes sent show a difference in the
exchange rate quoted and the overall amount charged. Generally, that amounts to £2, which
is the same as Curve charges for ATM withdrawals when the £600 rolling 30 day limit has
been exceeded. Having considered all the information available, I have some sympathy for
Mr B and can understand why hes asked Curve to look into things.
Curve says there are two separate issues at play here. Firstly, Curve has referred to a
display issue that has impacted Mr Bs mobile app and made it appear as if hes been
charged £2 when making a withdrawal in certain circumstances. Curve says that error only
relates to the exchange rate it quotes in the app and doesnt actually mean Mr B was
overcharged. Curve also says the separate £2 charge it applies when customers go over the
£600 cash limit in a 30 day rolling period has been correctly applied.
I recently asked Curve to send evidence to show the fees it has charged Mr B. Curve has
sent sample information that shows Mr B has only been charged a £2 fee when hes made
more than £600 of withdrawals in a rolling 30 day period. For instance, between 30
September 2020 and 9 October 2020 Mr B withdrew a total of £528.81 across five separate
withdrawals without being charged. But, when Mr B withdrew a further £105.64 on 16
October 2020 it took his rolling 30 day total over the £600 limit which meant he was charged
£2. Having considered the available information, I think the charges for exceeding the £600
limit on cash withdrawals have been correctly applied.
However, I can see the display issue Curve has mentioned has impacted the information Mr
B is given about his transactions over a reasonably long period. And its clear Mr B remains
unsure why the exchange rates given on his transaction confirmations appear to include an
additional £2 fee. Curve says the issue relates to an error on its mobile app Mr B uses and
initially told us it had been fixed in June or July 2020. But Mr B has forwarded further
transactions from after that date that appear to show the display issue continued to affect the
information hes been given.
I can see Curve has told Mr B that there was a problem with the exchange rate quoted in his
app, but I think it shouldve made it clear how the issue was impacting the information he
received. In March 2021 Curve explained that the error with its app was due to be updated
and fixed. So hopefully the exchange rate now quoted when Mr B uses the service wont
show any further fees of £2 built in. But the information available shows the display issue
has caused a substantial level of confusion for Mr B which has led to him querying many of
his transactions with Curve at some inconvenience. Its also appears that despite earlier
attempts to fix the issue, Curves app remained affected until at least March 2021.
So whilst I havent found evidence that Mr B was overcharged by Curve, I do think it should
pay him a settlement to recognise the trouble and upset caused by the incorrect information
provided by its app. Curve waived three monthly subscriptions, but Im not persuaded that
fairly reflects the impact of its error or the amount of time Mr B has spent trying to
understand whats happened. As a result, I intend to uphold Mr Bs complaint and tell Curve
to pay him a further £150. In my view, that figure more reflects the length of time the issues
have gone on for and the level of inconvenience caused to Mr B. 
I asked both parties to respond with any additional comments or points they wanted me to 
consider before I made my final decision. Mr B responded and confirmed he would accept 
the settlement. Mr B also confirmed hes still abroad and has recently carried out an ATM 
withdrawal that doesnt include a £2 fee. Curve responded and said it had focused on the 
fees Mr B complained about rather than the exchange rate issue. Curve said, on receipt of 
the provisional decision, it looked back at the issues Mr B raised and provided evidence of 
three occasions where it told him how to calculate the correct exchange rate. Curves 
response says it feels it made Mr B aware of the display issue. Curve didnt agree with the 
settlement noted in my provisional decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank both Mr B and Curve for responding to my provisional decision. Im pleased 
Mr B was willing to accept. Curves response said it told Mr B about the display issues 
impacting his exchange rate on several occasions and forwarded online communications to 
support that. 
Whilst I can see that, at the beginning of June 2020, Curve told Mr B it was experiencing 
display issues, it didnt explain what they were. Mr B was complaining about the application 
of £2 charges that he mistakenly thought were due going over his fee free withdrawal limit. 
Given the exchange rate display issue led to a £2 charge that matched the ATM withdrawal 
fee I think Curve shouldve gone further in explaining how the matter was impacting Mr Bs 
transactions. 
I also think its reasonable to note that the issues went on for a significant period of time and, 
as I said in my provisional decision, were still ongoing as late as March 2021. Mr B says the 
display issue now appears to have been resolved. But given the length of time the display 
issue went on for and nature of Mr Bs communication with Curve, I can see it has caused a 
reasonable level of trouble and upset. 
Ive considered all the information on file as well as both responses to my provisional 
decision. I still think the ATM charges were correctly applied and the differences Mr B raised 
were due to the display issue. But I havent found Curve clearly told Mr B why he appeared 
to have been charged the wrong amount or that the issue was resolved in a reasonable level 
of time. For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, I still think Mr Bs 
complaint should be upheld and that Curve should pay him an additional £150 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused.
    
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Curve OS Limited trading as Curve to 
pay Mr B an additional £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman