DRN-1161852
 
The complaint
Mr R complains PayPal Europe Sarl & Cie, SCA (PayPal) haven't refunded a 
purchase he made after the goods were not received. 
What happened
Mr R placed an online order for goods with a third party seller on 16 May 2019 and paid 
using PayPal.
Mr R says he didn't receive the goods, as they were delivered to the wrong address - so he 
raised a refund request through Paypal. 
Paypal looked into the request but didn't agree to refund Mr R. It said it had seen information 
that showed the goods had been delivered - so it declined the request. It also didn't find Mr 
R had supplied evidence to show it had been delivered to the wrong address. 
As Mr R remained unhappy, he brought a complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and thought it should be upheld. The investigator 
said that Mr R had supplied evidence that the goods had been delivered to the wrong 
address. So she thought Paypal should refund Mr R through his buyer protection.
Paypal responded to the view and said it had not seen any evidence the goods were sent to 
the wrong address, and asked for an ombudsman's decision - so the complaints been 
passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R has provided information from the point of purchase, to show that he gave the correct 
address to the seller. He has also gone on to evidence through the postal service, that his 
goods were delivered to an incorrect address. So on this basis I'm satisfied he didn't receive 
what he paid for and would be covered under the buyer protection cover he has when using 
Paypal.
It appears Paypal have relied solely on the tracking information, which shows the goods 
were delivered, without obtaining information on what address they were delivered to. 
I can also see that following the investigators view, Paypal didn't ask for any additional 
information to review its decision, which I think would have been the fair thing to do in these 
circumstances. 
Based on the information I've seen from both Mr R and Paypal, I find the fair thing to do here 
is refund Mr R the £22.78 through the buyer protection policy.Putting things right
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and instruct PayPal Europe Sarl & Cie, 
SCA to refund £22.78.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2020.
 
 
 
Tom Wagstaff
Ombudsman