DRN-3255501
The complaint
Mr P complains that Santander UK Plc rejected his claim under s 75 Consumer Credit Act 
1974 in respect of a faulty kitchen.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons: 
This complaint has been submitted as a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974. Section 75 offers protection to customers who use certain types of credit to make 
purchases of goods or services. Under section 75 the consumer has an equal right to claim 
against the provider of the credit or the retailer providing the goods or services if there has 
been a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the suppliers part.
For section 75 to apply, the law effectively says that there has to be a:
Debtor-creditor-supplier (d-c-s) chain to an agreement and
A clear breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier in the chain.
I do not consider there is a valid d-c-s relationship that would allow me to fairly and 
reasonably say that I think this complaint should succeed.
Mr P engaged a builder I will call B to fit a new kitchen. He chose the kitchen cupboards etc. 
from a company I will call H. Mr P engaged with H and made many, if not all, of the 
arrangements in terms of measuring and selection of the specific items. However, H supplies 
to the trade and while payment was made by Mr P the contract for supply of the kitchen was 
made between H and B. As such B become part of the chain and this breaks the required d-
c-s chain.
The invoice shows the payment was made on behalf of B and although the money came 
from Mr P it was not made on his behalf, but for B. It is in effect a payment for a debt owned 
by B.
B is not an associate of H, nor is it an associate of Mr P as set down in s 184 Consumer 
Credit Act and so I must treat them as separate persons/entities. Mr P didnt have a contract 
with H, but rather it lay between B and H. I appreciate this is a fine distinction, but I cannot 
require Santander to make a payment under s 75 unless it is legally obliged to do so.
Mr P has suggested that the decision in the case of Office of Fair Trading v Lloyds & ors 
[2006] EWCA Civ 268 supports his arguments. I can see why he has looked to that case for 
aid, but I do not consider it is of assistance. This addressed the matter of merchant acquirers 
and payments made on credit cards overseas. 
It was argued that the original legislation was introduced when merchant acquirers were an 
unknown entity. There use within the banking system increased over the years and their 
introduction into the chain behind the scenes had been seen by some banks as breaking the 
d-c-s chain. However, the court concluded that the introduction of a fourth party within the 
banking network didnt break the d-c-s chain.
Mr Ps situation is somewhat different. He engaged a builder and the builder entered into a 
contract with H for the supply of the kitchen. This was not something behind the scenes as 
far as Mr P was concerned, it was something he was party to. Although he paid for the 
kitchen his contract was with B and he had no contract with H. This means that the 
protections offered by s 75 are not available to Mr P. I have every sympathy with Mr P and 
the situation in which he finds himself but I am unable to uphold his complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman