DRN-2757044
The complaint
Mr B complains about the way Chubb European Group SE settled a personal accident claim 
he made under his employers personal accident insurance policy.
Chubb didnt underwrite the policy at the time of Mr Bs claim. But as its now responsible for 
the complaint, for ease, Ive referred to Chubb throughout.
What happened
Mr B has personal accident insurance as a benefit of his employment. His policy ran from 1 
April 2006 until 31 March 2007. 
On 16 February 2007, Mr B unfortunately had an accident and injured his wrist. After he was 
given advice by his employer, he made a claim under the Temporary Total Disablement 
(TTD) benefit section of the policy. Chubb accepted the claim and paid Mr B £381 under the 
TTD section of the policy. The policy renewed on 1 April 2007, at which point, a new benefit, 
Permanent Disabling Injuries (PDI), which included a sliding scale of benefits, was added to 
the contract. In May 2007, Mr B underwent wrist fusion surgery. He didnt make a claim for 
total loss of use of his wrist, as he said he could still use it, albeit in a fused state.
Several years later, in 2019, Mr B learned about the PDI sliding scale benefit. He felt his 
claim shouldve been assessed under this section of the policy, given the renewal of the 
contract on 1 April 2007. Chubb disagreed though. It said that at the time of Mr Bs accident, 
the policy in force didnt include PDI benefit cover. It told Mr B that the 2006-07 terms 
applied to his claim.
Mr B didnt think Chubbs position was fair and so he asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Bs complaint should be upheld. She acknowledged that PDI 
benefit had been added to Mr Bs policy at the 2007-08 renewal and that his final diagnosis 
had been determined during that period of cover. However, she concluded it was fair and 
reasonable for Chubb to apply the policy terms which were in force at the time of Mr Bs 
accident to his claim. So she didnt think it needed to assess a claim for PDI benefit.
Mr B disagreed. He didnt think Chubb had taken a fair approach. He considered a 
reasonable and fair-minded person would consider his wrist injury should qualify for benefit 
under the 2007-08 policy. Thats because he was paying for it at the time the accident event 
concluded. He felt certain that insurers gratefully accepted increasing payments from 
customers when new terms are being negotiated on continuing contracts. As the effects of 
his injury continued from one policy year to the next, he felt Chubb should extend the 
benefits. He also noted that the policy schedule post-dated the renewal date.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr B, I dont think Chubb needs to pay him 
anything more. Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive carefully considered, amongst other 
things, the applicable policy terms and the circumstances of Mr Bs claim to decide whether 
Chubb handled Mr Bs claim fairly.
Theres no dispute that Mr B suffered his accident in February 2007. Ive seen the applicable 
claim form which was sent to Chubb at this point. As Mr Bs policy year ran from 1 April 2006 
until 31 March 2007, I think it was appropriate and reasonable for Chubb to consider the 
claim under the relevant terms applicable to that period. So Ive looked carefully at the cover 
Mr Bs policy provided at this point, as thats the basis on which Chubb had agreed to offer 
cover to Mr Bs employer. The schedule and the contract terms say that Chubb would pay 
for Temporary Total Disablement, with a total benefit period of 104 weeks at an amount of 
£21 per week.
Chubb paid Mr B a total of £381 under the TTD benefit, which suggests it was being paid for 
just over 18 weeks. Having looked at the schedule and the contract terms, its clear that the 
PDI sliding scale benefit simply wasnt something Chubb had agreed to offer Mr Bs 
employer during the 2006-2007 policy year. On this basis then, it seems its settlement for 
TTD benefit was broadly fair.
Its also clear that Mr Bs employer renewed its policy with Chubb on 1 April 2007. At this 
point, Chubb decided to offer PDI sliding scale benefit for future claims made following 
accidents which happened during that particular period of insurance. While I appreciate Mr B 
considers his policy ran continuously between the 2006-07 policy year and the next, I dont 
agree. Thats because at each renewal, a new contract of insurance is formed. At that point, 
an insurers entitled to decide if it still wishes to offer cover and if so, on what terms. The fact 
that Chubb decided to offer enhanced PDI benefits at the 2007-08 renewal doesnt mean 
that its required to retrospectively apply these benefits to events which happened during 
previous policy years and during previous periods of insurance. 
I appreciate how strongly Mr B feels about this issue. I understand he feels it was unfair for 
Chubb to limit its consideration of the claim to the terms which applied at the time of the 
accident, rather than the renewal terms which applied once the overall impact of his injuries 
were diagnosed. But while I sympathise with Mr Bs position, because I appreciate hes 
suffered a painful injury, I simply dont think it would be reasonable for me to direct Chubb to 
assess Mr Bs claim retrospectively using a contract which it hadnt offered at the time of the 
accident. So Im not telling it to do anything more.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman