DRN-2944767
The complaint
Mr O and Miss Y complain that Nationwide Building Society recorded incorrect adverse 
information on a credit file that resulted in a property purchase falling through.
What happened
Mr O and Miss Y say they were in the process of buying a property, but it fell through when 
adverse information was recorded on a credit file. They say by that point they had incurred 
costs totalling just under £1,000 and were forced to take a new mortgage which incurred a 
fee of £999. Mr O and Miss Y would like their costs refunded, the fee refunded and 
compensation for what took place.
Nationwide accepts it made a mistake and has apologised. It accepts the adverse 
information it reported was the only adverse information on the credit file. Nationwide has 
agreed to refund the costs of £969.04 and has paid £200 compensation but says it was Mr O 
and Miss Ys choice to take out the mortgage they did which incurred the fee.
Mr O and Miss Y brought their complaint to us and our investigator upheld it in part. The 
investigator thought Nationwide had fairly offered to pay for the costs involved but thought it 
Mr O and Miss Ys choice to move onto the new mortgage which resulted in the fee. The 
investigator didnt think Nationwide had paid any compensation and recommended it pay 
£200.
Nationwide says it did pay the £200 compensation in 2019.
Mr O and Miss Y maintain that Nationwides mistake led to them taking out the mortgage 
which cost them £999. They would like that fee paid by Nationwide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to a slightly different decision to that reached by the 
investigator, but I dont think it requires a provisional decision as both parties disagreed with 
the investigators view. And I think it unlikely based on Nationwides response that it would 
have agreed to increase the compensation offer and no doubt maintained the £200 it paid 
was appropriate.
There is no doubt here that Nationwide made a mistake that resulted in a property purchase 
falling through. I have no doubt Mr O and Miss Y were caused a significant level of distress 
and inconvenience and that its clear they had paid for various surveys and reports on the 
new property.
Im satisfied that Nationwide has acted fairly in offering to repay those costs which I can see 
amount to £969.04.
The key issue here is the level of compensation and the mortgage fee. I accept Nationwide 
has paid £200 compensation, but I dont think amount goes far enough or reflect the impact 
of its mistake on Mr O and Miss Y. I think that Nationwide should pay a further £200 
compensation making a total of £400 which I think is fair and reasonable and takes into 
account that its mistake resulted in a property purchase falling through.
Im satisfied that it was Mr O and Miss Ys decision to take out the mortgage with a £999 fee 
and I dont think that is something I can fairly hold Nationwide responsible for. I think that 
was Mr O and Miss Ys decision and I cant be sure that was the only option available to 
them or that their mortgage broker advised them to take it.
Overall, I intend to uphold this complaint in part, but I make it clear that if Mr O and Miss Y 
decide to accept my decision then that will bring an end to this complaint.
Putting things right
I intend to order Nationwide to pay a further £200 compensation and pay £969.04 as it 
previously agreed to do for the purchase costs.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and order Nationwide Building Society 
to pay Mr O and Miss Y a further £200 compensation and pay them £969.04 for their 
expenses.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O and Miss Y 
to accept or reject my decision before 27 October 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman