DRN-1741496
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy with the way Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) has handled his loan 
account. 
What happened
Mr Gs complaint is that:
1. Halifax havent provided him with statements for his personal loan account
2. Halifax charged him more than they should have on his loan therefore meaning his 
balance was incorrect
3. Mr Gs unhappy with Halifaxs actions when transferring his debt for his personal loan 
over to a debt collector
4. Halifax didnt give him the opportunity to sort out the loan as he was in financial 
difficulties.
5. He believes the bank went behind his back by passing his debt over to a debt 
collection agent  and because his debt is with Halifax, it should stay with them.
6. Mr G doesnt accept the debt should still be outstanding and thinks Halifax should 
write it off.
Our investigator initially said we couldnt look at Mr Gs complaint because hed brought it to 
us more than six months since the date of Halifaxs final response letter. As Mr G was 
unhappy with this, his complaint was passed to an ombudsman. 
The ombudsman issued a decision and explained we couldnt look at the complaint points 
addressed in Halifaxs first final response letter (points one to three) as Mr G had bought the 
complaint too late. However, the ombudsman said we could look at the issues addressed in 
Halifaxs second final response letter (points four to six) as Mr G did refer that complaint to 
us in time.
Our investigator considered the points in Halifaxs second final response letter and she didnt 
uphold the complaint. 
She considered the issues raised, but as Mr G didnt make payments she thought it was fair 
a default notice was issued  and that Halifax had treated him fairly in doing so. The terms 
and conditions allowed Halifax to pass the debt over to an agency, and she didnt think it 
was fair for the debt to be written off because Halifax hadnt done anything wrong.
Mr G didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive outlined above, I wont be revisiting the parts of the complaint we cant look at  an 
ombudsman has already explained this. So my decision will be focusing on points four to six 
only.
Mr Gs financial difficulties 
Having looked at the loan payment history, I can see the last payment Mr G made was in 
February 2017. I can see Halifax got in touch with Mr G several times to discuss his account 
further but he advised on several occasions he would be getting paid soon. 
As no payments were made to the account, a default notice was sent on 19 May 2017 which 
gave Mr G additional time to bring the account back into order. This letter also explained if 
he failed to bring his account up to date, further action would be taken. I dont think this was 
an unreasonable course of action at this point  as Mr G had been telling Halifax hed make 
payments, but hadnt.
On 22 May 2017 Mr G spoke to Halifax and an income and expenditure review was carried 
out. In order to try and assist Mr G, Halifax offered a repayment plan, but Mr G declined this. 
He said he wasnt in financial difficulties and was up to date with other bills and creditors. He 
also said he would be getting paid soon and would be able to make future payments on his 
loan. Whilst Halifax were waiting to hear back from Mr G, they agreed not to make any 
outbound calls to him chasing the debt for 30 days while they awaited his proposals. Given 
the information they had from Mr G at this time, I think that was a reasonable action for 
Halifax to take.
As no further payments were received in the 30 days, a formal demand was issued in June 
2017 and the account was subsequently passed to Halifaxs recoveries department. I can 
see a further conversation took place around this time and Mr G explained he was waiting to 
receive funds. 
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied Halifax did try to assist Mr G with his loan on 
several occasions when he was in financial difficulties. And I think he was given the 
opportunity to correct his account before a default was applied. But as Mr G didnt make any 
payments for several months, despite being given opportunities to do so, I dont think Halifax 
acted unfairly in applying a default. 
Passing the account to a debt collection agency
Mr G is also unhappy that his loan account was passed to a debt collection agency. Having 
looked at the terms of his loan agreement, these do allow Halifax to transfer their rights to 
any person or business. And considering Mr G was not making payments to his loan, I do 
not think it was unreasonable of Halifax to pass the debt to a debt collection agency. 
Whilst I understand Mr G wants the debt to stay with Halifax, for the reasons Ive explained 
above I wont be asking Halifax to take the debt back. 
Writing off the debt
Mr G has asked for Halifax to write off the debt. But I dont think it would be fair for me to ask 
Halifax to do this. I say this because this is a debt that Mr G owes and has had the benefit of 
the funds. I would encourage Mr G to speak to the debt collection agency if he hasnt already 
done so to agree a way forward.
My final decisionIt follows that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 September 2020.
 
Marie Camenzuli
Ombudsman