DRN-3079960
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy with how Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard (Barclaycard) 
dealt with a credit card application he made. 
 
What happened
Mr C applied for a Barclaycard with help from a member of the banks staff. Unfortunately, 
the incorrect application was submitted by the staff member and Mr C was told to make a 
further application. He was assured records of this application would be deleted. 
For ease here I will refer to and treat the further application as if it was the original one.
Mr C made a further application, again with the help of branch staff, which was initially 
approved however he was then blocked from making any transactions on the account. Mr C 
was unhappy about this and complained to Barclaycard. Barclaycard initially told Mr C that 
his card had been stopped due to his spending habits and payment history however this was 
incorrect.
Barclaycard looked at Mr Cs complaint but didnt think it had done anything wrong. It 
explained the application was subject to further checks and it was identified as one which fell 
outside the eligibility requirements for the card. Barclaycard did identify it could have 
provided better service to Mr C and offered £100 compensation. Mr C was unhappy with this 
and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator looked at the complaint but explained to Mr C he didnt think Barclaycard 
had done anything wrong. It had correctly followed its policies and procedures and was 
entitled to close Mr Cs account.
Mr C asked for the case to be looked at by an ombudsman.
Further developments
I initially looked at this complaint briefly and let both parties know I thought Barclaycard could 
have done more to confirm Mr Cs details at the time of the application before closing the 
account. And, had it of done so, I thought it mightve been possible the closure of the 
account may have been avoided. I recommended that should Mr C wish to submit a new 
application; Barclaycard should consider it without the previous application influencing the 
lending decision. I also suggested Barclaycard should pay Mr C £250 compensation.
Barclaycard agreed with my recommendation. Mr C said he would have liked a higher 
amount of compensation, but he accepted it was a practical solution to bring the complaint to 
a close. However, he said that he would like his application to be considered before agreeing 
to the settlement.
Mr C subsequently raised concerns about the impact on his credit file should any new 
application now be declined based on any new lending criteria Barclaycard has  given the 
initial application was accepted originally. He said that the Covid-19 pandemic had impacted 
his business and his finances. He mentioned he had to take out an overdraft with another 
bank and he is worried about the impact his situation now will have on any decision to 
approve the credit card. Mr C also explained that not having a line of credit available to him 
during the pandemic was inconvenient and feels this should be taken into account.
Mr C also raised a concern about how his data was being used by Barclaycard, given 
information he was able to obtain from it recently.
Mr C has since made an application for a new credit card to Barclaycard which is currently 
being considered but may take some time. 
My provisional findings 
I issued my provisional findings on this complaint on 15 September 2021. I said I intended to 
uphold the complaint, for the following reasons:
Given Mr C has now submitted a new credit card application to be reviewed, I dont intend to 
make any further recommendation in respect of this. Except to remind Barclaycard it should 
be reviewed without the previous application influencing the lending decision.
Should further problems arise out of this application or Mr C remains unhappy with any 
decision that is made, he would be entitled to raise this as a new complaint with Barclaycard.
The only outstanding issue is that of compensation and whether the £250 adequately 
reflects the trouble and upset Mr C has been caused.
Due to Mr Cs circumstances, I do recognise the status of his credit file is important to him 
and any negative information could have a quite wide-ranging impact. I do understand 
therefore why he was very concerned about how the previous application may have 
impacted him and of course his worry about the unknown impact of any new decision 
Barclaycard might make.
Barclaycard has confirmed it hasnt reported any negative information to Mr Cs credit file, so 
this concern appears to be resolved. However, I do accept any new application may impact 
Mr Cs credit file, depending on the decision made. This is something that cant be 
accounted for at this current time, but I think it is the same risk Mr C would have to take 
should he apply for credit anywhere else.
I do however recognise that Mr C was given incorrect information by Barclaycard about his 
initial application and that what has happened since will have had an impact on him.
The Covid-19 pandemic has impacted everyone to different degrees, and I was sorry to hear 
of how Mr C has been impacted personally. However, I must concentrate on how 
Barclaycards error in this case has added to this. Mr C has said he had to apply for an 
overdraft elsewhere and he could have made different financial decisions had he had the 
credit card available to him. I accept this would have been the case, but I am mindful that 
potentially that impact may have been minimal given the credit limit that was available on the 
card.
Overall having considered everything in detail, the fact this is the third application Mr C is 
having to make, that Barclaycard provided incorrect information to him and taking into 
account what Mr C has said about how the whole matter has impacted him, Im now minded 
recommend Mr C is paid £350 compensation. I think this sum fairly represents the trouble 
and upset Mr C was caused due to the way in which his application was handled.Mr C has mentioned he has concerns about how Barclaycard has handled his personal data.
This isnt something I would be able to look into. Mr C would need to raise any concerns in 
this respect to the Information Commissioners Office.
My provisional findings 
I intend to uphold Mr Cs complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard
and direct it to do the following:
consider Mr Cs new credit card application without the previous application 
influencing the lending decision
pay Mr C £350 compensation. 
Responses to my provisional decision 
Barclaycard didnt respond to my provisional decision.
Mr C responded in detail explaining why he was unhappy with it. I wont detail the response 
in full here, but I can assure Mr C Ive considered carefully everything he has written. In 
summary Mr C said:
He feels my decision should be worded more strongly and more forceful action 
should be taken as Barclaycard has done something wrong
He doesnt agree £350 fully reflects the gravity of the troubles, inconveniences and 
distress the situation has caused him. As well as the harm he was caused, the time 
he had to take dealing with the complaint and the responsibilities and attitude of 
Barclaycard
He believes the compensation awarded should be more in the area of thousands of 
pounds
He was denied the opportunity to use the spending and budgeting benefits a credit 
card brings, instead he was forced into using overdrafts at higher interest rates
My decision didnt consider the fact Barclaycard had kept the credit card account 
open longer than it had originally stated, meaning it wasnt acting in good faith
The matter still has not been settled and my decision should reflect the obstructive, 
reckless and unfair behaviour of Barclaycard. My decision should take this into 
account, unwind the application that has now been made and uphold the complaint in 
full instructing the original account and card to be reinstated.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The role of this service isnt to make punitive awards and unlike a court, our awards of 
compensation are relatively modest in comparison. I understand Mr C feels very strongly 
about what has happened and I appreciate why he considers I should award a significant 
amount of compensation. However, having reviewed everything available to me, Im satisfied 
the award I made in my provisional decision is fair and reasonable for the reasoning I set 
out. 
I understand what Mr C has explained about his occupation and the time this matter has 
taken him to sort out. However we wouldnt usually look to award compensation for having to 
complain or would we look to do this at a daily occupational rate. This is one of lifes 
inconveniences, and in any event, the matter of complaint handling itself isnt something that falls within the remit of this service. I do appreciate however this has added to the frustration 
Mr C has felt.
My remit is limited to reviewing the position of the complaint at the time Barclaycard issued 
its final response. My thoughts were and remain to be that to resolve the complaint made, it 
would be fair and reasonable for a further credit card application to be considered, which 
something both parties agreed to. 
As such, the result of any such further application or any disagreement which occurs after 
that, falls outside of my remit in respect of this decision and would need to be subject to a 
further complaint.  I appreciate Mr C disagrees with this approach however as the role of this 
service is an informal one, there are limits to how far we can consider each complaint, even 
if the matter continues to evolve. I am satisfied on the basis of this information provided to 
me, that it is not possible for Barclaycard to reactivate the previous account and as such, the 
only option, should Mr C still have wanted the credit facility was to make a further 
application.
Overall, having reconsidered everything and the further submissions Mr C has made, Im not 
minded to alter my provisional decision.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Cs complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as 
Barclaycard and I direct it to do the following:
consider Mr Cs new credit card application without the previous application 
influencing the lending decision
pay Mr C £350 compensation
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman