DRN-4249382
The complaint
Mr P complains about the way Revolut Ltd handled his claim for reward payments under its 
Refer a Friend scheme.
What happened
In April 2023 Revolut started a new Refer a Friend campaign, which offered a reward of £70 
for each person referred. Mr P decided to refer eight friends and he received a reward for the 
first five friends he referred. But he was disappointed when Revolut said hed received the 
maximum reward under the scheme and he wasnt entitled to any more. Mr P believed hed 
lost out on £210 so he complained.
Revolut said Mr P was able to refer any number of people but once he received five rewards 
for five successful invitees during one campaign cycle, the campaign would automatically 
stop. It said this information was contained in its app, on its help page and in the terms and 
conditions of the promotion. Although it didnt uphold his complaint, Revolut decided to pay 
Mr P £50 as a gesture to thank him for contributing to the growth of its community. Mr P 
wasnt happy so brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She didnt think Revolut had made an error and 
thought it had a right to rely on its terms and conditions. 
As Mr P didnt agree, his complaint has been forwarded to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P doesnt think Revolut made it sufficiently clear he would only be entitled to a maximum 
of five rewards despite the number of referrals he made. So, Ive looked at the information 
Revolut made available to its customers about the promotion. That included an email it says 
it sent to Mr P that explained how the promotion would work. The email explains how to 
invite friends and notes that You can refer up to 5 friends. And at the bottom it says Revolut 
would reward Mr P with £70 for each friend that meets the criteria above, up to 5 sign-ups.
The above email also included a link to the terms and conditions for the promotion. One of 
those terms is that the maximum number of people who can be referred is five. And if more 
than five people are referred, the person making the referrals would not be paid more than 
five rewards. 
Mr P says hes never seen either of the above documents and he couldnt remember seeing 
anything about there being a limit on the number of rewards he could receive. But from the 
information Ive seen, and in the absence of any contrary evidence, Im satisfied the 
information Revolut made available to its customers did include reference to receiving a 
maximum of five rewards. 
I acknowledge Mr Ps strength of feeling on this matter. He said he feels as though Revolut 
has been misleading and has taken advantage of him as hes referred eight people but hes 
only been rewarded for five of them. But, from the information Ive seen, I think Revolut 
made it sufficiently clear in the terms and conditions and other promotion material that Mr P 
would only be entitled to five rewards despite the number of referrals he made. So, I dont 
think Revolut has treated him unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2023.
 
Richard Walker
Ombudsman