DRN-3680887
The complaint
Mr C complains that Acasta Europe Limited refused to carry out satisfactory repairs through 
his furniture insurance policy.
What happened
Mr Cs sofa suffered some damage after an accidental spill. He had an extended furniture 
warranty so Acasta arranged for a repair to an arm pad cover. But it said additional damage 
to other areas of the chair werent covered by the warranty. 
Mr C said the arm pad recolouring had started to fade but Acasta had refused to carry out 
another repair. And Mr C felt Acasta should provide a replacement chair because of its poor 
service and the inconvenience and upset hed suffered. 
Acasta apologised for the problems Mr C had experienced. The technicians report had 
shown colour loss to the chair arm, seat and back rest. But the report said itd been caused 
by an accumulation from hair and skin oils rather than accidental damage. 
Acasta said itd agreed to repair the damage to the chair arm because thered been a spill. 
But Mr C said the repairs had failed and he wanted to claim for all of the damage. After 
looking at its experts opinion Acasta said the leather had become damaged over time. 
Acasta didnt feel the technicians repairs had put Mr C in a worse position than hed been in 
before. And it felt itd declined the claim correctly.
Mr C wasnt satisfied with Acastas response. So he contacted our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. She felt it would be fair to ask Acasta to provide a 
replacement chair arm pad cover as the original repair hadnt been effective or long-lasting. 
But after considering the technicians report about the cause of damage to other parts of the 
chair she wouldnt be asking Acasta to do anything more. The policy didnt provide cover for 
damage due to hair and skin oils.
Acasta agreed to order a replacement arm pad cover as a gesture of goodwill. But Mr C 
remained unhappy. Hed only accepted the repair to the seat arm cover because Acasta 
hadnt informed him about its complaints procedure. It would cause considerable 
inconvenience if the chair was removed for further repairs. So hes asked for an 
ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Mr C has experienced. I can see Mr C feels Acasta 
shouldve been clearer about how to escalate his complaint when the repairs didnt resolve 
the colour fade. He wanted other faded areas looking at under his warranty as well. 
So Ive looked carefully at everything Mr C and Acasta have said to see whats happened. 
And Ive considered whether Acasta needs to do anything more to put things right.
Mr C had an extended warranty that provided cover for accidental damage including leather 
staining and structural defects. The policy defines accidental damage as the sudden and 
unforeseen damage to the product(s) or the sudden and unforeseen contact between the 
product(s) and a substance resulting in a stain to the product(s) subject to the exclusions 
listed under Section 5 What is not Covered.
However the policy also lists a number of exclusions that wouldnt be covered by the 
warranty. And this includes changes in colour of any part of the product caused by sunlight, 
perspiration; natural hair and body oils or wear and tear.
Mr C contacted his insurer after an accidental spill on his sofa. Food had been dripped onto 
the arm in a one-off accident. And despite gentle cleaning thered been some colour-loss. So 
Acasta arranged for a repairer to assess the damage and the technician recoloured the 
affected area.
As well as the colour loss to the arm pad, I can see the technicians report noted colour loss 
to the seat seam and inside back cushion. The technician reported the colour loss had been 
caused by a build-up of body oils and grease which affected the sealant. So Acasta felt the 
damage was excluded under the terms of the policy as it wasnt the result of a one-off 
accident. 
Although Mr C accepted the seat pad cover repairs I can see hes unhappy he wasnt made 
aware he could escalate his disagreement about whether the other damage should be 
covered. 
I appreciate that Mr C is frustrated things werent handled or explained in a suitable manner 
to him. But Mr C has now been able to raise his wider complaint to this service. And Ive 
looked at everything thats happened to see if Acasta has treated Mr C fairly.
Acasta attempted to repair the colour damage reported by Mr C. So Im satisfied it attempted 
to fulfil its main obligation under the furniture warranty. But I think Acasta is entitled to rely on 
the expert opinion of the technician to decide the other colour loss wasnt caused by 
accidental damage. 
The report shows the colour fade appears to be the result a build-up of body oils and grease. 
And as Ive noted above such damage is excluded under the terms of the extended 
warranty. 
So while the technician did repair the initial damage reported by Mr C Ive not seen any 
evidence to suggest the other damage is covered by the insurance policy. And although the 
arm pad repairs didnt work properly I can see Acasta has agreed to provide a replacement 
chair arm pad as a gesture of goodwill. And I think thats a reasonable response in the 
circumstances.
From what Ive seen it looks as if the replacement arm pad can be fitted without the need to 
remove the sofa from Mr Cs property. So I hope theres no further inconvenience to Mr C 
and his family. 
I can understand how frustrating this has been for Mr C and I can see how strongly he feels 
about this matter. But based on everything Ive seen I think Acasta has responded fairly and 
in line with the terms of the warranty to try and put things right. And I wont be asking it to do 
anything more.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2022.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman