DRN-4150896
The complaint
Mr M complains about Barclays Bank UK PLC.
He says that Barclays didnt do enough to protect him when he became the victim of a scam 
and would like Barclays to refund him all of the money he has lost. 
What happened
In September 2020, Mr M was speaking with his wifes friend about her investments. She 
told him she was pleased with how things were going. Mr M was aware that trading in 
cryptocurrency was becoming popular and asked to be put in touch with the company his 
wifes friend was dealing with.
Once contact had been made, Mr M was impressed with the information he was given  the 
company seemed professional and asked for a lot of identification documents from Mr M 
which persuaded him of its legitimacy.
He was persuaded to invest £9,040 which he paid over eight payments to purchase crypto.
Unfortunately, Mr M had been dealing with a scammer.
Once Mr M realised he had been the victim of a scam, he reported this to Barclays and 
complained that it hadnt done enough to protect him from losing his money.
Barclays upheld Mr Ms complaint in part. It said that it recognised that there may have been 
some errors on its part but that Mr M should also bear some responsibility for the loss  and 
so refunded Mr M 50% of the money he had lost, plus interest, and a further £200 to 
recognise the distress Mr M had been caused. 
Mr M was not happy with the offer, so he brought his complaint to this Service.
Our Investigator considered the complaint, but thought that what Barclays had offered was 
generous, and didnt recommend that it needed to do any more than it had already done.
Mr M asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint, so the complaint has been passed 
to me to make a final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator, Barclays has already made a reasonable offer 
to Mr M, given the circumstances of Mr Ms complaint. I know that this will be disappointing 
for Mr M, so Ill explain why.
Was Mr M the victim of a scam?
Its not in dispute here that Mr M has been the victim of a scam  he was persuaded to 
invest money and was initially in contact with the scammer on a regular basis  but then this 
stopped and Mr M was not able to make further contact or access his money.
Did Mr M authorise the payments?
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), Mr M isnt liable for payments 
he didnt authorise, unless he failed with gross negligence or intent to comply with the terms 
of the account or keep his personalised security details safe. 
Mr M says that he made the payments  so Im satisfied that he did authorise them  even 
though he had been tricked by the scammer into making the payments. But while Mr M 
never intended the payments to go to the scammers, this doesnt change the fact that he 
authorised them and is therefore presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
Recovery of the payments Mr M made
After the payments were made, I wouldnt reasonably expect Barclays to do anything further 
until it had been notified there was a scam. Mr M made eight payments in total by debit card 
and online transfer.
The only recourse for potential recovery of the funds for the payments made by debit card 
would be via the chargeback scheme. Chargeback is a process by which disputes are 
resolved between card issuers (here, Barclays) and the merchant (here, W).
However, a chargeback in these circumstances would likely never have been successful. 
This is because W is a legitimate crypto exchange and provided the services that Mr M had 
requested of it  the purchase of crypto. The subsequent transfer of the crypto to a different 
wallet is therefore a separate matter  and so a successful chargeback would never have 
been possible  and so I dont think that these payments were recoverable once they had 
been made.
Similarly, for the payments made by online transfer, again the service was provided so I 
dont think that Barclays would have been able to ask for the funds to be returned from the 
receiving bank.
Should Barclays have reasonably prevented the payments in the first place?
I can only uphold this complaint if I think that Barclays reasonably ought to have prevented 
some or the payments when Mr M was attempting to make them  therefore preventing the 
loss before it happened.
Mr M authorised the scam payments in question here  so as Ive explained above, he is 
presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
That said, as a matter of good industry practice, Barclays should have taken proactive steps 
to identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual or uncharacteristic 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam. However, there is a 
balance to be struck: banks had (and have) obligations to be alert to fraud and scams and to 
act in their customers best interests, but they cant reasonably be involved in every 
transaction.
Taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of
practice and what I consider having been good industry practice at the time, I consider
Barclays should fairly and reasonably:Been monitoring accounts  including payments made and received  to counter 
various risks including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism 
and preventing fraud and scams;
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer; and
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
So, Ive carefully considered what this means for Mr M and the payments in question here.
I understand that Mr M and his representative think that Barclays should have intervened on 
14 January 2021 when Mr M made two payments to the scammer totalling £3,000. But Im 
afraid I disagree.
Having considered Mr Ms account activity, I dont think that Barclays could reasonably have 
been expected to prevent any of the payments that Mr M lost to the scam. None of the 
payments that were made as a result of the scam were sufficiently unusual, uncharacteristic 
or suspicious enough to reasonably say that Barclays shouldnt have allowed the payments 
to go through without first getting in touch with Mr M. While some of the payments were 
larger than Mr Ms usual spend, he did make larger transactions from time to time, and most 
of the payments were spread out over the course of a month. And I dont think that there was 
anything that ought to have stood out about the transactions and triggered Barclays to step 
in. While I understand that the payments were being made to purchase crypto  not all such 
payments are a result of a scam. 
So, I cant say that Barclays shouldve been obliged to have gotten in touch with Mr M about 
the payments  and Im satisfied that it didnt miss an opportunity to prevent the payments 
from being made.
I understand that Barclays has already paid Mr M 50% of the payments, with interest and a 
further £200 compensation  and I think that this is generous in the circumstances. And so, I 
dont recommend it do any more than it already has.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. For the reasons set out above, I am not asking Barclays to do 
any more than it already has.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2023.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman