DRN-3426672
The complaint
Miss M and Mr S complains that a broker, the appointed representative of Home in One 
Financial Services Limited pressurised them into using its services to apply for a mortgage 
on a new property.
What happened
Miss M and Mr S were looking at buying a new property and required a mortgage. They say 
that they felt pressurised into using this broker and were given to understand they would lose 
the property if they didnt use this service. They say they were also given inconsistent 
information about payment of the brokers fees.
The broker says it was instructed by the vendor through the agent to vet Miss M and Mr Ss 
ability to afford the property. Following that introduction the broker says that it offered Miss M 
and Mr Ss its services as a broker for their mortgage and that  Miss M and Mr S were happy 
to use its services if it could arrange sufficient mortgage funding as the figures from the 
existing broker would have made things tight for them. It denied that it put pressure on Miss 
M and Mr S to use its services. Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should 
be upheld as he didnt feel that the broker had done anything wrong. Miss M and Mr S 
disagree saying in summary that as a minimum they are due an apology.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As part of my investigation I listened to several calls between the estate agent who worked 
with the broker and Mr S. Miss M and Mr S were bidding on a house. The agent invited them 
to make an offer of £450,000 but told them that the vendor wanted some certainty about the 
finances. An appointment was set up with the broker. My understanding of the appointment 
was that it was set up to see what mortgage offer the broker could produce for Miss M and 
Mr S but then there was also the added element that he appeared to be vetting their 
finances to see if the purchase could go ahead. The estate agent told them that the vendor 
had lost a previous sale and was anxious to have some confirmation that Miss M and Mr S 
could afford the purchase. I also note that this was just about affordable for Miss M and Mr S 
and that they were reluctant to go to £450,000. 
Mr S in his letter of complaint says that when they put the offer through the agent  we were 
told the seller would not accept our offer or proceed with us unless we used the mortgage 
broker theyre partnered with. Ive had the benefit of listening to that call among others. 
Whilst I accept that the agent wanted to get Miss M and Mr S into the room with the broker  
his stated motive appears to have been to check their finances and satisfy the vendor - its 
simply inaccurate to say that they were told that the offer wouldnt be accepted if they didnt 
use the broker for accessing a mortgage. Thats simply not said in those calls.
I note that in his email of complaint of 5 October 2021 Mr S refers to the pressure to meet 
with the broker coming from the estate agent. That letter makes no reference to any 
pressure coming from the broker and this complaint is against the broker. So, there is no 
actual evidence that the broker said that they couldnt proceed to buy the house without 
using its services and thats the core of this complaint. So, in those circumstances I cant 
fairly uphold this complaint that the broker coerced Miss M and Mr S into using its services.
There was a subsidiary issue that there was some confusion about when the brokers fees 
were to be paid. The broker says that its terms and conditions refer to the date contracts are 
exchanged, and the mortgage offer refers to the date of completion. The broker is engaged 
to source a mortgage offer for Miss M and Mr S, and I would have thought it reasonable that 
both documents had the same date. I note that the broker deferred collecting its payment 
until completion, so Miss M and Mr S werent financially inconvenienced by this. So, for the 
reasons set out above I cant fairly uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M and Mr S 
to accept or reject my decision before 26 August 2022.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman