DRN-3200690
The complaint
Mr X complains that a new car he acquired with finance provided by Toyota Financial 
Services (UK) Plc (TFS) was of unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
Mr X got this car under a hire purchase agreement (HPA) from TFS in June 2020. Not long 
after, he had trouble operating climate control as well as issues connecting to the media 
centre  which would glitch at times  and he noticed a rattle coming from a door. Mr X 
contacted the supplying dealer who didnt find anything wrong with climate control or the 
media system but did undertake some work to get rid of the rattle.
Mr X didnt accept what the dealer said about the media system - he felt this was faulty and 
complained to TFS, asking to reject the car. After liaising with the manufacturer and the 
dealer, TFS considered the rattle was fixed and climate control and the media system both 
worked properly. It acknowledged the media system supports an older version of phone 
software than the phone Mr X tried to connect, but considered any issues would be resolved 
when an update became available. TFS offered to pay Mr X £50 as a goodwill gesture but 
didnt think it should have to do more. 
Mr X declined the offer. Amongst other things, he said the connection issue was still there 
when he tried to connect an older phone. He felt he was treated unfairly and referred the 
matter to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Xs complaint. At first, she thought the issues he 
reported had either been resolved (under the manufacturers warranty) or didnt amount to 
faults. Then Mr X said the rattle in the door had returned and several other noises had also 
appeared. He supplied several recordings and, whilst the investigator didnt think there was 
enough evidence to safely conclude that the media system was defective, she was satisfied 
that the rattle reported early on is still present. She said a new car should be fault free at the 
point of supply and this one was probably of unsatisfactory quality at the outset. As various 
repair attempts didnt work, she recommended Mr X should be entitled to reject the car and 
have his deposit back, plus interest.
Mr X asked if he could have the cost of additional protection he purchased when he got the 
car refunded as well. But the investigator didnt think that was fair  she was satisfied he had 
the benefit of this cover. She didnt think TFS should have to refund any monthly payments 
either - because Mr X had the use of a car throughout. She was satisfied Mr X experienced 
distress and inconvenience as a result of what happened. She found it fair TFS should pay 
£200 compensation to reflect that - and remove all information about the agreement from Mr 
Xs credit file. 
Mr X accepted the investigators recommendations but TFS disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsman to review the matter. TFS says (in summary):-
Mr X wanted to reject the car initially because he had trouble connecting his mobile 
phone to the media centre, this was investigated but no fault was found and TFS 
has no control over third-party products such as mobile phones; 
climate control issues reported were also investigated and Mr X accepted this was 
working as it should after he was advised about how to use it; 
the dealer found a rattle and a squeak in February 2021 so some work was done to 
rectify the issue and Mr X was happy with the outcome, the dealer investigated 
rattles again in May 2021 and carried out some more repairs then the car was 
tested and had no further rattles, in July 2021 Mr X said the rattle was back, the 
dealer checked again and heard a very slight noise - which wasnt out of the 
ordinary - so undertook some minor adjustments to reassure Mr X;
vehicles have many different components and modern technology means 
adjustments and updates may be required from time to time but any work 
undertaken by the dealer here doesnt mean this car has a manufacturing defect or 
was of unsatisfactory quality at the point of supply.
Having considered the available evidence, I was minded to uphold the complaint. My 
reasons werent quite the same as the investigators so I thought it was fair to give the 
parties the chance to see my provisional findings and respond (if they wanted to) before I 
made my final decision. I issued a provisional decision on 26 November 2021. Ive set out 
what I decided provisionally - and why - below and this forms part of my final decision. 
 
My provisional decision
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light of 
the available evidence and the wider circumstances
In considering whats fair and reasonable I must take into account relevant law and 
regulations, guidance and standards, regulators rules, codes of practice and what I think 
was good industry practice at the relevant time. 
TFS supplied this car under a HPA so it was required under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 
(CRA) to ensure that the vehicle was of satisfactory quality when Mr X got it. The CRA says 
the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would 
consider satisfactory - taking into account any description and the price paid, amongst other 
things. This means the level of quality that is satisfactory will vary, according to individual 
circumstances. 
In the case of a vehicle, its generally reasonable to look at the age, cost and mileage at the 
point of supply. The car Mr X acquired here cost over £50,000 and I think a reasonable 
person would expect such a car to be fault free at the point of delivery - and parts should last 
for a reasonable amount of time before they need to be repaired or replaced.
I can see that Mr X raised several concerns about this car within a month or so of collection. 
The supplying dealer investigated and it looks as if the issues relating to the media centre 
and climate control were considered not to have been due to any fault or inherent defect. 
There appears to be no dispute however that a rattle was present in the door at this point. 
Ive seen a job card from July 2020 that says the left front door card was removed and 
adjusted to fix the problem. Im satisfied that more work of a similar nature was undertaken 
by another main dealer to try and resolve the rattle in February and May 2021. As far as I can tell, from the information I have at present, those repairs seemed to rectify the issue 
initially but the noise would return not long after. 
I can see that Mr X took the car back to a dealer again in July 2021 complaining about the 
same noise. And it looks as if the dealer acknowledged there was a sound present  as the 
door was padded out once again. I appreciate TFS says the noise that was present in July 
2021 was not out of the ordinary and the dealer only undertook the last repairs in an effort 
to assure Mr X. But, whilst Im not sure what the dealer heard exactly in July 2021, having 
reviewed several videos that Mr X supplied (which have also been provided to TFS) Im 
satisfied there is still a very audible rattle in the door area. 
I accept most cars will make noises during the course of normal operation - and different 
models and makes will have different characteristics. But, I think a reasonable person would 
expect even an averagely priced used car to operate without this sort of sound. And Im not 
persuaded its normal - or reasonable - for a new vehicle, like the one Mr X acquired here, to 
make this noise.
Im satisfied that its more likely than not the rattle appeared within the first six months of 
supply. I have limited information about the cause of the noise but Ive seen nothing to 
suggest its likely to have been due to wear and tear - or anything that Mr X did. Its difficult 
to see why two main dealers (who Id expect to be reasonably familiar with this make and 
model) would carry out the sort of remedial work undertaken on several occasions here 
under the manufacturers warranty if this sound was normal. I also note that the supplying 
dealer has since offered to take the car back (but not to refund the deposit) on the grounds 
the vehicle has manufacturing faults and build quality issues.
On balance, I think its more likely than not this car had an inherent defect present from the 
point of supply. I cant be certain what the issue is exactly - but I dont need to diagnose a 
specific defect to reasonably conclude that the car is probably faulty. And, taking into 
account this car was new when Mr X got it, Im minded to find its of unsatisfactory quality.
The CRA sets out a number of remedies in this situation including allowing one chance to 
repair. Im satisfied that Mr X has taken the car back to the dealer several times already and 
provided a number of opportunities for the issue to be fixed. For the reasons Ive set out 
above, I find the dealers efforts were unsuccessful - the rattles still there. Given the number 
of unsuccessful repair attempts, I cant be certain that this fault is capable of being resolved 
satisfactorily. And, considering the time thats passed and the impact of this ongoing issue 
on Mr X, I dont think it is fair or reasonable to expect him to wait any longer. I consider he 
should be allowed to reject the car now and receive his deposit of £5,132.07 (paid by way of 
part exchange) back, plus interest.
It looks as if Mr X has been able to use the car throughout (or he was supplied with a 
courtesy car when his was off the road). I think its fair he should pay for that use so I cant 
fairly find TFS should refund any monthly payments. Im satisfied that Mr X was stressed and 
inconvenienced as a result of this fault being present  he had to go back and forth to the 
dealer several times and I have no doubt its been frustrating and annoying to drive the car 
with the rattle present. Having considered what happened carefully, I think it is fair and 
reasonable overall for TFS to pay Mr X £200 compensation to reflect that.
It looks as if Mr X may have incurred some costs for diagnostic checks and the like 
progressing this complaint. Its unclear if these costs were incurred investigating the inherent 
quality issue identified above (the rattle). If Im satisfied that they were, then I would probably 
be minded to find TFS should reimburse that cost as well. So, Mr X should let me know (in 
response to this provisional decision) if he has incurred any additional expenses and supply 
relevant paperwork (such as invoices). I invited the parties to provide any further comments and evidence by 10 December 2021 
and explained that I would look at all the evidence available then and make my final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have responded to my provisional findings. Mr Y accepts my provisional 
decision and he hasnt supplied any further evidence or comments. TFS disagrees with my 
provisional conclusions. I have considered what TFS says carefully but it hasnt provided any 
new evidence thats persuaded me to change my mind. 
Having considered all of the comments made by the parties, and reviewed all the available 
evidence, I remain of the view that this complaint should be upheld. And I find Mr X should 
be allowed to reject this car and receive a refund and compensation as set out in my 
provisional decision. 
My final decision
My decision is I uphold this complaint and require Toyota Financial Services (UK) Plc to:-
1.cancel the HPA and arrange to take the car back, at no additional cost to Mr X;
2.refund the deposit paid of £5,132.07 plus interest at 8% simple a year from the date 
of payment to the date of settlement; 
3.pay Mr X £200 compensation for distress and inconvenience; and 
4.remove any adverse information recorded on his credit file.
If TFS considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from 
the interest part of my award, it should tell Mr X how much its taken off. It should also give 
him a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr X to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2022. 
Claire Jackson
Ombudsman