DRN-3738690
The complaint
Miss H complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC recalled a Bounce Back Loan and closed her 
bank account unfairly.
What happened
Miss H ran a business as a sole trader. She banked with Barclays, holding two personal 
accounts that she also used for her business transactions.
Miss H approached Barclays with a view to taking out a Bounce Back Loan. After some 
discussions with the bank as to how to complete an application, Miss H submitted her 
application on 8 June 2020. She asked for a loan of £33,300. 
Barclays approved Miss Hs application and the loan was drawn down on 12 June.
On 3 July, Barclays reversed the loan and removed £33,300 from Miss Hs account without 
notice. This left the account in an unauthorised overdraft with a debit balance of almost 
£25,000. Miss H discovered what had happened shortly after, when finding that she was 
unable to use her card. 
Barclays explained that it required customers to enter into a business relationship (or hold a 
business account) before it could provide them with a Bounce Back Loan  but it had given 
Miss H the loan without doing so. It had therefore recalled the loan on the basis that Miss H 
hadnt been eligible for it. 
Barclays subsequently reviewed whether it could enter into the requisite business 
relationship with Miss H, but explained that she didnt meet the banks criteria due to her 
adverse credit history. So it declined to reinstate the loan. This left Miss H needing to repay 
the £25,000 debit balance left on her account. No agreement was reached as to how she 
could do so, which ultimately led the bank to close Miss Hs accounts in March 2021 and 
pursue repayment through its recoveries department.
When Miss H complained, Barclays maintained that the removal of the funds had been 
appropriate as a means of correcting its initial error in approving the loan application. It paid 
Miss H £250 in what it described as a gesture of goodwill.
Miss H asked us to look into things and explained that Barclays actions had impacted her 
catastrophically. In summary, she said:
She had been entitled to the Bounce Back Loan and didnt think it was correct that 
Barclays could decline to provide it due to her adverse credit history, which she 
thought was prohibited under the rules of the government-backed scheme. The bank 
had entered into an agreement with her and the contract ought to stand. So she 
wanted the bank to return the remainder of the loan that shed not utilised, around 
£9,000.
Following a particular call discussing the reversal of the loan funds, Barclays had 
called the police as it held concerns over her welfare. This led to the police attending 
and forcing entry to her home, which was a traumatising experience.
The sudden removal of the loan had left her in extreme financial difficulty. She was 
left without money for day-to-day living expenses and fell behind on a number of 
commitments, pushing her into further debt. This had led to her car being taken by 
bailiffs and County Court Judgements (CCJs) against her. Shed also had to sell 
some personal possessions with great sentimental value to get by. In addition, shed 
had to stop midway through a private dental treatment plan, which had caused her a 
lot of mental and physical pain. 
Her business had all but ceased, with no funds left to invest in the manner shed 
anticipated and with debts outstanding to existing creditors. Shed been unable to 
obtain a Bounce Back Loan elsewhere and had been deprived of the opportunity to 
apply for further borrowing through a top-up to the original Bounce Back Loan. She 
thought she was eligible to borrow up to £50,000, so she wanted the bank to lend her 
an additional £17,000.
The banks actions and the situation it had left her in had caused her to feel so 
overwhelmed and helpless that she had tried to take her own life. Her life had fallen 
apart after what had happened, leading to a breakdown in September 2020 and a 
diagnosis of Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder. Her health had deteriorated to such a 
point that she was signed off from work until 2024, further affecting her ability to work 
and earn money. 
Our investigators assessment
Our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld. He didnt think the lack of a 
business relationship warranted the immediate termination and recall of the loan, particularly 
given that:
This wasnt a requirement under the Loan Scheme rules and was something at 
Barclays discretion. Barclays had spoken to Miss H and helped her with the 
application, and it was an error on the banks part that had allowed the application to 
proceed without the business relationship. 
Barclays had provided the loan to Miss H and shed therefore relied on having the 
use of the funds. Miss H had no cause to suspect there might be any outstanding 
issues with her eligibility for the loan. And she had already utilised much of the loan 
funds, with the expectation that shed have the agreed term of six years to repay 
them.
It was foreseeable that the immediate reversal of the loan, plunging her account into 
a £25,000 overdraft, would have a significant adverse impact on Miss H. The bank 
was also aware from its existing relationship with Miss H of circumstances that meant 
she was vulnerable.
Our investigator thought that errors on the banks part had caused significant damage to 
Miss Hs business, with Miss H left without the remainder of the loan that shed been relying 
upon. However, she had benefited from the use of a significant portion of the loan funds and 
he couldnt say whether she would have been successful in applying for any additional 
borrowing in the future. To put things right, our investigator recommended that Barclays write off the outstanding 
debt and remove any adverse information that it had registered with credit reference 
agencies as a result of the position its actions had left Miss H in. He also thought that 
Barclays should pay Miss H compensation of £2,500 for the distress it had caused her and 
the severe impact on her health. 
Noting Miss Hs request that the bank reopen an account for her, our investigator also 
recommended that Barclays do so  as it was the overdrawn position that had led to the 
account closure, which wouldnt have arisen had the bank acted fairly.
Barclays largely accepted our investigators recommendations and agreed to write off the 
debt of around £25,000, pay Miss H compensation of £2,500 and remove any adverse credit 
information relating to the issue. It said that it didnt think it was beneficial to either party to 
open an account for Miss H, given the clear breakdown in relationship and as she had likely 
sought alternative facilities elsewhere. The bank also highlighted that:
Barclays had required customers seeking a Bounce Back Loan to enter into a 
business relationship so that the bank could complete certain checks and satisfy its 
regulatory obligations. It was entitled to do so under the Loan Scheme rules.
Miss H had attested to an annual turnover of £133,000 when submitting her 
application, which wasnt evident in the transactions running through her account.
The Bounce Back Loan could only be used for business purposes but some of 
Miss Hs spending on receipt of the loan wasnt consistent with the costs of her 
business.
Miss H didnt accept the proposed settlement. She said, in summary, that:
The remainder of the loan should be returned to her, as shed been entitled to it and 
it was only mistakes on Barclays part that had caused the problems. Her business 
was growing and she would have used that money to make money. The bank had 
deprived her of that opportunity, so she thought it should compensate her for lost 
earnings.
The proposed write-off of the debt didnt resolve her situation, as she was still left 
with other debts to pay and without the ability to work and earn money. And the 
compensation wouldnt enable her to replace her car, pay for dental treatment, get 
her possessions back or pay for her therapy to aid her recovery. She thought shed 
lost three times the amount being written off.
While it wasnt possible to say that she would definitely have received a top-up loan, 
it also couldnt be said that she wouldnt. That opportunity had been taken away from 
her, so she thought those funds should be given to her too.
The bank should also compensate her for the damage done to her property when the 
police attended.
She had three CCJs that would have been avoided, as she would have cleared those 
debts with profits shed have made on utilising the remainder of the loan funds that 
were taken away from her.
With no resolution, the complaint was passed to me to decide.My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in August, setting out why I also thought the 
complaint should be upheld. I thought Barclays has made a number of errors in how it 
handled Miss Hs Bounce Back Loan application and the recall of the funds. These errors 
had a significant detrimental impact on Miss H  on her business, as well as her own 
personal finances and on her physical and mental health.
My thoughts as to what Barclays did wrong were largely the same as our investigator, which 
were, in summary, that:
As Barclays accepted, it had made a mistake in approving Miss Hs Bounce Back 
Loan application in the first place. In line with its standard process, it should have first 
required Miss H to enter into a business relationship. Had it done so, Miss H wouldnt 
have received the loan at all  as she didnt meet the banks criteria for a business 
relationship due to her credit history.
Although Barclays would have been entitled to decline Miss Hs request for a 
business relationship and therefore a Bounce Back Loan, I didnt think it had been 
reasonable in the circumstances of this case for the bank to terminate and recall the 
loan on this basis. The contract had been entered into and Miss H had acted in 
reliance on it, utilising some of the funds over the weeks that theyd been available to 
her and planning her affairs accordingly. The reversal of the loan put Miss H into a 
significant overdraft that left her without access to funds immediately, a foreseeable 
consequence that would have been obvious to the bank and that should have 
prompted it to take an alternative course of action  particularly given its awareness 
of Miss Hs vulnerability.
While I had understood that the visit from the police had proved to be unnecessary, I 
didnt think Barclays had done anything wrong in relaying its reasonable concerns 
about Miss Hs welfare to them. It was then up to the police to decide what action to 
take based on the information it received, and so I didnt think I could fairly hold 
Barclays responsible for any damage caused to Miss Hs property or any upset this 
had caused her.
I set out my view on what went wrong fairly briefly given that both parties had largely 
accepted our initial findings as to what the errors were. While that was not to downplay the 
significance of Barclays mistakes or the impact of them on Miss H, the main question left for 
me to decide was how to fairly compensate Miss H for the impact of what the bank had done 
wrong so I focused my decision on that. In that respect, I thought the settlement that 
Barclays had now agreed to pay largely represented a fair resolution. My reasons for that 
were as follows:
1. Our general approach to compensation is to put the complainant in the position that 
they would have been had the financial business not made an error, as best we can. 
That is complicated here, as there are two errors that have affected Miss Hs 
position. If things had been handled correctly at the outset, Barclays would simply 
have declined Miss Hs request for a Bounce Back Loan because she didnt meet the 
banks criteria. From the information and evidence Ive seen, Im also not persuaded 
that Miss H was eligible for the loan amount she obtained (as Ive not seen that she 
had the requisite turnover to qualify for the loan she received). The bank then made a 
second error in the way it went about recalling the loan. So Ive considered how to 
fairly compensate Miss H by thinking about the position that she would be in if these 
two errors hadnt occurred  with the starting point being that she wouldnt have 
received the loan from Barclays in the first place.2. Ive thought about whether Miss H could have obtained a Bounce Back Loan 
elsewhere, had Barclays declined her request. I dont think its likely that she would 
have been successful in doing so, given that she didnt hold a business relationship 
with any other provider, and that any application elsewhere would have been subject 
to checks that she would likely have failed due to her credit record. So, had things 
gone as they should have done, I dont think Miss H would have received a loan 
under the Bounce Back Loan Scheme. 
3. In light of points 1 and 2, I dont think Miss H was deprived of any of the loan amount. 
So I dont think Barclays needs to provide the remainder of the loan that Miss H 
feels she didnt get the benefit of (as having entered into an agreement for £33,300, 
she only utilised around £25,500 before Barclays reversed the loan). For the same 
reasons I dont think Miss H was deprived of access to a top-up loan either. It follows 
that I dont think Barclays needs to compensate Miss H for any loss of earnings or 
other opportunity as a result of being without this money.
4. Prior to receiving the loan, Miss Hs account had a nominal credit balance. Barclays 
reversal of the loan left it in an unauthorised overdraft of just under £25,000. This 
arose because Miss H proceeded to utilise the loan funds over the weeks following 
drawdown, in reliance on the agreement shed entered into with the bank and with no 
reason to doubt it. Miss H would therefore not have been in this position but for the 
banks error in approving the loan. Barclays has agreed to write off this amount, 
which I think is the fairest way of putting this right.
5. This write-off would mean that Miss H has benefitted from funds without having to 
repay them. Recognising the credits received into her account between the loan 
drawdown and reversal (of around £2,000), Miss H spent £23,000 that, under 
Barclays offer, she will not need to pay back. Im sure much of her spending would 
have been quite different had things gone as they should have, but this figure does 
include a certain amount of essential expenditure and the repayment of some pre-
existing debts.
6. Miss H has told us that Barclays actions led to the collapse of her business. This is 
largely on the premise that she was deprived of loan funds to which she believes she 
was entitled, which she would have utilised to grow her business and make a profit. 
Ive explained above why I dont think Miss H should have received those funds in 
the first place and that, accordingly, I dont think Barclays is responsible for such 
losses. I have considered whether the banks provision and reversal of the loan put 
Miss Hs business in a worse position than it otherwise would have been, but Ive not 
seen that it did.
7. Similarly, Miss H has explained the financial difficulties that shes experienced and 
which she attributes to Barclays actions  but that is largely on the basis that she 
was deprived of the use of some of the loan. From what Ive seen, Miss H was 
already experiencing some financial difficulty and I dont think the errors made by the 
bank in providing and then reversing the loan significantly affected this.
8. Miss H also says that shes been left unable to work, as Barclays actions had such 
an effect on her health that she was signed off. I dont doubt that the banks actions 
had a significant impact on her wellbeing and mental health  and Ill come on to this 
in a bit more detail below. But Miss H was already experiencing a level of financial 
difficulty, with an existing CCJ and a resolve loan with the bank to consolidate 
previous debt. Miss H has also said that her business had yet to make a profit, even 
before the coronavirus pandemic, which would have made things even more challenging  particularly given the industry in which she operated. So I dont think I 
can say that Miss H would be in a materially different position with regard to her 
business or employment were it not for Barclays errors. For this reason, I dont think 
that Barclays needs to compensate Miss H for any loss of earnings.
9. The overdrawn position on Miss Hs account ultimately led the bank to close it and 
record a default. Neither of those things ought to have happened. Barclays has 
agreed to remove any adverse information registered with credit reference agencies, 
which puts that aspect of things right. 
10. Aside from her financial position, the matter has clearly been distressing for Miss H, 
impacting her wellbeing and causing her a significant amount of inconvenience. In 
particular:
Miss H had seen the Bounce Back Loan as a lifeline for her business and, 
after the difficulties shed experienced, particularly through the pandemic, was 
optimistic of turning things around with the help of the loan. That opportunity 
was then taken away most abruptly when, without warning, she discovered 
that she was unable to access any money. That in itself was embarrassing, 
as she was left with no means to pay for transport simply to return home. To 
discover she owed Barclays £25,000 was very upsetting  with Miss H 
understandably fearing for the potential consequences of such a debt, while 
also having to challenge the bank as to what was happening and why.
The immediate reversal of the loan meant that Miss Hs circumstances 
changed dramatically in an instant. She had access to a substantially lower 
amount of funds than previously, having to adjust immediately to a very 
different financial position. She was, at least, still in receipt of monthly 
Universal Credit payments, that she was able to access.
Miss H had to spend a lot of time and effort in following up with Barclays to 
work out what had happened and in an understandable attempt to get the 
bank to reverse its decision. It was only after Miss H queried things that the 
bank sensibly reconsidered whether it could simply offer her the requisite 
business relationship in order to consider reissuing the loan.
Miss H has described how her mental health has suffered since all of this 
happened. Im sorry to read of this, in particular that she attempted to take her 
own life and has been diagnosed with Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder. It is 
difficult for me to cite the banks actions as a sole or primary cause, as Im not 
qualified to do so and Ive not been provided with any medical evidence to 
demonstrate that. Im also mindful that Miss Hs broader circumstances would 
probably have contributed to how she felt  and for the reasons Ive explained 
above, I think she would have been in a similar position if things had gone as 
they should have. But I can see that the banks actions would doubtlessly 
have been very distressing and the cause of some significant anxiety. And as 
the bank didnt take reasonable steps to remedy the situation, the difficulties 
that Miss H was experiencing were exacerbated. The loan was reversed on 
3 July 2020 and since then, Miss H has faced the prospect of having to repay 
Barclays £25,000 with limited means of doing so. 
It is extremely difficult to put a figure on the emotional impact that Barclays errors 
had on Miss H. But having carefully considered all that shes said and provided to us, I think the £2,500 that Barclays has now agreed to pay is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances. 
11. When raising the complaint, Miss H asked that we require Barclays to open a new 
account for her. However, I dont think it would be appropriate for me to require the 
bank to do this. Barclays can choose which customers it wishes to serve. Miss H 
remains free to apply for an account with Barclays if she wishes, and Id expect the 
bank to consider any application from her fairly, consistent with its standard practice.
12. Miss H has also highlighted that the position in which she found herself left her 
unable to maintain repayments to her resolve loan with Barclays, having been up-to-
date previously. I think the immediate change in her circumstances did make it more 
difficult than it would otherwise have been to plan her finances and maintain her 
commitments. While those are amounts that she would always have had to pay  
meaning I dont think they should be written off  I think Barclays should reverse any 
interest shes incurred on any missed payments since the Bounce Back Loan 
reversal and remove any adverse information that it registered with credit reference 
agencies in respect of this loan.
So to put things right, and subject to any further submissions I received in response to my 
provisional findings, I said I intended to require Barclays to:
Write off the amount owing on Miss Hs overdraft;
Reverse any interest charged on Miss Hs resolve loan due to any missed payments 
since 3 July 2020;
Instruct the removal of any adverse credit information about the account, overdraft 
and resolve loan since the Bounce Back Loan reversal on 3 July 2020; and
Pay Miss H compensation of £2,500.
Barclays accepted my provisional decision and didnt respond with any further information or 
evidence for me to take into account other than to advise that the resolve loan wasnt 
interest-bearing and therefore required no adjustment as Id suggested.
Miss H didnt accept my provisional decision. She submitted a number of further points and 
pieces of evidence, the main points of which I consider to be:
There was no basis on which Barclays couldve declined to provide her with a 
Bounce Back Loan. Her existing relationship with Barclays qualified as a good 
business relationship, in that £250,000 flowed through her accounts with the bank 
over preceding years. Her account activity also showed that she had sufficient means 
to afford the loan repayments. In any event, lenders werent permitted to use credit 
checks and credit-scoring when assessing Bounce Back Loan applications.
As Barclays had no legitimate basis on which to decline or withdraw the loan, its 
decision to recall the funds had been discriminatory. Shed been singled out and 
deemed as unworthy of the loan.
She hadnt been in receipt of Universal Credit payments as Id suggested; instead the 
payments Id referred to were Housing Benefit payments that she received as, 
despite her income, she had no funds left for herself. 
Id not mentioned her loss of income despite the evidence that shed submitted to 
support her claim for compensation. Her business hadnt collapsed as Id described  
it was still active, but shed been unable to trade as a result of the stress that Barclays had caused her. She thought a claim for loss of income should be 
considered, and that I should base an award on the turnover seen in her accounts in 
previous years.
It was incorrect to say that shed been in financial difficulty prior to the problems with 
Barclays, as her resolve loan had been taken out to restructure an old student debt 
and shed not missed any payments on it since its inception. 
Barclays actions had been the cause of her ill health, with her diagnosis only being 
made in September 2020  which was after the problems shed experienced. She 
also included a doctors note explaining her good mental health from 2018. 
It was unfair and discriminatory to assume that she wouldnt have achieved 
something differently had it not been for Barclays errors. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and with particular regard to Miss Hs response to my provisional findings, 
Ive not seen any reason to depart from my provisional decision. Ill explain why Miss Hs 
further points havent led me to a different decision.
Miss H doesnt accept my view that  if things had gone as they should have  Barclays 
wouldve declined her Bounce Back Loan application in the first place as she didnt meet its 
criteria for a business relationship (on the basis of her adverse credit history). I can see why 
she thinks that, as she is right to say that Bounce Back Loan applications werent subject to 
credit checks or credit score requirements. 
However, lenders were entitled to decide how they would accept Bounce Back Loan 
applications, which included the freedom to require that applicants enter into a business 
relationship first. While Miss H was trading through a personal account, she didnt hold a 
business relationship. So she needed to apply for one under Barclays process. And in 
considering such an application, the bank was entitled to apply its own policy and criteria  
including its credit score requirements  as this was distinct from the Bounce Back Loan 
itself. This was set out in the rules of the Bounce Back Loan Scheme, and summarised in 
the publicly available information on the British Business Banks website:
If a lender identifies  that their existing customer is operating a business 
via a personal account, the lender may request that they convert to a 
business relationship in line with their standard policies. This is at the sole 
discretion of the lender.
I also think this was the sole reason for Barclays decision to recall the loan in the manner it 
did from Miss H. While I dont think that was appropriate in the circumstances  for the 
reasons set out in my provisional decision  it doesnt lead me to think that Miss H was being 
singled out or discriminated against in the manner she describes. 
So I still dont think Miss H wouldve been entitled to the Bounce Back Loan had things gone 
as they shouldve done from the outset. And so I still think it is a factor that I should take into 
account when deciding fair compensation. It follows that I still dont think Barclays needs to 
compensate Miss H for any loss of earnings or other opportunity as a result of being unable 
to utilise the full amount of the loan before it was recalled.I explained in my provisional decision that our general approach to compensation is to put 
the complainant in the position that they would have been had the financial business not 
made an error, as best we can. And in setting out my view on how Barclays errors had 
affected Miss Hs position, I said that  subject to the write-off of the outstanding debt  Id 
not seen that she had been left in a worse position than she would otherwise have been. Ive 
thought about everything Miss H has said and provided in response to this point, but not 
reached a different conclusion, as:
I accept what Miss H says about my inaccurate description of her business having 
collapsed. That was drawn from her comments as to the severe impact that the 
banks actions had on her, which I had understood had left it impossible for her to 
trade. She says the business still exists, which Ive no reason to doubt  but cant 
operate because of her ill health. I dont think that has a bearing on my findings, as 
either way it is agreed that Miss Hs business hasnt been operating since the loan 
was recalled.
While understanding Miss Hs disappointment that Ive not proposed any 
compensation for the loss of income she believes shes suffered, I dont agree that 
this wasnt mentioned. I set out in my provisional decision why I didnt think that such 
an award was fair in the circumstances, which was based on both the point above 
that Miss H ought not to have received the loan in the first place and also that I didnt 
think the reversal of the loan had deprived her of any profit (rather than simply 
income). And Ive not been provided with anything further that leads me to think any 
differently on this point.
Although I appreciate Miss H disputes the severity of financial difficulty she was in 
prior to receiving the loan, I still think it is reasonable to say that she was in a level of 
difficulty already. While noting what she says about the resolve loan, this wasnt the 
sole basis of my finding in this respect. Miss H already had one CCJ, was in receipt 
of Universal Credit payments (which I note were for the purpose of housing benefit 
but nonetheless demonstrate a low income such that she was eligible for such 
support) and had a number of outstanding debts that a large portion of the Bounce 
Back Loan funds were utilised to repay.
Finally, Ive reconsidered the impact that these matters have had on Miss H and the extent 
to which Barclays errors were the cause of her ill health. Miss H has highlighted that her 
diagnosis came after these issues. And it is clear to me that they wouldve had a significant 
impact on her state of mind. However, I explained in my provisional decision that it is difficult 
for me to cite the banks actions as a sole or primary cause, when Im not qualified to do so. 
And while Miss H has sent me evidence to confirm her good mental health sometime prior to 
the issues in question (from February 2018), she hasnt provided me with any medical 
evidence to show that it was the errors by the bank that caused the health problems she 
later experienced. I still think, therefore, that £2,500 is fair compensation for the substantial 
distress and inconvenience Miss H was caused by what Barclays did wrong, and the impact 
this had on her wellbeing.
In closing I would like to reiterate that Barclays made significant errors in handled Miss Hs 
loan application and subsequent reversal of the funds, which had a severe and regrettable 
impact on Miss H. My findings have concentrated largely on why Im awarding the level of 
compensation I am, as Barclays has accepted its errors and Miss H  understandably  feels 
strongly about how things should be put right. This shouldnt be seen as downplaying either 
the gravity of the banks mistakes or the impact theyve had. Ive carefully considered 
everything afresh in reaching my final decision, and having taken everything into account I 
still think that the write-off the outstanding £25,000 debt  of which Miss H will therefore had 
the benefit without needing to repay  and £2,500 compensation represents a fair resolution to the complaint. And while I know this isnt the outcome that Miss H was hoping for, I hope 
that she is at least reassured that Ive taken everything she has said and provided us into 
account when reaching my decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and require Barclays Bank UK PLC 
to:
Write off the amount owing on Miss Hs overdraft;
Instruct the removal of any adverse credit information about the account, overdraft 
and resolve loan since the Bounce Back Loan reversal on 3 July 2020; and
Pay Miss H compensation of £2,500.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 November 2022.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman