DRN-4217022
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain about poor quality repairs arranged by Aviva Insurance Limited 
(Aviva) following a storm damage claim in August 2020, under their home buildings 
insurance policy.  
Mr F is the main contact  Ill refer to him throughout my decision for ease of reading. 
What happened
In August 2020 Mr Fs roof was damaged as a result of a storm. Internal damage was also 
caused due to rainwater ingress. Aviva arranged for the damage to be repaired. This was 
completed early in 2021. In late October 2022 Mr F contacted Aviva again. He says water 
ingress is occurring in the same area. He believes this is the result of its poor-quality repairs. 
Aviva sent a surveyor to inspect the damage. It says the surveyor found no evidence its 
repairs had failed. The water ingress was thought to be the result of the deteriorated 
condition of the roof. Particularly the roof valley, which had been patch repaired previously, 
and needed replacement. Aviva says the water ingress Mr F highlighted wasnt linked to the 
previous storm claim, or any defective repairs. It says it was due to an ongoing gradual 
cause. This isnt covered by his policy. 
Aviva said it wasnt upholding Mr Fs complaint. But if he obtained a roofers report it would 
consider the matter further. 
Mr F disagreed with Avivas response. He says one of its surveyors told him the repairs 
werent completed to a good standard. Because he remained dissatisfied he referred his 
complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold his complaint. He says Aviva acted 
fairly by sending a surveyor to inspect the repairs. The surveyor didnt think the repairs were 
defective. Our investigator says there is no evidence of another surveyor having a different 
opinion. 
Based on this evidence our investigator didnt think Aviva had treated Mr F unfairly. 
Mr F disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding Mr Fs complaint. Im sorry to disappoint him, but Ill 
explain why I think my decision is fair. 
I can see from the records provided that repairs were carried out to some of the tiles on Mr 
Fs roof following storm damage in August 2020. The claim records refer to a wet storm 
and describe tiles that were dislodged, resulting in water ingress internally. The repairs were 
completed in early 2021. 
Avivas claim records show Mr F called in October 2022 to report water damage in the same 
area as before. 
We expect any repairs an insurer arranges to be both effective and long lasting. So, when 
Mr F reported this issue, Id expect Aviva to inspect his roof to identify whether there was a 
problem with the work its contractor completed. This is what it did. Ive read the report 
Avivas surveyor provided following the inspection. This says:
I met with Mr [F] this morning at 09:45 and he showed me around to the rear of his property. 
The customer advised that the works that we have previously undertaken have failed along 
with roofing works undertaken by [contractor] who are an approved Aviva Supplier.
I checked the roof with my pole camera and can see no evidence at all that any works 
carried out to the roof have failed. The customer Is [sic] roof is the original roof which is at 
least 70 years old and is need of general maintenance or replacement. I pointed out that the 
neighbour (No3) has had a complete roof replacement and the neighbour at No7 has serious 
issues with his Valley Gaby are clearly visible and indicative that the roof is failing through 
fatigue.
I explained that the rainwater is getting in through the lead valley which has been patch 
repaired previously and that the roof needs a complete new Valley with new Valley boards 
and Leadwork. The customer also pointed out that some cement is coming away from the 
ridges and I again I explained that this is not peril related.
Conclusion - There is no further involvement required as the works completed to rectify 
the storm damage have been completed to an acceptable standard by our contractors and 
the contractor appointed by Aviva.
The issues with the roof are as a direct result of failure through a gradually operating cause.
Ive examined the photos the surveyor provided with his report. This shows a number of 
slipped/dislodged tiles to the roof valley. The roof appears to be of some age with signs of 
general deterioration. 
Im not an expert in this area and must rely on the opinion of those who are. I think the 
photos support the surveyors findings that Mr Fs roof needs repairs that are unrelated to 
storm damage from 2020. The recent damage is more probably the result of the age and 
deteriorated condition of the roof. I acknowledge Mr Fs view that because the water ingress 
is in the same area as the damage from 2020 - this shows the original repairs have failed. 
But Im more persuaded by the surveyors expert opinion that other areas of the roof are in a 
deteriorated condition and are the cause of the problem  not defective repairs from the 
earlier storm claim.
I havent seen evidence to support Mr Fs comments that a surveyor appointed by Aviva 
thought the previous repairs were defective. Ive read all of the records provided, but I cant 
see a report or record that indicates the repairs it arranged were thought to be substandard. 
Mr F hasnt provided a surveyors report or other expert opinion that shows the repairs 
competed at the time of the storm claim were defective. I note Aviva told Mr F if he provided 
a report and/or photos from a roofing contractor it would reconsider his claim. But I cant see 
that he provided this information.
I dont dispute Mr Fs recollection of what Avivas surveyor said. But I have no record to support this. He clearly has strong views that its the storm repairs that are to blame for the 
current water ingress. But he hasnt provided evidence that persuades me hes right. 
Having considered all of this, I think Aviva treated Mr F fairly when sending a surveyor to 
inspect the previous repairs and ascertain if they were defective. I dont think it behaved 
unfairly when deciding the repairs werent the cause of the current water ingress and 
declining to carry out remedial work. Because of this I cant reasonably ask it to do anymore.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 September 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman