DRN-3328653
The complaint
Mr H complains that Aviva Insurance Limited wont pay the full estimated cost for faulty lights 
in his home to be replaced.
What happened
In May 2021, Mr H purchased a policy underwritten by Aviva to cover the electrics in his 
home.
Mr H reported a fault with his lights at the end of August 2021. A new dimmer switch was 
fitted on 1 September 2021.
On 20 September 2021, Mr H contacted Aviva again to log a complaint that the dimmer 
switch wasnt working and the lights had been on all night. He was advised that an engineer 
would be sent that day, but nobody turned up. 
He called the next day to complain about this and was advised that an engineer wouldnt be 
sent to his home, so he needed to find his own engineer, obtain a quote and send this to 
Aviva to consider. 
Mr H sent the quote for £575 which covered the light switch plus three replacement ceiling 
lights. Aviva asked him to obtain a more detailed report so that they could establish whether 
all the work would be covered under the policy. 
However, Mr H refused as he said that he had only been asked for a quotation, and he didnt 
see why he should be providing more information.
Mr H also requested compensation for the engineer not turning up, saying that this cost him 
£150 in lost wages.
Aviva agreed to pay £76.32 of the quotation received as they said that this was the cost to 
them of sending out an engineer to replace the part covered by the policy (the dimmer 
switch). But they declined the rest of the claim. Mr H was unhappy with this and lodged a 
complaint with Aviva. Aviva didnt uphold his complaint.
Mr H brought his complaint to this service and our investigator agreed with Aviva, although 
she said that Aviva should consider covering his lost wages due to the engineer not 
attending, upon receipt of evidence. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H has complained that it isnt in the terms and conditions of the policy that he has to find 
his own engineer. However, I can see from the information provided by Aviva that the reason 
he had to do this was because the engineers in his area refused to attend his property due 
to previous unacceptable behaviour. 
Mr H disputes this but it is not only one company which has declined to attend. He has 
queried why Aviva couldnt have sent out engineers from further afield, but I think in the 
circumstances its reasonable that Aviva ask him to find an electrician who will attend his 
property. 
Its also not unreasonable that this isnt explicitly explained in the terms and conditions. In 
the section General Exclusions the policy states:
 we will not start or complete any work within your home if we believe there to be a 
health and safety risk to our engineer. For example; this can include verbal abuse, 
physical abuse or harassment of the engineer or it can include the presence of 
hazardous chemicals, asbestos, dangerous pets and pest infestations (unless 
covered by us).
Aviva have put it in their terms and conditions that they will refuse to work in a home where 
engineers feel unsafe, whether through verbal abuse or other dangers. They are actually 
entitled to decline the claim for this reason. 
So, its reasonable for them to ask Mr H to find an engineer willing to attend if they couldnt 
find one who would, and this was due to his behaviour. Its also very fair for them to pay no 
more than what it would have cost them, considering that under the terms of the policy Mr H 
could have had his claim declined.
When Aviva werent able to source an engineer to attend Mr Hs home, they should have let 
him know as soon as possible that nobody would call that day. Mr H says that he had to take 
the day off work to wait for the engineer. 
Our investigator said that if Mr H is able to evidence that he had to cancel work to be at 
home, and that no other family member was available to be at home, then Aviva should 
consider paying his proven financial loss. 
My decision is based on whether Aviva acted fairly. Its not for me to handle the claim for 
them. Im satisfied its not unreasonable that without evidence, Aviva decided not to pay 
these costs. I have no doubt that if Mr H can provide evidence, Aviva will look at this again.
Another aspect of Mr Hs complaint was that Aviva requested a breakdown and more detail 
of the estimate he submitted. As the policy contains exclusions, it is fair that they would want 
to ensure the damage is covered. The quotation describes the required work as:
Damaged wiring found in ceiling light in living room (damage to insulation covering 
cables in light fitting). Faulty switch in dining room identified also damage to wiring in 
ceiling light unit. Signs of bruising to cable insulation in hallway ceiling light 
replacement recommended.
Aviva have agreed to cover the cost of replacing the faulty switch. They have offered Mr H 
£76.32 which is how much it would have cost their engineer to attend and replace the switch.
Mr H has said that it would cost more than this for an electrician to do this work. However, as 
Ive explained above, Aviva are being more than fair in paying the amount it would have cost 
them if they had been able to source, and send, an electrician to Mr Hs home. 
The policy states under the section What is covered:You are covered for an electrical emergency and breakdown of the domestic 
electrical wiring, including permanent damage caused by a power cut.
Under the section What isnt covered, it says:
Any wiring that does not form part of the permanent 240 volt electrical supply system 
e.g. satellite dishes, radio/television aerials, telephones and their associated wiring...
Aviva have declined the part of Mr Hs claim regarding replacing the ceiling lights. The 
invoice provided by Mr H says that damaged wiring was found in the ceiling lights. I would 
agree with Aviva that this wiring inside the lights would not form part of the permanent 240-
volt electrical supply system. 
Aviva have also declined the part of the claim for bruising to the cable insulation. I agree that 
this would not constitute an electrical emergency and so would not be covered by the policy.
Mr H asserts that all of the damage occurred due to the faulty dimmer switch. If this were 
true I can understand why he would expect the whole claim to be paid. 
I dont pretend to be an expert, but it seems unlikely that a dimmer switch would cause 
bruising to a cable or the damage to the wiring inside the lights described by Mr Hs 
electrician. It seems more likely that there is a fault with the lights. 
But Im sure if Mr H can provide expert evidence that the issue is with the dimmer switch 
then Aviva will consider it.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2022.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman