DRN-2924058
The complaint
Mrs and Mr P have complained about Aviva Insurance. They arent happy about the way it 
dealt with a claim under their home insurance policy.
A number of other companies have been involved in this complaint, but as Aviva are 
responsible for it Ive primarily referred to Aviva in this decision.
What happened
Mrs and Mr P made a claim under their home insurance policy way back in June 2014 
following subsidence problems at their property. And since that time, they have faced 
significant delays, problems and poor service in relation to their claim. 
Aviva responded to their initial complaints in 2015 and offered £500 in compensation. And 
when they continued to have problems with delays in concluding what was causing the 
problems at their property Mrs and Mr P complained again to Aviva. 
Aviva eventually agreed with the expert Mrs P and Mr P appointed and a plan of action to 
rectify the damage was put together by Aviva. But they have faced a significant amount of 
stress, trouble and inconvenience so Aviva offered a further £2,500 in compensation. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mrs and Mr P and agreed that the service Aviva 
provided was very poor and it significantly delayed things. As Aviva had agreed with their 
expert opinion and plan of repair our investigator focussed on whether the level of 
compensation offered was fair and she thought it was. 
As Mrs and Mr P didnt agree, maintaining that this level of compensation wasnt sufficient to 
cover the years of problems and difficulties they faced, the matter has been passed to me for 
review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As a plan of action has been put together to finally fully address the subsidence problems I 
dont propose to go over this now. If there are any further problems with this then Mrs and 
Mr P can advance a further complaint separately. So, Ill focus on the key remaining issue  
the level of compensation awarded and whether Avivas offer is fair.
As our investigator highlighted this complaint can only consider the compensation award 
from December 2015 until September 2020. This is because the complaints before this have 
been dealt with under a separate complaint and are out of time. But I will focus on the clear 
stress, inconvenience and hassle that Mrs and Mr P have faced since that time until 
September 2020.
I dont think any amount of money would compensate Mrs and Mr P for the significant 
amount of stress and inconvenience they have had to endure. But I think £2,500 (in addition 
to the £500 Aviva already awarded) is a significant amount of compensation. It is on the 
higher end of the awards this service generally makes. And Aviva has awarded this level of 
compensation in acknowledgement of the significant delays, stress and inconvenience it has 
caused.
Any insurance claim comes with a fair degree of inconvenience, especially a claim relating to 
subsidence issues. And such claims can take a long time to advance given the level of 
investigation and monitoring that can be required. And while I agree that Aviva contributed to 
the significant delay involved in this claim and should have come to an agreement about the 
best way to advance the claim and repair sooner, I think £2,500 compensation goes a long 
way to covering this. 
A lot of the problems and difficulties were unavoidable given the nature of the claim Mrs and 
Mr P faced. As our investigator explained some delays were down to the complex nature of 
the subsidence claim and were unavoidable. With the benefit of hindsight, I can see why Mrs 
and Mr P may question why certain repairs were undertaken which didnt have the desired 
effect. But that doesnt mean Aviva acted unreasonably in the steps it took initially before 
taking more drastic stabilisation repairs. Plus, I can see that the problems caused by the 
pandemic meant that some of the work was naturally delayed and put on hold until 
restrictions were lifted. And I havent considered the delays caused during the early part of 
the claim as they cant be looked at as part of this complaint as they have been dealt with 
separately. But overall I think the compensation offer is fair in the circumstances for the 
delays that were contributed to by Aviva and its agents.
So, although I know this will come as a disappointment to Mrs and Mr P as they have faced 
upheaval and disruption to their lives, I think Avivas offer of £2,500 compensation (in 
addition to the £500 it paid separately) is fair. And so I wont be asking Aviva to do anything 
further under this complaint. But if there are any further complications in finalising the claim 
or since Avivas final response of September 2020 then Mr and Mrs P are free to advance 
another complaint.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 December 2021.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman