DRN-1782422
 
The complaint
Mr G complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited declined a claim he made on his 
employer's group income protection policy.
What happened
Mr G holds an income protection policy with Aviva through his employer.  He was signed off 
work with stress in September. In April the following year, he made a claim to Aviva for his 
loss of income. He returned to work the following September, roughly a year after he was 
first signed off.
Aviva declined Mr G's claim. It said he hadn't met its definition of incapacity, and so no 
benefit was payable to him. It said the main reason Mr G was signed of work was due to an 
issue in the workplace. It pointed to the fact Mr G's first day of absence was two days after 
he'd been involved in a dispute with another member of staff and had received his final 
written warning from his employer. It said it felt that if the workplace issues were resolved, 
Mr G would be able to return to work, and in situations like this, the policy wouldn't pay out.
Mr G was unhappy with this and complained to Aviva. He said when he spoke to Aviva in 
April when he made his claim, the other member of staff had already left his employer. He 
thought he'd done enough to show he did meet the definition of incapacity, and provided a 
letter from his GP to explain there were other factors causing his stress and anxiety.
Aviva assessed Mr G's claim further but maintained its position. It said the GP's letter was 
written after Mr G was absent from work, and that the letter didn't show Mr G was unable to 
work.
Unhappy Mr G brought his complaint to us. Our investigator looked into the complaint and 
recommended it be upheld. She thought Mr G had done enough to show he was 
incapacitated as defined by the policy, and thought the GP's note and the fact the other 
employee left Mr G's employers employment prior to him making a claim, pointed to 
workplace issues not being the reason Mr G was off work.
Aviva disagreed and asked for further evidence.
Mr G proved the notes signing him off work, and our investigator thought this too explained 
Mr G was signed off work due to stress. She thought Aviva should still pay the claim.
Aviva didn't agree. It said the sick notes showed Mr G was off work, but not what the cause 
of him being off work was. It said it wasn't willing to pay the claim, but would carry out a full 
medical review of it, and ask for further information about Mr G's medical history.
Our investigator didn't agree with this proposal. She thought Aviva had had the opportunity 
to ask for further medical information at the time of the claim in April. She thought had it 
requested it at the time, the medical information wouldn't likely show anything different to 
what the GP said in their letter explaining  the causes of Mr G's stress and anxiety.Aviva didn't agree and asked for an ombudsman's decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I'm upholding Mr G's 
complaint.
This case was finely balanced, but after considering all the points raised by both parties, I 
agree with our investigator that Mr G did meet the definition of incapacitated as defined by 
the policy.
Mr G's policy with Aviva defines incapacity as Mr G's "inability to perform on a full or part 
time basis the duties of his job role as a result of his illness or injury". Aviva have pointed put 
that the burden of proof is on Mr G to show he meets this definition, and this is true. But 
considering all the evidence, I'm satisfied he has.
Aviva were aware Mr G was off work as his employers let it know. It has now also seen 
doctors notes signing Mr G off work, and a doctors note explaining the cause of Mr G's 
stress and anxiety. This note explains he was suffering from depression and anxiety, was on 
medication and seeing a care worker.
I understand Aviva's concerns that none of this explicitly explains why Mr G was absent from 
work, nor does it explore what ability Mr G would have to carry out the duties of his job role. 
But I think there's enough information there - when viewed as a whole - to suggest on 
balance, Mr G was unable to work, on a full or a part-time basis. So as explained, I'm 
satisfied Mr G meets the policy definition of incapacitated.
Aviva are correct in saying it is for Mr G to show he meets the definition of incapacity. In this 
case Aviva said when it was informed about the claim it didn't feel the need to request 
medical evidence, and it's entitled not to. But it's now saying it would like to see further 
medical evidence. I agree with our investigator that Aviva has had its opportunity to do this.
But our role isn't to punish a business. So I've considered what would have likely happened 
had Aviva requested evidence at the time. And I've considered what it would likely show, if it 
requested it now.
I'm persuaded that were it to request further information now, it'd likely be in the same 
position it is. I say this because any request will be retrospective, and Aviva already has a 
retrospective note from Mr G's GP. I find it likely this note was based on Mr G's medical 
notes. And that, coupled with the notes explaining he's not fit for work, show Mr G met the 
policy definition of incapacity. And had Aviva requested this information at the time, I find it 
likely to have showed the same.
I've also considered Aviva's explanation that the policy won't pay out if the reason Mr G is off 
work is related to a workplace issue. This isn't specifically excluded within Mr G's policy. But 
the policy is a group policy which Mr G benefits from by being employed by his employer. It's 
not designed to pay out where the reason Mr G can't work is due to a workplace issue. 
In any case, from the evidence, I don't think Mr G was incapacitated due to a workplace 
issue. The evidence shows the workplace was likely a contributor to his stress, anxiety and 
depression. But I find it likely his stress, anxiety depression were the reason for his 
incapacity, not any issue with his work. I say this because the GP's note lists other factors, 
and the person Mr G had a dispute with left the employer prior to him making a claim in April, and Mr G didn't return to work until September.
Putting things right
I'm satisfied Mr G did meet the policy definition of incapacitated and therefore I require Aviva 
to pay Mr G's claim. He's returned to work now. So Aviva should pay Mr G's claim from the 
end of the deferred period, to the day he returned to work. Any payment Aviva makes will be 
subject to any limits set out in the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold Mr G's complaint. I require Aviva Life & Pensions UK 
Limited to:
Pay Mr G's claim for income subject to any limits set out in the policy. Payment 
should be made from the end of the deferred period to the working day immediately 
prior to Mr G's return to work.
Pay Mr G 8% simple interest on the claim payment. Simple interest should be 
calculated from the date the claim should have been paid, to the date of actual 
payment.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2020.
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman