DRN-4046889
The complaint
Mr D complains that Metro Bank PLC (Metro) wont refund a payment he says he didnt 
make. He is also unhappy with the customer service provided.
What happened
In late April 2022, Mr D noticed a transaction of £156.16 had been made from his bank 
account to a name he didnt recognise, so he informed Metro. It said it would investigate and 
get back to him. Mr D said he had to chase a response in August 2022 as he hadnt heard 
back from Metro and still hadnt received a refund. Metro apologised for the delay and 
offered £40 for the inconvenience it had caused, however stated that it wouldnt be refunding 
the disputed transaction. 
Mr D was unhappy with this, so brought the complaint to us. One of our investigators 
reviewed the complaint but didnt think Metro needed to do anything further as it provided 
evidence the payment had been authorised via online banking, which only Mr D had access 
to. 
Mr D remained unhappy and asked for the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman, so the 
complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my review of the evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
the investigator, for broadly the same reasons. 
Im pleased to see that Metro have acknowledged the delays caused were not acceptable 
and have awarded Mr D some compensation for this. I think £40 is fair in the circumstances.  
In regard to the disputed transaction itself, Metro has provided the banking log which shows 
that whoever made the payment had to authorise the transaction using Stronger Customer 
Authentication (SCA). This means they were prompted to log into Mr Ds online banking to 
authorise the transaction.
To do this, they would need to know Mr Ds 12-digit online banking customer number, 
password and three digits from the security number, which was set by Mr D. As Mr D has 
stated he hasnt shared this information with anybody else, I cant see how a third party 
could make the transaction, so I wont be asking Metro to refund it.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2023.
 
Sarah Green
Ombudsman