DRN-4309778
The complaint
Mr T complains that Aviva Insurance Limited unfairly declined his insurance claim after his 
caravan was stolen.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision earlier this month explaining why I wasnt upholding Mr Ts 
complaint. 
A summary of Mr Ts complaint is that it is claim centred. The policy required the caravan to 
be secured in a particular way and Aviva wasnt persuaded Mr T had demonstrated he had 
complied with the security requirement in the policy of a hitch-lock and wheel clamp.
I set out my provisional decision as follows:
The claim
The starting point for this is the insurance policy terms and conditions. These make clear
that it is Mr Ts responsibility to prove any loss. And to that end, Aviva recommends in the
policy under Important Information that copies of receipts, valuations, photographs, and
instruction booklets are kept by the policyholder.
The policy provides cover for the theft of a caravan, but this is conditional on other parts of
the policy. Relevant to Mr Ts circumstances is an exclusion which states the theft of a
caravan is not covered where the caravan is left unhitched unless it is protected with a hitch-
lock and wheel clamp. These security requirements were set out in the Statement of Fact
provided to Mr T. And the policy states its conditional on the security requirements when the
caravan is unhitched being true.
The question for me is whether Aviva has acted unfairly in declining the claim to date, based
on Mr T not proving he complied with the security requirements at the time of the loss.
Shortly after reporting the loss Aviva asked Mr T to provide certain details evidencing the
hitch lock and wheel clamp were in place at the time of the theft. That same day Mr T called
Aviva saying he could not evidence the security requirements. And then approximately two
hours later sent an email attaching close-up photographs of the hitch lock and wheel clamp
seemingly in situ. There was no other explanatory information given by Mr T as to where the
photos came from even though hed recently said he couldnt provide such evidence.
Aviva spent some time trying to get further details on the photographs to ascertain their
provenance. It was explained that Aviva wanted to see the metadata of when the
photographs were taken and needed the photos in a particular format. In a phone call Mr T
said the photos were taken on a mobile phone, possibly his wifes. He then said the photos
were taken by someone else who always take pictures of the caravan but were now deleted.
At a later separate interview Mr T clarified that hed made it known to friends that his claim
had been declined for the lack of evidence of the hitch lock and wheel clamp. He then
received an email from an acquaintance enclosing photographs of the locks in use on the
caravan at the storage facility when in the storage facility. Mr T couldnt recall who had sent
them.
The position has not changed since and Aviva has made several offers to Mr T to assist him
in obtaining the email(s) he received with the photos or for details of the seller or the
acquaintance, but Mr T has not given any further information.
While it might not be in dispute that Mr Ts caravan was stolen, that alone doesnt mean the
claim is covered. The policy has clear security requirements and Aviva has provided Mr T
reasonable guidance on how he can provide something that demonstrates the hitch lock and
wheel clamp were in place as required. That said, Mr T hasnt been able to provide anything
from the caravan seller that the items came with the sale. In addition, Mr Ts explanations of
the photos showing the items in situ on the caravan have been inconsistent and lacking 
persuasiveness. Mr T knew the importance of the photos and its inexplicable as to why he
would have deleted the email he was apparently sent and wont reveal who sent the photos.
As such, Im not persuaded that Mr T has shown on the balance of probabilities that he
owned the security items in question or that the items were in place and operational at the
time of the theft. And Im satisfied Aviva provided reasonable guidance to enable Mr T to
provide the information required. I dont uphold this part of Mr Ts complaint against Aviva.
The Premium
Mr T had made it apparent in emails to Aviva that he wanted a refund from the point the
caravan had been stolen as no insurance cover was being provided. The investigator asked
Aviva for its response on the premium issue, but Aviva said it wasnt willing to provide a
refund.
Although the policy was via an intermediary, that intermediary only sold (touring) caravan
insurance underwritten by Aviva and so Im persuaded was acting for Aviva in selling the
policy. I cant see that this part of Mr Ts complaint was ever addressed.
The policy terms say Mr T is entitled to a refund if he cancels the policy but on condition that
no claims have been made or are pending. The fact that a claim has been made would
mean Aviva can retain the premium. But there might be times where I think its reasonable to
expect a refund, such as when theres simply been a claim notification thats gone no further
and without a significant investigation which incurs costs in dealing with the claim.
While Aviva hasnt paid Mr Ts claim yet, if he provides information that Aviva has asked for,
he may well get it paid. And while some expenditure occurs in validating a claim, Avivas
agent has carried out a significant investigation and so claim handling costs that Aviva is
liable are for more than simply validating whether the claim is covered or not. This is a
consequence of the inconsistent information Mr T has provided during the claim and
additional costs required to interview Mr T. As such, Aviva in my view has incurred far more
cost in the investigation of the claim through no failure or issue on its part. In the
circumstances of this complaint, Im satisfied its fair that Aviva retains the premium.
Replies to my provisional decision
Mr T replied, essentially repeating points hed already made. In summary, he said:
The provisional decision was biased.
I havent attempted to achieve a resolution.
The policy terms dont state evidential photographs must be taken  if they do, I 
should point out where.
The caravan was secured with a wheel clamp and hitch-lock and Aviva has never 
disputed this.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ts reply adds nothing material to what hes already provided, and Im not persuaded to 
change the outcome I provisionally reached. However, for completeness, Ill address the 
main points Mr T has again raised:
I understand Mr T is disappointed that Im not upholding his complaint but that is not 
evidence of bias. As Ive said, Ive considered all the available evidence and 
arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of his 
complaint. And my provisional decision explains why Im not persuaded to uphold it.
In terms of a resolution, Aviva has held the door open to the claim and explained 
what Mr T needs to demonstrate. Whether he takes Aviva up on its offer is a matter 
for Mr T.
Its correct that the policy doesnt state Mr T must take photographs, but he must 
comply with the security requirements of the policy. Photographs are potentially one 
way of evidencing compliance and indeed Mr T initially offered photographs of 
compliance. But Aviva is entitled to investigate a claim and it probed for further clarity 
of the provenance of the photographs provided. It is here that Mr Ts account started 
to change, and hes not assisted Aviva by either giving details of who took and/or 
sent him the photographs.  
oHe said the photographs were taken on his wifes mobile phone, then claimed 
they were on somebody elses phone but had been deleted and then they 
were taken by someone they were on holiday with. 
oWhen challenged on the provenance he said he always goes away with the 
person, and they had to take photographs of the security devices for their 
insurer. So, the friend also took photographs of his [Mr Ts] caravan.
oNow, in Mr Ts recent reply, he says the photographs were obtained from a 
very loose acquaintance who he only knows by sight as they store a caravan 
at the same place as his was.
What Im balancing is Mr Ts word that he complied with the security requirements 
alongside the photographs, which he says are proof of the security devices on his 
caravan. Thinking carefully about what Mr T has now said, his account has changed 
again. Its because of the lack of consistency and the changing explanations that 
make his evidence about the photographs and what they represent as lacking 
credibility. This goes to the heart of whether he has complied with the security 
requirements. If the photographs are discounted, then all that leaves is Mr Ts 
recollection. And as explained, the lack of consistency as to the provenance of what 
he says the photographs represent, in my opinion, dilute the weight I attach to his 
oral statement that he had complied with the security requirements. And so, I remain 
satisfied of Avivas position that Mr T didnt comply with the requirements of the 
policy. 
As a reminder, Aviva has left the door open for Mr T to provide further information 
and it seems to me that this is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. There is 
the original seller, the person who allegedly took the photographs and the storage facility personnel who may be able to assist Mr T in providing the information Aviva 
seeks.  
My final decision
For the reasons explained in this decision I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2023.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman