DRN-4027060
The complaint
Mr R believes Moneybarn No.1 Limited trading as Moneybarn acted irresponsibly by 
agreeing a conditional sale agreement hed applied for.
Mr R is being represented in this complaint by Company R, a professional representative.
What happened
On 28 February 2018, Mr R was supplied with a used car through a conditional sale 
agreement with Moneybarn. He paid an advance payment of £50 and the agreement was for 
£9,945 over 60 months, with monthly repayments of £317.72.
Mr R has complained that Moneybarn didnt act responsibly when approving the finance. 
Hes said it wasnt affordable and, although he only missed one payment with them, it led to 
him running up debts elsewhere as he needed the car for work. Moneybarn didnt agree 
theyd acted irresponsibly, so Mr R brought his complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said that Moneybarn verified Mr Rs income at the time he made the 
application, and they also checked his credit file. While Moneybarn were unable to provide a 
copy of the credit file they checked, theyve said that Mr R had limited borrowing and recent 
adverse credit. Given the recent adverse credit, the investigator didnt think that Moneybarn 
carried out reasonable checks. And she thought they shouldve done more checks.
The investigator considered Mr Rs bank statements at the time, and she said they showed 
he had sufficient disposable income to support the payments to Moneybarn. So, she thought 
that, if Moneybarn had carried out reasonable checks, they would still have approved the 
finance. And she didnt think Moneybarn needed to do anything more.
Company R, on Mr Rs behalf, disagreed with the investigator. However, despite being 
asked, they declined to explain why they thought the finance was unaffordable to Mr R when 
it was agreed. And they declined to provide any further evidence to support their view that 
Mr R couldnt afford the payments. Instead they asked for an ombudsman to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When someone complains about irresponsible and/or unaffordable lending, there are two 
overarching questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and reasonable in all 
of the circumstances of the complaint. These are:
1. Did Moneybarn complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mr R would be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
a. if so, did Moneybarn make a fair lending decision?
b. if not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mr R 
could sustainably repay the borrowing?
2. Did Moneybarn act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
And, if I determine that Moneybarn didnt act fairly and reasonably when considering Mr Rs 
application, Ill also consider what I think is a fair way to put things right.
Did Moneybarn complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr R 
would be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
Theres no set list for what reasonable and proportionate checks are, but Id expect lenders 
to consider things such as the amount, duration and payments of the finance being applied 
for; as well as the borrowers personal circumstances at the time of each application. 
Mr R supplied Moneybarn with his payslips for December 2017 and January 2018. These 
showed an average income of £1,724.51 a month. However, Money barn have been unable 
to provide a copy of the credit report they used to calculate Mr Rs monthly expenditure. 
As Moneybarn are unable to evidence the checks they performed, I cant be satisfied that 
they carried out reasonable and proportionate checks. Therefore, Ive gone on to consider 
what Moneybarn would likely have found had reasonable and proportionate checks been 
carried out.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mr R would be able to repay 
the credit in a sustainable way?
In these circumstances, I would usually consider the historical data on an up to date credit 
search, which would show what a financial business would likely have seen at the time any 
finance was approved. This information can only be obtained from the consumer, and its not 
possible for either ourselves or the financial business to get this.
However, in this instance, Company R have confirmed that Mr R was unable to provide this 
information. As such, I need to consider whether the finance was affordable based on the 
information provided from other sources.
Mr R has provided bank statements for the period 1 November 2017 to 31 January 2018. 
The finance agreement came into force on 28 February 2018 and, while I wouldnt 
necessarily have expected Moneybarn to ask for bank statements, I think these statements 
give a good indication of what Moneybarn would likely have discovered if theyd asked about 
Mr Rs income and expenditure at the time.
The bank statements for the three-month period before the account with Moneybarn was 
opened show Mr R had an average income of £1,710. But, one of the payslips is 
substantially higher than the others, indicating some form of additional payment for that 
month. I therefore think its reasonable for any calculations to be based on Mr Rs £1,690 
regular monthly income.
Ive also noted that Mr Rs bank statements dont show any accommodation costs. However, 
he was in the armed forces at the time of the application, and hes said he was living away 
from his ex-partner and his children. I think its therefore reasonable to conclude that Mr R 
was in forces accommodation. And its my understanding that any costs for this is dealt with 
as a direct deduction from his pay.The bank statements show that Mr R had regular outgoings averaging £952 a month. This 
was for TV, phone, games console subscription, car tax, insurances, and credit 
commitments. The credit commitments show that Mr R was using short-term credit, also 
referred to as PayDay loans. During the three-month period of the bank statements he 
borrowed £1,513 and paid back £1,345. Given the nature of this type of lending, Im satisfied 
that Mr R was generally paying back what he borrowed, and that he wasnt in a position 
where these loans went unpaid.
Even allowing for these credit commitments, and the payment to Moneybarn, the bank 
statements show that Mr R had £420 disposable income a month  about 25% of his net 
monthly income  for discretionary expenditure.
So, taking all this into consideration Im satisfied that, had Moneybarn carried out 
proportionate checks, they wouldve seen that the finance was affordable. And they therefore 
acted responsibly when approving the credit. And I wont be asking then to do anything 
more.
Did Moneybarn act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I havent seen anything to make me think Moneybarn acted unfairly or unreasonably in some 
other way.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint about Moneybarn No.1 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman