DRN-3617709
The complaint
Mr C complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) applied a default to his 
account, despite telling him it would not do so until his complaint was resolved. He wants the 
default to be removed from his credit file and to be compensated for the inconvenience that 
this has caused him.
What happened
Mr C has previously complained to this service about this NatWest account. This specific 
complaint is distinct from the previous one in that it relates to the fact that the account was 
closed and a default applied to his credit file. While the historical issues are relevant to the 
complaint to give context, it is only the closure and default which can be considered by me 
here.
Mr C had held a bank account with NatWest for some time and made use of an overdraft 
facility. Fees were applied to the overdraft, which fall outside the ambit of this complaint. 
NatWest issued a default notice on 16 August 2019, requiring that Mr C pay back the 
overdraft and all fees which had been incurred on it. On 3 September 2019, NatWest wrote 
again to Mr C to tell him that this payment needed to be made.
On 6 September 2019, Mr C called NatWest to complain about the handling of his account. 
That complaint falls outside this one. On 16 September 2019, NatWest wrote to Mr C to 
terminate his overdraft and to demand payment in full by 24 September 2019.
Mr C called NatWest on 19 September 2019 to complain about the threat of default. 
NatWest said that it would not take any further action in relation to his account until the 
complaint was resolved. On 9 October 2019, NatWest wrote to Mr C to tell him that it had 
completed its investigation and did not think it had got anything wrong. The letter also said 
going forward please contact the collections department at your earliest opportunity in 
order to discuss your options in addressing the outstanding balance on your account. 
NatWest says that this closed the complaint and that it extended its hold on further action 
until 21 October 2019 in case Mr C replied again. As he did not do so, NatWest says that it 
applied a default to the account, passing it to the collections department on 30 October 
2019.
Mr C says that this was wrong. He says that his complaint had not yet been resolved and 
that the promise to hold off on action should have been maintained until it had been. He 
says, in particular, that NatWest knew that he intended to pass his complaint to this service 
and that the default should not have been applied until his complaint with the ombudsman 
had been resolved.
Our investigator did not think that NatWest had done anything wrong. They had paused their 
process as promised, and reinstated it once the complaint had been dealt with. They had set 
out in their letter of 9 October 2019 that he should contact the collections department, which 
he did not do.
Mr C did not agree and so this has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Mr Cs overdraft, together with the fees, was in default and NatWest was entitled to require 
repayment as it did. The terms and conditions of the account clearly provided that the 
overdraft could be called in at any time, and I am satisfied that, given the fees which were 
accruing, it was fair and reasonable for the bank to decide to seek repayment when it did.
NatWest served a default notice, and wrote again to tell Mr C that he must pay. It wrote 
again to terminate the overdraft and demand repayment by 24 September 2019, more than 
30 days after the default notice. The terms and conditions of the account make clear that the 
overdraft was repayable on demand, meaning that NatWest could ask for it to be repaid at 
any time, but that they would usually give 30 days notice before requiring that payment. 
Writing to Mr C about this was therefore in line with the terms and conditions on the account, 
and I think it was a reasonable approach to give Mr C notice of its intentions. Mr C 
complained about this, and it promised to pause proceedings while that complaint was 
addressed. 
I have listened to the telephone calls between Mr C and the bank from September 2019. 
They dont contain any reference to the pause being extended to cover any investigation by 
this service, but only to the pause during the banks investigation of the complaint.
NatWest resolved the complaint, and wrote to tell him on 9 October 2019. That letter also 
informed Mr C both that he should contact the collections department and that he could 
complain about the decision to this service. Mr C thought that such a complaint would extend 
the pause, but NatWest had not said anything which suggested that this would happen. That 
being the case, I must decide whether it would be fair to require that the pause be extended 
to allow a complaint to this service to be investigated and determined. While I can certainly 
understand Mr Cs frustration, I do not think that it would be.
Banks are entitled to call in debts in these circumstances, and it is appropriate that they 
provide accurate information to the credit reference agencies. Information about defaults is 
an important example of the kind of information which is relevant to lending decisions and 
should be reported to the credit reference agencies in a timely fashion. If a complaint comes 
to this service, and it is found that such a default was wrongly applied, then it can be 
removed from the credit reference agency files at that point. I do not think it is fair or 
reasonable to require that no such action is taken in the meantime simply so there can be a 
referral to this service. This would cause an unreasonable delay in important and accurate 
reporting.
While I can understand Mr Cs disappointment with this outcome, I agree with our 
investigator that NatWest did not get anything wrong. 
My final decision
In the circumstances, I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 
2 December 2022.
 
Marc Kelly
Ombudsman