DRN-3811545
The complaint
Mr I has complained that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax unfairly declined his 
application for a £30,000 further advance on his mortgage in November 2021.
What happened
Mr I has a mortgage with Halifax. In October 2021 he applied for a further advance of 
£30,300, increasing his borrowing to approximately £168,700. When the application was 
started, it wasnt able to proceed immediately because a second charge was flagged up on 
Halifaxs system. 
The bank asked Mr I to check his credit file to find out what this was, but while doing so 
Halifax continued with the application process to verify the rest of the information  primarily 
income and expenditure  whilst waiting for Mr I to clarify what the charge was about. After 
Mr I provided a copy of his credit report, and after Halifax checked the Land Registry, the 
bank was satisfied that the charge had been removed and wouldnt therefore affect the 
lending. But the application didnt proceed for a different reason  it didnt pass Halifaxs 
affordability criteria, and so no illustration or offer was issued by the bank.
Mr I was unhappy about this and complained, because he believed the additional borrowing 
would be affordable. In its final response letter Halifax didnt uphold the complaint, but noted 
that Mr I was due to start a new job and that if improved his finances, then he could apply 
again. Halifax also clarified that its criteria could change, which might also affect any future 
application.
In February 2022 Mr I made another application. By this time hed started his new job and 
this time he passed Halifaxs affordability criteria and the further advance was granted in 
March 2022.
Mr I complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. He thought Halifax had treated him 
unfairly by declining his first application. An investigator looked at what had happened but 
didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She noted that not all Mr Is income met the 
banks lending criteria, which led to the decline of the application. However, because Mr I 
had started a new job in January 2022, this made a difference to the later application he 
made.
Mr I didnt accept the investigators findings. He said that shed minimised his complaint and 
failed to consider the costs and inconvenience caused to him by the errors and delays by 
Halifax.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Halifax is entitled to set its own lending criteria. Decisions that Halifax makes in respect of 
what those criteria are, its attitude to risk involved in this particular lending assessment, and 
whether it should lend and if so, on what terms are clearly discretionary matters for Halifaxs 
own commercial judgement that I would not interfere with.
Halifax has provided information about its lending criteria and about what was taken into 
account in its consideration of the application. Im entitled to treat this as confidential, 
because it is commercially sensitive. But after considering this information, Im satisfied that 
Halifax reached its lending decision fairly, after taking into account all relevant factors, 
including affordability, and Mr Is specific circumstances. Given this, Im satisfied that Halifax 
gave fair consideration to this application and so legitimately exercised its commercial 
judgement when declining the application.
The application in November 2021 was declined because some of Mr Is income didnt meet 
Halifaxs allowable income criteria, and so Halifax wasnt able to take it into consideration. 
Im satisfied that Halifax is entitled to decide what sources of income it will, or wont, allow 
when assessing an application, and that its decision to decline the application on this basis 
was reasonable.
I am glad to note that by March 2022 Mr I had a different source of income that enabled him 
to pass the banks assessment, and the further advance was granted.
Mr I says that the investigator failed to take into account the impact on him of the banks 
errors and delays. However, although I acknowledge Mr Is strength of feeling, after 
considering the evidence, there is no basis on which I am able to find that Halifax has done 
anything wrong here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman