DRN-3878000
The complaint
Miss P complains that Think Money Limited blocked two payments she tried to make from 
her account in September 2022 and wasnt called back when she raised questions about her 
account.
What happened
Miss P had an account with Think Money. The product included a bills account, which 
incomes, direct debits and faster payments were sent to and from, and a pre-paid debit card 
account which could be used for general spending.
On 14 September 2021, Miss P tried to make an outbound payment of £255. On 15 
September, Miss P tried to make a further payment of £65. But Think Money said that its 
compliance procedures and security and risk checks meant that it couldnt make these 
payments. It then carried out a review and on 14 October 2021 decided to close Miss Ps 
account. The closure took place on 26 October. Think Money then sent Miss P the remaining 
funds.
Dissatisfied, Miss P complained to Think Money. Think Money looked at this and didnt think 
it had made a mistake. But it accepted it could have completed its review slightly quicker. It 
also accepted that Miss P had needed to wait a long time when calling them to find out what 
was happening. It offered £30 to compensate Miss P for the trouble and upset it caused.
I issued my provisional findings on this complaint on 15 February 2023. In my provisional 
decision I said:
Financial businesses like Think Money are subject to a number of legal and 
regulatory requirements. This mean that Think Money needs to monitor transactions 
into and out of an account and may need to review payments at any time. Where it 
does this it doesnt need to give reasons.
Here, Think Money blocked payments into Miss Ps account and carried out a 
review. It then closed Miss Ps account. Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that 
Think Money was acting in line with its legal and regulatory obligations when it 
blocked and reviewed the payments out of Miss Ps account.
Think Money then carried out its review. Id expect Think Money to carry out its 
review in a timely manner  and here, Think Money accepts that it could have 
completed things faster than it did. It also accepts that Miss B had to wait a while 
when she called to find out what was happening. I note Miss B says she was also 
given confusing information about the balance left on the account.
Finally, Think Money decided to close the account. The terms and conditions 
allowed Think Money to close this account in certain circumstances. Here, Think 
Money gave Miss B just over a week to make alternative arrangements. Based on 
what Ive seen, Im satisfied that Think Money acted in line with the applicable terms 
and conditions when it closed the account.
Ive therefore considered what Think Money needs to do to put things right. I accept 
that Think Money acted in line with its legal and regulatory obligations, and the terms 
and conditions of the account, when it reviewed these payments. So while I accept 
that this would have been inconvenient to Miss P, thats not something I will award 
compensation for. 
But Think Money agrees it could have reviewed things quicker, and that Miss P had 
to wait a while when she called to find out what was happening. 
Where I make awards for distress or inconvenience, this isnt to punish the business 
but to reflect the impact its actions had on the complainant. I acknowledge that Think 
Money blocked two payments. But it appears Miss P otherwise had access to her 
account during this period  she received a large number of other payments into the 
account, and appears to otherwise have been able to use the card account for her 
normal spending. For much of this period, Miss Ps balance was considerably greater 
than the value of the funds that were blocked - and Miss P has also told us she was 
able to borrow funds to make the payments that were blocked, and was able to pay 
that back again once shed got the money back. I further note that weve asked Miss 
P whether this Think Money account was her main account, what she was using the 
account for and for details of her employment or source of income around this time, 
but she hasnt answered this.
With all this in mind, Im not persuaded to award more than the £30 already offered 
by Think Money. I understand this was issued to Miss P by cheque which she says 
hasnt been paid, so Think Money may need to reissue this. Otherwise Im not 
minded to make a further award.
I said that Id consider any further comments I got by 1 March 2023.
Think Money have replied to say theyre willing to reissue the cheque to Miss P. Miss P 
hasnt sent me anything further to consider. Ive therefore reviewed the complaint afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss P hasnt sent me anything further to consider. Think Money has confirmed that it will re-
issue its cheque to Miss P. I therefore reach the same conclusions for the same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons above, my final decision is that Think Money Limiteds offer of £30 is fair. As 
the original cheque has expired it should now reissue this to Miss P. I make no further 
award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 March 2023.
 
Rebecca Hardman
Ombudsman