DRN-4172413
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy that Bank of Scotland trading as Halifax hasnt refunded him for the money 
he lost as part of a third-party scam.
What happened
Mr H received a call from someone claiming to be from the National Insurance Office, they 
told him multiple other accounts had been set up using his National Insurance number and 
were accusing him of fraud. In his original testimony to the bank, Mr H said the scammer told 
him in order to prove the other accounts werent his, he needed to work with them to catch 
the fraudster. Mr H said they asked him to transfer money into another account. Mr H also 
said they asked him to confirm his local police station number, so he found it on the internet 
and gave them this. (I note this differs from the more recent testimony provided by Mr Hs 
representatives where they say the scammer gave him the number for the local police and 
Mr H checked this on the internet). Either way this seems to have been in order that he 
would get a call from the police to confirm what they were saying was true. 
Mr H received a second call from someone claiming to be an officer from the local Police 
Station who confirmed the previous call was genuine. The number they were calling Mr H 
from matched the number he found online, because of this he believed everything was true 
and followed the instructions he was given.
Mr H transferred £4,998 and then attempted to transfer a second payment. This second 
payment was stopped by the bank and the scam uncovered when Mr H later called to 
unblock the transfer.
Halifax did not uphold the complaint, so Mr H brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint in part. He felt that the bank could have done more 
when Mr H made the payment, but he didnt think Mr H had a reasonable basis for believing 
this was a legitimate request.
The bank agreed to settle 50% of the transaction as outlined in the view but Mr H did not 
agree. As the case could not be resolved informally, its been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law and 
regulations; regulatory rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Halifax has signed up to the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(CRM Code), and it was in force at the time the payment was made. Under the CRM Code, 
the starting principle is that a firm should reimburse a customer who has been the victim of 
an Authorised Push Payment (APP) scam. But under the CRM code, a firm may choose not 
to reimburse a customer if it can establish that:
The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that:
the payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay;
the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or
the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate
There are further exceptions within the CRM code, but these dont apply here.
Following our investigators view, Halifax agreed to refund 50%; accepting that it ought to 
have done more and recognising that means it bears some responsibility for Mr Hs loss. As 
Halifax has provided a partial refund to reflect this - there is no need for me to consider the 
banks responsibility under the CRM Code further.
Did Mr H have a reasonable basis for belief?
I need to consider not just whether Mr H believed he was sending money to a safe account, 
but whether it was reasonable for him to do so. Ive thought about the steps Mr H took to 
reassure himself about the legitimacy of the transaction and whether it was reasonable for 
him to proceed with the payments. 
Specifically, I have taken into account Mr Hs circumstances in which he received the call 
and the pressure he was likely under in the moment of a call like this. I accept this is a finely 
balanced case, but overall, I still dont consider Mr H had a reasonable basis for believing 
the person he was transacting with was legitimate for the reasons below:
The initial call came from a mobile number and the caller knew no personal 
information about the customer. Mr H gave up his personal information including his 
National insurance number.
It seems from Mr Hs original testimony to the bank that Mr H may have had some 
doubts in the initial call which is what led to the second police call to prove it was 
true. But the scammers didnt seem to know who his local police station was or the 
number  as they got this information from Mr H himself.
I appreciate Mr H was at work and there may not have been much time between the 
calls  but there was time to check on the internet (as he says he did) the number of 
his local police station. So I think Mr H would have had time between calls to check 
things further.
Mr H was told not to tell the bank the truth about the reason for the payment if the 
payment was blocked  this seems odd to me and should have caused him concern.
The confirmation of payee came up with a no match, but Mr H says he was in a panic 
so just allowed it to go through. I appreciate Mr H believed what he was being told 
but this ought to have been a sign that things were not quite right.
I accept that M H says he verified the number  which was likely spoofed. I also accept that 
calls like this are designed to create pressure and disrupt the victims thinking. But there was 
time to look up his local police station number and therefore some time (albeit I appreciate it 
might not have been long) in between the calls to check things like his credit report or call 
the bank.
On balance, when considering the circumstances, I cant fairly say Mr H has proceeded to 
make the payment with a reasonable basis for believing the payment was legitimate. Im 
persuaded this was sufficient reason for Halifax to fairly decline to reimburse Mr H with the 
full amount of this payment, and I think the 50% refund it has already agreed to pay for this 
payment is fair and reasonable given the circumstances.Recovery of funds 
Ive also thought about whether Halifax took reasonable steps to recover Mr Hs funds once 
it was made aware, he was the victim of a scam. The scam payment was made on 1 
February at 12:51 and Mr H called Halifax at 18:03 and the scam logged at 18:17 the same 
day. From what Ive seen Halifax did not contact the receiving bank until 10:10 the following 
day and was told a few hours later that no funds remain. I have now seen the information 
from the beneficiary bank showing the majority of funds left the beneficiary account 
immediately (all but £3 was taken within eight minutes of Mr H sending the money). By the 
time the scam call was logged the remaining £3 had also left the account and no funds 
remained. So, although I think there was a delay in Halifax contacting the beneficiary bank, I 
dont consider it would make a difference in this case - as funds had already left the 
scammers account before the matter was reported to Halifax.
Im sorry Mr H has lost a considerable amount of money and I can understand why he would 
like to be compensated for more of his losses. I do accept he has fallen victim to what can 
only be described as a cruel and callous scam. But Im only considering whether the bank, 
which had no involvement in the scam itself, should be held responsible for what happened 
and whether it is fair to hold it responsible for all of Mr Hs losses when there were signs that 
things were not quite right.  
Putting things right
In order to put things right for Mr H Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax must now
Pay Mr H 50% of the transaction (so £2,499) within 28 days of receiving notification 
of his acceptance of my final decision: plus
Pay 8% simple interest on that sum from the claim was declined under the CRM 
Code to the date of refund1. 
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint in part and require Bank of Scotland plc trading 
as Halifax to put things right for Mr H as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 September 2023.
 
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman
1 If Halifax is legally required to deduct tax from the interest should send Mr H a tax deduction 
certificate so he can claim it back from HMRC if appropriate.