DRN-1841310
The complaint
Mrs R complains that Experian Limited misled her into opening an account with it.
What happened
Mrs R says she was unaware until the summer of 2019 that she had been paying a monthly 
fee for several years to Experian for an account that kept her updated on her credit file and 
allowed her to check it. She complained to Experian.
Experian referred her complaint to its Fraud Department as Mrs R said she had not 
authorised any payments to be taken for the account which was in her name. The Fraud 
Department cancelled the subscription. Experian advised Mrs R that she would need to 
contact her card provider regarding any reimbursement for a fraudulent payment.
Mrs R accepted that she had opened the account with Experian but said she had not done 
so intentionally as she had no need for its services. Mrs R said that from recall she had 
opened the account via another companys website which had been offering a promotion for 
a voucher for money off future air travel. She said she had no knowledge of the account she 
held with Experian or that she had been paying for it each month for a period of five years. 
Mrs R asked for all her subscription money to be reimbursed.
Experian didnt uphold Mrs Rs complaint. It said that she had completed an application in 
September 2014 and agreed to the terms and conditions that applied to the account.
Mrs R complained to this service. Our investigator didnt recommend Mrs Rs complaint 
should be upheld. She said that the original completed form was no longer available, but 
Experian had provided a copy of the application form and the answers provided by Mrs R, 
which included her personal details, mothers maiden name and the number of her card from 
which payments were to be deducted. The application form had been clear that a monthly 
charge would be applied after a 30-day free trial. She said it was more likely than not that 
Mrs R had signed up for the service.
Mrs R disagreed with the view of our investigator. She said she didnt accept that she had 
signed up for this account and didnt recognise the application form. Mrs R said she had no 
need for this service and hadnt used it in all the time her account had been open.
As the parties didnt agree the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Experian says that the only way to apply to open an account to use its services is via its own 
website, though its possible that there are adverts or promotions for its services displayed 
on other companies websites. However, once the advert or promotion was clicked on then 
the consumer would be directed to Experians own website.
Mrs R says she doesnt agree with what Experian has said as her recollection was that she 
applied for a promotional voucher to get money off future air travel that was advertised on 
another companys website. She says she wasnt aware she was opening an account with 
Experian and had no need for it which is corroborated by her subsequently never having 
accessed the account. Mrs R says she thinks the information she provided that opened the 
account was given because she thought it was required to receive the promotional voucher. 
Mrs R also says that this has happened with another company offering a similar service and 
that company had reimbursed all her subscription money when she had raised it with them 
that she hadnt been aware of the account being opened. She says its unfair Experian isnt 
agreeing to do the same thing. Mrs R says she feels duped into opening the account with 
Experian.
Experian says that its application form is clear that there will be a monthly charge for its 
service and an account cant be opened unless the consumer agrees to its terms and 
conditions. It says that Mrs R accessed her credit file on the day she opened the account. 
Experian also says that over the years it has sent Mrs R a number of emails regarding her 
credit file. All of these emails would have invited her to access her account for further 
information or to check details.
Due to the passage of time Experian isnt able to provide me with the application form 
actually completed by Mrs R. It has instead sent me a blank copy of the two-page application 
form and the answers given by Mrs R which were then entered into its system.
Where evidence is missing or contradictory then I must decide what I think is the most likely 
thing to have happened. While Ive seen that Mrs R is adamant she didnt apply for the 
account with Experian I do have to consider that this was now nearly five years ago, so I 
dont think its likely that recollections will be that clear. And Mrs R has also said that she 
thinks that she may have accessed the Experian website when seeking a promotional 
voucher from another company so it would be fair to say she isnt certain what happened.
Looking at the evidence that I have, I can see that to open an account with Experian a two-
page application form needs to be completed. I appreciate Mrs R says she doesnt recall 
ever seeing this form before, but Experian is clear that the information on this form is 
required to open the account as is the acceptance of the terms and conditions. And it says 
there is no other way to open an account than through its own website.  So, I think its more 
likely than not that Mrs R was directed to the Experian website when she was looking at the 
promotional offer.
Once on the Experian website, I think its more likely than not that Mrs R was taken to the 
application form for the account. At the top of the application there are two boxes, one says 
that if you are new customer then there is a 30-day free trial after which a monthly fee will be 
charged. The other box says if you are a returning customer then the monthly fee becomes 
payable once the account is reactivated. Mrs R has queried the what is meant by 
reactivation, but this didnt apply to her as she hadnt had an account before with Experian.
Looking at the answers to the questions that have been recorded by Experian I think that 
due to the detail that has been provided that its more likely than not that this information was 
given by Mrs R. I appreciate Mrs R says she thinks she may have given this information to 
obtain the voucher, but I think it would be very unusual to give your mothers maiden name 
and card details to receive a money off voucher. I also think that the application form is clear that an account is being opened and that there 
is a monthly charge for this service. The cost appears at both the top and bottom of the form. 
There is also a box that has to be ticked to say you agree to the terms and conditions and a 
recommendation that these terms are read before doing so. There is also an optional box 
that asks why you are opening an account which has a drop-down menu of answers to 
select. From the responses recorded by Experian Mrs R opted to answer this and selected it 
was to Review the accuracy of my credit report.
Ive also seen that Mrs R accessed her credit file on the day she opened the account though 
I accept she made no further use of it.
So, although I appreciate Mrs R may have misunderstood the account she was opening I 
dont think I can reasonably say this was the fault of Experian. The application form is clear 
that its for a credit monitoring service and that a monthly fee will apply after the first 30-days 
has passed. And as Mrs R accessed her credit file on the day of the application, I think she 
was aware of the service and the subsequent cost.
Ive also seen that Mrs R was sent a number of emails from Experian while her account was 
active. Mrs R says she would have dismissed these as junk and so not looked at them. 
However, these emails did invite her to login into her account.
Mrs R says that another company refunded her payments in similar circumstances and 
Experian is acting unfairly in not doing the same. But I dont know how that account was 
opened. Here, I think Mrs R applied for account and agreed to be bound by its terms and 
conditions so I cant say Experian has acted unreasonably. It cancelled her subscription 
when she made contact.
So, although I appreciate my decision will be of disappointment to Mrs R, Im not upholding 
her complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im not upholding Mrs Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 02 November 2020.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman