DRN-4264207
The complaint
This complaints about a mortgage Mr A used to hold with be Bank of Scotland Plc trading as 
Birmingham Midshires (BM). The essence of the complaint is that BM sent Mr A a payment 
notice increasing the monthly payment to around £2,000; hed previously been paying in the 
region of £700. Mr A complains that BM then recorded adverse information on his credit file, 
which has ruined his credit score. 
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mr A and BM; theyve been set out 
in correspondence between both parties. Im also aware that the investigator issued a 
comprehensive response to the complaint which has been shared with all parties, and so I 
dont need to repeat all of the details here. 
Instead, Ill provide a brief summary of the key points, in my own words, rounding the figures, 
and then focus on the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be 
because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the 
complaint. 
Mr As mortgage was in two parts, an interest-only component with a balance of around 
£44,000 and a capital repayment element which, by the end of 2021, had an outstanding 
balance of a little under £2,000. Both parts were due for repayment in February 2022. An 
interest rate change took place at the end of 2021, prompting a review of the contractual 
monthly payment (CMP). With the mortgage due to end so soon, the revised CMP went up 
to just over £1,820. About £80 of this was the monthly interest due on the interest-only part 
of the mortgage. The rest was the final payment on the capital repayment element. 
Mr A told us he was so shocked by this that he stopped payments altogether for several 
months. This causes arrears to accrue, which BM reported on his credit file and sent him 
letters asking him to pay. In October, Mr A made a payment of about £1,990, which cleared 
the balance of the capital repayment element, and the CMP came down to a little over £80. 
In a final response issued in November 2022, BM said that provided Mr A then continued to 
make the monthly CMP, the account would show as up to date and be reported as such 
going forward.
When the complaint came to us, our investigator thought BMs reporting on Mr As credit file, 
had been reasonable. But he thought the arrears letters had overstated the true position by 
treating the unpaid CMP every month as nearly £2,000, thus increasing the overdue balance 
quoted in its chase letters by that amount each month. The investigator thought BM should 
pay Mr A £150 compensation for the distress this caused. 
Mr A asked for the case to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point here is that the terms of the mortgage agreement Mr A was due to repay 
the mortgage in full in February 2022. That should not have come as a complete surprise to 
him, as the mortgage term was in the original mortgage offer, and the remaining term would 
have been included in each annual statement Mr A received from BM. Additionally, BM 
wrote to Mr A in January 2022, entirely separately from the CMP change notification, 
reminding him that he was due to pay the full balance (a little under £47,000) the following 
month, and asked him to call it to discuss how he intended to do that.
Looked at in that context, being asked to pay a CMP of around £1,820 at the same time as 
being asked how he intended to pay the full balance of almost £47,000 should not have 
been quite so shocking as Mr A has indicated. But in any event, the CMP increase wasnt, in 
itself, an error. It was the amount Mr A was due to pay on the capital repayment part of the 
mortgage, in order to clear it when due.
Nor was it an error on BMs part to then record the entries it made on Mr As credit report. 
That was direct consequence of Mr A ceasing to pay anything at all for several months. 
Whatever difficulties Mr A may then have experienced when trying to obtain credit 
elsewhere, they arent the result of a mistake by BM. I dont mean this unkindly, but theyre 
the result of Mr A not paying the increased CMP to clear the capital repayment element 
when due. 
Had he done that, the CMP would then have immediately reduced to reflect just the amount 
due each month on the interest-only element, until such time as Mr A could arrange to 
refinance the remaining balance, which I understand he has recently done. If Mr A wasnt 
able to pay the increased CMP asked of him by BM at the beginning of 2022, then I think a 
more reasoned response would have been to pay as much as he could, and then discuss 
the situation with BM. Paying nothing at all can never do anything other than make a bad 
situation worse.
BM was at fault in the way it represented the arrears balance being demanded in the letters 
it sent Mr A during 2022. For the upset that caused, its my view that £150 compensation is 
fair in all the circumstances, given the wider context of the whole mortgage being overdue 
for repayment.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part only. In full and final settlement, 
I order be Bank of Scotland Plc trading as Birmingham Midshires to pay Mr A £150. I make 
no other order or award
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2024. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman