DRN-3278985
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as E, complains that National Westminster Bank Plc made 
errors when closing its account and terminating a Bounce Back Loan facility.
Mr W is Es director and brings the complaint on the companys behalf.
What happened
E banked with NatWest. It applied to the bank for a Bounce Back Loan of £50,000 shortly 
after the government-backed scheme was launched on 4 May 2020, but its initial application 
was declined.
Shortly after, NatWest completed a review of Es accounts and decided it no longer wished 
to offer its services to the company. It wrote to E on 14 May 2020 to explain this, advising 
that Es accounts would be closed in 60 days time.
Concurrently, Mr W challenged NatWests decision to decline Es Bounce Back Loan 
application. And, following a further review, it was approved. The bank issued E with a loan 
agreement, which Mr W signed and returned. The loan was drawn down on 22 May. But on 
the same day, NatWest realised that the loan should not have been provided as it was in the 
process of closing Es accounts. So it blocked Es accounts, meaning it couldnt access the 
loan or its existing funds.
NatWest terminated the Bounce Back Loan agreement and reversed the £50,000 dispersal 
on 27 May. But Es accounts remained blocked until they were closed in July 2020. NatWest 
issued the outstanding balance to the company by cheque on 23 July. 
E subsequently opened accounts elsewhere and attempted to apply to other lenders for a 
Bounce Back Loan, but was unsuccessful. 
Mr W doesnt think NatWest treated E fairly. While accepting the banks right to close the 
companys accounts, it unfairly restricted his access to them during the 60-day notice 
period  depriving E of access to its funds until the cheque was received and cleared on 6 
August. And he says that NatWests actions left the company unable to access the Bounce 
Back Loan Scheme. This was because businesses were only entitled to one loan under the 
Scheme and NatWest hadnt removed the record of Es loan after its termination  so the 
companys subsequent applications to other providers had all been declined. 
Mr W says that these issues all had a significant financial impact on E, leaving it unable to 
pay staff, rent or creditors. He also says the company was left without an account, which 
meant that it couldnt utilise other financial support during the pandemic, such as the 
furlough scheme. And he says that being unable to access the Bounce Back Loan Scheme 
ultimately impacted Es revenue, depriving the company of cheaper borrowing and funds that 
couldve been used to survive, invest and keep up with competitors. 
One of our investigators reviewed Es complaint and thought it should be upheld in part. In 
summary, she didnt think NatWest had done anything wrong in closing Es account or 
terminating the Bounce Back Loan facility. But she thought that NatWest had blocked Es 
accounts for longer than necessary, so to put things right she recommended that NatWest 
pay 8% interest on the account balance from 27 May until the date it was returned, along 
with £200 compensation for the inconvenience this had caused the company. Although she 
noted that NatWest hadnt updated the relevant databases to show the reversal of the 
Bounce Back Loan until 17 December 2020, she didnt think this wouldve prevented E from 
obtaining a loan elsewhere during this period.
NatWest accepted our investigators view but Mr W didnt. He said that E had been deprived 
access to its NatWest accounts after just eight days of the 60-day notice period  with no 
second account and no time to make other arrangements. This, he maintained, had left it 
unable to trade effectively  leading to missed commitments and lost revenue  and for 
which he didnt think the proposed compensation was fair. And he said that hed tried to get 
the bank to remove the Bounce Back Loan record so that E could apply elsewhere, but it 
hadnt done so  and that record was the specific reason given for the decline of a 
subsequent application elsewhere. So he asked that an ombudsman review the complaint, 
and it was passed to me to decide. 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on Es complaint earlier this month.
On issues relating to the closure and suspension of Es accounts, I said:
Under the terms and conditions of Es accounts, NatWest was entitled to close them 
at any time by giving 60 days notice. Generally speaking, such decisions are a 
matter of the banks commercial discretion. Ive not seen anything that leads me to 
think that NatWests decision was unfair or unreasonable in the circumstances here. 
Ive noted that Mr W was concerned that the decision was based on Es credit score, 
but I dont think the circumstances hes described had any bearing on the banks 
decision.
NatWest wrote to E on 14 May 2020, giving it the requisite 60 days notice of the 
closure of the companys accounts. Had things gone as they should have done, E 
wouldve continued to have the use of its accounts throughout the 60-day notice 
period, while it made alternative banking arrangements. 
However, NatWest subsequently made an error in approving Es Bounce Back Loan 
application. This led to the bank needing to take steps to reverse the transaction, 
including blocking Es account so that the loan funds could be withdrawn before they 
were utilised. While a reasonable measure in the circumstances, the need to do this 
only arose as a result of a mistake on the banks part in approving the loan 
application. And more significantly, the account in question remained blocked for 
longer than was necessary. The banks records show that the loan funds were 
recovered on 27 May 2020  five days after theyd been drawn down. So I think the 
block could and should have been removed then, which wouldve minimised the 
disruption caused to E. Instead, the block remained on Es account until it was closed 
in mid-July.
Ive thought about the impact that these errors had on E. It was always going to have 
to open a new account elsewhere, as NatWest was entitled to terminate the 
relationship. But it had to do so without the benefit of the 60-day notice period, which 
wouldve caused it some additional difficulty and inconvenience. This would also 
have been exacerbated by the fact that this all happened during the early stages of the coronavirus pandemic  which wouldve impacted E, and also saw limitations on 
the availability of banking services. 
Nonetheless, Im pleased to see that E managed to open a new account elsewhere 
on 24 May 2020. NatWest had blocked Es account on 22 May, so this means the 
company was only without an accessible bank account for 48 hours. Ive not seen 
that this caused E any financial losses or prevented it from accessing any 
government support.
E was also left without access to the funds held in the NatWest account between 22 
May 2020 and 6 August 2020 (when the cheque that NatWest issued in late July 
cleared through the companys new account). Ive taken into account what Mr W has 
said about how this affected the company, but despite a number of requests he 
hasnt provided any evidence to demonstrate the losses hes described. Given E had 
another account elsewhere from 24 May, and looking at the activity running through 
it, I cant see that E was unable to meet its commitments or that its trading was 
affected. So I dont think the company suffered any financial losses as a result of 
being without these funds.
Its right, though, that E is compensated for being deprived of the use of its funds. 
This shouldnt have been interrupted, but due to errors on the banks part it had no 
access to a significant sum between 22 May and 6 August 2020. So I think it would 
be fair for NatWest to pay E interest on this sum at a rate of 8% simple, in line with 
our usual approach. I also think this aspect of things caused E some avoidable 
inconvenience, but Ill come on to this  and how I think NatWest should put things 
right  in more detail below.
On issues relating to the Bounce Back Loan, I said:
NatWest ultimately declined Es application for a Bounce Back Loan. I dont think that 
decision was wrong or unreasonable, particularly in light of its review of its 
relationship with E and subsequent decision to withdraw its services. But it made an 
error in approving the loan initially, before recovering the funds a few days later.
As touched on above, I think it was reasonable for NatWest to recover the loan funds 
in the manner it did. The terms and conditions of the loan allowed for its termination 
in certain circumstances. As E should not have received it in the first place, I think it 
was reasonable for NatWest to recall it. It did so relatively swiftly and, importantly, 
without E having utilised the funds. And Ive not seen that this particular action 
caused the company a direct financial loss. 
However, Mr W says that NatWests provision of the loan ended up leaving it unable 
to access the Bounce Back Loan Scheme elsewhere. Businesses were only 
permitted to take out one Bounce Back Loan. As NatWest had provided one to E, it 
was recorded as such on the relevant databases. So while that record remained, E 
was unable to obtain a Bounce Back Loan from any other lender.
Although NatWest subsequently updated the relevant databases to reflect that E 
hadnt borrowed under the Scheme, it only did so on 17 December 2020  almost 
five months after it had terminated the loan given in error. E applied to other lenders 
during this time, but was declined due to the incorrect database records.
The Bounce Back Loan Scheme ran until 31 March 2021, so E still had time to 
reapply elsewhere after NatWest corrected the databases. But the company was 
unaware that there had been a change to the records  and, having had several applications declined already, I dont think Mr W wouldve seen any benefit in 
continuing to reapply. 
I agree, therefore, that E was unfairly deprived the opportunity to apply elsewhere for 
a Bounce Back Loan. 
Mr W says that this caused E significant financial losses  that it missed out on 
borrowing with low interest rates; funds which it couldve invested and from which it 
wouldve generated lost revenue. But it was only the opportunity to apply that E lost  
there is no guarantee that an application elsewhere wouldve been approved. A 
prospective lender may have declined the application just as NatWest ultimately did, 
whether for the same or different reasons. 
Even if I accept, on the limited information available, that E met the core eligibility 
requirements for a Bounce Back Loan, there were other checks that wouldve 
determined whether or not a loan would be granted. And even if E couldve obtained 
the loan, there is no way of knowing whether it would now be any better off as a 
result  the borrowing itself wouldve cost the company money, and it may or may not 
have been able to utilise the funds to generate greater profits. 
In addition, while I can see why E would be unhappy to have missed out on the 
beneficial rates offered under the Bounce Back Loan Scheme, other options were 
available to it if it needed to borrow funds (including through other government-
backed loan schemes)  but Ive not seen that it utilised these. Mr W has also 
declined to provide any detail or supporting evidence as to his claim for losses that 
he considers a consequence of NatWests errors. 
So I dont think I can say with any certainty that E was left without a Bounce Back 
Loan as a result of errors on NatWests part, or that  even if it was  the company 
has suffered a financial loss as a result. It follows that I dont intend to require the 
bank to make an award in this respect.
I do, though, think E was caused further inconvenience by NatWests errors in 
approving the Bounce Back Loan. It had to adjust its plans and explore other options 
after the bank abruptly reversed its decision to provide the loan and recall the funds. 
And it was engaged in a number of applications elsewhere, including opening 
additional new bank accounts as required by the prospective lenders, which were 
doomed to fail due to the incorrect database entry. This is in addition to the issues 
outlined previously with the suspension of the account and delay in obtaining the 
funds held therein, which also put E to some trouble in finding alternative facilities at 
short notice and following up with the bank in an effort to resolve things and obtain 
information about what was happening.
Taking all of this into account, I intend to require NatWest to pay E compensation of 
£500 for the inconvenience caused by its errors  in addition to the payment of 8% 
simple interest on the account balance as set out above. 
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional decision with any further information or 
evidence they wanted me to take into consideration before making a final decision. 
NatWest said it accepted my provisional decision. Mr W confirmed he had nothing further to 
add.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and with neither party having provided anything further for me to take into 
account, I see no reason to depart from my provisional decision. So this decision simply 
confirms my provisional findings, as set out above.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint in part and require 
National Westminster Bank Plc to:
Calculate interest on the closing account balance at a rate of 8% simple per year for 
the period 22 May 2020 to 6 August 2020 and pay this amount to E, and
Pay E compensation of £500.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2022.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman