DRN-2461936
The complaint
Mr W complains about Creation Consumer Finance Ltd.s (Creation) decision not to 
provide him with credit.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr W, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
It is for Creation to set their lending criteria and if they decide not to lend the Standards of
Lending Practice explain that they should provide the primary reason why.
Here Creation have done that. They explained that they refused to provide credit to Mr W
because he didnt pass their internal credit scoring assessment. I would not expect them to
share details of how this score is generated as thats sensitive information that could be
used by consumers to manipulate their credit applications.
Whilst I understand that Mr W has provided evidence his credit score with the credit 
reference agencies is generally excellent I dont think that means Creation necessarily had 
to accept his application. This was a six-month free credit application and I think its fair to 
say that in those circumstances a business would apply particularly stringent internal criteria.
Overall, Im afraid I dont think Creation have been unreasonable here and Im not asking 
them to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 May 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman