DRN-2130682
The complaint
Mr T, complaining on behalf of Partnership F (three partners), feels that Volkswagen 
Financial Services (UK) Limited has treated the partnership unfairly regarding end of 
contract charges for damage to a car it had hired from it.
What happened
The partnership took out a hire agreement with Volkswagen for a new car in 2016. At the 
end of the contract it returned the car. Volkswagen then invoiced (dated 16 February 2019) 
the partnership for damage to the car totalling which totalled £442.75. Volkswagen then 
removed one item damaged from the list leaving an outstanding amount of £392.11. Mr T 
disputes the level of damage to the car and says its fair wear and tear. So he complained to 
Volkswagen. 
Volkswagen considered this and referred to industry guidance about fair wear and tear, that 
of the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA). It compared the damage to 
the car with the guidance and didnt agree with Mr T so said the charges should be paid. 
Unhappy with this Mr T complained here.
Our investigator felt that one of the damage issues wasnt supported by the evidence, but 
the rest were. Accordingly the investigator upheld the complaint and felt that the outstanding 
balance should be £336.91, and that Volkswagen were acting fairly in seeking that to be paid 
to it. Volkswagen accepted this position, but the partnership did not. So this complaint comes 
to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the information I have is incomplete, unclear or contradictory (as some of it is here) I 
base my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
From the beginning of this dispute some costs of repair have been removed. As it stands 
now Volkswagen seek payment under the hire agreement for the costs of the following, 
which Partnership F disagrees with;
Repairs to Left-hand front and left-hand rear doors and refinish left-hand rear door
Refinish quarter panel left-hand rear and repair quarter panel right-hand rear
Replace flasher side repeater left-hand front
Mr T disputes the level of damage and says its fair wear and tear. But Volkswagen disagree. 
It says Partnership F had to take reasonable care of the car and it points to the guidance it 
follows on fair wear and tear, that of the BVRLA. 
Volkswagen has provided an independent inspection report and photographs of the damage 
to support its position. Mr T says its not as bad as Volkswagen makes out and has supplied 
a witness statement and comments about the damage. 
Ive considered the evidence here very carefully, particularly the pictures of the damage that 
Volkswagen has said is present and also the witness statement provided by Partnership F. I 
should add that the witness statement provided by Partnership F does detail the handover of 
the car for inspection by the last person in possession of it. However it doesnt give any 
details or comments regarding the state of the car (specifically any damage) at that time. So 
it doesnt help Partnership Fs position significantly in terms of the damage that Volkswagen 
says was present. 
Volkswagen has said the inspection was conducted by an experienced vehicle inspector in 
accordance with BVRLA fair wear and tear guidelines. It has provided details of this 
independent inspector and the firm the individual works for. So Im satisfied this is an 
independent report.
It is clear from this witness statement and the inspection report that the car was handed over 
and inspected on the same day. Ive not seen any persuasive evidence of damage being 
done between handover and inspection on that day. Accordingly any damage I find to have 
been present at the inspection on balance fairly sits with Partnership F. So I now consider 
the items charged for and decide whether Volkswagen has treated the Partnership Fairly.
Repairs to Left-hand front and Left-hand rear doors and refinish Left-hand rear door
Regarding the left-hand rear door the photograph shows a clear scratch. A ruler has been 
placed in close proximity to show its length which is significant in my view. In response 
Partnership F has said it appears fresh and that its witness has said there wasnt a scratch 
there when it was handed over. So both parties accept there is damage. And bearing in mind 
there is no persuasive evidence of any damage being done to the car between handover 
and inspection on balance I think it more likely that the damage was present when the car 
was handed over.
The damage on the left-hand front door is less obvious and I agree with Partnership F that 
one of the images seems to be more relevant to the flasher side repeater left-hand front 
damage than this door. However I can see dents in the left-hand front door. Partnership F 
says from the photo it seems to be a smear that can be wiped. I must however remember 
that the images provided isnt the entirety of the evidence. The photographs are provided as 
supporting evidence to the inspectors examination. In effect the inspector has said that 
there is damage and the photographs are provided to support his position. Clearly these 
photos could have been better. However from my consideration of this photo I think on 
balance that there are small dents in the immediate vicinity of the ruler.
I appreciate Partnership Fs comments about the rain droplets in the photo both regarding 
this part of the car and more generally. I also note its comments about what could have 
happened outside of its control and that the evidence isnt conclusive. But as Ive explained 
the test I have to apply is balance of probabilities. It is not beyond reasonable doubt or even 
the higher test of certainty. On considering the evidence available Im satisfied on balance of 
probabilities that Volkswagen is treating Partnership F fairly in regard to the doors as Im 
satisfied that there is damage needing to be repaired and that Partnership F can be charged 
for this fairly under the agreement.
Refinish quarter panel left-hand rear and repair quarter panel right-hand rearIve considered the pictures of these panels. I note that in its comments on these pictures 
Partnership F has accepted there is damage to one of the panels but as said it looks fresh. 
It has also pointed to what its witness has said to it about the state of the car that it was 
clean as far as he was concerned. Ive considered this carefully. But I note that in the 
witness statement given shortly after handover there is no persuasive comment about the 
state of the car and that what Ive quoted above doesnt categorically state that there was no 
damage to the car at all. And Partnership F are accepting there is some damage but 
suggests its not responsible for this.
I can see from the image of the left-hand rear quarter panel there is a significant scratch of 
some length and indeed width and apparent depth. So I think this requires repairing and its 
fair for Volkswagen to ask Partnership F to cover that cost.
As for the right-hand rear quarter panel I note Partnership Fs comments. I also note that in 
this photo (and some others) there are reflections of the surrounding area and indeed other 
cars which isnt always helpful. Having said that in this image I think the reflection is helpful 
in that it helps me appreciate the dent present just above the arrow on the ruler which is in 
close proximity. Accordingly I dont think Volkswagen has treated Partnership F unfairly in 
charging it for these repairs.
Replace flasher side repeater left-hand front
Partnership F has said one of the images here shows damage but isnt conclusive and the 
other image looks fine without damage. Ive considered the other image and its clear to me 
that it isnt in focus unlike the first photo image. Having said that I can see the damage in 
both photos albeit its somewhat clearer in one of the photos. I dont think Volkswagen has 
treated Partnership F unfairly here as Im satisfied it is damaged.
Partnership F has argued about the charges applied and has pointed to some of the 
mistakes made in the amounts quoted. Ive considered the report and the original invoice 
which are consistent on the charges for damage. Just because some of these have been 
misquoted in the correspondence afterward doesnt mean the correct amounts shouldnt be 
applied under the agreement.
Ive also considered the costs in relation to the repairs needed. These are in line with what 
this service expects for such repairing and refinishing work. So Im satisfied there is nothing 
unfair in the costs applied.
Overall, as Ive said, the test I must apply is balance of probabilities. Im satisfied there is 
damage to the respective areas of the car as Volkswagen has said. I think considering there 
is no persuasive evidence of the car being damaged between handover and inspection (on 
the same day) that it is likely that this damage was done to this car whilst Partnership F was 
in possession of the car. So I think it only fair that it pays those repair costs.
Putting things right
Bearing in mind Volkswagen has accepted that the evidence doesnt support all the repair 
costs it applied originally I am partially upholding this complaint. Having said that 
Volkswagen has treated Partnership F fairly in asking it to pay £336.91 for the damage Ive 
described above and has done so in line with the industry guidance on fair wear and tear. So 
it is entitled to ask Partnership F to pay that. And if Partnership F refuses to pay Volkswagen 
is entitled to use collection firms and other processes to recover the monies fairly owed.
My final decisionFor the reasons I have explained, my final decision is that I partially uphold this complaint 
about Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited as not all of the charges should be 
applied. However Volkswagen has asked Partnership F to pay £336.91 and has done so 
fairly.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2021.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman