DRN-4234679
The complaint
Mr R complains UK Insurance Limited (UKI) has declined to cover the remaining glazing on 
his conservatory under his home insurance policy.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill summarise the key 
points Ive focused on within my decision.
Following a subsidence claim in 2016, UKI funded the costs of the works for the 
conservatory to be rebuilt. 
There were issues with UKIs chosen supplier, so Mr R suggested a supplier which 
Ill refer to as S. 
In 2021, Mr R contacted S as he was unhappy that some of the glazing had some 
staining. S agreed to replace the damaged glazing at no cost to Mr R. However, the 
remaining glazing is now a different colour when viewed externally.
Mr R asked S to replace the other panels so it all matched. S declined but offered to 
replace them at 50% reduction  Mr R declined, and S has now retracted the offer. 
Mr R wants UKI to cover the costs for this to be done.
UKI issued its final response after Mr R approached our Service it declined to replace 
the remaining glass saying that Mr S had appointed the contractor, so it wasnt their 
responsibility. 
Our Investigator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr B didnt agree and as asked for his 
complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt disputed that back in 2016, after problems with UKIs chosen contractor Mr R 
suggested S. Mr R says S was appointed through the builders being used by UKI. Due to the 
passage of time UKI accept it cant evidence if Mr R was made aware that if he used his 
suggested contractor (S) that it wouldnt be acting as UKIs agent. 
Mr R was happy to use UKIs supplier and only suggested S as an option when there were 
issues with UKIs chosen supplier. I agree with our Investigator from what Ive seen Mr R 
mayve not chosen to use S if he had known this. So, I think it is fair in these circumstances 
for me to treat S as UKIs agent when the conservatory was replaced in 2016.
UKI has said for works completed by its agents it provides a 12-month guarantee. The 
staining on the glass Mr R discovered in 2021 happened 5 years after the work was 
completed so Im satisfied that the damage to the glass wouldnt be covered under that 
guarantee. 
When a repair is completed by an Insurer, we expect that repair to be effective and lasting. 
So, Ive gone onto consider if the insured works completed in 2016 was an effective and 
lasting repair.
The staining of the windows looks to have occurred from carbonate run off from the lead 
flashing although S has also indicated it could just be wear and tear. From the information 
provided by the makers of the glass it has said the lead should be treated to reduce the 
potential of carbonate run off and reduce the risk of staining. But it appears that staining of 
this nature is always possible and even if the treatment is applied it isnt guaranteed. S says 
the lead was treated when the conservatory was installed.  
In 2021 Mr R contacted S directly about the staining and enquiring what he could use to try 
and clean it. When cleaning wasnt successful S agreed to replace five panels of glass. It 
isnt clear why and this mayve been done as a goodwill gesture, as no payment was made 
by either Mr R or UKI. So, when this work was completed, Im satisfied S wasnt working as 
UKIs agent at this point. I say this as UKI had not appointed S to investigate the staining 
and it had no control over the works S took to rectify the issue for Mr R.  
Mr R has explained why he didnt contact UKI about the issue. He was told in 2019 to direct 
further enquires either to the independent surveyor dealing with the subsidence claim or this 
service. However, this was at the time the subsidence claim was being dealt with and a 
complaint was being handled by this Service this doesnt mean Mr R should not ever contact 
his insurer, but I understand why he felt the need to go directly to the company that installed 
the conservatory. 
From what Ive seen there doesnt appear to have been any investigation into whether the 
treatment applied to the lead failed or if there was any issue with it. But I also note S has 
said that the issue mayve just been gradual wear and tear. There is no evidence that the 
repairs done in 2016 were ineffective. 
In summary, Im persuaded that the works completed by S on behalf of UKI were effective 
and lasting. Ive seen no evidence that the replacement of the panels in 2021/2022 was 
authorised by UKI or done on its behalf. I am therefore unable to ask it to cover any 
problems with the work conducted by S including the colour difference. So, I wont be asking 
UKI to do anything further on this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2023.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman