DRN-1856115
 
The complaint
Mr M says Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) mis-sold him a regular premium 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy to cover his credit card repayments.
What happened
Mr M applied for a credit card by post in 2003. At the same time he took out a PPI policy to 
cover his credit card payments. The policy cost £0.60 per £100 of the balance on Mr Ms 
credit card. A successful claim on the policy wouldve paid 10% of the outstanding balance 
for up to 12 months per claim if Mr M was unable to work due to accident or sickness or lost 
his job.
Our adjudicator didnt think Mr Ms complaint should be upheld because he thought Mr M 
wouldve understood he had a choice in taking the policy and thought it wouldve provided a 
useful benefit.
Mr M disagrees. He says he didnt need the policy and it wasnt clear the policy was optional. 
So the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ms complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint.
The PPI was applied for by post in 2003 when Mr M completed a postal application for a 
credit card. Nationwide have given us a copy of the application form Mr M completed. 
Theres a separate section on the application form that deals with PPI. It gives the option to 
select PPI by ticking the Yes box or to decline PPI by ticking the No box. I can see on Mr 
Ms application form a tick has been placed in the box to take PPI. If Mr M didnt want PPI he 
could have ticked to decline cover instead. 
So I think because Mr M selected to take PPI with a tick he understood he had a choice in 
taking the policy and wanted the cover. 
Because the PPI was taken out through the post I dont think Nationwide advised Mr M to 
take PPI. What this means is that Nationwide didnt recommend PPI to Mr M, it just gave him 
information about PPI (it was up to Mr M to assess his circumstances and decide if the 
product was needed). This information needed to be given in a way that was clear, fair and 
not misleading so he could make an informed choice about buying PPI.I dont know if Nationwide did give all the proper information that was needed. But even if 
Nationwide did give all the information Mr M needed to make an informed choice on taking 
out the policy, I think he wouldve still taken the policy because at the time of sale from what 
we know about Nationwide policies:
He was eligible for the PPI.
 
It doesnt look like he wouldve been caught by any of the main exclusions in the 
terms and conditions of the policy which couldve made it difficult to make a 
successful claim.
 
At the time of the sale Mr M says he was entitled to sick pay and had savings he 
could use to make his credit card payments if he couldnt work. But the policy 
wouldve paid out on top of this and for potentially longer covering his payments for 
up to 12 months if he was to sick to work or lost his job.  So I cant see how knowing 
this information wouldve put him off buying it.
 
Theres nothing to suggest the policy wasnt affordable to Mr M and he could cancel 
the policy if he no longer wanted it. 
 
So I dont think it wouldve made a difference in how the information was given to Mr M on 
the PPI. I think he wouldve still taken out the PPI policy as it was of value to him. And so 
Nationwide doesnt have to pay back the cost of PPI to Mr M.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr M's complaint against Nationwide Building 
Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 July 2020.
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman