DRN-3656135
The complaint
Mr B complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank (Tesco) recorded 
missed payments on his credit file and applied interest and charges to his credit card 
accounts despite agreeing interest free repayment plans.  
What happened
Mr B holds two credit card accounts with Tesco.
In or around August 2020, Mr B contacted Tesco and told them his income had been 
adversely affected by the impact of the global pandemic. Tesco agreed to defer payments to 
both his credit card accounts for a period of three months and confirmed this in letters to Mr 
B.
In or around December 2020, Mr B contacted Tesco again. He said his financial situation 
hadnt improved and he wanted Tesco to provide further help and support. Tesco agreed 
interest free repayment plans on both his credit card accounts for three months. During this 
period, Mr B could make reduced repayments of £50 to each of his accounts with them. 
Tesco confirmed this in writing to Mr B.
Tesco tried to contact Mr B in February 2021 for an update on his situation. But they werent 
successful. So, they sent him a letter asking him to contact them. They reminded him that 
his normal minimum repayments would fall due towards the end of March 2021.
Mr B called Tesco on or around 26 March 2021. He said his financial situation had still not 
improved. He asked them to extend the interest free payment plans for a further period. As 
Mr Bs financial problems appeared to be longer term, Tesco wanted him to complete an 
income and expenditure analysis form before they agreed to extend any arrangement. Tesco 
sent the form to Mr B by email.
Mr B says he didnt receive the income and expenditure form. So, he continued to make 
payments of £50 each month to each account as previously agreed. 
Mr B later noticed that Tesco had been reporting missed payments on his credit file. Theyd 
also been charging interest to his account. He didnt think that was right as he was 
maintaining the agreement. So, he complained to Tesco.
Tesco investigated Mr Bs complaint but didnt agree theyd done anything wrong. They said 
the agreed repayment plans had ended. So, Mr B was required to make his contractual 
minimum repayments. They acknowledged that Mr B had contacted them in March 2021 and 
thered requested details of his income and expenditure. But they hadnt received that 
information from him. So, the repayment plans expired.
As a result, Tesco say Mr Bs account continued to accrue arrears as the required minimum 
repayments werent being received. They said theyd sent him multiple letters to inform his of 
the status of his account.
Mr B wasnt happy with Tescos response to his complaint. So, he decided to refer matters to 
this service. He said:
he was told the COVID-19 payment break wouldnt affect his credit score, but it did; 
and
he was told all interest and charges would be put on hold, but they werent.
Having looked at all the information available, our investigator didnt think Tesco had done 
anything wrong. Mr B didnt agree with our investigators findings. He said their actions had 
resulted in credit limits being reduced with other lenders and limited his ability to restructure 
his debts. He also said hed requested recordings of telephone conversations with Tesco but 
didnt receive them.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, Mr Bs complaint has been passed to me to consider 
further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) issued guidance to lenders in April 2020 which 
explained what they expected from businesses during the exceptional circumstances arising 
out of the global pandemic. They provided guidance asking businesses to consider payment 
deferrals of up to three months under regulated credit agreements. 
The FCA said their guidance applied where consumers were already experiencing or 
reasonably expect to experience temporary payment difficulties as a result of the pandemic. 
The FCA also said that firms should ensure that there is no negative impact on the 
consumers credit file because of the payment deferral.  
Further guidance was issued by the FCA in July 2020. This extended these measures, and 
where consumers were still struggling due to the global pandemic, businesses were advised 
to freeze or reduce their payments for a further three months. 
Mr B first approached Tesco in August 2020. Tesco agreed three-month payment deferrals 
in line with the FCAs guidance. However, they continued to charge interest on the balances 
owed. The FCAs guidance allowed them to do that and Tesco told Mr B about that in the 
confirmation letters they sent to him. So, I cant see that Tesco did anything wrong here.
In September 2020, the FCA announced that the support scheme would change from the 
end of October 2020. From then, firms could continue to support customers in difficulty. But 
it was down to their discretion and customers circumstances. Reporting to credit reference 
agencies was reintroduced for people that had already had the maximum six months of 
payment deferrals.
Tesco agreed a three-month interest free payment plan. This meant that Mr Bs debts 
wouldnt increase any further. From the information Ive seen, theres no evidence that Tesco 
reported any missed payments during this period. So, I cant reasonably say they did 
anything wrong here either.
Tescos files show that they proactively tried to contact Mr B again in February 2021. But 
they werent successful. So, they wrote to him. Mr B didnt contact Tesco again until just a 
few days before his contractual minimum repayments were due. He requested further 
support asking Tesco to extend the repayment arrangements further.
Tesco had identified that Mr Bs problems appeared to be more long term. So, in order to get 
a better understanding of his circumstances, they asked him to complete a form with details 
of his income and expenditure and applied a seven day hold to his accounts. This is what I 
would expect them to do here as it was important that Tesco didnt simply agree to a 
repayment plan that Mr B might have struggled to maintain. But Tesco didnt receive the 
form back from Mr B.
Mr B maintains he didnt receive that form. Tescos files suggest it was sent. Either way, it 
appears Tesco did explain they would need this before they agreed to extend any repayment 
plan. And given Mr B hadnt received the form, I wouldve expected him to contact Tesco again to ask where it was. Unfortunately, he didnt do that. While I accept he continued to 
pay £50 each month to each account, the agreements had expired. This meant the 
contractual minimum repayments were now due.
Because Tesco were receiving less than the contractual minimum amounts each month, this 
constituted missed repayments. The Information Commissioners Office (ICO) issue 
guidance and principles for the reporting of arrears, arrangements and defaults at credit 
reference agencies. These mean Tesco were obliged to report any missed or incomplete 
payments where no arrangement was in place. Thats what they did, so I cant reasonably 
say they did something wrong here either. I appreciate Mr Bs frustrations. Particularly as he 
continued to make repayments each month. But I havent found any evidence to suggest the 
arrangements were extended.
Mr B says Tescos actions impacted his credit file. As Ive explained, theres no evidence 
Tesco recorded anything adverse while the agreements and support were in place. Missed 
repayments were only reported when the arrangements ended.
Mr B also suggests Tesco had promised not to charge interest. I agree that was the case 
under the interest free repayment arrangements. And I cant see that Tesco charged him 
interest during that period. But once the arrangements ended, interest charges were made. 
And having considered Tescos terms and conditions, I think they were entitled to do that.
Finally, Mr B also asked for recordings of telephone calls with Tesco. Theyve been unable 
to recover those recordings. Theres no regulatory requirement for Tesco to record their 
calls. So, I cant reasonably hold them responsible if recordings arent available.
I want to reassure Mr B that Ive considered everything hes said and the evidence hes 
provided. But while I know he will be disappointed; Ive not been persuaded that Tesco did 
anything wrong here. So, I shant be asking them to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman