DRN-1971184
The complaint
This complaint is about a mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) policy on a Burtons 
store card that was taken out in September 2001.
The credit facility for the account was provided by a high street bank, but there has been a 
recent change in the company which is responsible for answering these types of complaint. 
The company now responsible is called AXA France IARD. Ill therefore refer mainly to AXA 
France IARD throughout this final decision, for consistency.
What happened
Mrs W says she didnt need the PPI but having it seemed to be part of the card application 
process. 
Our adjudicator has assessed this complaint and already provided a view that it shouldnt be 
upheld. Mrs W disagreed and so her complaint has been passed to me for an ombudsmans 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ws complaint. I appreciate she will be 
disappointed, so Ill explain carefully why this is.
Mrs Ws card account was taken out by filling out an application leaflet in the store. 
Weve seen a number of very similar PPI sales with the same retailer from around this 
time. Weve also spoken at length to the companies involved to gain an understanding of 
the processes that were generally used around the early 2000s. We know, for example, 
that consumers were asked to fill out a card account application which was part of a wider 
leaflet-based form. The terms and conditions of the PPI were included in what the 
applicant was given to complete.
Im further helped by having to hand the actual form and credit agreement Mrs W filled out 
when she took out her card. Theres a section on the application leaflet about the PPI 
where she was invited to either sign her name - or leave blank - an option box to have PPI 
cover. There was an indication that there would be a cost involved as the form says that 
the monthly premium will be added to her new card account. Mrs W signed at this point 
and therefore agreed to the PPI. 
This is what we call a non-advised sale. This means AXA France IARD needed only to 
provide enough clear information for Mrs W to decide for herself whether she wanted the PPI 
cover. I acknowledge it could have set out the information about the PPI in a better way, but 
overall, I do think Mrs W probably had access to enough information to allow her to make an 
informed decision.
Mrs W told us she had some sickness protection already with her job of up to 6 months, as 
well as some savings. I understand why shes told us this and Ive thought very carefully 
about the benefits Mrs W says she enjoyed. But these dont necessarily mean the PPI 
wasnt of use. She was eligible for the cover and not caught by any of the major exclusions 
we tend to see in some of these policies. The cost of the PPI offered  being £1 per £100 of 
what was owing on the card - was relatively expensive, but the benefits the policy offered 
gave more protection than most credit cards. For example, if Mrs W had become unable to 
work or lost her job, the PPI would have paid off 15% of her outstanding store card balance 
each month until she returned to work or until all the balance was returned to zero. These 
benefits would have been in addition to the other financial means, such as savings, that 
Mrs W had in place at the time.
I recognise it is a difficult time for consumers and Im really sorry to have to give Mrs W this 
news. But I cant safely say this policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ws complaint and I dont require AXA 
France IARD to do anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2020. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman