DRN-4128669
The complaint
Mrs J complains that Blue Motor Finance Ltd, who Ill call BMFL, didnt provide sufficient 
redress when she returned a car to them that was of unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mrs J, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Ill explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs J acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it. 
In December 2022 BMFL agreed that the car they had supplied had not been of satisfactory 
quality. They agreed to allow Mrs J to reject the car and end the finance agreement. Their 
system notes show that they agreed to pay Mrs J £250 in compensation, and to refund the 
finance instalments shed paid less £1,459.50 that they would retain in respect of fair usage. 
The fair usage was calculated on the basis of 25p for each of the 5,838 miles they said Mrs J 
had completed in the car since the finance was agreed in April 2022.
When we ask a business to allow a consumer to reject a car because it has been of 
unsatisfactory quality, we would usually tell the business to refund any deposit, refund any 
costs the consumer had paid to have faults diagnosed, pay some compensation in respect of 
any distress and inconvenience that had been caused, and refund any finance instalments 
paid less an amount they could retain for fair usage.
I understand that Mrs J wants BMFL to refund all of her finance instalments and that shes 
upset she was told that would be the case in a call she had with BMFL. The relevant 
legislation is the Consumer Rights Act (2015) and that allows the business to make a 
deduction from any refund to compensate them for the usage the consumer has had from 
the goods. I think BMFL were entitled to make a deduction, and here the deduction they 
made was the equivalent of about 6.6 monthly payments. Mrs J had the car for about eight 
months and had completed more than average mileage in those months. Im not persuaded 
there is sufficient evidence to suggest Mrs J didnt complete that mileage in the car as the 
MOT records suggest thats likely, and I dont think I have evidence the garage completed 
extensive mileage in the vehicle. Considering the evidence we have available, I therefore 
think BMFLs deduction is a fair one.
BMFLs system notes also explain that they offered to refund the costs of the two diagnostic 
tests Mrs J had paid for and I think that was fair.
Theres limited information available about the trips Mrs J made to the dealership to get 
things resolved. But its clear that it was necessary to return the car for repairs, and that   
Mrs J had some problems getting BMFL to agree rejection without an unnecessary 
independent inspection. There was also some confusion created about whether all of Mrs Js 
instalments would be returned to her (I dont think they should have been for reasons Ive 
already given). Taking everything into account I think £250 was a reasonable offer of 
compensation from BMFL. It seems that compensation may not have been paid. Im not 
upholding Mrs Js complaint as its clear BMFL offered a reasonable redress. If BMFL 
subsequently fail to provide the £250 they offered before Mrs J referred her complaint to this 
Service she will be able to raise a complaint to them about it. If BMFL dont resolve that 
complaint to her satisfaction they will give her rights to refer that complaint point back to this 
Service.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman