DRN-3594632
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy because Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) did not reimburse the money he 
transferred to a fraudster.
What happened
What Mr S says
Mr S says that on 3 June 2020 he provided details of his account with another bank in 
response to an email he thought hed received from HMRC. Ill refer to the other bank as 
Bank A. That evening Mr S realised the email he had responded to wasnt genuine and 
called Bank A to explain what had happened and asked for his account to be closed. Mr S 
also says he asked for a new account to be opened. Bank A cancelled Mr Ss card and 
advised him to change his password and, Mr S says, reassured him that if he took these 
steps his funds would be safe. 
A few days later Mr S received a call from someone who claimed to be from Bank A. Mr S 
didnt know it at the time, but the caller was a fraudster. He explained to Mr S that a direct 
debit had been set up from his account with Bank A and a payment attempted, so he needed 
to change his account. Mr S asked how he could verify the caller was from Bank A and was 
told to hang up and check the caller ID, which Mr S did. He found that the number hed been 
called from was a help desk number for Bank A. 
The caller told Mr S that he needed to transfer £25,000 to create a new account. As his 
account at Bank A had been blocked the fraudster told Mr S that he couldnt set up a new 
payee so needed to pay an existing payee first and then transfer the funds to the new 
account. There were daily limits to the amount he could transfer from his account with Bank 
A, so Mr S moved £24,541.39 in ten payments over two days from his account with Bank A 
to his Monzo account.  Mr S then made the following payments from his Monzo account to a 
new account the fraudster provided him with details of. 
Date Amount
08/06/20 £10,000
09/06/20 £10,000
10/06/20 £5,000
Total £25,000
This new account wasnt with Bank A or Monzo, but Mr S was told that all banks work 
together to combat fraud. 
Mr S remembers seeing warnings when he made the payments but as he was persuaded he 
was dealing with Bank A and following its instructions he went ahead with the payments. 
Mr S realised he was the victim of a scam when his new card arrived from Bank A. The 
account details were the same as previously showing that a new account hadnt been set up. 
He called Monzo to report the scam on 30 June 2020.
What Monzo say
Monzo isnt a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model 
CRM Code which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP 
scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances, but has agreed to apply its 
principles. Monzo say exceptions to reimbursement apply in this case. It says that Mr S 
ignored an effective warning when he made the payments and that Mr S didnt have a 
reasonable basis for believing the person he transacted with was legitimate or was providing 
a legitimate service. 
Monzo contacted the bank that received Mr Ss funds to try to recover them but was unable 
to recover any funds.
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered this complaint recommended that Monzo reimburse Mr Ss 
full loss of £25,000 together with interest. He said that the warning Monzo gave Mr S when 
he made the first payment wasnt effective, primarily because it didnt bring to life common 
features of safe account scams like number spoofing. The investigator also said Mr S had a 
reasonable basis for believing he was making a genuine payment because the call wasnt 
unexpected given the phishing email hed contacted Bank A about, the fact the number was 
spoofed was persuasive and the new account was in Mr Ss name. Also, the investigator felt 
that Monzo could have prevented the scam from taking place as the payment requests Mr S 
made were unusual and out of character. 
Mr S agreed with the investigators findings but Monzo didnt. In summary, it said:
- Monzo did everything it could to warn Mr S before he made the payments. An 
effective warning was provided when the first payment was made which clearly 
stated that other banks wouldnt ask a customer to transfer funds from their Monzo 
account. And it didnt need to go into detail about number spoofing as if it did so, the 
warning wouldnt be understandable. Overall, Mr S should have done more and 
contacted Monzo directly. 
- Ms S received no match confirmation of payee results for all three payments which 
clearly warned that if he continued with the payments it was almost impossible for 
Monzo to recover the funds. 
- The payments were made over several days, so Mr S had the opportunity to make 
further checks. This also means Mr Ss funds werent protected as quickly as they 
could have been, which should have caused concern.
- Banks dont work together to combat fraud in the way the fraudster told Mr S they do, 
and Mr S should have been aware of this as his apps for different banks varied. 
- Bank A should bear some responsibility for Mr Ss loss because it didnt provide 
appropriate scam education. Mr S noted that had Bank A warned him about number 
spoofing the scam wouldnt have happened. 
- The CRM Code and PSRs dont require Monzo to prevent the scam payment. 
I reviewed Mr Ss complaint and issued my provisional decision on 28 June 2022. In my 
provisional decision I said:
Ive considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint.  
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. 
When thinking about what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive considered whether Monzo 
should have reimbursed Mr S under the provisions of the CRM Code and whether it ought to 
have done more to protect him from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
Theres no dispute here that Mr S was tricked into making the payments. But this isnt 
enough for Mr S to receive a full refund of the money under the CRM Code. The Code 
places a level of care on Mr S too. 
Under the CRM Code, a bank may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish 
that*: 
 The customer ignored what the CRM Code refers to as an Effective Warning by failing to 
take appropriate action in response to such an effective warning
 The customer made payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that: the 
payee was the person the Customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for genuine 
goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate
 The customer has been grossly negligent 
*The two further exceptions outlined in the CRM Code do not apply to this case. 
I have carefully considered Monzos representations about the warning it gave and whether 
Mr S had a reasonable basis for believing the transactions to be genuine. But they do not 
persuade me to reach a different view.  In particular, I am not persuaded that Mr S failed to 
take the requisite level of care required for Monzo to choose not to reimburse under the 
terms of the CRM Code.
Did Monzo provide Mr S with an effective warning/warnings?
The CRM Code sets out standards for firms  that is, what firms are expected to do to 
protect customers from the risk of fraud and scams. Where those standards are not met, the 
firm may be expected to compensate its customer. One of those requirements is that, where 
the firm has (or should have) identified that its customer is at risk from a scam, it should 
provide that customer with an Effective Warning, within the meaning of the CRM code.
Monzo has provided evidence of what happened when Mr S set up a new payee to make the 
first payment. He was provided with a confirmation of payee no match that said, 
The details you entered dont match the account youre sending money to.
Please double-check who youre sending money to and cancel this payment if you think 
someone might be trying to scam you.
Mr S clicked to continue and would have seen a screen that said,
Could someone be trying to scam you?
If youre not sure, cancel this payment.
Once youve made a payment, its almost impossible for us to get the money back. 
Monzo then provided a warning to Mr S based on his chosen payment reason of Transfer to 
a safe account and saw a red screen that said,Stop, dont pay
Its very likely this is a scam.
The following wording was in a box underneath.
Remember:
X Monzo will never call you without arranging by email or in-app chat first
X Other banks will never ask you to move money out of your Monzo account. 
The warning then advises customers to call the bank on the number on the back of the card 
and provides a number for Monzo. A customer is required to tick a box to say that they have 
read all the information and want to continue. Underneath this, two boxes appear. One says, 
Stop and report and the other, Confirm payment. 
Mr S says he doesnt remember seeing the warning, although Monzos records show he 
viewed it for over twenty seconds before moving on. 
For a warning to be effective under the provisions of the CRM Code it needs to be 
understandable, clear, impactful, timely and specific. The warning Monzo provided in respect 
of the first payment (together with the confirmation of payee no match) includes a number of 
important details. For example:
-It says this is very likely to be a scam;
-It says that other banks wont ask a customer to move funds out of their Monzo 
account;
-The warning is bold and written on a red screen to draw attention to it;
-It advises Mr S to call the Monzo number on the back of his card;
-It warns Mr S that if he went ahead with the payment, he may not be able to get his 
money back.
But Im satisfied that the requirements of the effective warning exception were not met. I say 
this because I consider the warning lacks impact. An effective warning should reduce the 
likelihood of a scam succeeding. In this case, the warning doesnt explain the common 
features of this type of scam or bring to life what a safe account scam is. For example, it 
doesnt refer to the fact fraudsters pose as banks and apply pressure to convince their 
victims to urgently move their money to a safe account. The warning also doesnt mention a 
powerful feature of this type of scam  number spoofing. Monzo has said that if it included 
this detail it would mean that its warning wouldnt be understandable, but I dont agree. 
Monzo has said that Bank A should bear some responsibility and referred to Mr Ss 
comment that if Bank A had advised him about number spoofing, he wouldnt have fallen 
victim to this scam. I believe this shows the importance of a warning bringing to life common 
features of a scam so that it resonates with a customer. 
Overall, while I appreciate that Monzo tried to give Mr S a warning in respect of the first 
payment, Im not persuaded the warning could be considered as effective under the terms of 
the CRM Code.
Monzo didnt provide a warning for the second and third payments. Monzo says it provided 
an effective warning in respect of the first payment and this should have been enough to 
prevent Mr S from making all payments. I dont agree. To be effective, a warning needs to be 
timely. This means it needs to be given at a point in the payment journey where it is most likely to have an impact on a customers decision-making. Im not persuaded that a warning 
not given in the payment journey, but one or two days before can be effective. 
As Monzo didnt meet the standards required of it under the CRM Code it is liable for 50% of 
Mr Ss losses. 
Did Mr S have a reasonable basis for believing what the scammers told him? 
Taking into account all of the circumstances of this case, including the characteristics of Mr 
S and the complexity of the scam, I think the concerns Monzo has raised about the 
legitimacy of the transactions Mr S made are enough to support its position that he failed to 
meet his requisite level of care under the CRM Code for the payments he made. I dont think 
he had a reasonable basis for believing the person he transacted with was legitimate. In 
reaching this conclusion Ive taken the following into account: 
-Mr S hasnt provided an explanation as to why he considered it plausible that he 
needed to transfer £25,000 to a new account to activate it. Bank accounts can be 
opened with very small amounts.
-Mr S thought an agent of Bank A told him he needed to transfer funds to a safe 
account. But he didnt question why daily transfer limits couldnt be overridden by the 
bank and so he needed to make multiple transfers to his Monzo account before he 
could move funds to a safe account. 
-On 8 June Mr S spoke to the scammer at 12.54 (for 18 minutes) and 13.14 for 30 
minutes. He transferred funds at 18.30. He has explained that given the nature of his 
job he was unable to take more time away and so transferred funds at the earliest 
opportunity he could. Given this, its clear that the scammer wasnt on the phone to 
Mr S or putting pressure on him at the time he made the first payment. Future 
payments were made the following day and the day after that. So I consider that Mr S 
had time to consider what the scammer had told him and take steps to check, for 
example, whether a direct debit had been set up from his account with Bank A or to 
call Monzo before making any payments. 
-The account Mr S transferred his funds to wasnt with Bank A or Monzo. Mr S has 
explained that he thought banks worked together to prevent fraud, but I consider this 
fact, combined with the other factors Ive discussed, should have been a red flag to 
Mr S that something wasnt right. I find it unlikely that Bank A would seek to open a 
new account for Mr S with a different bank. 
-For each payment he made Mr S was provided with a confirmation of payee no 
match result, showing that the account he was transferring the funds to wasnt in his 
name. I find it surprising that Mr S would continue with the payment after being 
presented with a warning in these terms and believe Mr S didnt have a reasonable 
basis for believing he was paying the person he believed he was paying.
-Whilst I dont consider the warning given to Mr S when he made the first payment 
was effective, it does have an impact on whether he had a reasonable basis for 
believing he was making a genuine payment. The warning said that other banks 
wont ask a customer to move funds out of their Monzo account and if they did it 
might not be possible to recover them. Mr S thought he had been asked by another 
bank to move funds from his Monzo account and so I consider the warning should 
have resonated with him. 
Its important to note that its the combination of the factors I have listed above that have led 
me to the conclusion that Mr S didnt meet the standard required of him by the CRM Code to 
receive a full refund. 
This means that Monzo isnt responsible for the remaining 50% of Mr Ss loss. Ive also considered whether Monzo did enough to protect Mr S in this case. I consider that 
the first payment of £10,000 was unusual and out of character given previous activity on Mr 
Ss account and so Monzo should have intervened before making the payment. It was to a 
new payee and was for a significantly higher amount than previous payments. Had Monzo 
have asked Mr S some questions about the payment I believe the scam would have 
unravelled quickly when Mr S explained he was moving funds to a safe account. 
Im also mindful of the fact that, in order to see this warning, Mr S needed to categorise this 
as a payment to a safe account. Theres no such thing as a safe account outside the realm 
of fraud and scams. I think that once Monzo gathered this information from Mr S, it should 
have recognised that it was highly likely that he was making the payment in connection with 
a scam and prevented the payment from being made. Because I think Monzo couldve done 
more to protect Mr S from the scam by recognising that it was a safe account scam, I think it 
should fairly and reasonably refund 50% of his losses in connection with that scam. Ive 
awarded 50% of his loss because I think Mr S should also bear some responsibility for the 
loss he suffered  for the same reasons Ive set out above.
The significance of my decision that Monzo could have prevented the scam is that it should 
pay interest from the date of each payment rather than from the date it decided not to 
reimburse Mr S under the CRM Code. 
The money was taken from Mr Ss current account with Bank A. It is not clear how Mr S 
would have used the money if Monzo had refunded it when it should have done, so Monzo 
should also pay interest on the money it should have refunded at 8% simple per year from 
the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Recovery of funds
Mr S reported his loss to Monzo at the end of June 2020. Ive seen evidence which shows 
that Monzo contacted the bank his funds were sent to on 5 July 2020. Whilst Id expect this 
to have happened sooner, it wouldnt have made a difference in this case. This is because 
the evidence I have seen from the bank that received Mr Ss funds shows they were used up 
very quickly. So by the time the scam was reported, no funds remained. 
Mr S accepted my provisional decision but also said that Monzo should at least have had 
concerns about money laundering as the payments were made within 24 hours.  
Monzo didnt accept what I said. In summary, Monzo said:
- It disagrees with my conclusion that an effective warning wasnt given. Monzo said it 
is best placed to decide the relevant information to give to customers that doesnt 
lead to information overload. Monzo also referred to the Code definition of impactful 
in respect of an effective warning. 
- Monzo said the first point of the CRM Code is that it shouldnt negatively affect 
legitimate payment journeys. So once it has sent a warning when a new payee is set 
up it doesnt continue to send warnings unless anything changes as, to do so, would 
limit the impact of the warning. 
- Monzo pointed out that customers often choose an incorrect payment reason to get 
through the process quickly, including the safe account reason. If it froze accounts 
and attempted to contact customers each time that happened legitimate payments 
would be negatively affected. 
-
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. 
After reviewing the responses I have received from both parties, I have reached the same 
overall conclusion as I set out in my provisional decision and for the same reasons. 
Although the warning Monzo gave when Mr S made the first payment included some good 
features, Im still not persuaded it was effective under the CRM Code. I recognise there is a 
balance to be struck and a warning may lose impact if its too long. But the warning Monzo 
gave to Mr S didnt explain common features of safe account scams like this one to enable 
Mr S to recognise that he was falling victim to a scam. So I dont think the warning positively 
impacted Mr Ss decision making in a manner that reduced the likelihood of this type of scam 
happening. 
As Ive concluded that the warning Monzo gave in respect of the first payment wasnt 
effective (and no further warnings were given to Mr S when he made subsequent payments), 
it follows that Im also not persuaded Monzo met its obligations when the second and third 
payments were made. 
Monzo has said its best placed to decide what to include in a warning. But thats not what 
Im here to decide. My role is to consider whether Mr S should receive a refund under the 
CRM Code and to decide this I need to consider each partys obligations under it. 
In its response to my provisional decision Monzo has referred to one of the overarching 
principles of the CRM Code  to minimise disruption to legitimate payment journeys. There 
are three overarching principles though, so I need to consider them as a whole. The other 
two are to reduce the occurrence of APP scams and to increase the proportion of customers 
protected from the impact of APP scams  both through reimbursement and the reduction of 
APP scams.  
Monzo also said in its response to my provisional decision that customers choose the wrong 
payment reason and so to block every payment when a customer chooses paying a safe 
account would negatively impact legitimate payments. I accept that customers dont always 
get the payment reason right but, as I said in my provisional decision, there is no such thing 
as a safe account outside the world of fraud and scams. Given this, I consider that Monzo 
should fairly and reasonably have contacted Mr S when he made an out of character 
transaction and used the safe account payment reason.
Overall, I think both parties ought to share responsibility for the loss in this case. 
My final decision
I require Monzo Bank Ltd to: 
- Refund Mr S 50% of his loss (£12,500) and; 
- Pay interest on 50% of the loss, at the rate of 8% simple from the date of each 
payment until the date of settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible). 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2022.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman