DRN-3980067
The complaint
Mr D is complaining that Aviva Insurance Limited hasnt refunded his excess after he made a 
claim on his car insurance policy.
What happened
Mr Ds car was damaged in an accident with a third partys vehicle. The driver of the other 
car and the two passengers fled the scene of the accident. Mr D contacted Aviva to claim for 
the damage to his car. Aviva said it would settle the claim by paying him the cars market 
value, less his excess. However, Mr D didnt think he should have to pay his excess because 
he says the car was being driven by an uninsured driver and he says Avivas uninsured 
driver promise says that it will refund his excess if hes hit by an uninsured driver and hes 
not at fault.
Aviva said the terms of the policy required Mr D to provide the name of the driver, their 
contact details and the vehicle registration. It said that, as Mr D only provided the registration 
number, he wasnt eligible for this promise. And it said it wasnt able to recover its outlay 
from the third partys insurance policy.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint as she that Mr D hadnt provided everything he 
needed to provide under the terms of the uninsured drivers promise. So she didnt think 
Aviva had acted unfairly in not refunding the excess. She also didnt think it had acted 
unfairly in not recovering its outlay and the excess from the third partys insurance policy.
Mr D didnt agree with the investigator and highlighted that the Insurance Product 
Information Document (IPID) that Aviva sent him simply says it will not reduce his No Claims 
Discount (NCD) and will refund his excess if hes hit by an uninsured driver. And he says it 
doesnt stipulate any conditions relating to this. He also maintains the third partys insurance 
policy should have covered his losses.
As Mr D didnt agree with the investigator, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold this complaint and Ill now explain why.
Mr D is unhappy that he hasnt had his excess refunded. I think there are two issues I need 
to consider in this decision:
1. Should Aviva have refunded the excess under the uninsured drivers promise; and
2. Should Aviva have done more to recover the excess from the third partys insurance 
policy?
I shall consider each point separately.
Uninsured drivers promise
Mr D has set out that Aviva advertises that, if hes hit by an uninsured driver and he isnt at 
fault for the accident, it will refund his excess and he wont lose his NCD. And I dont 
disagree with that. But, in assessing whether the promise applies, I need to first consider 
what the terms of the contract says. And they say:
If you are hit by an uninsured driver and provide us with the other drivers name, contact 
details and their vehicle registration number, we will refund the excess you paid. This only 
applies where the driver of your vehicle is not at fault.
So the terms of the policy clearly sets out that Mr D needed to provide all of the drivers 
name, contact details and their vehicle registration number to be eligible for the promise. 
And I dont think its unreasonable that it wanted this information, as it needed it to be able to 
pursue the third party directly. I naturally sympathise with the situation Mr D found himself in. 
His car suffered significant damage and I understand he suffered a personal injury in the 
accident due to no fault of his own. And I also recognise he was unable to obtain the third 
partys details as they fled the scene. But, ultimately, Mr D didnt provide the information that 
he was required to provide and I cant say that Aviva has been unfair in saying it wasnt 
required to refund the excess under the terms of the uninsured drivers promise.
I note Mr D has also said that the IPID document doesnt say he needed to obtain this 
information. But that appears to be a historic document as it sets out that it was created in 
March 2020. Aviva has provided the IPID document that applied for Mr Ds policy, which 
says:
Under the Uninsured driver promise, youll need to provide the other drivers name, contact 
details and vehicle registration.
So Im satisfied that the up-to-date IPID document that Aviva has shown was relevant to 
Mr Ds policy did set out that Mr D needed to provide this information. Mr D has said hes 
provided the document that he was given, but Im not persuaded that was the case as 
documents are automatically electronically sent. So I dont think its likely a document from 
over two years before would have been sent when the policy in question started. It may have 
been sent alongside a historic policy. 
But, even if the IPID Mr D has provided was sent with the policy in question, it wouldnt 
change the outcome of this case. The IPID document explains key features of the insurance 
policy  i.e. doesnt constitute the terms of the contract. They are sent to help consumers 
understand what the policy does and doesnt provide and to enable them to make informed 
decisions. I would need to think whether Mr D could have done anything differently had he 
known of the terms of the promise. Ultimately, Mr D wasnt ever going to be able to gather 
the information he needed because the driver of the vehicle fled the scene. So, he couldnt 
have done anything differently. Even if Aviva didnt make it clear what he needed to do, Mr D 
hasnt lost out because the situation would still be the same.
So, taking everything into consideration, I cant say that Aviva has acted unfairly in not 
refunding the excess under the uninsured drivers promise.
Recovering its outlay from the third partys insurance policy
I should first explain that this service isnt able to say whether the third party is liable to settle 
Mr Ds claim. Our role is to look at whether Aviva has carried out a fair investigation, 
reviewed all the evidence it has and come to a reasonable decision.Mr Ds policy, like all other car insurance policies, allowed Aviva to take over and conduct in 
the name of the person claiming under the policy the defence or settlement of any claim or 
take proceedings for our own benefit to recover any payment [Aviva] have made under this 
policy.
[Aviva] shall have full discretion in the conduct of any proceedings or the settlement of any 
claim. 
So Aviva was entitled to decide whether to pursue the claim through the third partys 
insurance policy or not. But it needed to exercise this right fairly and reasonably, taking into 
account everything both parties had provided.
Mr D says the third partys policy provides cover for third party losses  so he says his 
losses are covered. But I dont agree. Insurance policies provide cover to those insured 
under the policy for their individual liabilities to a third party due to loss or damage they 
negligently caused in an accident. So, for Aviva to successful recover its outlay  and to be 
able to recover Mr Ds excess  it would need to show that someone insured under the 
policy was liable for the loss or damage in law. Essentially this means, it would have to show 
that Mr Ds losses were as a result of a negligent act by someone insured under the policy. 
Alternatively it would have to show that there was some other requirement in law  such as 
liabilities under the Road Traffic Act 1988 (RTA)  that would require it to settle the claim.
Aviva has said that, given the person driving the vehicle wasnt insured under the third 
partys policy, it isnt able to recover its outlay from the third partys insurance policy. I cant 
say this is unreasonable. I can also see that its considered whether there were prospects of 
claiming under the RTA, but it said that it couldnt do so. And Im satisfied its given a fair 
explanation of why.
Ultimately, Im satisfied that Aviva has considered all the circumstances in deciding whether 
there were prospects of success in recovering its outlay from another party, but its decided 
there were. And I cant say Aviva has acted unreasonably in the way its come to that 
conclusion.
Summary
I appreciate Mr D feels strongly about this case and I also recognise the impact this matter 
has had on him. Hes lost out due to no fault of his own and, as I said, I naturally sympathise 
with the situation hes found himself in. But, he was contractually required to pay the excess 
as part of any claim. And Aviva wasnt required to refund it under the terms of the policy. 
In certain circumstances, individuals can recover uninsured losses from the Motor Insurers 
Bureau (MIB) if theyve been injured or their property has been damaged because of an 
uninsured or hit and run driver. But Mr D will need to contact the MIB directly himself if he 
wishes to claim through them.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2023. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman