DRN-3766955
The complaint
Ms M complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) is seeking to recover a debt she 
believed it agreed to write off.  
What happened
What Ms M says
Ms M had a Santander student account. She says that in November 2020 she went into 
branch to pay off her overdraft and was told that the account had been closed and the debt 
written off. In February 2021 she received a letter at her partners address (which hadnt 
been provided to Santander) from a debt collection agency saying she still owed Santander 
around £1,500. Ms M went into branch to complain and was given a helpline number to call 
but when she called this number, she needed account information that she didnt have. Ms 
M says that while she was in branch, she updated her contact details. 
Ms M says that she offered to pay the debt some time ago but no longer has the funds as 
she bought a car when she was told the debt had been written off. She thinks the account 
was unnecessarily passed to a debt collection agency and is unhappy with the impact this 
has had on her credit rating. Ms M also says that letters were sent to her rental address, so 
she didnt receive them, and Santander didnt try to call her. She says she wasnt provided 
with the terms of the account and that she thought that after graduating her student account 
would become a standard account with an interest free overdraft of £3,000 for three years.  
What Santander say
Santander say that in July 2019 it spoke to Ms M and asked her to attend a branch with 
identification and provide proof of entitlement to funds that had credited her account. Ms M 
didnt get in touch and Santander was unable to reach her. After reviewing Ms Ms account 
Santander wrote to her on 23 July 2019 saying that it was withdrawing banking facilities with 
immediate effect and telling Ms M shed need to pay money into her account to bring it to a 
nil balance within 30 days. Ms Ms account was then referred to its collections team.  
Attempts were made to contact Ms M by letter, text and phone call without success.
In April 2020 a default notice was sent to Ms Ms registered address and in May 2020 the 
default was registered, and Ms Ms account was passed to a third-party debt collection 
agency. There was no evidence Ms M visited a branch in November 2020, but Santander 
has a record of a visit in November 2019. Its records show that on that date Ms M was 
provided with the telephone number of its fraud team. Santander say there is no evidence 
that Ms M was told the debt had been written off or that she amended her contact details. 
Santander accepted that its final response letter referred to the incorrect year and that the 
information in it about the debt being administratively written off at the time of Ms Ms visit 
was also incorrect as a result. 
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered this complaint didnt recommend that it be upheld. She said 
there was no evidence that Ms M went to a Santander branch in November 2020 and that it 
was unlikely she was advised her debt had been written off. The investigator also referred to 
the terms and conditions of Ms Ms account that required her to make regular payments to 
an overdraft.
Santander said it had nothing further to add. Ms M didnt agree with the investigators 
findings. In summary, she said:
- It wasnt acceptable to conclude that it was unlikely she was told she didnt need to 
repay the debt.
- Ms M asked if the investigator had spoken to the member of staff she met in 
November 2020 or obtained CCTV footage of her trying to pay off the debt. 
- She has a witness who is prepared to swear on oath that she was told in branch she 
didnt need to repay the debt.  
As Ms M didnt accept the investigators opinion, the case has been passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, and the evidence is incomplete or 
contradictory, Ive reached my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, on 
what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence.
Ive been provided with records of all contact Ms M had with Santander from July 2019 
onwards. Having reviewed that evidence Im satisfied that Ms M called Santander when her 
account was blocked and was advised to attend a branch with identification and evidence of 
the origin of certain funds that had entered her account. Ive also seen evidence that calls 
were attempted to two telephone numbers held by Santander on 16 July 2019. Ive also 
seen the notice of closure letter Santander sent to Ms M on 23 July 2019. This letter was 
sent to the address held by Santander for Ms M at the time. I appreciate Ms M says she 
didnt receive this letter but cant say Santander has done anything wrong. If her contact 
details had changed, it was Ms Ms responsibility to notify Santander of this. 
I think Santander took appropriate steps to try to discuss the activity on Ms Ms account and 
that it notified Ms M of the closure of her account. In this letter Ms M was told she needed to 
bring her account to a nil balance in 30 days and was provided with contact numbers if she 
was unable to do so. So Im persuaded that Ms M knew there was a problem with her 
account before it was closed and that she was required to take action. She hasnt suggested 
she took any steps to contact Santander though. 
In November 2019 Ms Ms account was passed to Santanders collections department. Ive 
seen evidence of a substantial amount of contact with Ms M from November 2019 until the 
account was passed to a collection agency. A lot of letters were sent but Ive also seen 
evidence that a text message was sent to Ms M on 23 December 2019 and another on 14 
February 2020. So Im also satisfied that Santander took reasonable steps to contact Ms M 
to discuss the outstanding balance after the closure of her account. It follows that I dont 
believe Santander can reasonably be held responsible for Ms Ms adverse credit score. 
I turn now to Ms Ms visit to branch when she says she was told the debt had been written 
off. Ms M says the visit was in November 2020, but Santander say she attended the year 
before. Ive been provided with Santanders contact notes which show that Ms M visited a 
branch on 11 November 2019 and that at this visit she was provided with a telephone 
number. As there is a record of the call, Im satisfied Ms Ms visit was in 2019. At this stage a 
default notice hadnt been issued and so the balance hadnt been administratively written off 
(as this happened when the account was passed to a debt collection agency). So I think its 
unlikely Ms M would have been told the debt had been written off in November 2019. I also 
consider that given the circumstances surrounding the closure of Ms Ms account, its even 
less likely Santander would write off the debt. Overall, Im satisfied that its more likely than 
not that Ms M wasnt told the outstanding balance of her account had been written off. Ms M asked the investigator whether she spoke to the member of staff who served her in 
November 2020 and whether she has viewed CCTV footage. Santander has shown that an 
audit search shows no records of any contact from Ms M from January to December 2020 
and has also said there is no evidence that the status of her account was checked by branch 
staff in this period. Given these points, Im unable to speak to a staff member and see no 
merit in reviewing CCTV records. I appreciate Ms M says she knows of someone who will 
provide a statement setting out what happened when she visited a branch in 2020 but this 
service is an informal dispute resolution service and not a court of law. 
Finally, Ive considered the terms and conditions of Ms Ms former account with Santander. 
These say, 
If you, or we, close your account then,
b) where you have an Arranged or Unarranged Overdraft on that account, you must pay off 
all the money you have borrowed together with all fees and interest.
This means that Santander acted reasonably in trying to recover the amount Ms M owed to it 
following the closure of her account. 
Overall, Im persuaded that Santander acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Ms M 
so Im not asking it to take any action. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2022.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman