DRN-1660837
The complaint
This complaints about a mortgage that until recently, Mr G held with Nationwide Building 
Society. He repaid it on moving house, having taken his new mortgage from different lender 
after Nationwide recorded a hard search on his credit file sooner than he wanted it to. It 
didnt obtain his consent first and then concealed the error for almost two months.
What happened
Nationwide admitted its mistakes, agreed to remove the search and provide Mr G with a 
credit repair letter to show to other potential creditors until his credit file updated. It also 
paid Mr G £150 compensation. But Mr G preferred to get the new mortgage for his house 
move elsewhere, having lost faith in Nationwide. 
He referred his complaint to us, seeking reimbursement of his early repayment charge 
(ERC), the fee he paid his broker and a greater level of compensation for the stress hed 
suffered and was continuing to suffer. Mr G subsequently said he believed he had been 
prevented from getting a better rate on his new mortgage and should be compensated for 
that too.
Our investigator didnt think Nationwide should reimburse Mr G his ERC and broker fee, and 
he wasnt persuaded Mr G could show he was worse off on his new mortgage deal than he 
would have been but for Nationwides errors. But he did recommend it pay him an additional 
£200 over and above the £150 already paid. Nationwide accepted the investigators 
recommendation but Mr G asked for the case to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in the 
round. In doing that, I dont take instructions from either party to the complaint.
The case is more straightforward than it might first appear. I dont have to decide if 
Nationwide got things wrong. Its already accepted that it did, and offered redress. What I 
have to decide here is if the proposed settlement is fair in all the circumstances, or if 
Nationwide must do more. I appreciate Mr Gs sense of grievance but taking a step back and 
looking at the case independently (as Im required to do) I agree with our investigators 
assessment of what is fair in all the circumstances. 
Mr G says he had no choice but to repay Nationwide, pay the ERC and incur a broker fee for 
the new mortgage. Actually he did; the choice was between changing lender and paying the 
ERC or giving Nationwide a chance to restore his understandably damaged faith in it by 
running a fresh application to see if hed be accepted for a new mortgage to stay with 
Nationwide. 
That may have been a choice between two unwelcome alternatives, but it was still a choice 
and in making it, Mr G knew hed incur the ERC and pay a fee to his broker to source the 
new mortgage. Mr G will have had his own reasons for going elsewhere and Im certainly not 
going to criticise him for making the decision he made. It was his right, but it was also his 
decision, and he must accept what flowed from it. 
Mr Gs claim for additional loss arises from a conversation hes had with a friend who 
apparently obtained his mortgage on better terms than Mr G. Its unknowable whether Mr G 
could have obtained a better deal than the one hes got, and even if he could, it would be 
speculating beyond what is feasible to attribute that to Nationwides action. 
That leaves the level of compensation. When youre as close to a situation as Mr G has 
been and continues to be, its natural to see things from just one point of view. Be that as it 
may, I have to take a different approach. Im impartial and I have to look at things 
subjectively, sometimes taking a step back from the fine detail and instead focussing on the 
broader picture. 
Thats what Ive done here; everything has a context, and I have to keep in mind that for all 
its shortcomings, Nationwide was prompt in offering a fair remedy to the source of Mr Gs 
stress (the problem with the hard credit search); that is, by removing the search and issuing 
a credit repair letter. By doing so, Nationwide mitigated the potential for its mistake to cause 
Mr G material difficulty. Overall, I find the £200 recommended by our investigator, making 
£350 in all, to be a fair settlement.
Mr G doesnt have to accept my final decision, and if he doesnt it wont be binding on him or 
Nationwide. Subject to any time limits or other restrictions a court might impose, Mr Gs right 
to pursue a legal remedy against Nationwide wont have been prejudiced by our 
consideration of his complaint.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part only; in full and final settlement, I direct Nationwide Building 
Society to pay Mr G a further £200, making £350 in all. I make no other order, award or 
direction. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which 
means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2020. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman