DRN-2762401
The complaint
Mr F complains that Fairmead Insurance Limited has caused unnecessary delays on a claim
hes made on his building insurance policy.
What happened
I previously issued a provisional decision on this matter on 25 January 2021, an extract of 
which is copied below:
Mr F owns a property insured by an Fairmead buildings insurance policy. Some time ago, 
he noticed cracking to the internal and exterior walls of his property. He thought the 
problems were likely caused by some trees owned by one of his neighbours.
Mr Fs neighbours didnt agree their trees were the cause of the problem and they refused to 
cooperate. Mr F says he was of the view that one of the neighbours, through a previous 
professional capacity, understood the nature of the problem and was likely to remain difficult 
and intransigent until legal action took place.
So, in June 2016, Mr F contacted Fairmead to report the damage and to make a claim on his 
insurance policy. Fairmead accepted the claim and appointed a specialist to manage it. The 
cause of the problem was suspected to be subsidence caused by nearby trees. The 
specialist started to monitor the movement of the house. Arboriculturist reports were also
commissioned.
Fairmead continued with the monitoring of the movement and in Autumn 2017 asked Mr F to 
remove a hedge on his side of the boundary so it could be established this wasnt the cause 
of the subsidence. Mr F didnt think the hedge was contributing to the problem in any 
material way, but he agreed. Monitoring continued and by August 2018 it was established 
the hedge wasnt a significant factor in the problem.
Mr F says his neighbours were kept updated about what was happening, and in turn were 
aware the evidence pointed towards their trees being responsible. They were given a final 
deadline of October 2018 for the trees to be removed but didnt comply with this. Instead, 
a solicitor representing the neighbours got in contact with Fairmead and said they thought 
the case was time barred. Around this time, Fairmead concluded it would also need to 
appoint its own solicitors to negotiate with the neighbours over the removal of the trees.
Fairmead obtained two quotes for the trees to be removed so an offer could be made to 
the neighbours for their costs to be covered. Mr F said this took too long. He also wasnt 
happy this further offer to cover costs was made to his neighbours as he was sure only 
litigation would resolve the issue.
In the end, the quotes werent used and the neighbours were sent a letter from Fairmeads 
solicitors threatening litigation and offering to cover the cost of the tree removal. The 
neighbours provided their own quotes and eventually agreed to the removal of the trees.
During the claim, Mr F complained to Fairmead about the way it was handling things and 
the unnecessary delays he said it had caused. He accepted some of the delays, such as 
the period of monitoring and dealing with uncooperative neighbours, were out of Fairmeads 
control.
But he was unhappy with what he saw as the avoidable and unnecessary delays in 
Fairmead getting to the point of legal action which he says everyone knew would be 
necessary to ensure his neighbours cooperation. And he thought there was a lack of 
planning on Fairmeads part causing small things to take longer than they should have.
Fairmead issued a final response on 5 September 2019. It accepted it had taken longer 
than it should have to obtain the quotes for the removal of the trees. But it said the action 
through its solicitors had been necessary to obtain the cooperation of Mr Fs neighbours 
which theyd only agreed to after being warned Fairmead would obtain a legal injunction if 
they didnt. It also set out what the next steps would be once the trees were removed 
following the neighbours agreement.
Mr F remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service. He raised a number of 
additional issues and explained the impact the handling of the claim by Fairmead had on 
him. Our investigator considered the evidence and thought Fairmead had caused some 
delay in the handling of the claim, specifically with regards to the time it took to obtain the 
arboriculturists quotes and in providing instructions to its solicitor once it decided legal 
action was necessary. She said Fairmead should pay £100 by way of an apology, which 
Fairmead agreed to do.
Mr F remained unhappy and reiterated his view that if legal action had been commenced 
sooner, the complaint would have been resolved more quickly and restated the delays he
believed Fairmead was responsible for. He asked an ombudsman to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering this complaint, Im mindful that claims relating to subsidence are likely to 
take a significant amount of time to resolve often because of the extent of the monitoring 
necessary to identify the cause of the problem. In this case, there was also the aspect of 
uncooperative neighbours to contend with, which inevitably had an impact on the length of 
time things took.
That said, I will be considering whether Fairmead caused any unnecessary delays that 
could have been avoided while keeping in mind what I consider to be fair and reasonable.
Mr F has raised a considerable number of issues in his correspondence with Fairmead 
and this service. My role here is to focus on what I consider to be at the heart of the 
complaint and I will only comment on those things relevant to the decision I need to make. 
That may mean I dont comment on everything Mr F has said, but I can confirm Ive 
thoroughly read and considered all the evidence submitted by the parties in reaching my 
decision.
The appointment of solicitors by Fairmead
Mr F has strong views about how Fairmead should have handled the claim, particularly 
about when it should have appointed solicitors to resolve the issues with his neighbours. It 
seems this was one of his main causes of complaint.
He had been in contact with his neighbours when the problem first occurred in 2009 and 
subsequently in 2012 when it reoccurred. He had asked them to remove the trees then but the neighbours had refused. This previous experience with his neighbours seems to have 
led him to believe legal action was the only route that would have produced the result he 
wanted. He believes if solicitors had been appointed earlier, the claim would have been 
resolved some 18 months sooner.
But just because Mr F has a particular view about how the claim should have been 
handled, it doesnt automatically follow that because Fairmead did things differently, it did 
them incorrectly. Its not my role to tell an insurer what strategy it should adopt when 
managing a claim and dealing with third party issues, thats a decision for it to make. 
Resorting to litigation is often expensive and contentious and I wouldnt therefore expect 
insurers to quickly resort to this early in the process without at least trying other options 
first. But what I have looked at is whether it considered this course of action appropriately.
Having looked through the evidence carefully, its clear to me Fairmead and its agents had 
ongoing dialogue about how best to obtain the neighbours cooperation. Various attempts 
were made by the agents over the period of monitoring to secure it, providing the 
neighbours with the evidence which it said showed their trees were responsible for the 
damage to Mr Fs property.
Having undertaken the monitoring, Fairmead, in conjunction with its advisors, thought Mr 
Fs hedge would need to be removed before taking legal action so as to avoid the 
neighbours saying the hedge was to blame rather than their trees. The hedge was 
removed in November 2017 and it was then necessary to undertake a further period of 
monitoring to obtain compelling evidence that the neighbours trees really were the cause 
of the problem, now that the hedge was gone. Until this evidence was available, it was not 
considered prudent to engage solicitors. I think this approach seems reasonable.
During this six-month period of monitoring, Fairmead continued to consider whether the 
time was right to engage solicitors. It concluded though that it would be necessary to 
ascertain what would happen in the new growing season in Spring 2018 to see if there was 
a reversal of the recovery seen over the winter period and to see if further cracks appeared 
in Mr Fs property. Again, I dont consider this approach unreasonable.
Monitoring continued through the summer, by which time the neighbours had engaged their 
own solicitor. Fairmeads agents continued to seek the neighbours agreement to remove 
the trees but without success. So eventually in October the neighbours solicitors were 
given notice Fairmead would pursue legal action unless there was agreement to the 
removal of the trees but they still didnt cooperate and their solicitor responded citing the 
Limitations Act.
Shortly after this, in November 2018, Fairmead decided to engage solicitors, deciding it 
wasnt going to obtain the neighbours agreement without doing so. After some back and 
forth and negotiation, the neighbours agreement to remove the tree was secured in August 
2019.
Overall, Im satisfied Fairmead considered appointing solicitors throughout the course of 
the claim and sought appropriate advice - including from its legal advisors - about the right 
time to do so. I acknowledge Fairmead could have engaged with solicitors earlier and this 
might have produced a different outcome but it doesnt follow that, because it didnt, it did 
something wrong. And for the reasons Ive given, Im satisfied Fairmeads decisions 
throughout the claim on how to proceed were reasonable and based on the information 
available.Delays
As mentioned above, insurance claims inevitably take time, particularly ones involving 
subsidence. And while claims may not be dealt with exactly as policy holders feel they 
should be, that doesnt mean the insurer has done something wrong.
There may be times where an insurer feels some actions need to be completed 
sequentially and a policyholder feels they could have been done simultaneously. Often 
one action cant be completed until the outcome of another action is certain and Ive not 
seen enough evidence to conclude that Fairmeads actions were unreasonable in the way 
it chose to manage the claim although I do acknowledge Mr F would have liked it to do 
things differently.
But having considered everything thats happened, I do think in places there were a number 
of periods of delay which Fairmead could have avoided. Ive detailed these below.
Delay in obtaining tree removal quotes
Fairmead acknowledged in its final response, this took longer than it should have and I 
agree, particularly given that these estimates werent relied on in the end. Instead, 
Fairmead asked the neighbour to provide an estimate from a tree surgeon of his own 
choosing and agreed to pay this estimate despite it being higher than either of the two it 
obtained from its own agents.
I think it could have taken this course of action sooner, and because it didnt, it caused a 
delay.
Delay in solicitors starting work
Once Fairmead decided the time was right to appoint solicitors in November 2018, it took 
until March 2019 before they drafted the letter of claim to the third party. This took longer 
than I would expect and caused an unnecessary delay in the progress of the claim.
Other issues
I know Mr F feels his property has decreased in value during the time the claims been 
ongoing but he hasnt presented any evidence to support this claim. But in any case, it 
seems unlikely to me there would be sufficient evidence for me to conclude that any 
potential decrease in value could be attributed to the actions of Fairmead rather than just the 
fact the property has experienced subsidence. So, based on what Ive seen, Im not 
persuaded Fairmead is responsible for any theoretical loss in value. 
Next steps
Mr F asked Fairmead to cover the cost of sacrificial repairs until the building has stopped 
moving. He also asked Fairmead to cover the cost of a fence to replace the hedge that was 
removed. I can see from Fairmeads internal notes and from its final response to Mr Fs 
complaints it has said it will do this.
Its also said it will provide a Certificate of Structural Adequacy (CSA) once the repairs are 
completed. A CSA is typically issued after a subsidence claim and confirms what caused 
the structural damage, how bad it was, what was done to correct the problem and that the 
impacted part of the property is structurally sound following the remediation work.This is often used when a property owner wants to sell their property following a 
subsidence claim. It may give potential purchasers the reassurance the problem has been 
resolved satisfactorily.
While Im not considering these issues as part of this complaint  as they were still ongoing 
at the time the final response was issued  if Mr F feels Fairmead has at some point failed 
to live up to what it said it would do, he is of course free to raise a new complaint with this 
service.
Conclusion
Its clear from the files Mr F found the subsidence and the insurance claim stressful to deal 
with. Hes described in some detail the impact it had on him and the work he had to 
undertake on the property to keep it in reasonable condition as cracks appeared while the 
claim was ongoing.
Hes also said that his neighbours treated him with aggression and contempt and he was 
upset by the nature of their verbal and written communications to him throughout the 
subsidence problems. Whilst I have sympathy for what he went through, I cant hold 
Fairmead responsible for how Mr Fs neighbours behaved and the impact of their 
behaviour on him.
But I do think Fairmead could have handled things quicker than it did, for the reasons Ive 
explained above. Given what Mr F has said about the impact on him, I think Fairmead has 
contributed to the trouble and upset hes experienced as a result of the delays it caused. I 
think it needs to do more to acknowledge the impact of these delays and so I will be telling 
it to pay Mr F £300 by way of an apology.
I acknowledge this is likely to be more than Fairmead thinks is right and less than Mr F 
thinks he deserves, but Im satisfied its fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this 
complaint.
Following this, Mr F got in contact and explained in more detail the impact the delays 
caused by Fairmead had on him. I issued a second provisional decision on 6 April 2021 
explaining I had reflected on his comments and decided to increase the amount Fairmead 
should pay him to £650 because of the impact of cumulative delays throughout the life of 
the claim.
Fairmead didnt submit any further evidence in response to this, but said it thought the 
amount I was proposing to award was too high. Mr F responded and said he didnt think it 
fairly reflected the impact on him and it didnt set an example to Fairmead. He also 
remained unhappy with Fairmeads final response letter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Mr F didnt think Fairmead provided a sufficiently detailed response to his complaint 
and I understand why he would have found this frustrating. But as Ive explained, in my 
provisional decision, Im satisfied its response met the requirements of a final response letter 
as required under the Financial Conduct Authoritys rules.
I acknowledge Mr F would like me to set an example for Fairmead when making an award but the awards this service makes arent there to punish a business or to set an example. 
They are to compensate consumers in each individual case for the stress and inconvenience 
of the things a business got wrong. 
Ive thought carefully about this complaint and, having taken into account the further 
comments from both parties, I remain satisfied the payment of £650 for the trouble and upset 
Fairmead caused is a fair and reasonable way for the complaint to be settled.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Fairmead Insurance Limited to pay 
Mr F £650 for the trouble and upset it caused. 
Fairmead Insurance Limited must pay this within 28 days from when we tell it Mr F has 
accepted my final decision. If it pays it later than this, it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date f my final decision to the date pf the payment at 8% a year 
simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2021.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman