DRN-1804463
The complaint
Miss P complains that Capital One (Europe) plc didn't tell her agreeing a reduced payment 
plan on her credit card meant she wouldn't be able to use the account again.
What happened
In September 2019 Miss P contacted Capital One to discuss a reduced repayment plan 
on her credit card due to her financial circumstances. During the call a plan was agreed, but 
it wasn't explained to Miss P that by agreeing to this plan the credit limit would be removed 
from her account, and she wouldn't be able to use it again. Capital One then confirmed the 
details of the plan in writing.
Later in 2019 Miss P spoke with Capital One to cancel the reduced repayment plan as her 
financial situation had improved, and she could now afford the usual repayment amount. 
Miss P asked if she could use her card again, but Capital One said the limit wouldn't be 
reinstated and the account couldn't be used again. 
Miss P complained saying she hadn't been told that by agreeing the reduced repayment 
plan she wouldn't be able to use the account again. Capital One said that while this wasn't 
mentioned in the call, and they admitted it should've been, it was stated in the letter which 
was sent to Miss P after the telephone call. To make up for any trouble by not being clear on 
the phone call Capital One credited Miss P's account with £20.
Remaining unhappy Miss P brought her complaint to our service where one of investigators 
looked into things. He thought because Capital One sent a letter confirming the 
details they didn't need do anything more to put things right other than the £20 which 
had already been paid. Miss P disagreed so the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Everyone agrees that Miss P wasn't told on the telephone call that by agreeing the reduced 
payment plan she would lose the use of her account. Capital One paid £20 to make up for 
the trouble of not being clearer. But that doesn't mean Capital One have to reinstate the 
account, and I'll explain why.
When Miss P contacted Capital One in September 2019 it was the third time that year she 
had requested a reduced repayment plan. Two previous plans had been agreed, but the 
repayments hadn't been met. The request in September was for lower repayments than the 
previous plans. Had the repayments for the first two plans been met, Miss P would've been 
able to use her account again, but this wasn't possible on the third plan. 
Miss P was experiencing financial difficulties, and this must've been a challenging for her. At 
times like these I'd expect Capital One to treat Miss P in a positive and sympathetic way. I'm 
happy they did this by agreeing three reduced repayments plans. But businesses are also allowed to have policies about how they allow consumers to operate their accounts. Here, 
Capital One allow consumers to keep their account on some kinds of reduced 
repayment plan, but due to the type of plan Miss P could afford this wasn't possible for her.
Capital One didn't tell Miss P over the telephone that by agreeing the reduced repayment 
plan she wouldn't be able to keep her account afterwards. But Capital One did follow up the 
agreed plan in writing. In the letter under the bold heading 'What this plan means for you' it 
says that Miss P will not retain use of her credit card once the plan is completed. So whilst 
Capital One should've been clearer on the telephone call, I'm satisfied they made it clear in 
writing that the account couldn't be used again. I haven't seen any evidence that Capital One 
was contacted about the contents of the letter, or that it wasn't received.
I've also thought about what's most likely, on the balance of probabilities, to have happened 
if Capital One had explained things correctly over the telephone. Miss P was speaking to 
Capital One to agree a reduced repayment plan as she couldn't afford the payments under 
the previous plan. It seems mostly likely that even if the correct information had been given, 
the same plan would've been agreed as this is what was affordable at the time. 
Having considered everything, I'm satisfied Capital One made it clear that the account 
couldn't be used after the plan was completed. That's not to say there wasn't a problem with 
the telephone call; there was. But the letter explained what would happen on completion of 
the plan. And, I don't think, on the balance of probabilities, that things would've been 
different had the telephone call been clearer.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 June 2020.
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman