DRN-2640685
The complaint
Mr M complains that he was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) with a credit 
card.
What happened
Mr M took out a credit card with National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) in 2001. At the 
same time he bought PPI. The PPI would paid 10% of his outstanding balance each month if 
he couldnt work due to an accident, sickness or involuntary unemployment.
Mr M says that he didnt agree to take out the PPI. He indicates that it was added without his 
knowledge or consent.
Our adjudicator didnt think Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. Mr M disagrees, so his 
complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ms. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr Ms
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive decided NatWest should have disclosed the 
commission it received - but that NatWests offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to 
compensate for the unfairness caused is fair in the circumstances. Ive summarised my 
reasons for each of these conclusions below. 
 
I think NatWest made it clear to Mr M that he didnt have to take the PPI and he 
chose to take it out. I say this because NatWest has provided a copy of the 
application form Mr M completed. Theres a separate section for PPI which makes it 
clear its optional. Mr M has signed in that section to indicate that he wanted PPI. And 
hes signed the completed form too. If Mr M hadnt agreed to the PPI I think hed 
have noticed the cost on his credit card statements each month and queried it.
NatWest didnt recommend the PPI to Mr M so it didnt have to check whether it was 
suitable for him. But it did have to give Mr M enough clear and timely information so 
he could decide for himself if it was right for him.
Its possible the information NatWest gave Mr M wasnt as clear as it should have 
been. But Ive found that Mr M chose to take it out, so it looks like he wanted this type 
of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr M  for example he wasnt 
affected by any of the significant exclusions or limitations on the cover. And it wasnt 
too dissimilar to what he reasonably would have thought he was buying from the 
information he was given. I also havent seen anything to suggest the cover was 
unaffordable for Mr M. Because of this I dont think Mr M would have declined the 
cover had NatWest done anything more.
Overall, I consider that Mr M would have still taken the PPI. The policy was sufficiently close 
to what its likely he thought he was getting and I think the policy could have provided a 
useful benefit in a difficult time, given his circumstances at the time. And in those 
circumstances, I think Mr M would have taken out the policy in any event.
Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including whether the non-
disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act  
and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided NatWest should have disclosed the commission it received and 
that NatWests offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness 
caused is fair.
I consider this fairly removes the source of the unfairness. This is because it leaves Mr M 
with the policy Ive concluded above he would still have taken out if NatWest had done 
everything it should have done  but with lower commission and profit share levels.
So I consider that NatWests payment of an amount equivalent to the commission and profit 
share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where applicable) in 
line with the FCAs guidance to firms is fair in all the circumstances.
 
As NatWest has already paid Mr M compensation on this basis, I dont consider it should do 
anything further. 
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of Mr Ms complaint or make any award in 
favour of him for this part of the complaint.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that National 
Westminster Bank Plc  should pay Mr M an amount equivalent to the commission and profit 
share paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where applicable) As 
it has already paid compensation on this basis, I do not consider that National Westminster 
Bank Plc should do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2022.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman