DRN-2477518
The complaint
Mr S complains that Moneybarn No 1 Limited was irresponsible in lending him money to buy 
a car.  
What happened
 In July 2015 Mr S acquired a car costing £21,300 funded by a conditional sale agreement 
with an APR of 28%. This was repayable over 59 monthly installments of £629.66. Several 
months later Mr S changed jobs and notified Moneybarn that his income had dropped by 
£10,000. It carried out an income and expenditure (i&e) analysis and concluded Mr S was 
able to afford the payments.
Mr S struggled to make payments and in May 2019 complained to Moneybarn. It rejected his 
complaint, but said that if he made contact it would work with him to agree a sustainable 
repayment plan. The car was subsequently repossessed and it was sold at auction. Mr S 
was left to pay the balance 
Mr S brought his complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld. He didnt think the fact Mr S had defaults 
and missed payments should have caused Moneybarn to deny him credit. It had carried out 
an affordability assessment and reviewed his payslips. Overall, he was satisfied that Mr S 
had met the criteria for lending. 
Mr S didnt agree and said he had a number of defaults showing on his credit file which 
should have alerted Moneybarn to his financial status. Our investigator asked Mr S for his 
bank accounts for the period around the time the loan was taken out. These were obtained 
and showed that his main account was kept in credit and he had a regular salary coming in.
I issued a provisional decision as follows:
I explained I had I have given this complaint a great deal of thought and after due 
consideration I believed it should be upheld. I explained why.
I was satisfied that Moneybarn followed its processes when it granted the loan. Although I 
hadnt seen all its internal records, I had no reason to doubt it carried out the checks it 
normally did in similar loan applications. I was also satisfied that it was affordable at that 
point despite Mr Ss credit history. His pay slips and bank statements showed someone who 
was coping financially and while the loan payments would have been stretching, I believed 
they were affordable.
However, I was concerned at what happened in October 2018 when Mr S contacted 
Moneybarn to say he had lost his job and was now employed at a lower salary. He said that 
his gross income had reduced by £10,000. Moneybarn has supplied the i&e form which it 
said it completed with him. I asked for further details of how this was done and whether Mr S 
was given time to give informed answers. Moneybarn failed to respond to this request. 
Given the loan repayments were stretching when he was earning £10,000 more, I couldnt 
see how he could be expected to maintain them going forward. His income in June 2015 
according to his bank statements was just under £3,000 a month and I saw that the 
incomplete i&e form showed his reduced monthly income as £3,000. I said the i&e form was 
incomplete because many of the boxes regarding his job etc. were not filled in. 
Comparing the i&e form with details shown in his bank statements from a few months earlier 
I could see that several items of expenditure were understated. As Mr S had contacted 
Moneybarn to explain his problems I believed a more considered review was required and if 
that had been undertaken, I believed it would have been clear the loan would have 
unsustainable in its existing form.
Regrettably I didnt have full details of what happened when the car was repossessed or 
what Mr S owes which makes it difficult to determine the appropriate redress. Mr S had 
suggested that he repay the capital he owes, but Moneybarn forgoes any interest. That 
struck me as a responsible and reasonable request, unless I was given any evidence or 
reasoning which suggested otherwise.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Mr S agreed with my provisional decision, but Moneybarn did not respond despite being 
reminded. I can only conclude that it too is in agreement. That means my decision remains 
unchanged.
Putting things right
 Moneybarn should forgo interest from October 2015 and It should also ensure it works with 
Mr S in a sympathetic and positive manner It should also ensure it works with Mr S in a 
sympathetic and positive manner to deal with any outstanding money that may be due. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Moneybarn No 1 Limited forgo 
any interest due on the loan from October 2015 onwards and remove any adverse entries it 
placed on Mr Ss credit file.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman