DRN-3176277
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy that AXA Insurance UK Plc has declined a claim they made 
under their travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs C have explained they booked a holiday abroad  and were due to depart on 
their holiday on 10 October 2020. One of the conditions of them being able to travel, was for 
them to have evidence of a negative Covid-19 test, from 72 hours before the flight.
Knowing this, Mr and Mrs C ordered and completed this test. But they didnt receive their 
results back in time for their flight on 10 October 2020. So, they werent able to go on their 
planned trip.
Because Mr and Mrs C hadnt been able to go on their holiday, they made a cancellation 
claim under their travel insurance policy for the money theyd lost. Theyd attempted to get a 
refund from their travel insurance provider, who provided documentation to explain that the 
£1,414 would not be refunded by them. 
AXA considered the claim but declined it. It said that for Mr and Mrs C to successfully claim 
under their insurance policy, they would need to show that the reason their holiday was 
cancelled was due to one of the insured events listed in their policy documentation. AXA 
said that Mr and Mrs C hadnt shown this. And so, their loss wasnt covered.
Mr and Mrs C didnt feel this was fair. They highlighted the reason they hadnt been able to 
go on holiday was no fault of their own  but rather as a result of late test results. As Mr and 
Mrs C remained dissatisfied, they referred their complaint to this service for an independent 
review. 
Our investigator considered this complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. She said that 
AXA had acted fairly in saying that the reason Mr and Mrs Cs holiday didnt go ahead, 
wasnt something covered by the policy. So, she didnt recommend that AXA do anything 
differently.
Mr and Mrs C didnt agree. They said they felt let down, as they had lost £1,414 through no 
fault of their own. 
Because Mr and Mrs C didnt agree, this complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ive explained why below.
When considering a complaint such as this, I need to consider the relevant law, rules and 
industry guidelines. In this case, the relevant rules, set up by the Financial Conduct 
Authority, say that an insurer mustnt unreasonably decline a claim. So, Ive thought about 
whether AXA, in declining Mr and Mrs Cs claim, did so unreasonably. And I dont think it did.
I say this because Im satisfied AXA acted in line with the terms and conditions of the policy 
Mr and Mrs C purchased. 
From reviewing Mr and Mrs Cs policy documents, I can see that the policy they took out, is 
an insured peril policy. This type of policy is common in travel insurance, as well as across 
other insurance products. An insured peril policy doesnt provide cover for every eventuality. 
Instead, it provides cover for a loss, if it was caused by one of the insured events (or perils), 
listed in the policy booklet. If the loss isnt caused by one of those listed events, then it isnt 
covered, and the insurer will decline the claim. 
Ive considered the insured perils in Mr and Mrs Cs policy. And Im satisfied there isnt one 
which fits the scenario Mr and Mrs C found themselves in. The policy does provide cover for 
cancellation of a holiday. And this is the most relevant section of the policy to the situation 
Mr and Mrs Cs found themselves in. But cancellation is only covered in certain listed 
circumstances. This includes circumstances such as the death or injury of the policyholder, 
their relative, colleague or travelling companion, the need to attend jury service, or 
redundancy. However, Mr and Mrs C didnt need to cancel their holiday for any of the things 
listed in this section. Rather, they couldnt travel because they didnt have the necessary 
negative Covid-19 test result. 
I do appreciate not receiving the test results back was beyond Mr and Mrs Cs control. But 
that doesnt mean the loss is covered under the policy. As above, because the reason Mr 
and Mrs C couldnt travel it isnt something listed as covered under the policy, AXA has 
acted fairly in declining the claim. Given this, I dont require it to do anything more and I dont 
think there are any fair and reasonable grounds upon which I could fairly ask the insurer to 
accept their claim
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. So, I dont require 
AXA Insurance UK plc to do anything more. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr and Ms C to accept or reject my decision before 
2 March 2022.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman