DRN-1510204
 
The complaint
Mr M says Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) irresponsibly lent to him. 
What happened
This complaint is about nine instalment loans Sunny provided to Mr M between March 2018 
and April 2019. Mr M borrowed amounts ranging between £50 and £400 to be repaid in six 
monthly instalments. The loans often overlapped so that Mr M was required to make several 
repayments each month. There were no significant breaks in the lending. Mr M repaid all his 
loans. 
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Ms complaint in part and thought the loans from loan four 
onwards shouldnt have been given. Sunny disagreed and so the complaint was passed to 
me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr M could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.I think it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish whether 
Mr M could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable 
on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to 
make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint.
Sunny asked Mr M for information about his income and expenditure and it carried out credit 
checks. Mr M said his monthly income was between £1,400 and £1,600. He said his 
outgoings ranged between about £270 and £945. I cant see that Sunnys credit checks 
found anything concerning that should have prompted further checks. 
I think Sunnys affordability checks went far enough for loans one to three. Given the loan 
amounts, what was apparent about Mr Ms circumstances at the time and his history with 
Sunny, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate to ask him for the amount of information 
needed to show the lending was unsustainable. There wasnt anything in the information Mr 
M provided or the information Sunny shouldve been aware of, which meant it wouldve been 
proportionate to start verifying what Mr M was saying. The loan repayments looked 
affordable for Mr M, so I cant say Sunny was wrong to have provided loans one to three. 
But I think Sunny should have made better checks from loan four onwards. This was Mr Ms 
fourth loan in just over four months. His highest expected monthly repayments had steadily 
increased during this time. I think Sunny should then have verified what Mr M had told it and 
reviewed his finances to check that he could afford to sustainably repay his loans.
As our adjudicator explained, a proportionate check for loan four would most likely have 
shown that Mr M was having problems managing his money. This was because Sunny 
would have seen that when Mr M asked for loan four he had at least two other short-term 
loans outstanding with other lenders as well as loan one still running with Sunny. So I think 
that Sunny should have realised that Mr M would be unable to sustainably repay loan four, 
or any subsequent loans. 
Ive also looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mr M, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Sunny should reasonably have seen that further lending 
was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Sunny should have realised that it 
shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Mr Ms case, I think that this point was reached by loan 
six. I say this because by this point Mr Ms overall pattern of borrowing showed that he was 
persistently reliant on short-term loans:
 
By loan six, Mr M had borrowed large amounts on three occasions over six months.From loan six onwards Mr M was provided with a new loan within weeks of settling a 
previous one, or whilst it was still running. So Sunny ought to have realised it was 
more likely than not Mr M was having to borrow further to cover the hole repaying his 
previous loan was leaving in his finances and that Mr Ms indebtedness was 
increasing unsustainably.
 
I think that Mr M lost out because Sunny continued to provide borrowing from loan six 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ms indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time.
the sheer number of loans and deferrals was likely to have had negative implications 
on Mr Ms ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these 
high-cost loans.
 
So Im upholding the complaint about loans four to nine and I think Sunny should put things 
right.  
Putting things right
To put things right for Mr M, I think Sunny should:
refund all interest and charges Mr M paid on loans four to nine;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about loans four and five from Mr Ms credit file;
the number of loans taken from loan six onwards means any information recorded 
about them is adverse. So all entries about loans six to nine should be removed from 
Mr Ms credit file.
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that Im partially upholding Mr Ms 
complaint. I require Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) to pay Mr M 
compensation as set out above. 
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 July 2020.
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman