DRN-1519224
The complaint
Mr P has complained that MCE Insurance Company Limited (MCE) avoided (treated it as if it 
never existed) his motorbike insurance policy and refused to pay his claim following the theft 
of his motorbike.
What happened
Mr P took out a motorbike insurance policy with MCE through an online price comparison 
site. When his motorbike was stolen, he tried to claim on his policy. 
MCE declined his claim, avoided his policy and kept the premiums hed already paid. When 
Mr P complained, it said hed answered the question hed been asked about where his 
motorbike was stored overnight incorrectly. MCE considered this to be a deliberate or 
reckless qualifying misrepresentation, which entitled it to avoid his policy and refuse his 
claim. 
Mr P brought his complaint to us and our investigator thought it should be upheld. She didnt 
agree there had been a qualifying misrepresentation as she thought Mr P had answered the 
question about overnight storage as best he could. She thought MCE should pay Mr Ps 
claim, with interest, remove records of the avoidance, and give Mr P a letter saying that the 
policy was avoided in error. She also thought MCE should make good any increase in Mr Ps 
premiums due to the avoidance, if the new insurer wouldnt adjust them. She thought it 
should pay Mr P £150 for his trouble and upset and reimburse him for his travel costs. 
MCE doesnt agree with the investigator and has asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes - as a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. One of these is how clear and specific the insurers questions were. And 
the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether the qualifying 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless or careless. 
If the misrepresentation was reckless or deliberate and an insurer can show it would have at 
least offered the policy on different terms, it is entitled to avoid the consumers policy. If the 
misrepresentation was careless, then to avoid the policy, the insurer must show it would not 
have offered the policy at all if it wasnt for the misrepresentation. 
If the insurer is entitled to avoid the policy, it means it will not have to deal with any claims 
under it. If the qualifying misrepresentation was careless and the insurer would have 
charged a higher premium if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation, it will have to 
consider the claim and settle it proportionately if it accepts it. 
MCE thinks Mr P failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
stated in his application via a comparison site that the overnight storage location of his bike 
was a garage. 
Ive looked at the question he was asked when he completed the application, but I dont 
agree he failed to take reasonable care. This is because he was asked what the overnight 
storage location was and given three options  a driveway, a road or a locked garage. 
Mr P stored his bike in a secured, ground floor shared garage attached to the building where 
he lived. He said he chose this option as it matched where he kept his bike. No definition of 
a garage was provided at that stage. This is unlike the definitions provided on MCEs own 
website where further options are available. Mr P said he received his policy documents, 
which Ive seen, and he said they confirmed that the bike was stored in a brick garage.
Mr P also received his Key Facts document which sets out a definition for garage. I agree 
with MCE that its for Mr P to read and agree the policy terms and conditions. And I think the 
definition provided in the Key Facts covered where Mr P stored his bike, apart from its not 
being for his private use. So I think Mr P had chosen the closest option to where his bike 
was stored. 
MCE said it sent Mr P an email a week later providing a definition of a garage which is quite 
specific. And I think this definition is very clear. But it wasnt provided to Mr P when he 
bought his policy and so he didnt then have the information to make an informed decision 
about the policy. 
Mr P said he opened the email he was sent and thought it was marketing material following 
his purchase. The header is For your information. I cant see anything in the header, such 
as Important or Urgent that should have prompted him to read it closely. So I think Mr P 
didnt have reason to contact MCE to amend the bikes storage option. 
MCE said Mr P had tried various options such as driveway and garage to see if the premium 
changed. Mr P told us that he did this as he had other options for storing his bike. He also 
looked to see if different security options would lower his premium. And he consequently 
bought one of these. I dont think thats unreasonable. So I cant say that Mr P deliberately 
misled MCE about where his bike was to be stored. 
I think Mr P chose the best of the three options provided by the comparison site. These 
didnt match MCEs underwriting criteria, but I dont think Mr P should be penalised for that. I 
think the question should have been clearer and more options provided.
And so I think Mr P wasnt asked a clear question when he first took out his policy about 
where the bike was stored overnight. I think Mr P didnt fail to take reasonable care not to 
make a misrepresentation when he said the overnight storage location would be a garage. Therefore, Im not satisfied MCE was entitled to avoid Mr Ps policy in accordance with 
CIDRA. And, so I think MCE does have to deal with Mr Ps claim following the theft of his 
motorbike.
Putting things right
To put things right for Mr P, I think MCE should do the following:
Pay Mr Ps claim for the theft of his motorbike.
Mr Ps been without his money for some time, so I think MCE should add interest to this 
payment at 8% simple from the date the claim was avoided to the date of payment. 
Remove all records of the avoidance from any internal and external databases where its 
been recorded. 
Provide Mr P with a letter saying that the avoidance was made in error and is now 
removed so that he can present this to his new insurers to ask for a refund of any 
additional premium hes paid. If the insurers decline to do this, MCE should refund Mr P 
the additional premiums, on provision of reasonable evidence of this.
This has caused Mr P considerable trouble and upset. So I think MCE should pay Mr P 
£150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its unfair avoidance of 
his policy. This is in keeping with what Id require in similar situations.
Mr P has also incurred additional travel costs due to the claim not being paid. From what 
hes told us, I think Mr P has mitigated his losses by buying a bicycle. So I think MCE 
should refund Mr Ps travel expenses during the period when the claim wasnt paid, on 
provision of reasonable evidence. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires MCE to take off tax from this interest. MCE must give 
Mr P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Ps complaint. I require 
MCE Insurance Company Limited to carry out the redress set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2020.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman