DRN-2095409
The complaint
Mrs B complains that AmTrust Europe Limited (AmTrust) unfairly declined a claim under her 
Residential Property Owners policy for damage to underground pipes. 
Mrs B is represented by Mr B and a professional representative in bringing both the claim 
and the complaint.
What happened
In June 2019 Mr B made a claim for accidental damage to some underground pipes. Hed 
had a drain survey carried out after he noted cracks on the outside of his building. The 
survey reported significant damage, but it wasnt clear what the cause was. 
AmTrust considered the claim but declined it because the damage had occurred through 
wear and tear over time. Wear and tear, or any gradually operating cause, is excluded under 
the policy terms. 
Mr Bs representatives didnt agree and asked us to consider the complaint. An investigator 
looked at the complaint but didnt uphold it. She didnt think Mr B had been able to show the 
damage was caused accidently by external means. She thought the reports available 
supported damage over time, which is excluded under the policy.  
Mr Bs representatives didnt agree with the investigators findings. They believed the 
damage reports, along with the cracks on the house, indicated the damage was due to 
ground movement. And this should meet the definition of accidental damage caused by 
external means. They also felt that as Mr B wouldnt have been aware of the gradual 
damage, it should be covered. 
The complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy booklet sets out what events are covered under the terms of the insurance. The 
section most relevant to Mr Bs claim is; 
We will cover You against Damage to the Property caused by an Insured Peril shown below
Accidental Damage by external means to underground water, gas, sewer and drain
pipes, underground electricity and telephone cables which reach from the Property to
the public supply, for which You are legally responsible.
EXCLUDING any Damage:
1 Caused by rust, corrosion or other wear and tear
2 
Wear and Tear
Any Damage caused by Wear and Tear or any gradually operating cause.
These arent unusual terms for a buildings insurance policy, and I think these are worded 
clearly enough. Essentially, the terms preclude claims for damage caused through a lack of 
maintenance, or general wear over time, as opposed to a sudden event. 
Accidental damage isnt defined within the policy booklet. So, I think its fair consider this as 
unforeseen and unintentional damage. But to come within policy coverage it must also be 
from external means. 
Ive read the drain surveyors report - CCTV was used and many cracks within the lengths of 
the clay pipes were noted. The surveyor doesnt analyse the cause of the damage but 
recommends most of the drains are excavated and repaired. The surveyor thought it was 
likely to have been some sort of ground movement but didnt expand further. 
On its own, the survey revealed damage but without any clear explanation as to how the 
damage occurred. Im not persuaded the survey report shows on balance Mr B has a valid 
claim under the accidental damage section of his policy. The onus is on him to show 
accidental damage was caused by external means. And all that has been shown is that the 
pipes were damaged.
The representative suggests ground movement could have caused the damage and this 
should be considered as external means. But without persuasive supporting evidence, I 
dont agree with what theyve said. The mere fact of damage doesnt mean it was by external 
means. And the number of cracks noted is suggestive of gradual deterioration. AmTrust has 
explained that if Mr B believes the damage was caused by ground movement bearing in 
mind hes noted cracks to the building, he can raise a subsidence claim. AmTrust explained 
it can then appoint a specialist to carry out a more in-depth survey into the cause of the 
cracks. Im persuaded thats a fair approach because a claim under accidental damage is 
excluded if the damage built up gradually over time. There may be a valid claim under the 
subsidence section of the policy but thats for Mr B to raise with AmTrust and consent to 
AmTrust dealing with it as such.  
The representative has further argued that we have decided on previous cases that it was 
unfair for an insurer to decline a claim for accidental damage when there is the factor of 
gradual damage which was not visible by the policyholder. We look at each individual case 
on its own merits and usually wed look to see if there was an initial insured peril that couldnt 
have been discovered until it manifested in something more visible. An example might be a 
pipe leaking and causing damage hidden behind kitchen cupboards. In Mr Bs case, the 
expert report that hes based his claim on says the damage was quite severe and in multiple 
sections of the pipes. Therefore, it seems unlikely this happened suddenly and at one point 
in time. The challenge remains that theres no evidence to support the damage occurring by 
external means, which would trigger cover.
 My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 October 2020.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman