DRN-2755624
Complaint
Miss N is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) didnt reimburse the money she 
transferred to a fraudster.  
Background
Both parties are aware of the circumstances surrounding this complaint, so I wont repeat 
them in full here. But briefly, both parties accept that Miss N was contacted by a fraudster 
imitating a solicitor who was acting on her behalf in connection with the purchase of a house. 
She knew she had to transfer the deposit for the house purchase to the solicitor, but when 
she received an email with the account details, it had instead been sent by a fraudster with 
their own account details in place of the correct ones.
She attempted to make a payment on 4 June 2020 which was blocked. She called Barclays 
to ask why and was told that it was probably because the name on the account didnt match 
the name that shed input on the online banking app. The Barclays representatives said:
Im going to leave the safeguard on the account  what I want you to do is I want 
you to call the solicitors, not on a number from the email address but from a number 
from like the website or if you can go into the solicitors thatd be even better and 
confirm these details with them. If you can get it face to face off them, thatd be 
absolutely amazing. Its best that you just take this extra step just to make sure.
Miss N checked the account details with who she thought was her solicitor by email. When 
she called back to make the payment a second time, a different representative asked her: 
Have you confirmed the details with anyone from them or anyone over the telephone? Miss 
N said that shed done so. The representative then suggested that she reattempt the online 
transfer and that any block would be manually lifted straightaway.
Barclays says that Miss N wouldve seen the following warning when completing the 
transfer:
Could this be a scam? 
Have you double checked the account details with the person/company youre 
paying?
Fraudsters have been known to intercept emails from solicitors and change the 
account details to their own. Thats why we recommend checking the details of where 
youre sending the money to in person.
Barclays is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(CRM) Code which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of 
Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams like this in all but a limited number of 
circumstances. Barclays says one or more of those exceptions apply in this case.   
It says it missed an opportunity to properly explain to Miss N why it was so important to not 
use email to confirm the account details and so its willing to reimburse 50% of her losses. 
However, it says Miss N ignored a warning that wouldve been displayed on the online 
banking app. For that reason, it doesnt think it should be expected to reimburse her in full.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im satisfied that:
Under the terms of the CRM Code, Barclays should have refunded the money 
consumer lost.  I am not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to 
reimbursement apply in the circumstances of this case. 
In the circumstances bank should fairly and reasonably refund the money Miss N 
lost.
The transfer in question was made from Miss Ns current account. It is not clear how 
she would have used the money if the firm had refunded it when it should have done, 
so the firm should also pay interest on the money it should have refunded at 8% 
simple per year from the date her claim under the CRM was considered (19 July 
2020) to the date it pays the settlement.
I have carefully considered the bank representations about the warning it gave, but they do 
not persuade me to reach a different view. I am not persuaded the customer failed to take 
the requisite level of care required for a firm to choose not to reimburse under the terms of 
the CRM Code.  
First, Im satisfied that the requirements of the effective warning exception werent met and 
Ill explain why. Under the provisions of the CRM Code, as a minimum, an effective 
warning needs to be understandable, clear, timely, impactful and specific. It must also 
provide information that gives customers a better chance to protect themselves against 
being defrauded and should include appropriate actions for customers to take to protect 
themselves from APP scams. I dont think the online warning met all of these requirements. 
The warning leads with two questions. The first was Could this be a scam? and the second 
have you double checked the account details with the person/company youre paying? I 
think these questions within the warning are meant to grab the consumers attention 
(particularly as the first question is in bold), but a customer who didnt have any concern that 
this was a scam and had attempted to check the account details with the payee (as was the 
case here), there would be a real risk a consumer wouldnt go on to the read the rest of the 
warning. 
If a consumer did go on to read the rest of the warning, Im also not persuaded that it does 
enough to really bring to life the way an email interception scam might work. I dont think its 
enough to explain that fraudsters can intercept emails. That can be interpreted in several 
different ways. It doesnt get across that a fraudster could impersonate the person the 
consumer thinks theyre interacting with or that a communication from the fraudster could be 
almost indistinguishable from a genuine communication. For that reason, I dont think the 
warning given was impactful or went far enough to be effective.
Even if a customer were to read and properly understand the warning in its entirety, it 
suggests they should check the details of the recipient in person. This could also be 
interpreted in different ways. A customer could take this to mean face to face. That appears 
to be the case here given Mrs N recalls checking the details by email because it wasnt 
possible to do so face to face because of pandemic restrictions. In most cases, when a payment needs to be made to a company, checking the details face to face is not convenient 
or practical. Im not persuaded the warning explains that the account details should be 
checked over the phone or why this is so important.
Overall, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think the warning was impactful enough to 
positively affect customer decision making to the extent that the likelihood of a scam 
succeeding is reduced.
However, even if I had found that this was an effective warning under the CRM Code, I still 
dont consider the exception should apply to Miss N. Had the warning met the effective 
warning requirements, Barclays would need to establish that Miss N had ignored an 
effective waring by failing to take appropriate action in response to it  or in other words that 
shed failed to act reasonably in response to the warning. Im not persuaded Barclays have 
established this.
The context of when the online warning was provided is important in this case. By this point, 
Miss N had spoken to a Barclays representative. That representative had told her to confirm 
the account details with her solicitor by phone or in person  but hadnt explained why this 
was important. Miss N considered that she had checked the account details with her solicitor 
because shed done so by email. I think its reasonable she did this because as Ive said, the 
significance of checking the account details by phone wasnt explained by to her (which 
Barclays seems to have accepted). 
Miss N called Barclays back under the belief that shed verified the account details with her 
solicitor. The advisor then asked Miss N Have you confirmed the details with anyone from 
them or anyone over the telephone?. In my view, Miss N quite reasonably answered this 
question affirmatively given she had confirmed the details with them via email. The 
significance of checking by phone was not explained and the way the question was 
constructed meant that essentially Miss N was required to give one single answer to two 
distinct questions. 
Im also mindful that by the time Miss N saw the warning shed been asked to make the 
payment by the Barclays employee who had said theyd manually remove any block on the 
payment immediately. I think Miss N quite reasonably wouldnt have believed herself to be at 
risk of financial harm given that she had taken steps to verify the account details and was 
being encouraged to make the payment by an employee of the bank. 
Miss N has told us that she doesnt recall seeing the warning when she made the payment. 
Given that she was being encouraged to make the payment during the phone call, I think its 
understandable that she paid less attention to any information that popped up. Overall, I 
dont find it surprising that she has no recollection of seeing a warning. I obviously cant 
know with total certainty what Miss N saw and how she interpreted it in her own mind. But 
even if she did read and process the information contained in the warning, I think its more 
likely than not that she believed it didnt apply to her given that she didnt think this was a 
scam and had checked the account details with who she thought she was paying. And in any 
event, Ive already set out why I think the warning fell short.
In addition, for a warning to be meaningfully understood by Miss N, her mobile banking app 
wouldve required her full attention. In this instance, her focus was divided between the 
information on the screen and the phone call she was having with the Barclays employee. 
Ive listened to a recording of that call and, although the Barclays representative is silent 
while the payment was being authorised, I think the fact that the call was still going on and 
Miss N wasnt completing the process in her own time meant there was a risk she wasnt 
properly taking in any information displayed on the screen. It's significant that Miss N doesnt have any recollection of seeing the warning when making the payment which persuades me 
that she wasnt fully cognisant of the information on the screen as she did so.
Overall, Im not persuaded Miss N ignored an effective warning by failing to take appropriate 
action in response to it.
Did Miss N have a reasonable basis for belief?
For completeness, Ive also considered whether Miss N had a reasonable basis for belief 
when making this payment. The scammers email deliberately mimicked the legitimate 
emails from Miss Ns solicitor. Email had been the main channel of communication between 
her and the solicitor and so I dont think Miss N wouldve had any reason to doubt that the 
email was a genuine one  particularly given the shortcomings Ive identified in the warnings 
Miss N received. She also knew that this transfer was one that shed need to make as part of 
the process of buying her new home.
While there was a problem with the attempted first payment, the Barclays representative 
speculated that this was caused by an incorrect payee name and that it was important that 
Miss N verify the account details before proceeding. She believed shed done so by email 
and so wouldnt have had any grounds for not thinking this was a legitimate transfer to her 
solicitor.
Overall, I dont find that Barclays has been able to establish that Miss N lacked a reasonable 
basis for believing that she was making a payment for legitimate purposes to a legitimate 
business.
Final decision
I uphold the complaint. Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Miss N £27,000. It also needs to 
pay her 8% simple interest per annum from the 19 July 2020 until the date it pays her the 
settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 June 2021.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman