DRN-4423042
The complaint
Mr G complains that Santander UK Plc gave him wrong information and poor customer 
service regarding an international transfer he made.
Mr G is represented by his son in bringing this complaint. But for ease of reading, Ill refer to 
any submission and comments he has made as being made by Mr G himself.
What happened
Mr G says he made an international transfer at a Santander branch on 13 September 2022 
for £129,000, and the payment was to buy a property overseas. He says the funds left his 
account on 14 September 2022, and he was told the funds would take three working days to 
arrive. Mr G says that on 20 September 2022, he rang Santander, and he was told it would 
take 1-4 days, but it could take a further day. He says he rang them again on 21 September 
and he was told it could take up to five working days. Mr G made a complaint to Santander.
Mr G travelled overseas, and he says he rang Santander on 23/26/27/28 September, but he 
received no meaningful updates. Due to a miscommunication with the intended recipient of 
the funds, Mr G instructed Santander to return the funds, and later suspected there was 
possible fraud. Mr G and the intended recipient visited the intended beneficiary bank, but he 
says the branch manager told him there was no trace of the funds Mr G had sent. Due to the 
funds not being received, Mr G says he has lost his deposit on the property of £2,500 and he 
incurred hotel costs for two weeks overseas, and he had to pay to change his flight to come 
back home. Mr G says Santander had promised him call backs, but they didnt do this, and 
he says he felt they were blaming him for what happened and they did not show him any 
empathy. 
Santander partially upheld Mr Gs complaint. They said his payment was made correctly by 
Santander and it did arrive at the beneficiary bank. They said Santander raised numerous 
recalls to ask the beneficiary bank to send the funds back, however they did not respond to 
them, and they have exhausted all options to try and get the funds back. Santander said 
they understood Mr G had been given different information from Santander staff, so they 
would compensate him with £120 as an apology for this. Mr G brought his complaint to our 
service. While our investigator was looking into what happened, the £129,000 had been 
credited back to Mr Gs account.
Our investigator partially upheld Mr Gs complaint. He said Santander should pay Mr G £300 
compensation in total (less anything hed already been paid). He said that overall, Santander 
followed the correct process to try and recall Mr Gs funds. And he saw no evidence to 
suggest the beneficiary bank didnt receive the transfer. Our investigator said that Mr G was 
going through an extremely stressful time which lasted a lot longer than it should have done. 
He didnt think Santander treated him as fairly as they could have done. 
Our investigator said Mr G had suffered a loss of opportunity in purchasing the property and 
he lost out on his deposit during the process. While he appreciated how disheartening
this would have been, he said he couldnt fairly ask Santander to reimburse Mr G for his 
losses, as they tried to retrieve the funds in the way hed expect them to. And he couldnt 
reasonably hold them responsible for delays which the beneficiary bank may have caused.
Mr G asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. He made a number of points. In 
summary, he said the £300 total compensation was negligible. He struggled to accept that 
Santander couldnt locate some of the call recordings he had with them. Mr G told us how 
the stress of what happened worsened a serious illness he has. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G has made a number of points to this service, and Ive considered and read everything 
hes said and sent us, including his health situation during the time the events happened. 
But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be focusing on the crux of 
his complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here. 
I must be clear that I can only focus on the actions of Santander here and not any other 
financial institution involved in this transfer as Mr Gs complaint is about Santander only. Our 
service may not have the jurisdiction to investigate the actions of any other party involved in 
the transfer, but if he is in any doubt, he should contact any bank he feels have let him down 
as part of this transfer.
Ive had a look at the terms and conditions of the account to see what (if anything) they said 
about international payments. Page 33 of the terms that Santander sent our service relating 
to Mr Gs account contains a table showing different payment types. The payment type most 
suited to Mr Gs situation here is Sending money outside the UK in Pounds. This shows 
certain cut off times for the payment to be made by, and it shows When the money usually 
arrives at the recipients bank. Im conscious that this is not a guarantee, as there will be 
certain events which could delay the time given here, for example security checks, of which I 
understand this payment was subject to a security check, and it says the recipient bank, not 
the recipients account  as Santander would have no control of what happens to the funds 
at the recipients bank. 
The table shows that this type of payment would usually arrive at the recipient bank the next 
working day (but this would obviously be subject to the time the payment is made and 
security checks etc). So it is disappointing to hear that the staff that Mr G spoke to did not 
appear to be familiar with the basic timescales of how long the type of payment Mr G made 
would have arrived at the recipient bank, especially when they would have been aware the 
funds had left the account after their security checks had been completed. 
Ive considered what Mr G has said about the telephone recordings. It is disappointing that 
theyve been unable to locate all of the calls that Mr G made to them. But Mr G can rest 
assured that I can also take into account the testimony that he has provided our service as 
evidence also. 
The notes show that Mr G contacted Santander on 21 September 2022, to change the 
reference of the payment if possible, and I can see Santander initiated a message through 
the intermediary bank with the reference on the same day. Although I dont have the calls 
from this date or 23 September 2022, Ive no reason to doubt what Mr G has told us what 
happened on the calls, and Santander have acknowledged he was told different information 
in their final response letter. I have listened to the calls from 26 and 27 September 2022. On the call on 26 September, 
Mr G describes the last five calls hes made with Santander, so Im satisfied that he has tried 
to contact them on a number of occasions previously. He tells the call handler he hadnt had 
three call backs he had been promised from a complaint handler, and he stressed the 
importance of the time critical nature of the payment, including needing to take legal action if 
the funds cant be located that day. Mr G is ringing from overseas. Mr G is transferred to 
another person. 
He describes the different information he has been told by previous call handlers about 
timeframes for the payment. Mr G believes the payment didnt reach the recipient account as 
the middle name wasnt included. But the call handler says he had been transferred to an 
incorrect department and Mr G describes how he has often been passed around different 
departments. The call handler says she can transfer him to the complaints department. Mr G 
tells her that he has rung them seven times now, but they havent been able to help him. He 
describes the effect that this is having on his health. The call handler says she will email the 
complaint handler and copy in his manager to contact him.
Mr G rings on 27 September. He tells the call handler he has rang for the last eight days. Mr 
G is then transferred to another call handler, who works in fraud complaints. He tells them 
this is a notice before legal action, and he explains to the call handler what has happened. 
The call handler tries to connect Mr G to the manager of the person Mr G had been dealing 
with, but he wasnt free to take the call. The call handler says that the manager will reassign 
the complaint, and someone would be in touch with him that day, as the handler is out of the 
office. From the system notes it does appear he received a call, but I dont have a copy of 
the call.
Ive looked through the Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunications 
(SWIFT) messages that our service has been provided by Santander and the chase up 
requests they made. SWIFT messages are a way that banks can communicate with each 
other across the world, and it is common for them to use this method regarding international 
payments. From the phone calls Ive listened to and Mr Gs testimony, it appears that he 
believes an issue with the middle name of the intended recipient was the issue for what went 
wrong. But Im satisfied that this had no bearing on what happened, despite what Mr G had 
been told. 
I say this as it appears that on 19 September 2022, Santander received a SWIFT message 
from the intermediary bank which contained a message from the recipient bank. The 
recipient bank say they had received the PO (likely to be purchase/payment order), but this 
was being held for compliance checks and they asked Santander for further information. So I 
do believe that the latest the recipient bank had received the funds was 19 September 2022, 
since they acknowledged they had received the PO. As they said this is being held, I take 
this to be the recipient bank were holding the funds. The next SWIFT message I can see 
after this is on 21 September 2022, when Santander asked the recipient bank to change the 
reference in line with Mr Gs instructions. 
Santander chased this up on several occasions, and Ive seen evidence of this, but I cant 
see they received a response from the recipient bank. So I cant say that Santander would 
be responsible to pay Mr Gs lost deposit or associated costs, as they had sent the money to 
the correct recipient bank, who appeared to have received the funds at the latest on 19 
September 2022 (they could have received them earlier, however, this is when they 
appeared to send the SWIFT message to Santander), and Santander sent follow up 
messages to them to try and chase this up. 
But what is very disappointing is that although the recipient bank appears to have had the 
funds from at least 19 September 2022, nobody at Santander informed him that this was the case. It may be that customer facing staff did not have access to back office SWIFT 
messages and therefore they genuinely didnt know this when speaking to Mr G, but if 
Santander could have explained this to Mr G at the earliest possible opportunity, then it 
could have at least saved him ringing Santander for answers where his money was. 
It's unlikely this would have resulted in the recipient bank releasing the funds earlier as my 
understanding is that they have told Mr G conflicting information also, which Santander have 
referred to this in their final response letter. But its clear to me that Santander have let Mr G 
down on several occasions. From giving him incorrect/unclear information on several 
occasions, to not giving him a call back on several occasions, to not informing him that his 
funds were with the recipient bank. So I agree with our investigator that £120 compensation 
is not proportionate for the impact of the errors they made, especially given his health and 
personal circumstances at the time. I know Mr G feels that the total of £300 is negligible. But 
our awards are not designed to punish a business. 
I cant say Santander are responsible for the property purchase falling through after they had 
processed the payment and the middle name seemed to have no impact in the recipient 
bank receiving the funds in a timely manner. Santander had sent the recipient bank (via the 
intermediary bank) SWIFT messages with amended information also before the sale fell 
through. So while Im very sympathetic to what happened to Mr G here, I cant fairly say that 
Santander were responsible for the sale falling through. 
So I am persuaded that a total of £300 compensation is reasonable for what happened here, 
based on the inconvenience and distress Santander caused Mr G. So it follows Ill be asking 
Santander to put things right for Mr G.  
Putting things right
Our investigator suggested that Santander pays Mr G a total of £300 compensation (less 
anything he has already been paid) for distress and inconvenience, which I think is 
reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part. Santander UK Plc should pay Mr G a total of £300 
compensation (less anything he has already been paid) for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman