DRN-2695480
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as H have complained that The Salvation Army General Insurance 
Corporation Ltd (SAGIC) turned down a claim on their property owners insurance policy. 
Mr T, a director of H, has brought the complaint on Hs behalf. For ease of reading, 
reference to Mr T, H and SAGIC will include the actions and comments of their agents. 
What happened
H hold a property owners insurance policy with SAGIC. They claimed on their policy 
following damage to their property which they said was caused by a storm on in October 
2019. They believed that tiles on the roof had come loose in the storm, which led to water 
ingress, causing internal damage to the property. 
H appointed a loss assessor to deal with the claim and SAGIC appointed a loss adjuster.  
The loss adjuster visited Hs property in November 2019 to inspect the damage. The loss 
adjuster doesnt seem to have charged the electronic equipment needed to inspect the roof, 
so made an assessment based on a visual inspection from the ground. The loss adjusters 
view was that the roof wasnt in a good state of repair and this is what led to the water 
ingress, rather than the storm. As a result, SAGIC turned down Hs claim, as the policy 
excludes cover for damage caused by wear and tear and general deterioration. 
H didnt agree with this decision. They said the conclusions reached by the loss adjuster 
werent accurate, e.g. the loss adjuster said the roof was around 120 years old, but thats 
incorrect as the area had previously been destroyed in the Blitz. They didnt feel that the loss 
adjuster could have properly assessed the claim without seeing the roof.
In February 2020 SAGIC arranged a drone in order to carry out an assessment of the roof. 
However, this was cancelled as H had already started repairing the damage. They said the 
roof needed repairing and SAGIC had turned down the claim, so they had no option but to 
start repairs. They provided a report from the roofing company who had repaired the roof, 
that said the ingress was most likely due to the storm as the tiles were in a good state of 
repair. 
SAGIC still thought it had correctly declined Hs claim, so H brought their complaint to us. H 
also said they believed they had a claim for loss of rent, due to the time taken to the repair 
the property. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He thought 
SAGIC had fairly declined Hs claim in line with the terms and conditions. And he thought it 
had made a reasonable decision, even though the loss adjuster hadnt seen the roof up 
close. 
H didnt agree with our investigators view. They still believed that it wasnt appropriate for 
SAGIC to rely on the loss adjusters report, given hed only seen the roof from ground level. 
They also said the loss adjuster had incorrectly dated the roof and the roofing company who 
repaired the roof said it was in a good state of repair. H asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The buildings and contents sections of Hs policy covers them for damage caused by a 
storm. There is a general exclusion that applies to these sections that says the policy doesnt 
cover wear and tear or deterioration. 
The information provided by SAGIC shows that there were some high winds and increased 
rainfall around the time of Hs claim. SAGIC doesnt seem to be relying on there not being a 
storm, so Im not going to comment on this further and will instead focus my decision on 
whether its fair and reasonable for SAGIC to rely on the exclusion for wear and tear and 
deterioration. 
SAGICs loss adjuster provided a report which said: 
It would appear that the high winds have caused the roof slates to slip to the rear elevation 
of the property allowing water to ingress the property. However it should be noted that the 
roof is in a below average condition with evidence of previous repairs and we feel it
is likely that the winds have simply highlighted a pre existing condition.
The report says that the pre-existing condition is due to age and general condition of the 
roof. The summary of the report says:
the roof is aged and is in poor condition and shows signs of previous repairs possibly, 
possibly indicating nail sickness due to roof age of around 120 years.
The loss adjuster also provided photos, taken from the ground, that they felt showed that the 
roof was in a poor condition before the storm damage. They also said that online images 
showed the roof was in a poor condition. 
I understand H believes that the photos and online images arent sufficient to show the roof 
wasnt in a good condition and so provided a report from the owner of the company who 
repaired the roof. He has a number of years experience in roofing and said the roof was in 
reasonable condition and not, in my view, 120 years old. He said this view was supported 
by them using the original roof tiles to re-tile the roof, which wouldnt have been possible if 
the roof was in a poor condition or 120 years old. He added, that he felt the loss adjusters 
report was based on assumptions rather than facts, as it wasnt possible to inspect the roof 
without a scaffold. 
In conclusion, the roofer said:
My conclusion is, as the roof was in reasonable condition and because we were able to re-
use the existing slate (a very hard wearing material) it is more likely the roof damage and 
resulting ingress of water was caused by extreme weather than the roof being in poor 
condition / 120 years old.
In response to this the loss adjuster said re-using the tiles showed they werent broken by 
the storm and that, as theyd previously advised the tiles had slipped, it was the fixings that 
were in a poor state of repair rather than the tiles. 
Having taken all of the information provided into account, Im more persuaded by the 
information provided by the loss adjuster than Hs roofing company. The loss adjusters view that the tiles had slipped, allowing water ingress, isnt contradicted by the roofing companys 
report. The roofing company said the tiles were in good condition but didnt mention the 
fixings. I think the fact that the tiles were able to be re-used, also indicates that they werent 
damaged by the wind. H have tried to contact the roofing company to get a further comment 
on the fixings but havent been able to. I dont think that the roofing company saying that 
overall the roof was in a reasonable condition is enough for me to be more persuaded by 
their report, than the more detailed comments of the loss adjuster. So, I havent seen 
enough to persuade me its most likely the fixings were in a good state of repair. 
Ive also seen the photos of the roof and they appear to indicate that the roof wasnt in as 
good condition as the neighbouring properties, which appear to have newer rooves. I can 
understand Mr Ts frustration that the loss adjuster hadnt charged his equipment to inspect 
the roof more closely. But SAGIC said that if the loss adjuster had felt it necessary to go 
back then it would have been standard practice for them to do so. However, the loss adjuster 
felt able to make a decision from the view they had available. Having seen the photographs 
of the roof, I think this was a fair and reasonable decision. 
Given that Im more persuaded by SACICs report, I think it was fair and reasonable for 
SAGIC to rely on the exclusion for wear and tear to turn down Hs claim, as that seems to be 
the cause of the water ingress rather than the storm. As any loss of rent claim would require 
there to have been a successful claim for an insured event, it follows that I dont think SAGIC 
needs to pay any claim for loss of rent. 
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr T was hoping for, but Im not going to require SAGIC to 
do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 April 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman