DRN-4450982
The complaint
Miss F is unhappy that Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd (C&G) has 
only paid part of her pet insurance claim. 
Any reference to C&G includes the actions of its agent.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ive summarised 
events.
Miss F took out a pet insurance policy in 2018 through an online comparison site. In 2021, 
the underwriter of the policy changed to C&G. 
She made a claim in 2023 for her dog  who Ill refer to as T. C&G said Miss F had 
incorrectly insured T as a medium crossbreed, but T was registered with her vet as a 
Cockapoo. It said Miss F should have declared T was a Cockapoo when answering the 
question about her dogs breed. 
It said it was required to amend Ts breed on the policy and adjust the premium accordingly. 
It added that it was also required to calculate the percentage by which T was underinsured 
and deduct this from the amount payable for the claim. Miss F complained saying she wasnt 
given the option of inputting Cockapoo at the time of taking out the policy and stated T was 
a medium crossbreed so her answer was correct.
C&G maintained its position. Unhappy, Miss F complained to this Service. An Investigator 
considered it and upheld it, saying C&G hadnt provided evidence to show Miss F was asked 
clear and specific questions  and so, she didnt consider its decision to treat Miss Fs 
misrepresentation as careless was fair.
To put things right, she said C&G needed to settle the claim in full, and if it increased Miss 
Fs premiums, it should refund the difference.
C&G didnt reply to the Investigators findings, and so, the complaint has been passed to me 
for an Ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer must show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless. 
C&G says Miss F failed to take reasonable care when taking out the policy and didnt notify it 
that T was a Cockapoo at subsequent renewals. It considered Miss Fs misrepresentation to 
be careless and said it was a qualifying misrepresentation because it would have charged a 
higher premium had she declared T was a Cockapoo. Because of this, it considers it fair to 
proportionately reduce the amount payable for the claim and increase her premium.
Was there a careless misrepresentation when Miss F initially took out the policy?
For me to determine if Miss F took reasonable care to not misrepresent information, I need 
to first be satisfied that she was asked clear and specific questions at the time of taking out 
the policy - to which she provided incorrect information. Weve asked C&G to provide 
screenshots showing the questions Miss F was asked at the time, but it hasnt provided this. 
Rather, C&G has provided information which it says shows Miss F could have selected 
Cockapoo as an option when inputting Ts breed information. But I dont find this 
persuasive as whilst it might show what data could have been inputted, it doesnt show what 
question this was in response to, and importantly how it was presented to Miss F  which is 
whats key when deciding if she took reasonable care when answering it. 
But in any event, Ive thought about the fact Miss F selected medium crossbreed as Ts 
breed. As a Cockapoo is a combination of two dog breeds and I understand T to be of 
medium size, Im not persuaded Miss F provided inaccurate information at the time of taking 
out the policy and so, Im not persuaded she misrepresented information at this time. And it 
follows that I dont consider CIDRA to apply further here.
Was there a misrepresentation when Miss F renewed her policy?
C&G has said Miss F failed to amend her dogs breed when it took over as the insurer of the 
policy in 2021, and at subsequent renewals. It said she was provided with updated policy 
documents and had the opportunity to ensure Ts breed was correctly recorded. 
Miss F has said that because T is a medium sized cross breed  she didnt consider herself 
to have provided incorrect information about Ts breed when taking out the policy and so, it 
didnt occur to her that shed need to change the breed to Cockapoo when renewing the 
policy. 
Ive said Im satisfied Miss F took reasonable care at the time of taking out the policy to not 
make a misrepresentation about Ts breed. So, Ive thought about whether she ought to 
have known she should amend Ts breed at renewal and that not doing so, is evidence of 
her having not taking reasonable care. 
At renewal, C&G didnt ask Miss F to specifically review whether Ts breed was recorded 
correctly. Given Ts breed hadnt changed, and Miss F had reasonably inputted medium 
crossbreed at the time of taking out the policy, I dont consider her not amending Ts breed 
to Cockapoo at renewal to be evidence of her not taking reasonable care. And so, I dont 
consider CIDRA to apply here either.
SummaryAs Im not persuaded Miss F misrepresented information at the time of taking out the policy 
or when it renewed, I dont consider C&Gs decision to reduce the claim settlement and 
increase her premiums for the year in which the claim took place to be fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint and direct Casualty & General Insurance 
Company (Europe) Ltd to: 
Pay the claim in full. If Miss F has already paid the outstanding fees, C&G must 
reimburse her this amount and add simple interest at 8% a year from the date she 
made the payment to the day it is refunded  subject to proof of payment. 
If C&G increased Miss Fs policy premium for the remainder of the policy year in 
which the claim took place, it should refund the difference between this and what her 
premium was (prior to the increase) and pay simple interest at 8% a year from the 
date she made each payment to the date it is refunded.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2023.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman