DRN-1248779
The complaint
Mr H says Canada Square Operations Limited mis-sold him a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mr H bought the policy in 2003 at the same time as taking out a credit card/. 
Our adjudicator didn't uphold the complaint. Mr H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Hs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint for the following reasons. 
The online application form Mr H completed gave the option of PPI, and he had to tick the 
yes or no box before he could proceed with his credit card application. So, I think Canada 
Square made Mr H aware that he had a choice about buying the PPI, and that he chose to 
take it. 
Mr Hs recollection is that he could only proceed if he ticked yes, but Im not persuaded by 
that. It was a long time ago and given what we know about how Egg sold PPI online at that 
time, I think it is more likely than not that Mr H is mistaken. 
Canada Square didn't recommend the PPI to Mr H, so it didn't have to check if it was right 
for him. When I say this, I mean that Canada Square didn't look at his personal 
circumstances and advise him the PPI was suitable. Nevertheless, Canada Square did have 
to provide Mr H enough information for him to make an informed decision. 
Its possible the information Canada Square gave Mr H about the PPI wasn't as clear as it 
shouldve been. But at the point of sale Mr H doesn't appear to have been affected by any of 
the main things the policy didn't cover  and based on what I know about his circumstances 
it looks like the policy couldve been useful to him when he bought it. So, I dont think better 
information wouldve stopped him buying it. 
Ive taken into account Mr Hs comments, including what hes said about later leaving his 
permanent employment and taking up temporary/agency roles. But these points dont 
change my conclusion. At the time the PPI was sold he was employed, and the PPI covered 
him. I don't think he was expecting to lose his job or move into 
temporary/agency employment at that time. So, even if Canada Square had explained the 
limitations of the policy for people in temporary/agency employment, I dont think this 
wouldve made any difference to his decision to take the PPI. Mr H says he later tried to make a claim for unemployment, but this was declined because of 
the nature of his work being temporary/agency. If hes unhappy with this claims decision or 
feels he should be refunded the premiums he paid from when he changed to 
temporary/agency employment, he could take that up with the insurer. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2020.
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman