DRN-3800999
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Nationwide Building Society automatically opted them out of text 
alerts without giving notice or asking their permission.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H hold a current account with Nationwide.
 
On 4 August 2022, they received a text message from Nationwide informing them that they 
had been automatically opted out of some text alerts. The message did say, though, that if 
customers wanted to opt back in, they could click on the link provided.
Initially, Mr and Mrs H thought the message might be a scam. They knew to be wary of links 
in text messages and didnt want to take the risk. So, they logged on to their internet banking 
and  after speaking with a Nationwide agent  discovered that the message was genuine.
 
Mr and Mrs H werent happy about Nationwides decision, and felt very disappointed that 
their text alert preferences had been changed without either their permission or some notice. 
So, with that in mind  and after reactivating the full text alert service  they complained.
 
Nationwide said that, while it had taken Mr and Mrs Hs comments on board, a commercial 
decision had been made to stop some text alerts for customers registered to online banking. 
Nationwide explained further that it was looking for ways to stop unnecessary contact, and 
this was one way of doing so given its internet banking customers could find the same 
information online.
 
Nationwide also praised Mr and Mrs H for being cautious around clicking on links they 
received, and it said that if there were ever questions over the authenticity of a message 
then Mr and Mrs H could contact them to be certain. 
Mr and Mrs H remained unhappy, so they referred their complaint to our service for further 
review. An investigator here looked at what had happened and, while he could appreciate 
Mr and Mrs Hs point of view, he didnt consider Nationwide to have done anything wrong. 
In summary, he said Nationwide had the discretion to take such commercial decisions  and 
it had given Mr and Mrs H a reasonable explanation for why it had done so. Moreover, 
Mr and Mrs H could opt back in to receive text alerts should they wish to do so. So, overall, 
our investigator didnt require Nationwide to take any further action.
 
Mr and Mrs H disagreed. They said that they couldnt understand how Nationwides decision 
to make such changes had been done fairly, given theyd received no notice or request for 
their permission.
 
As an agreement hasnt been reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset, Ill say that its clear just how strongly Mr and Mrs H feel about this matter. And 
I can appreciate why; they have a way of personal banking that works for them and wish to 
take advantage of both online banking and Nationwides text alert service as they see fit.
 
With that strength of feeling in mind, while Im aware our investigator has already explained 
this, I think its important to reiterate that were not the industry regulator. We have no power 
to tell a financial business how to operate or to change its processes or procedures. So, 
what Im considering here is if Nationwide treated Mr and Mrs H fairly. 
Lastly, just before turning to the matter at hand, I also think its important to explain that Ill 
be focussing on the crux of the complaint  so I may not have commented on everything that 
Mr and Mrs H have raised. I certainly dont intend any discourtesy by this, rather, it simply 
reflects the informal nature of our service.
To begin with, Ive reviewed the text message Mr and Mrs H received. It says:
As you use the Internet Bank/Banking app and can check your balance and recent 
transactions there, weve opted you out of high balance and/or mini statement SMS text 
alerts. If you still want to receive them, you can opt back in at 
https://www.nationwide.co.uk/textalerts. 
In Mr and Mrs Hs complaint form theyve explained that, when they checked their online 
banking, they saw that all their text alerts had been switched off. But to me, that text above is 
quite specific in its reference to exactly which alerts are affected. From my reading, it seems 
that the only text alerts which would be affected are those telling customers of a high 
balance and/or a mini statement. And from the photo that Mr and Mrs H have kindly provided 
us, it appears they received the message just as Ive set out above.
Moreover, in its submission to our service, Nationwide has provided some internal notes 
which clarify that alerts for low balances and overdrafts wont be affected by the amendment 
to its text alert service.
 
I know Mr and Mrs H have said that not having text alerts couldve caused them significant 
problems, and I can certainly appreciate their concern that they couldve ended up 
overdrawn if they didnt receive a text alert warning them of a low balance. But I dont think it 
likely that scenario wouldve occurred given the specifics of Nationwides message and its 
internal notes. And Ive not seen anything to conclusively show that all text alerts, such as 
those for low balances, were indeed turned off for Mr and Mrs H.
 
I must also keep in mind that if Mr and Mrs H did want to continue receiving all text alerts, 
then they could quite easily do so. Nationwide provided a link in its text message for 
customers to use should they wish to opt back in.
 
Ill say here that, much like Nationwide, I think Mr and Mrs Hs vigilance over potential scam 
messages is well placed. Its an unfortunate truth to say that scams are all too prevalent. So, 
I understand why Mr and Mrs H might not have been trusting of the link in Nationwides text 
message to begin with. But once theyd spoken with a Nationwide agent to confirm the 
authenticity of the text message, they were able to reactivate the text alerts theyd been 
opted out of. From what Ive read, it appears they did so quickly. And while I know thats a task they wouldnt have been expecting to have to undertake, on balance, I dont think I can 
fairly say it amounts to any significant inconvenience.
 
Lastly, I do understand the frustration that Mr and Mrs H felt at not being asked permission 
or given advance notice. But I dont think, on the whole, that it was unreasonable of 
Nationwide to determine that Mr and Mrs H had access to the same information online given 
they were fairly regular users of internet banking. And, crucially, Nationwide wasnt removing 
its text alert service altogether. The service was still available, and it was seemingly 
straightforward to reactivate those alerts which had been switched off.
 
Advance notice would likely be required if Nationwide planned on removing the facility 
overall  but that isnt what happened here. Instead, in my view, Nationwide was taking 
steps to reduce unnecessary contact but still keep important text alerts  like those for 
overdrafts and low balances  in place. All while providing a way in which customers could 
continue to access the full service if they wished. I dont think thats unreasonable. 
To sum up then, while I know Mr and Mrs H might not agree with how it approached things, 
Nationwide is entitled to determine for itself how to run its business and I think it made a 
legitimate commercial decision here. So, although I know Mr and Mrs H will likely be 
disappointed by what Ive said, for the reasons Ive outlined above, I dont require 
Nationwide to take any further action.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 January 2023.
 
Simon Louth
Ombudsman