DRN-1908413
 
The complaint
Mr D complains that Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr D took out a total of four loans with Lending Stream between January and May 2018.
Loan 
no.Date borrowed Amount Date repaid
1 17.01.18 £100.00 19.01.18
2 28.01.18 £150.00 19.02.18
3 04.03.18 £100.00 -
4 27.05.18 £100.00 -
Each of the loans was due to be repaid by 24 weekly instalments. Mr D repaid the first two 
loans well ahead of schedule. But he fell behind with his payments on loans 3 and 4 and 
balances remained outstanding on those two loans when Mr D brought his complaint to us.
Mr D believes that Lending Stream was irresponsible to lend to him, and that it didnt carry 
out sufficient checks to make sure that he would be in a position to repay the loans.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be upheld in part. In summary, she didnt think 
Lending Stream had been wrong to make the first three loans. But by the time Mr D applied 
for loan 4, she thought that proportionate checks would have revealed that Mr D was having 
problems manging his money. So she didnt think Lending Stream should have agreed to 
make loan 4. And she said it should pay Mr D some compensation and make some changes 
to his credit file.
Mr D disagreed with the adjudicators view, so the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr D could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that its important for me to start by saying that Lending Stream was required to 
establish whether Mr D could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and, in particular, the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to 
realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely 
to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Ds complaint. Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as the adjudicator, and for broadly similar reasons.
Lending Stream has told us about the checks it carried out before making the loans. It asked 
Mr D for details of his monthly income and expenditure. And it carried out a credit search 
before making each loan. Ive seen a summary of the results of those searches, and they 
dont contain anything which I think should have caused concern to Lending Stream.
As I mentioned earlier, each of Mr Ds loans was repayable in instalments. So the amounts 
that he needed to repay each time were smaller than if hed taken a normal payday loan. But 
of course he was committing to making those repayments over a much longer period.
I think the checks that Lending Stream carried out before making the first three loans were 
proportionate. The amounts that Mr D needed to repay were small compared with the 
income hed declared. And it would have looked as if Mr D would be able to afford the loan 
repayments relatively comfortably, based on what hed told Lending Stream about his normal 
monthly expenditure. 
Lending Stream was entitled to rely on the information Mr D had provided, in the absence of 
anything to suggest that it might be unreliable. Given the repayment amounts, what was 
apparent about Mr Ds circumstances at the time, and his borrowing history with Lending 
Stream, I dont think it would have been proportionate for Lending Stream to ask Mr D for the 
amount of information that would have been needed to show that the lending was 
unsustainable. So I dont think Lending Stream was wrong to make the first three loans to 
Mr D.Loan 4 was the fourth time Mr D had applied to borrow from Lending Stream in just over four 
months. His declared monthly expenditure remained roughly as it had been when hed 
applied for his previous loans. But his declared monthly income was significantly lower. And 
loan 3 was still open. Taking everything into account, I think it ought to have occurred to 
Lending Stream at this stage that Mr D might be struggling financially. And I think that at this 
stage Lending Stream ought to have taken steps to verify the information that Mr D had 
provided independently.
Ive looked at Mr Ds bank statements to see what I think its likely that proportionate checks 
would have shown Lending Stream. And I think that if it had looked into Mr Ds financial 
situation as thoroughly as it should have done, it would have discovered that he already had 
outstanding short-term loans with several other lenders. So I think Lending Stream should 
have realised at this point that it was likely that Mr D was having significant problems 
managing his money. And I dont think it should have agreed to make loan 4.
Putting things right
Although Mr D made some repayments on loans 3 and 4 to Lending Stream, the amount he 
repaid wasnt enough to cover the principal sum that hed borrowed. It looks as if that debt 
may now have been sold to a third-party debt collection company. If so, I dont know whether 
Mr D has repaid any of this debt to the debt collection company.
It seems reasonable that Mr D should repay the capital that he borrowed. But because Ive 
found that Lending Stream shouldnt have made loan 4, I dont think he should repay any of 
the interest or charges that were added to that loan.
So Lending Stream should take the outstanding debt back into its own books. It should 
reduce the balance on loan 4 to reflect just the capital that Mr D borrowed, less any 
repayments he has already made. And it should then attempt to reach a mutually agreeable 
repayment arrangement with Mr D for the remaining debt, bearing in mind the need to 
continue to treat him positively and sympathetically in those discussions.
If Lending Stream has sold the debt to a debt collection company and is unable, or unwilling, 
to take the debt back into its own books it must ensure that its interest and charges, and any 
other interest and charges added by the debt collection company, are refunded directly to 
Mr D so he can choose whether to use the compensation to reduce his debt directly.
Lending Stream should remove any negative information about loan 4 from Mr Ds credit file 
once the remaining principal debt has been repaid.
Mr D is currently in an IVA. His IVA practitioner has confirmed that they have an interest in 
any redress. It is Mr Ds responsibility to comply with the terms of the IVA.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Gain Credit LLC (trading as 
Lending Stream) to put things right by doing as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 July 2020. 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman