DRN-3063358
The complaint
Mrs I complains about invoices she has received from Symmetric Systems Ltd (SSL) for 
work theyve carried out on claims for mis-sold Payment Protection Insurance (PPI). 
  
What happened
Mrs I says she instructed SSL in 2012 and they were able to find PPI on one account. This 
led to a payment of £10 in 2015. Then in 2019, SSL got back in touch with Mrs I and asked if 
they could restart the process. Mrs I agreed and asked SSL to make enquiries using her 
previous surname. Mrs I says SSL were then able to locate an account with Lender F who 
paid compensation of £7,520.72. SSL then issued an invoice for £2,564.31  which they said 
represented 25% plus VAT of the compensation. 
Mrs I disputed the invoice and complained to SSL. She said theyre only entitled to a fee 
capped at 20% plus VAT in line with the rules. So, Mrs I paid SSL a fee of £1,804.97. 
Following this, SSL chased for the remainder of their fee as they felt they were entitled to 
25% plus VAT in line with their terms and conditions. SSL then sent an invoice to Mrs I for 
£8,079.24 which included this balance and cancellation fees on a number of other claims 
they were handling for Mrs I. Mrs I then referred her complaint to our service.  
Our investigator looked into things for Mrs I. She thought SSLs fee for the successful claim 
should be capped at 20% plus VAT, and SSL should also waive the cancellation fees as 
they hadnt provided information to show how they calculated these charges. Mrs I agreed 
with this recommendation but SSL disagreed so the matter came to me for a decision.  
After considering all of the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to   
Mrs I and SSL on 21 September 2021. In my provisional decision I said as follows:
Fees for successful claim 
Theres no dispute here that SSL represented Mrs I in her successful claim against 
Lender F  and theres no dispute that SSL are entitled to a fee for the work they 
carried out which led to a payment of £7,520.72. The issue being disputed is how 
much that fee should be. 
My starting point is the terms and conditions signed by Mrs I in 2012. This sets out 
the agreement between the parties and says SSL will charge Mrs I a fee of 25% plus 
VAT of any compensation recovered. 
Mrs I says SSLs fee should be capped at 20% plus VAT in line with the rules. The 
rules   Mrs I is referring to is The Financial Guidance and Claims Act 2018 which 
required the Claims Management Regulator to introduce a fee cap for PPI claims. 
The fee cap came into force on 10 July 2018. From this date, claims management 
companies couldnt legally charge a success fee of more than 20% plus VAT. But 
this wasnt retrospective, and SSL argue their agreement with Mrs I was signed 
before the cap was introduced.
SSL say Mrs I has only ever signed one contract with them  which was prior to 
2018. Mrs I says the original claim was completed and a new claim started in 2019 
when she provided additional details which enabled SSL to deal with the claim 
against Lender F. 
Its clear from the information received and the account provided by both parties that 
SSL started acting for Mrs I in 2012. Over the course of the next few years, SSL were 
handling a number of claims. Mrs I then wrote to SSL in early 2015 asking them to 
not contact her any further. I can see Letters of Authority (LoA) are then signed by 
Mrs I in August 2019 and theres contact between SSL and various lenders from 
2019 to 2020. The information from SSL doesnt show any claims being pursued 
between mid-2015 to 2019. So, I think this supports Mrs Is testimony that she didnt 
provide any further instructions until she was contacted in 2019. 
Taking this all into account, I dont think its reasonable for SSL to charge a fee of 
25% plus VAT. I agree their involvement has led to a successful claim against Lender 
F, but I dont think its fair for them to apply the terms and conditions from 2012 to this 
claim. I say this for two reasons. Firstly, theres no evidence the claim against Lender 
F started prior to the fee cap coming into place. The evidence shows the LoA was 
signed in August 2019 and this is when SSL engaged with Lender F. And, the final 
response letter from Lender F refers to correspondence from 2019. So, Im satisfied 
this claim was started in 2019. Secondly, I think its reasonable to conclude the 
agreement between Mrs I and SSL had ended in 2015 following Mrs Is request. And 
I believe, the fact theres no evidence showing claims being actively pursued from 
mid-2015 until late 2019, shows that both parties understood this to be the position. 
So, Im not persuaded by SSLs comment that the terms and conditions signed in 
2012 still apply to this claim. 
I dont think its reasonable for SSL to rely on terms and conditions signed seven 
years prior to making the claim against Lender F when this includes a period of four 
years during which they werent instructed. So, while I accept SSL are entitled to a 
fee, for the reasons I have given, this fee should be limited to 20% plus VAT. I can 
see this has been paid by Mrs I so SSL should cease any further action to recover 
any additional fees relating to this claim. I can see Mrs I has been contacted by debt 
collection agents who say theyve been instructed by SSL. Given that I dont think 
any further fee is payable for this claim, SSL should cancel their instructions to the 
debt collection agent. 
Cancellation fees 
Under the heading Cancellation and Termination, the terms and conditions say Mrs I 
has 14 days from the date of signing the terms and conditions to cancel her claims or 
14 days from the date of signing the original LoA where new claims are registered. 
The agreement says any cancellations after this period will be subject to a 
cancellation fee dependent on the work which has been carried out. 
SSL have sent Mrs I an invoice and are claiming £7,248.90 in cancellation fees for a 
number of claims they were handling for her. The terms and conditions do allow them 
to charge cancellation fees but Ive looked to see whether their decision is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
The invoice provided by SSL refers to Mrs I cancelling their services on 9 July 2020. 
Ive looked at the communication between Mrs I and SSL leading up to this point and 
can see Mrs I emails SSL to say she has paid their invoice and they have locked her 
out of her account so we have no need for any further communication. SSL respond and say Mrs I hasnt paid the full invoice and Mrs I then replies and says she has 
been locked out of her account by SSL so she doesnt know what is on her account. 
She says she doesnt want any more communication with SSL and says, Close my 
account and refrain from contacting me again. SSL have taken this as Mrs I 
cancelling their services.     
I can see SSL have provided a breakdown of the work carried out in relation to the 
cancelled claims. So, I dont dispute work has been carried out. But, SSL are relying 
on the terms and conditions signed in 2012 as the basis upon which they are 
charging these cancellation fees. And, for the reasons I have referred to above, I 
dont think its reasonable for SSL to rely on terms and conditions which were quite 
clearly terminated by Mrs I in 2015. I think both parties understood and accepted this 
as being the position as no work on any claims was then carried out for the following 
four years. And, theres no evidence any new terms and conditions were signed 
when SSL contacted Mrs I again in 2019. At this point, and as mentioned above, new 
rules came into place around a fee cap. So, taking this into account together with the 
fact that Mrs I had terminated the original agreement, I think it wouldve been fair and 
reasonable for new terms and conditions to have been sent to Mrs I.   
I dont think its fair for SSL to expect Mrs I to recall terms and conditions signed by 
her seven years prior to signing the LoAs in 2019. And, particularly when she didnt 
need to think about them over the four years SSL werent instructed. I cant see SSL 
then reminded Mrs I about these terms, and more specifically, the cancellation 
clauses, when the dispute arose. I think its clear from the correspondence between 
Mrs I and SSL that she asked them to stop contacting her because she was 
frustrated by their request for additional fees for the successful claim. And, as 
mentioned above, I dont think this was reasonable.   
So, while the terms and conditions, agreed by Mrs I in 2012, allow SSL to charge Mrs 
I cancellation fees, I dont think its reasonable in the circumstances of this case for 
them to charge Mrs I these fees. So, I intend to direct SSL to remove all of the 
cancellation charges  this includes any late fees applied to these charges. Mrs I has 
been contacted by debt collection agents who say theyve been instructed by SSL. 
And, given that I dont think these fees are reasonable, SSL should cancel their 
instructions to the debt collection agent.   
So, subject to any further comments from Mrs I or SSL, my provisional decision was that I 
was minded to uphold this complaint. 
Following my provisional decision, Mrs I has responded to accept. SSL have responded to 
confirm they have cancelled all remaining fees and withdrawn the debt collection agents. So, 
given that both parties agree the provisional decision, I have proceeded to make a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint for the reasons set out in my 
provisional decision and copied above.  
Putting things rightIve taken the view that SSL have acted unfairly in invoicing Mrs I more than the 20% plus 
VAT for the claim against Lender F and for invoicing her for cancellation costs. So, they 
should cancel both these invoices and cancel their instructions to the debt collection agent. 
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Symmetric Systems Ltd must:
cancel their invoice for the additional fees for the claim against Lender F;
cancel their invoice for the cancellation fees; and 
cancel their instructions to the debt collection agent. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs I to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2021.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman