DRN-3230297
The complaint
Mrs G and Mr G complain about Amtrust Europe Limiteds decision to decline a claim made 
under their buildings warranty policy.
What happened
Mrs G and Mr G own the leasehold for an apartment in a development which contains a 
number of properties. 
The development as a whole is covered by a new homes warranty with Amtrust. The policy 
is in the name of the freeholder and the lessees of the various properties within the 
development. It was initially taken out in May 2013.
The property manager, acting on behalf of the freeholder, made a claim under the policy in 
February 2019 relating to damage in the common parts of the development. They said the 
damage was caused by defects in the original building of the development.
Amtrust appointed loss adjustors to carry out an inspection and an investigation of the claim. 
They then declined the claim on the basis that the damage had in fact been discovered 
much earlier and the issues should have been resolved with the original developer.
Mrs G and Mr G werent happy with Amtrusts decision and made a complaint to them. And 
when Amtrust maintained that their decision to decline the claim was correct, Mrs G and 
Mr G brought their complaint to us. Our investigator looked into it and didnt think Amtrust 
had done anything wrong.
Mrs G and Mr G disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This new homes warranty policy works in a very specific way, which is set out in the policy 
documents and the relevant terms and conditions. 
In the first two years after the completion of the development, the policyholder(s) are 
required to notify any defects in the build to the developer. The developer has an obligation 
to rectify any defects and subsequent damage. A defect is defined as a failure to build the 
development in line with the functional requirements set out in Amtrusts technical manual.
If, in that period, the developer refuses to engage or fails to carry out rectification works 
appropriately, the policyholder is required to report the matter to Amtrust. Amtrust may 
attempt conciliation between the policyholder and the developer - but if that fails, they will 
step in to carry out or pay for any necessary repairs if the developer doesnt do so.
The policy terms are very clear that any such failure on the part of the developer must be 
notified to Amtrust within six months of the expiry of that first two-year period (which they 
term the defects insurance period).
In the following eight years (what Amtrust call the structural insurance period), Amtrust will 
carry out or pay for rectification of any damage caused by (covered) failures in the original 
build. In this period, the policyholder does not need to follow things up with the developer - 
and the developer no longer has the obligation to rectify any defects (at least as far as the 
warranty is concerned).
In essence, Amtrust provide cover for defined types of damage to the property, but they 
place an obligation on the developer to deal with any issues (which are covered) in the first 
two years. The policy is sold  and priced - on that basis. Amtrust may end up paying for 
repairs to damage discovered early in the life of a development / building but only after all 
possible means have been used to try to get the developer to, in effect, clear up their own 
errors.
In that context, Im satisfied its reasonable  and not unfair to the policyholder  to require 
the policyholder to report any damage or defect that they discover in a timely manner. It 
would be unfair to Amtrust if the policyholder were allowed to wait until the expiry of the 
period in which the developer has an obligation (the defects insurance period) before 
reporting any damage theyd discovered earlier - and making a claim, expecting Amtrust to 
cover it.
Both Amtrust and Mrs G and Mr G are familiar with the terms of the policy, as set out in the 
policy documents, so I neednt labour the point or go into great detail here. Suffice only to 
say that in Section 3.3 of the policy terms (which defines obligations during the structural 
insurance period), Amtrust say:
The underwriter shall indemnify the policyholder against all claims discovered and 
notified to the underwriter during the structural insurance period (my emphasis)
In addition, the policy section about the claims procedure says, about the defects insurance 
period (the first two years):
if the Developer does not respond the Defects must be notified to the Scheme 
Administrator in writing within six months of the expiry of the defects insurance 
period. The underwriter will have no liability if all matters are not notified within these 
time frames.
So, taken together, those terms mean that if damage (caused by a defect) is discovered by 
the policyholder within the first two years, the policyholder must engage with the developer 
as their first port of call. And they must report to Amtrust  within six months of the end of the 
first two-year period at the latest - any failure of the developer to respond appropriately. 
Otherwise Amtrust will not cover the damage.
If, on the other hand, damage (caused by a defect) is first discovered after the first two 
years, Amtrust will deal with the claim and will carry out or pay for any repairs (which are 
covered). 
I should say that these terms are not unusual in buildings warranty policies. And they are 
explained in detail  and quite clearly  in the policy documents. Theyre not buried in the 
small print or in any way ambiguous. And theyre not inherently unfair, as Ive already said.On receipt of the claim in February 2019, Amtrust were entitled to ask a loss adjustor to 
assess the claim on their behalf. 
The loss adjustors report said that theyd spoken to some of the leaseholders at the 
development. They said that the issues with the building  mainly around water ingress due 
to badly built or installed windows / glass  had been evident very soon after theyd moved 
in.
The loss adjustor also contacted the previous property management company (whod 
manged the development before the property manager who made the claim in February 
2019). They said the issues with water ingress in the common parts of the building had been 
evident since the property was completed. And they said the developer had made attempts 
to repair the damage and correct the defects.
Im satisfied therefore that it wasnt unfair or unreasonable for Amtrust to conclude that the 
issues with the build were discovered within the first two years of the warranty (the defects 
insurance period) and that theyd been reported to the developer, who then made some 
(seemingly unsuccessful) attempts at rectification.
Ill come back to the policy terms, as they apply to defects / damage first discovered in the 
first two years (the defects insurance period). The policyholder (as per the terms set out 
above) must report these to the developer (it seems they did). If the developer fails to rectify 
the issues (as they did), the matter must be referred to Amtrust within six months of the end 
of the defects insurance period. Otherwise, Amtrust have no liability to indemnify the 
policyholder. 
The known issues were not reported to Amtrust within six months of the end of the defects 
insurance period in this case. They were reported in February 2019, some three to four 
years after the expiry in 2015 of the defects insurance period. And so Amtrust, in line with 
the terms of the policy, have no liability for rectification or repair of the defects and/or 
damage.
I have a great deal of sympathy for Mrs G and Mr G given the position they now find 
themselves in. It seems they dont live in the development  they have another property 
elsewhere. And so, they may not personally have been aware of the damage to the property 
which began to occur so soon after it was built. 
Theyre also aware of a surveyors report which appears to suggest that the development 
may have been built in a very unsatisfactory manner and not in compliance with the relevant 
regulations or requirements. I can fully understand their frustration and annoyance at this 
situation.
However, I cant conclude that Amtrust have treated Mrs G and Mr G unfairly in the way they 
handled the claim from the freeholder. Mrs G and Mr G think the loss adjustor should have 
interviewed them  and/or other residents / owners  before they completed their report.
I can see why Mrs G and Mr G feel excluded from the process, but I have to say that 
whatever they might have said to the loss adjustor, had they been asked, it wouldnt alter the 
fact that theres very firm evidence  from the leaseholders who were interviewed and from 
the previous property management company  that the issues with the build were evident 
right from the outset.
And that being the case, I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for Amtrust to decline the 
claim on the basis of the information they had. The defects were discovered in the first two years and not in the later structural insurance period. And they werent reported to Amtrust 
within the time frames set out in the policy.
Its not for me to say whether Mrs G and Mr G  and/or their fellow leaseholders  have any 
sort of recourse now in terms of action against the developer and/or the original property 
management company. They would need to take their own legal advice on that. Neither the 
developer nor the management company are providers of financial services, so they dont 
fall under our ambit. But Im satisfied Amtrust havent done anything wrong in declining this 
claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs G and Mr Gs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 February 2022.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman