DRN-3725350
The complaint
Mr T has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) has been issuing Consolidated 
Tax Certificates (CTC) which contain errors. And it continues to do so despite him making it 
aware of those errors. 
What happened
Mr T spotted there were errors in his CTC where for one of his securities the income was 
reported solely as dividend distributions rather than split between the cash element of the 
dividend and interest distributions which are treated differently for tax purposes. This would 
mean Barclays customers could be paying too much or too little tax. 
He complained to Barclays about this. 
Barclays responded to Mr Ts complaint in July 2021. It said;
It was aware this was an ongoing issue and Mr T had complained previously.
Resolving the issue  the separate labelling of interest and cash elements of a 
dividend in the CTCs  would require a full platform restructuring and it was unable to 
provide a timescale for that. 
If any errors were identified on the CTC, Barclays auditor would manually validate 
those and any corrections. If a customer wasnt previously made aware of this error, 
they would be contacted.
It confirmed a formal letter had sent by post about the error Mr T had identified, and 
that the lower recorded payment was for interest and the higher payment of the two 
was for dividends. 
Mr M wasnt happy with the outcome and brought his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman. He said he had spent time corresponding with Barclays and amending his tax 
return. Other clients werent aware of the errors and will have suffered financial loss.
Our investigator who considered the complaint didnt think it should be upheld. She said;
When Mr T had previously complained to Barclays he was advised that resolution for 
the issue would require a full platform restructure which Barclays was working on but 
couldnt commit to a timescale. 
Barclays had confirmed the lower payment was for the interest and the higher of the 
two payments was for the dividend.
It had said Mr T could make contact each year and it would issue a personalised 
letter confirming what had happened with the payments. And it had also paid him 
£250 for the distress and inconvenience suffered. The investigator was satisfied that 
Barclays had done what it should have to try to resolve Mr Ts complaint. It had acted 
fairly.
The Financial Ombudsman couldnt consider complaints made on behalf of other 
Barclays customers. And it wasnt within the power of this service to investigate a 
financial firms systems and processes. 
Mr T remained dissatisfied. He wanted notification from Barclays that it should inform him 
that on his CTC the dividend and interest payment for this shareholding would be reported 
as two payments under dividends. He said the £250 he had previously been paid was for 
delays he experienced for his previous complaint and that Barclays accepted it had made an 
error in his 2019/2020 tax certificate. That was retrospective compensation and not intended 
as compensation for all future complaints. 
Mr T was aware that Barclays might not be able to resolve the complaint before his next tax 
certificate was issued but it hadnt been fixed and Barclays had failed to notify him  which is 
the subject of this complaint. Barclays had attributed the cause of the issues to third parties, 
but it was Barclays who should be responsible. 
The dividend and interest payment were treated differently for tax purposes. And there 
wasnt any reason to assume that for two payments made on the same day that the lower 
payment would always be the interest payment and the higher would be the dividend 
payment.
Barclays was still sending out incorrect CTCs and relying on its customers not to notice the 
errors. He had recently received his CTC for 2021/2022 and again it was incorrect, and he 
didnt receive any notification in advance that was going to be the case. 
Mr T requested that his complaint be decided by an ombudsman, so it has been passed to 
me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should first like to clarify that I will only be considering the complaint that Mr T has raised 
against Barclays. The Financial Ombudsman considers complaints between customers and 
financial businesses on their own particular merits and in the individual circumstances of that 
complaint. I wont be looking at any issues Mr T has raised regarding incorrect CTC 
information provided to any other of Barclays customers. 
In its submission to us Barclays explained that Mr T had made previous complaints about 
this issue, and it had previously paid to Mr T £250 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. And with reference to amending the issues regarding the dividend/interest 
information provided within the CTC, this was something it was looking into, but it would not 
be an easy or quick fix. 
However, it did offer to provide a bespoke letter for Mr T each year if necessary, to confirm 
the dividend/interest position within his CTC, and with a confirmation that the lower amount 
was the interest payment which it thought was a fair outcome. While considering this 
complaint Ive borne in mind Barclays attempts to put the matter right. 
Its clear that Mr T already knows that the resolution to this issue is a full restructuring of 
Barclays platform. Barclays has already acknowledged there is something wrong and is 
looking to resolve the issue. But it has also made Mr T aware that it cant give a timescale for 
when this will be resolved for the reasons it has given. I understand and appreciate Mr T would like Barclays to give him notice that when he is to 
receive his CTC the relevant payments will be reported as two payments under dividends. 
But I am satisfied that Mr T is fully aware of this information  that there is an issue with the 
recording of the interest and dividend payments for this shareholding in his CTC. So being 
fully informed, I would question why Mr T would want notification of this. Barclays has 
informed him that it would let him know when the issue was updated or resolved. So, I dont 
think it unreasonable that in the meantime, Mr T should assume the situation hasnt 
changed.
And I am also satisfied that Mr T knows what he can do about it  Barclays has offered to 
issue a personalised letter to explain the information recorded on his CTC and which 
payments are for interest and which are for dividends. And as Mr T has been and remains 
aware of the issue, I think it would be unlikely he would be paying the wrong level of tax. 
As explained by the investigator it is not for the Financial Ombudsman to prescribe how a 
firm should run its business or operate its services. But saying that, I dont think its 
unreasonable to think that any business would want to offer the facilities and operate its 
service to a standard which was good enough in order to attract and keep customers. From 
what I have seen of Barclays responses to this issue it has done as much as it can to put the 
matter right at this time.
I know this isnt the outcome Mr T wants, but from what Barclays has told us  and told Mr T 
 its done as much as it can offer at the current time. And in its response to Mr T, Barclays 
explained that its decision wasnt going to change and if there were any updates or changes 
to its platform, he would be notified. 
Mr T says that Barclays has concluded that it is cheaper to pay compensation to those of its 
customers who spot the error than to fix its platform. But I dont agree. I dont think it likely a 
regulated business would from the outset intentionally provide a service that it knew 
contained an error. I think its more likely this is a case where it has become apparent there 
is an error and which Barclays has explained it is looking to resolve. 
So while I accept that the resolution so far offered by Barclays is not the resolution Mr T 
wants, I think it has offered to provide a workaround that Mr T can access each year  if 
necessary  until it is able to carry out a full platform change. I cant see at this time that 
Barclays can do anything more and Mr T is fully aware of that position.
I appreciate Mr T remains frustrated that Barclays cannot provide him with the service he 
wants, but in the particular circumstances of the complaint, I think the actions so far taken 
by, and further offered to Mr T by Barclays, are a fair and reasonable response. So, I wont 
be asking it to do anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2023.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman