DRN-2835063
The complaint
Mr M complains about the way Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) handled a 
claim made against his home emergency policy.
In this instance any reference to RSA includes reference to its agents.
What happened
Mr M called RSA to inform it that he had a leak from the overflow pipe in the tank in his loft. 
During the call he also reported that a tap on the outside of his property was leaking and, 
although he had a replacement, he would like someone to fit the replacement.
Mr M was informed that RSA could arrange for a heating engineer to come out and fix the 
overflow pipe, but Mr M says he was told that he would need to make a separate claim to 
have someone come out to fix the external tap, which Mr M says he declined.
RSA sent a heating engineer who was able to fix the leak in the loft. Mr M asked if he was 
able to assist with the tap on the outside wall, however Mr M said the engineer refused as it 
wasnt on his worksheet. Mr M complained to RSA and was informed that his policy didnt 
cover him for the replacement of the tap because it was external to his home, but Mr M didnt 
agree so referred the matter to this service.
Our investigator considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. She listened 
to the call between Mr M and RSA and thought that RSA had been clear that the 
replacement tap wasnt covered, and that Mr M would need to arrange a private engineer for 
that issue. She also thought that RSA has acted reasonably in declining the claim for the tap 
as the situation was excluded under the terms of the policy. Mr M didnt agree so the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as the investigator and for the same 
reasons. Ill explain why.
Firstly its important to note that we dont regulate RSA and cant consider hypothetical 
situations about what may have happened. In my decision I have focussed on what 
happened and whether RSA acted fairly and reasonably in the circumstances.
Mr M states he had cover for the outside tap under the policy. However the leaking tap 
would have been considered separately to the leaking pipe in the loft as they are two 
separate and unrelated events. And as Mr M has also told us that he was able to have the 
tap repaired for the same amount as his policy excess, even if the tap was covered, RSA 
wouldnt need to reimburse him for any costs incurred.
However I have also listened to the call and I think RSA made it clear from the outset that his 
claim for the outside tap wasnt covered by his policy. And he was clearly told that any repair 
to that tap would need to be carried out privately  whether that was a private agreement 
with the heating engineer it sent out or with a private plumber. So I dont think RSA misled 
Mr M during that call. And ultimately it was for the engineer RSA sent out to decide whether 
he wanted to  or had the skills to  take on the private job for Mr M directly. And that 
wouldnt be something we could consider at this service.
Ive considered whether I think RSA acted reasonably in stating that it wasnt able to provide 
cover for the outside tap. The policy states We will pay tor the cost of repair in order to 
restore operation to taps and toilet systems, located within your home, including; repair of 
leaking or dripping taps. The policy then goes on to set out the exclusions, which state that 
RSA will not cover Replacement of taps or Any taps and toilet systems external to
your home.
The policy term makes it clear that it will provide cover for repairs to taps within the home but 
that it wouldnt cover the cost of replacing the tap. No definition is provided for replacement, 
but we wouldnt expect insurers to provide a definition for every word used in the policy and 
where there is no definition, we would consider the general meaning to apply. Here I would 
consider that it was reasonable for RSA to find that Mr Ms situation of asking RSA to 
change his existing tap for a new one was the replacement of a tap, rather than fixing the 
existing tap. Mr M has commented that he had provided the replacement tap, however I 
think the wording of the exclusion is more general than that and would also include any 
works required to install the replacement.
The policy also states that it doesnt cover taps which are external to the home. No definition 
of external is provided in the policy, but the tap was situated on an external wall of the 
property and was outside of Mr Ms home. So I think RSA acted reasonable in declining the 
claim on the basis that the tap was external to Mr Ms home.
I understand that Mr M is disappointed that RSA didnt arrange for its engineer to also carry 
out the replacement of the outside tap, given that it was such a small job. However this 
policy is intended to rectify home emergencies, such as internal leaks rather than carry out 
general maintenance works. And based on the wording of the policy, I think that RSA acted 
reasonably in relying on the policy exclusions and explain to Mr M that the tap wasnt 
covered. So it follows that I wont be asking RSA to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 August 2021.
 
Sara Falzon
Ombudsman