DRN-3492921
The complaint
Mr F complains that Gresham Insurance Company Limited (GIC) declined his claim for storm 
damage.
What happened
Mr F had buildings insurance with GIC. During severe winds part of the garden wall came 
down. He claimed under the storm damage conditions of his policy but GIC said there hadnt 
been a storm. After eventually agreeing that there had been severe winds, GIC instructed a 
loss adjuster (LA) to visit Mr Fs property.
The LA said the wall was of poor build quality and that there was evidence of wear and tear, 
both of which caused the wall to come down in the storm.
Mr F didnt agree. He said the wall wouldve been built to the correct standard 30 years 
earlier when the house was built by a reputable company. Mr F also disagreed that the wall 
was showing evidence of wear and tear which wouldve caused it to come down. 
GIC appointed another LA for a second opinion. They also said the wall had come down in 
the storm because of existing wear and tear.
GIC declined Mr Fs claim, relying on the policy exclusion for wear and tear and poor 
workmanship, stating that the storm had simply highlighted existing problems with the wall. 
Mr F didnt agree, so he brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Fs complaint. She said it was reasonable for GIC to rely on 
the LAs findings, and its reasons for declining the claim were in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy.
Mr F didnt agree. He challenged:
the LAs qualification to make an informed assessment of the cause of damage; 
the existence of wear and tear, and allegation of poor workmanship GIC reported, 
and
the lack of comment on his evidence.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I can understand that Mr F will be disappointed, Ive decided not to uphold his 
complaint. Ill explain. 
Firstly, its worth explaining what my role is here. Im not a building expert: nor am I required 
to be. My role is to look at the evidence provided by both parties and decide whether GIC 
responded to Mr Fs claim fairly and in line with the policy.
Was there a storm?
GIC initially declined Mr Fs claim because there was no record of a storm. It has since 
accepted that there were localised severe winds amounting to a storm. So, theres no 
dispute that there was a storm.
Was the damage typical of that caused by a storm?
Part of Mr Fs wall came down during the storm. Its not usual to see walls blown over during 
a storm because houses and their perimeter walls are built to withstand severe weather. So, 
I looked at online meteorological reports to find out what type of damage 80 mph winds 
might typically cause. The damage listed is mainly to trees and smaller structures, such as 
sheds. There is reference to structural damage. While the damage described is in relation to 
roof damage, I accept that a wall is structural and, therefore, could be included in the type of 
damage caused.
So, Im satisfied that Mr F showed hed suffered a loss which couldve been caused by an 
insured peril.
The final question is, then:
Was the storm the only or main cause of the damage?
Ive looked at the photos provided, and they show damage consistent with GICs description 
of the wear and tear, and poor workmanship. But the damage itself isnt in dispute. The issue 
is whether GICs LA and surveyor interpreted the condition of the wall correctly, such that it 
reached a fair conclusion about what caused the wall came down.
The LA said the wall came down because of existing wear and tear and poor workmanship, 
so GIC declined the claim under that policy exclusion. Mr F said the wall was of the 
appropriate build standard, with no significant wear and tear, and only came down because 
of the storm.
As Ive said, Im not a building expert, so I must rely on the opinions of the experts who 
inspected the damage. Both of GICs appointed LAs said the wall came down during the 
storm but only because of existing wear and tear and poor workmanship. So GIC concluded 
that the storm simply highlighted existing damage which had already weakened the wall.
In support of his claim, Mr F provided evidence of the storm, photos of his wall, and reported 
that when he was attending to the fallen wall, a passer-by commented that it was another 
one down. I accept that the comment meant the passer-by had seen other fallen walls 
immediately after the storm, so Mr F felt supported in his view that the storm caused the 
damage.
I have no reason to doubt that other, similar damage happened during the storm, but it 
doesnt show that either Mr Fs wall or the other reported damage was caused mainly by the 
storm. And I havent seen any expert evidence to support Mr Fs claim.
In essence, Im satisfied that GIC reasonably concluded that, but for the existing wear and 
tear and poor workmanship, the storm wouldnt have damaged the wall. Therefore, the answer to my final questions is its more likely than not that the storm wasn't the only or main 
cause of the damage.
Expert opinion
Mr F raised concerns about whether anyone who had been involved in his claim and 
complaint was qualified to comment on the cause of the wall damage. GIC appointed a LA 
and, at Mr Fs request, appointed a second LA to provide a second opinion. Both concluded 
that the wall was showing signs of wear and tear and poor workmanship, which would likely 
have been the main reason for the wall to come down during the storm.
While I appreciate that Mr F doesnt think either of the LAs was appropriately qualified, I 
havent seen anything to show that they werent skilled LAs. They also reached the same 
conclusion about the main cause of damage, suggesting they interpreted the evidence 
correctly. Therefore, I have no reason to doubt that GIC appointed appropriately qualified 
adjusters to assess the cause of damage.
If Mr F remains unhappy with GICs opinion, he may wish to appoint his own surveyor to 
offer a view.
Im sorry that Mr F suffered loss because of the unexpected and sudden collapse of his 
garden wall. To be clear, Im not saying the storm didnt contribute to the damage. But GIC 
reasonably relied on expert evidence which concluded that the wall only came down 
because of existing wear and tear and poor workmanship. Therefore, Im satisfied that GIC 
fairly declined the claim in line with the policy exclusions.
I see no reason to require GIC to settle the claim.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman