DRN-1581630
The complaint
Mr B feels that Close Brothers Limited has treated him unfairly in financing a car for him, 
which he feels is of unsatisfactory quality and which he wishes to reject.
What happened
In November 2020 I issued a provisional decision on this case to allow both parties fair 
opportunity to understand my position (which is different to the Investigators) and to make 
any arguments or provide any further evidence they wished to provide. Both Close Brothers 
and Mr B have responded. Close Brothers have accepted my position and are willing to 
repair the issues highlighted. Mr B has provided copies of emails from the time and also 
pointed to a call he had with Close Brothers. Subsequently Mr B has contacted this service 
again to tell us that hes been diagnosed with substantial medical issues and has, as a 
consequence, lost his employment. I am very sorry to hear of these issues and shall return 
to these issues later in my decision. The background of this matter is as follows. 
Mr B acquired a second-hand car from a dealer through a conditional sale agreement with 
Close Brothers in April 2019. At the time of sale the car was over seven years old and had 
driven around 44,000 miles.
On the sales documentation it is accepted that the windscreen is damaged and that there is 
stone chip damage to the car. Mr B took possession of the car having agreed with the dealer 
that those issues would be fixed after taking possession. There is evidence of text messages 
between Mr B and the dealer discussing these issues and other evidence from the time 
showing there were these issues. There is no dispute that there were these particular issues 
with the car. 
Mr B says that on driving the car away from the dealers he noticed it was drifting. So he took 
it to a garage for wheel realignment. At this time this garage pointed to other issues with the 
car. The offside rear alloy had two cracks and that the rear differential was noisy and 
juddering. There are photos of the cracks and the documentation from the garage regarding 
the cracks and the rear differential. 
In May 2019 another garage confirmed that front brake pads were worn, the offside rear 
alloy wheel had two cracks, there was a slight oil leak from the engine, noise from the rear 
differential and two cracks on the windscreen. The dealership werent willing to help Mr B for 
these specific issues. So Mr B took his complaint to Close Brothers.
Mr B wants to reject the car. Close Brothers have agreed to repair some issues and inspect 
others but have not agreed to Mr B rejecting the car.
Our investigator upheld the complaint saying that Mr B could reject the car and making 
Close Brothers make other forms of redress to Mr B. Close Brothers didnt agree and as it 
remains unhappy the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I set out a number of matters and my thoughts on those. I shall 
quote the relevant parts of my provisional decision here.
Close Brothers are the supplier of the car under the Conditional Sale Agreement and so are 
responsible for handling complaints about the quality of the car supplied. And the relevant 
law says that the goods (a car in this case) needs to be of a satisfactory quality. The relevant 
law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable 
person would consider satisfactory considering the description of the goods, the price and all 
the other relevant circumstances.
Mr B wishes to reject the car as there have been a number of problems. Close Brothers are 
willing to repair some issues and inspect the other issues raised about the car but dont think 
it fair for Mr B to reject the car. So whether to reject or repair this particular car is the 
essence of this complaint.
So at this time Im satisfied on balance that the alloy was cracked and that the rear 
differential wasnt working properly. So considering these issues along with the admitted 
other issues present at the time of Mr B taking possession I am satisfied that the car was of 
unsatisfactory quality at the time it was provided to Mr B with regard to the windscreen, 
stone chips, cracks in rear alloy and the rear differential.
Im not persuaded that the brake pads or the slight oil leak are unsatisfactory considering 
the circumstances. I agree with Close Brothers on this as this is a used car with significant 
mileage. I think the brake pads and the oil leak are a result of normal wear and tear and so 
Close Brothers dont have to do anything about this.
Broadly speaking under the relevant legislation Mr B had thirty days to reject the car. And 
although I cant say for certain, currently Im simply not persuaded that on the balance of 
probabilities Mr B tried to reject the car within thirty days of taking possession of it. I say this 
because had he done so I might have expected to see more by way of documentary 
evidence in support, for example evidence that such a request was received and declined, or 
evidence that such a request was received, not responded to, and then followed up quickly 
by Mr B. However, no such evidence has been provided.
On the contrary I can see emails from Mr B to the dealer in late April 2019 and 12 May 2019 
which although showing Mr B isnt happy with the situation they do show he wants to keep 
the car at that time. Its not until well after the 30 days does Mr B make clear he no longer 
wants the car. So, contrary to the position of the Investigator, at this time, I do not think it fair 
for Mr B to be able to reject the car.
As it stands Close Brothers hasnt had opportunity to properly assess the car let alone 
actually repair the car. I think it would be fair for it to have opportunity to repair the car at this 
time. I understand that the car has been not driven for some months and is currently on Mr 
Bs drive having been SORN since October 2019. So I think Close Brothers should arrange 
and carry out the repairs of the car at no further cost to Mr B.
I also think Close Brothers should refund all diagnostic report costs to Mr B. I think Close 
Brothers should also pay Mr B the £150 in distress and inconvenience as Mr B shouldnt 
have had to take possession of a car that was of unsatisfactory quality and go through all the 
efforts to prove it to be so since.Mr B has responded by providing an email from 04 June 2019 in which he seeks to reject the 
car. However he signed the conditional sale agreement for the car on 22 April 2019 and took 
possession on 27 April 2019 which is significantly more than thirty days earlier. Mr B also 
points to a call he had with Close Brothers where he gives the first name of the individual he 
talked to. Close Brothers have confirmed that it doesnt have call recordings from then. 
However I can see from the contact notes Close Brothers provided to this Service originally 
there is a call between Mr B and a Close Brothers representative who has that same first 
name. But this is on 07 June similarly outside the thirty-day period. Having reviewed the 
comprehensive contact notes Close Brothers has for this case I can see the first contact Mr 
B makes with Close Brothers is on 03 June to get an email address in order to complain. 
Likewise this is outside the thirty-day time he had to reject the car. So, on balance Im 
satisfied that Mr B didnt reject the car within thirty days. Accordingly I see no persuasive 
reason to move away from my position in my provisional decision. I think it fair for Close 
Brothers to repair the car as Ive set out.
Close Brothers has stated that it has no relationship with the supplying agent (dealer) so it 
will ask Mr B to provide quotations from any preferred VAT approved garages in his area to 
commence with the repairs. I think this is fair in the circumstances.
Mr B has also pointed to the recent diagnosis of significant medical issues, losing his 
employment and being medically unfit to work. I am very sorry to hear this. However this 
doesnt mean its now fair to allow rejection of the car. In the circumstances Im satisfied Ive 
reached a fair outcome across the circumstances. Mr B has also said that due to these 
medical and employment issues he can no longer afford the car repayments. Close Brothers 
hasnt had sufficient opportunity to consider this change in events. So I suggest Mr B explain 
this to Close Brothers and support it with the evidence he has. If, after that, Mr B feels Close 
Brothers are treating him unfairly then he can make a new complaint at that time.
Putting things right
In summary I direct Close Brothers to repair the windscreen, stone chips, the cracks in the 
rear alloy and the rear differential at no further cost to Mr B. It need not address the brake 
pads or the slight oil leak. I direct it to refund the cost of all diagnostic reports to Mr B on 
evidence of those costs and pay him £150 for distress and inconvenience suffered.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint against Close Brothers Limited. I 
direct it resolve the matter as I have set out above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2021.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman