DRN-1695801
 
The complaint
Mr H complains that AXA France IARD ("AXA") mis-sold him a payment protection
insurance ("PPI") policy. The complaint is brought on his behalf by a third party.  
Although the policy was sold by another business, the complaint was set up initially against 
Financial Insurance Company Limited ("FICL") as they were the underwriters of the policy 
and had accepted responsibility for these sorts of sales. So the adjudicator sent out her  
view with the complaint set up against FICL. However, FICL has now transferred its  
insurance business to AXA France IARD ("AXA"). Therefore, the complaint has now been 
set up against AXA. So I'll only refer to AXA in the rest of my decision.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy attached to a store card that Mr H took out in 1996. It 
was sold in store and covered him for accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mr H's 
representative did not agree saying, on his behalf and in summary, that:
Mr H was entitled to 12 months sick pay, so he didn't need the PPI, especially as it 
was a more expensive policy compared to similar ones.
The box on the application form may have been ticked - but this was done under the 
guidance of the member of staff at the till, in a rush, in a busy store; and 
without giving the document careful consideration. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding
Mr Hs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint and Ill explain why.
AXA hasn't been able to supply a copy of the policy document relating to this PPI policy. But 
that's not unreasonable or unsurprising bearing in mind how long ago this happened. And I 
can't be sure exactly what was discussed or what information Mr H received. So I reach my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
AXA had to make Mr H aware that the PPI was optional and get his consent before adding
PPI. The store card application form included a separate section headed Payment 
Protection" and a clear "Yes" box which has been ticked to confirm that Mr H wanted it. I cant say what was discussed, if anything, at the time of the application, but I think the 
paperwork made it clear that PPI was optional.
I've taken into account Mr H's representative's comments about the sale taking place at the 
till in a busy store. But I think it would have been reasonable to expect Mr H to check over 
the document he was signing. The section about PPI was relatively brief, so I think Mr 
H would have still been able to do this even though he was in a store. So, overall, I think 
AXA made Mr H aware that the PPI was optional and he chose to take it. I'm not surprised 
he can't remember this as it happened so long ago.
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Mr H so it didnt have to check if it was suitable for him. 
But it did have to make sure Mr H got the information he needed to decide if it was right for 
him.
Its possible the information AXA gave Mr H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have 
been. Based on what Ive seen of Mr Hs circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. As he could have 
benefited from everything the policy offered, I dont think having better information about 
these things wouldve affected his decision take out PPI. It also looks like the PPI was 
affordable and he could have cancelled it at any time.
I've taken into account what Mr H's representative says about why Mr H didn't need the 
policy. Mr H says he would have received 12 months full pay from his employer if he couldn't 
work due to sickness or an accident. So, if he'd have been given all the information he 
needed to make an informed decision, he would have decided he had enough means to 
meet the store card repayments without the need for PPI.
Mr H hasn't been able to provide evidence of what his sick pay would have been more than 
20 years ago, which isn't surprising. He says he had a senior role in a large organisation. 
But, after careful consideration, I think it's unlikely Mr H would have received the level of sick 
pay he says he would have received. I say this because of what I know from experience, and 
have seen of employee benefits across a wide variety of industries and sectors. I've also 
taken into account that Mr H had only been in the role around a month when he took the 
PPI. Without any supporting documentation, I don't think I can fairly rely on Mr H's testimony 
to conclude he didn't need PPI. 
If Mr H did receive sick pay for 12 months I would think it more likely that this wouldnt have
been at full pay for the whole year but reducing to say, half pay, after a certain period  after
six months is common.
The PPI would pay out over and above the employee benefits Mr H would receive. Whilst it 
was more expensive than some other policies, it would have covered the monthly repayment 
of his store card until he was able to return to work. And covered him if he'd become 
unemployed. So I think he could have found the policy useful. It was a financial  comfort he 
wouldnt otherwise have had.
 
Overall, I dont think Mr H has lost out because of anything that AXA might have done
wrong. 
My final decision
For the reasons I've explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 April 2020.
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman