DRN-3786953
The complaint
Mr W complains because Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) terminated 
his claim under an income protection insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr W is insured under his former employers group income protection insurance policy, 
underwritten by L&G. The policy has a deferred period of 39 weeks and cover is provided on 
an own occupation basis, switching to suited occupation 24 months after the benefit start 
date. 
Unfortunately, in 2017, Mr W was diagnosed with cancer. In 2018, Mr W was signed off work 
by his GP. Mr W made a claim under his policy, which L&G accepted from July 2019. In 
2020, Mr W was made redundant, so L&G began making the claim payments directly to him.
In July 2021, Mr Ws cover changed to a suited occupation definition of incapacity, in line 
with the terms and conditions of the policy. And, also at that time, L&G carried out one of its 
regular reviews into Mr Ws ongoing claim. In December 2021, L&G said Mr Ws symptoms 
no longer met the policy definition of incapacity, so it was terminating his claim. But L&G 
said it would pay a further two months benefit, on the basis that it would have paid this to 
support a return to work if Mr W was still working for his former employer. This meant that no 
further payment under Mr Ws policy was made to him by L&G beyond after February 2022. 
Unhappy, Mr W complained to L&G before bringing the matter to the attention of our service. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. She initially recommended that 
L&G should obtain an up-to-date medical report relating to Mr Ws fitness to work. However, 
upon reviewing additional evidence provided by L&G, our investigator concluded that she 
didnt think L&G had acted unfairly by terminating Mr Ws claim. 
Mr W didnt agree with our investigators opinion, and subsequently provided new medical 
information relating to the state of his health in 2022. As a resolution couldnt be reached, 
the complaint has now been referred to me to make a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must 
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into 
account when making my decision about Mr Ws complaint. 
L&G initially accepted and paid Mr Ws claim with effect from July 2019. L&G is reasonably 
entitled to review an ongoing claim like this one, based on the available medical evidence. 
For L&G to fairly terminate Mr Ws claim, it needs to demonstrate that its likely that Mr W no 
longer meets the policy definition of incapacity. 
When deciding whether I think L&G has acted unfairly or unreasonably by terminating Mr 
Ws claim, its not for me to reach my own medical conclusions as to Mr Ws ability to work, 
or to substitute expert medical opinion with my own. Instead, Ive considered whether I think 
L&G has made a fair decision based on the available medical evidence. For the avoidance 
of doubt, Ive taken into account all the medical information which has been provided in 
connection with this claim  including the new evidence which Mr W sent to us in October 
2022, and which L&G has now also had the opportunity to see and comment on. 
In Mr Ws case, the definition of incapacity from July 2021 is as follows:
Suited occupation
Means the insured member is incapacitated by an illness or injury so that he is 
unable to undertake all occupations which we consider appropriate to his experience, 
training, or education. 
L&G terminated Mr Ws claim in December 2021 based on a letter from Mr Ws consultant 
urologist (who Ill call Mr K) dated 27 October 2021 and a transferrable skills analysis report 
arranged by L&G dated 19 November 2021.
The letter from Mr K which Ive referred to above says of Mr W:
5. I do not support that his symptoms would stop him from working
6. I do believe that [he] could return to a sedentary based suited occupation
7. [He] could return to a role which is suited by training and experience and I would 
fully endorse this. 
The transferrable skills analysis report referred to above, which was based on an 
assessment of Mr Ws experience, training, and education, identified five occupations which 
Mr W was deemed to be suited to. 
I think the letter and the report are clear and persuasive evidence that Mr W no longer 
satisfied the policy definition of incapacity when L&G terminated his claim in December 
2021. So, I dont think L&G was unfair or unreasonably in acting as it did.  
The terms and conditions of Mr Ws policy set out an insureds entitlement to the payment of 
a benefit in the event of recurrent disablement (i.e., if the insured person meets the definition 
of incapacity again because of the same or a related cause within 52 weeks). But this only 
applies if the insured member returns to their employment  which Mr W didnt do. 
In any event, L&G subsequently reviewed additional medical evidence which Mr W provided 
about the state of his health as of January 2022 but said this evidence didnt give any 
indication of Mr Ws ongoing functioning and fitness for work. Ive carefully considered this 
evidence - namely an extract from Mr Ws medical records, a Statement of Fitness for Work 
completed by Mr Ws GP dated 11 January 2022, an A&E discharge letter and an NHS letter 
dated 26 January 2022. 
Ive also carefully considered the additional medical evidence which Mr W has provided 
since then. This includes a letter from Mr K dated 14 March 2022 referring to surgery which 
Mr W underwent and an NHS inpatient letter relating to a hospital admission in May 2022. In 
particular, I also note that Mr W has provided Statements of Fitness to Work from his GP 
covering dates between May 2022 and October 2022 and a GP letter dated 28 April 2022 
which says Mr W: has been unfit for work from 20.1.2017  present date. He is receiving ongoing 
specialist care. 
I dont doubt that Mr W has been unwell, and I understand he has had surgery which will 
have no doubt impacted on his day-to-day life. But, while Statements of Fitness to Work 
certificates do carry evidential weight, the certificates are generally based on symptoms 
which are self-reported by the patient, and the threshold for a GP to issue such certificates is 
not necessarily the same as the policy definition of incapacity. As such, we wouldnt normally 
consider that GP medical certificates alone are sufficient evidence to demonstrate that a 
person is totally unable to perform all suited occupations. Ive taken into account the GPs 
comments in the letter dated 28 April 2022, but these contradict the clearly stated opinion of 
Mr K in his letter dated October 2021 (which specifically mentions the possibility of future 
surgical intervention) that Mr W could return to a sedentary based suited occupation. Mr K is 
a specialist in his field and, so, I think his more detailed medical opinion carries more 
persuasive weight.
Based on what Ive seen, Im afraid I dont agree with Mr Ws contentions that L&G has 
ignored or cherry-picked the content of the medical evidence and/or relied on out-of-date 
information. L&G is entitled to share Mr Ws medical information with its chief medical officer 
to make a decision about Mr Ws claim, and I note that the members continuation 
statements completed by Mr W provide specific consent for L&G to do this. 
I understand Mr W was never provided with a copy of the policy terms and conditions. But, 
as the Income Protection Scheme FAQs which were provided to Mr W explain, Mr W wasnt 
a party to the contract with L&G  his former employer is the policyholder. And I dont think 
the lack of sight of the terms and conditions disadvantaged Mr W in any way. 
Ive taken into account what Mr W has said about L&Gs late payment of his initial claim. Ive 
reviewed L&Gs claim notes and I can see there were delays, but it appears this was 
because L&G was awaiting medical information and/or carrying out what I think were further 
reasonable enquiries as to Mr Ws eligibility to claim. The delay in the May and June 2020 
payments which Mr W has mentioned happened immediately before L&G commenced 
paying him directly so I cant fairly say that any delays were L&Gs rather than his former 
employers responsibility. 
L&Gs final response letter acknowledges a delay in reviewing Mr Ws email of 21 February 
2022. But the content of this email was addressed in the final response letter of 24 March 
2022, so Im not persuaded there was any unreasonable or excessive delay by L&G in this 
regard. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr W, but I wont be directing L&G to do anything more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 February 2023.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman