DRN-2277510
The complaint
Mrs B has complained that Scottish Widows Limited gave her wrong information concerning 
her income protection insurance policy and that this caused her to retain the policy for longer 
than she would otherwise have done.
What happened
In 1993, Mrs B, who was employed at the time, agreed to take out an income protection 
policy with Scottish Widows following advice from a third party. The policy would pay a 
regular income in the event that Mrs B was unable to work due to illness or injury. There was 
an investment element to the policy which meant that a cash sum could be available to 
Mrs B when the policy ended.
In 2016, Mrs B left her employment and became self-employed. She contacted Scottish 
Widows and it confirmed she would still be covered under the policy. Mrs B says that 
Scottish Widows also told her that the policy was a with profits policy and had a surrender 
value. Mrs B decided to carry on with the policy.
In 2019, Mrs B called Scottish Widows to discuss the policy and was told that she was not 
covered by it due to her employment situation. Mrs B called Scottish Widows again and it 
corrected this advice and said she was in fact covered. It told her the surrender value of the 
policy was £767. Mrs B decided to cancel the policy. However, she then learned that she 
would receive only £103. Scottish Widows also clarified that the policy was not a with profits 
policy but instead her contributions were used to buy units of investment.
Mrs B complained to Scottish Widows. She said that she had only continued with the policy 
in 2016 because she had been told it was a with profits policy with a surrender value. She 
considered that Scottish Widows should refund her premiums since this time.
Scottish Widows apologised for any inconvenience caused to Mrs B through the provision of 
inaccurate information. It offered £100 compensation but didnt agree to refund her 
premiums.
Mrs B was unhappy at Scottish Widows offer. She referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. She was satisfied 
that Scottish Widows had acted fairly.
Mrs B didnt accept the investigators findings. She maintained that Scottish Widows had 
misled her into continuing with the policy since 2016 by telling her it was a with profits policy 
with a surrender value.
In view of the continued disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs B was provided with the policy documents when the policy started. These documents 
explained that, to provide the policys income protection benefit, her contributions 
(premiums) would be used to buy units in investment funds. This meant that there could be a 
surplus payable as a cash sum to Mrs B when the cover ended.
A recording of the telephone call of 2016 is not available, though I dont find this surprising 
given the passage of time. However, Mrs B says she was told that the policy would still 
provide cover even though she was self-employed; that the policy had a surrender value; 
and that it was a with profits policy. Mrs B says it was on the basis of this advice that she 
decided to carry on with the policy.
The first two of these pieces of information were correct. The policy did still provide cover for 
Mrs B even though she was self-employed. The policy did have a surrender value, albeit that 
this wasnt guaranteed. Therefore, the basis of Mrs Bs complaint really comes down to her 
claim that she was told it was a with profits policy.
In the absence of a recording of the call, I cant really be sure whether Scottish Widows 
incorrectly told Mrs B that the policy was a with profits policy. However, I am satisfied that 
Mrs B had previously been provided with adequate information to know that the policy was in 
fact a unit-based policy. I furthermore consider that the policys purpose first and foremost 
was to provide income protection and any investment element was secondary to this. 
Scottish Widows correctly told Mrs B that the policy would continue to provide income 
protection cover in her situation which I consider would have been overwhelmingly her main 
concern in deciding whether to retain the policy. Mrs B doesnt appear to have been so 
interested in the investment element at the time of her 2016 call that she either consulted her 
policy documents beforehand or asked Scottish Widows about the surrender value.
In view of the above, I consider that I dont have sufficient evidence to conclude that Scottish 
Widows gave incorrect information to Mrs B in 2016. Furthermore, even if it did so, I would 
question whether this was of such importance to Mrs B that it would have materially affected 
her decision to retain the policy. I therefore consider that I have no reasonable grounds to 
say that Scottish Widows should refund her premiums since this time.
When Mrs B spoke to Scottish Widows in 2019, she was given incorrect information. In 
particular, she was told the surrender value of the policy was £767 whereas, once charges 
were taken into account, it was only £103. I accept that this would have been disappointing 
to Mrs B. However, Scottish Widows has offered £100 compensation for this and other 
errors it made in the course of the 2019 telephone calls. I consider this is fair. These errors 
in 2019 were quickly corrected so they had no ongoing impact and they had no bearing on 
Mrs Bs decision to continue with the policy in 2016.
Overall, I am therefore satisfied that Scottish Widows has offered adequate compensation 
for the errors it made. If Mrs B wants to accept its offer of compensation she should contact 
Scottish Widows directly. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2021. 
David Poley
Ombudsman