DRN-3420018
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with Bank of Scotland plcs (trading as Halifax) response to several
transactions he disputed.
What happened
Mr S says he was promised significant returns if he invested on a trading platform, 
trade360.com. He saw they were regulated and had good reviews online, so he 
invested.
He was assigned an account manager, who made trades on his behalf and 
encouraged him to invest more to become a VIP account. After making several card 
payments, they told him hed reached the limit, and he would need to transfer money 
via Rational Foreign Exchange.
Mr S said it was difficult to withdraw money, and that he was told that hed have to 
invest more to get his money back. He was also switched to a professional account, 
without asking.
In total, Mr S invested £70,268.13 and received two credits totalling £3,719.38. By 
May 2021, the balance of Mr Ss account with trade360.com was $8,205.52, before a 
debit was made for that amount.
In May 2021, trade360.com told Mr S theyd no longer provide services to the UK. 
Mr S disputed the transactions with Halifax. They said they couldnt help, as he didnt 
have the evidence required to raise a chargeback.
Mr S raised a complaint  he said Halifax shouldve intervened with the payments. 
Halifax didnt agree, on the basis that the payments werent unusual and they didnt 
think Mr S was the victim of a scam.
In March 2022, I issued a provisional decision that didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. In 
summary, I wasnt sure this was a scam. But either way, I didnt think Halifax had a 
reason to be concerned with the payments at the time. And I didnt think there were 
reasonable prospects of a chargeback claim succeeding. So I didnt think Halifax 
were responsible for putting things right. 
Mr S responded. In summary: 
oHe submitted he was a victim of a scam and has outlined his concerns with 
trade360.coms practices, including supporting evidence. The fact that Halifax 
looked into raising a chargeback showed they also agreed it was a scam. 
oHalifax questioned smaller sized payments in the past, so they ought to have 
intervened with these. He also said that the larger transactions were to buy a 
house. The bank knew this, as the money was sent in his name, to the 
address they held. 
oMr S explained his challenging circumstances and how he didnt risk his 
money knowingly. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered Mr Ss reply carefully, Ive not changed my mind about the outcome of 
this complaint. Ill address what I think are the material points in his response: 
Mr S has described and provided evidence to support what went wrong with 
trade360.com, and why he thinks it was a scam. But Im not deciding a complaint 
about them. And even if I accept this was a scam, its not as simple as saying that 
because it was, Halifax should refund his losses. Instead, I need to see that Halifax 
got something wrong. 
Mr S questioned why Halifax queried smaller payments before and not these. I dont 
know the answer to that  banks have their own fraud prevention measures, usually 
based on algorithms, and there will be several factors that cause payments to be 
pulled up. But my decision isnt about why these smaller payments did flag  its 
about whether the payments that ultimately went to trade360.com ought to have 
flagged. My provisional findings explained why I didnt think Halifax shouldve 
stepped in.
In response to this, Mr S raised how the larger payments were to buy a house, and 
Halifax knew this as the payments matched his details. But it remains they were 
recent examples that Mr S was legitimately making several large transactions  for 
up to £75,000  in the months prior to the payments in dispute. And I note that the 
foreign transfers werent the only examples of large transactions  theres a debit 
card transaction for around £10,000 a few months before too. This, in combination 
with the other factors described in my provisional decision, mean Im not persuaded 
that the disputed payments were so out-of-character that Halifax ought to have 
intervened.  
So in all, I remain satisfied that Halifax cant fairly be blamed for Mr Ss losses. For 
completeness, Ive included my reasons from my provisional decision again below. 
Its not clear this was a scam. Given the account managers practices and the losses 
Mr S faced, I can see how this felt like fraud to him. But Im not sure that the intention 
was to deceive him into departing with his money. Its possible they did promote, with 
arguably unethical or unfair tactics, a high-risk investment  and that resulted in 
significant losses for Mr S. But that doesnt necessarily meet the high legal threshold 
for fraud.
I dont consider that I need to make a conclusion on this either way. The starting 
position for authorised transactions, as its accepted these were, is that Mr S is liable. 
But alongside that, Id expect Halifax to look out for unusual transactions or other 
signs that might suggest Mr S is at risk of fraud. To be clear, that doesnt mean they 
should protect him against the risk of bad bargains or give investment advice. Here, I dont think Halifax shouldve been alarmed by the debit card payments to 
trade360.com or the faster payments to Rational Foreign Exchange. In saying that, 
Ive considered:
oAt the time, both companies were regulated by the FCA. And neither the FCA, 
nor the Investor Alerts Portal of the International Organization of Securities 
Commissions (the international body that brings together the world's 
securities regulators) had any published warnings about them.
oMr Ss account regularly received and made payments that were on par with 
the value of these transactions.
oThe disputed transactions didnt happen all at once. Instead, they took place 
over around four months.
So, regardless of whether this was a scam, I dont think there was a reason for 
Halifax to have challenged these payments. Id only expect them to step in if 
something looked unusual. Afterall, they must balance the extent to which they 
intervene in payments to try and prevent fraud against the risk of unnecessarily 
inconveniencing or delaying legitimate transactions.
Ive also considered whether Halifax couldve helped Mr S by raising a chargeback 
for the debit card transactions.
Chargeback is a voluntary scheme run by VISA, who act as an arbitrator between a 
merchant and customer if they cant resolve a dispute themselves. Its subject to their 
rules, and there are limited grounds on which a chargeback can succeed.
VISAs rules did cover investment trading  in 2017, it expanded them to cover 
situations where investment traders prevented cardholders from withdrawing their 
available balance. But it required very specific evidence, such as dated evidence that 
they had an available balance, and that they tried to withdraw sums equal or less 
than their balance.
Mr S didnt have this evidence when Halifax asked for it. I know there are good 
reasons for that, but it doesnt change VISAs chargeback rule requirements.
It follows that I dont think Halifax acted unfairly when they didnt raise a chargeback, 
because I cant see it had reasonable prospects of success.
So, in all, I dont think Halifax ought to have prevented these payments before they 
went ahead, and I dont think there was a viable route for them to raise a chargeback 
later. That means I cant fairly hold Halifax responsible for Mr Ss losses.
I know this will be hugely upsetting news for Mr S. Because it seems he was dealing 
with trade360.com, who were regulated at the time, he could raise a complaint with 
them directly. And if hes unhappy with what they say, he might be able to bring that 
to our service to investigate as a separate complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2022.
 
Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman