DRN-3570110
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy that Great Lakes Insurance SE declined a claim made on his travel 
insurance policy. 
All references to Mr F include his representative. 
What happened
Mr F bought a travel insurance policy, underwritten by Great Lakes (the policy), covering 
the period 7 January and 6 April 2021. Mr F travelled abroad on 7 January 2021 to stay with 
a family member, who was unwell and needed support. 
Whilst away, Mr F needed to be hospitalised. Great Lakes said it wouldnt cover any claim 
because Mr F had travelled against the advice of the Foreign Commonwealth and 
Developmental Office (FCDO). Since December 2020, the FCDO had been advising against 
all but essential travel to the country Mr F travelled to. 
However, Great Lakes said it did want to assist Mr F further on a non-financial basis if he 
allowed it to. It proposed having Mr F moved to the nearest suitable public hospital to have 
free medical treatment as it said the medical evidence suggested Mr F was fit to be moved 
by ambulance with a doctor. 
Mr F was unhappy with the decision made by Great Lakes so made a complaint. When he 
received no response, a complaint was referred to our service. Our investigator looked into 
what happened and concluded that Great Lakes had acted fairly and reasonably by declining 
the claim. Mr F disagreed. So, his complaint has been passed to me to consider everything 
afresh and decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Great Lakes has an obligation to handle claims fairly and promptly. And it mustnt 
unreasonably decline a claim. I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint for the reasons set out below.
The policy terms do provide cover for emergency medical and repatriation expenses 
abroad in stipulated circumstances. However, the terms say at page 15 (under the 
heading: geographical regions of travel): In order to charge a fair price for Our 
insurance, We divide the world into areas of higher and lower risk. These areas are 
defined below. However, some countries or areas are considered too dangerous for 
travel and We will not cover You if You choose to travel there. We define these to be 
areas which are subject to War and Civil Unrest or where the Foreign and 
Commonwealth Office has issued advice against all but essential travel or advice 
against all travel. You can find this Foreign Travel Advice about any country You are 
planning to travel to at https://www.gov.uk/foreign-travel-advice.
Im satisfied that the FCDO was advising against all but essential travel to the country 
Mr F travelled to since December 2020  and that was because of the assessment of 
Covid-19 at the time. That advice was still in place at the time Mr F travelled to that 
country in January 2021.
Great Lakes confirmed a couple of days after Mr F fell ill that it wouldnt be covering 
his claim. I dont think that timeframe was unreasonable, and it offered to support 
having Mr F transferred to a public hospital, if he wanted. 
When deciding this complaint, Ive taken into account all comments made by Mr F relevant 
to his complaint against Great Lakes including:
- given the circumstances, his travel abroad was essential;
- the British Consulate confirmed to him that the FCDO advice didnt make travelling 
illegal; and
- Mr F didnt suffer from an incident relating to Covid-19.
Mr F may have considered his travel abroad to be essential  and I make no finding on 
whether it was. The policy is clear that Mr F wasnt covered if he chose to travel to a country 
or area where the FCDO had issued advice against all but essential travel. So, even if Mr 
Fs travel was essential, any claims arising from travelling to that area or country arent 
covered. That doesnt mean that it was illegal for Mr F to have travelled in those 
circumstances; its just that Great Lakes had taken the decision when underwriting this policy 
that it wouldnt be taking the risk  or covering any claims made  in those circumstances. 
Im also aware that the medical condition Mr F required hospital treatment for wasnt 
connected to Covid-19. However, under the terms of the policy, medical treatment abroad for 
any condition wasnt covered if Mr F travelled to a country which the FCDO was advising 
against all but essential travel to. I dont think Great Lakes has unfairly relied on the policy 
terms to decline the claim here.
In response to our investigators view, Mr F has also raised some issues about the sale of 
the policy. However, as our investigator said, he will first need to raise these with the seller 
of the policy. 
Mr F is also unhappy that Great Lakes provided different reasons for declining the claim. 
However, Im satisfied that the reason it provided, two days after Mr F was hospitalised, was 
fair and reasonable. Although, Mr F might not have agreed with the reason, he was aware 
that Great Lakes had taken the position that it wouldnt be covering the costs of medical 
treatment then.  
Mr F is also unhappy with the way in which his complaint was handled by Great Lakes. 
Complaint handling isnt a regulated activity. So, although this complaint point stems from 
the underlying complaint that Great Lakes declined his claim, if I thought that Great Lakes 
had acted unreasonably in the way in which it handled Mr Fs complaint, I wouldnt be able to 
award any compensation for this aspect of the complaint brought to our service by itself. 
Great Lakes says it has no record of receiving the complaint Mr F made directly to Great 
Lakes before being notified by our service of Mr Fs complaint. But in any event, Mr F 
brought his complaint to our service shortly after the date of the correspondence sent to 
Great Lakes by his representative. And I dont think hes lost out as a result. Great Lakes 
has maintained its position throughout, that it had correctly declined providing coverage for 
the claim.   My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2022.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman