DRN-4285580
The complaint
A company which I will refer to as F, complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc wont 
reimburse the money they lost following an Authorised Push Payment (APP) scam.
What happened
The background to the complaint is known to both parties and so I wont repeat it at length 
here. 
Briefly, in July 2019, F was in correspondence with one of their suppliers about some 
pending payments to them. The supplier emailed F stating that they made an error in the 
final invoice, and they enclosed a revised one along with details of the bank account to 
which the payment should be made.
The following day F received another email purportedly from the supplier stating that they 
made another error in the invoice which they sent the previous day. The email said that the 
suppler had updated their bank account details, which they failed to amend in the invoice.  
The email provided new bank account details.
Unfortunately, unknown to F, this email was from a scammer who had intercepted the 
previous email exchange between F and the supplier. The scammer also provided a revised 
invoice with the new bank account details. One of Fs staff attempted to make the payment 
to this account, but it appears that they encountered some difficulties. So, they emailed back 
asking for confirmation of the account details. The scammer reconfirmed but also said that if 
F had any issues, they could provide details of a different account with another bank to send 
the money to. However, it seems that meanwhile the staff managed to resolve the issue and 
proceeded to make the payment.
The scam came to light about two weeks later when the genuine supplier pursued F for the 
payment. F contacted their bank RBS, who in turn contacted the recipients bank. 
Unfortunately, no funds reminded in the recipients account. 
In early 2022, F complained to RBS through their representative. The representative said 
that the payment was out of character and therefore the bank should have intervened. And 
had the bank made an appropriate intervention, the scam could have been prevented. 
Therefore, they said that the bank should reimburse F the loss they incurred. RBS did not 
agree. 
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint and concluded that it couldnt be upheld. 
They said that RBS correctly followed Fs payment instructions.  The payment wasnt 
particularly unusual or suspicious in appearance to the bank at the time, considering the 
companys normal account and payments activity. In addition, F isnt covered by the CRM 
Code as it is not a micro-enterprise. The investigator also noted that RBS took action swiftly 
on being advised of the scam. In view of all this, the investigator concluded that RBS hadnt 
done anything wrong in this instance and so it doesnt have to take any further action.
F did not agree. Their representative reiterated that the payment was out of character to 
normal account activity and so the bank ought to have intervened. They said that the 
payment was the largest to a new payee over a one-year period. All other large transactions 
were regular payments with low fraud risk, such as to HMRC. They further said that had the 
bank intervened, with proper questioning of the payer, the bank would have understood that 
the account details were provided via email which it would have recognised as a potential 
scam. In such an instance, the bank would then have advised the payer to call the supplier 
and confirm the account details before making the payment. At that point the scam would 
have come to light. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the Investigator, essentially for the same reasons. 
As the Investigator has said, in broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is 
expected to process payments and withdrawals that its customer authorises it to make. 
However, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate for the banks to take 
additional steps  as for example have systems in place to look out for unusual transactions 
or other signs that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud.
I have reviewed Fs account statements for several months prior to the payment to the 
scammer, to understand the general account activity. Over the period, I see that this was an 
active account. There were several large payments in and out of the account. F says that 
many of the large payments were low risk payments such as for wages and to HMRC. 
Nevertheless, I see that there are several other payments of high value. The disputed 
transaction was higher in value than these transactions. However, occasional higher 
payments could happen on an account, and I am not persuaded that the payment stood out 
as highly unusual compared to the normal account activity for the bank to have intervened.
The payment was to a new payee, but that in itself would not have caused a concern to the 
bank. Further, as the investigator has said, it didnt consume all or most of the funds in the 
account  which might have been an indicator the account was at risk of fraud.
Ultimately, it is a matter for RBS as to how it chooses to configure its fraud detection 
systems and strike a balance between allowing its customers to transact business and 
questioning transactions to confirm they are legitimate.  But where it is alleged that it didnt 
do enough to prevent a loss which resulted from an authorised push payment fraud, I will 
look into the circumstances of the case and based on what I have seen, decide whether in 
that case the bank could have fairly and reasonably done more. 
After taking all of the above into account, I cant say that the disputed payment sufficiently 
stood out from the prior account activity to reasonably have prompted RBS to take further 
action. Im not persuaded that there was enough here for me to find that RBS was at fault in 
carrying out Fs payment instruction in line with its primary obligation to do so.
Further, from what I can see, there was no delay on the part of RBS in contacting the 
recipients bank on being advised of the scam. 
On some occasions, its possible to consider whether a customer is covered under the 
Contingent Reimbursement Mode Code which came into effect from May 2019. However, F arent not covered by the Code. Where the customer is a business (as in this case), the 
Code only applies if they were a micro-enterprise at the time the transaction took place. 
For this purpose, a micro-enterprise is essentially an enterprise which employs fewer than 
10 persons. And if they employ fewer than 10 persons, then at least one of their annual 
turnover or total gross assets should not exceed €2 million.  In this case F isnt a micro-
enterprise as it employed more than 10 persons at the relevant time. So unfortunately, they 
arent covered by the CRM Code either. 
I know this will come as a disappointment to F given that they had fallen victim to a callous 
scam.  But I can only make an award against a bank if that bank had done something wrong 
and that led to Fs loss. In this case, for the reasons given I am not persuaded that there was 
any error or omission on the part of RBS which resulted in Fs loss. As such I cant fairly or 
reasonably ask it to refund their loss. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2023.
 
Raj Varadarajan
Ombudsman