DRN-3406141
The complaint
Mr H, on behalf of the estate of Mrs H, complains that Santander allowed a payment out of 
Mrs Hs joint account.
What happened
The background to the complaint is well known to the parties, which is in summary that the 
late Mrs H and her mother held a joint Santander account together. And in 2019 Mrs Hs 
mother transferred £25,000 out of that account, which the estate of Mrs H say ought to have 
been properly checked. The complaint is set against a family disagreement which I dont 
need to repeat in this decision. Mr H says Santander did not protect the interests of Mrs H 
and that the transaction took place without an account card being present.
Santander says this was a joint account and either party was entitled to transfer money out 
of the account. It says it didnt make a mistake by allowing Mrs Hs mother to transfer the 
money and had no concerns about her.
The complaint was brought to us and our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator thought this was a joint account and in line with agreed account terms and 
conditions either party was entitled to use the account. The investigator didnt think 
Santander made a mistake or acted unfairly and was not obliged to tell Mrs H what her 
mother wished to do.
Mr H on behalf of the estate of Mrs H doesnt accept that view and says Mrs Hs interests 
were not protected. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint.
Im satisfied that Mrs H and her mother held a joint account. And having looked at the 
account terms and conditions, which I think both of them would have agreed to when the 
account was opened, can see that either party could use the account and operate it without 
seeking permission to do so from the other. So, I dont think Santander made a mistake or 
acted unfairly by allowing Mrs Hs mother to transfer the money into a new account. I also 
dont think there were any safeguarding concerns that it could have been aware of and am 
satisfied this was Mrs Hs mothers money and it was up to her to decide what to do with it. It 
follows that I can order Santander return the money in these circumstances.
I appreciate Mr H says Santander should have contacted Mrs H when her mother asked it to 
transfer the £25,000. But I disagree and have made clear that Santander wasnt obliged to 
do so, and I cant see any reason why it would, as it was following a party to the account 
instructions. I make clear to Mr H that the nature of a joint account is that either party is 
entitled to make a transaction and operate the account. And if Mrs H or her mother wished to 
operate the account differently then they could have told Santander that and for example 
asked that any withdrawal required each others signature. But Im satisfied that wasnt the 
position here and it follows that if Mrs H wished to withdraw money then she could have 
done so as well.
Overall, I can only consider the actions of Santander here and am satisfied for the reasons I 
have explained that it followed the instructions of one of the account holders which its 
obliged and entitled to do. I dont consider an account card not being present as amounting 
to unusual circumstances as the important point is that Mrs Hs mother, the account holder, 
was present and was able to tell Santander to transfer her money to another account. I 
clearly cant comment on what led to that decision or the background behind it and am 
satisfied that Santander acted in good faith.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs H 
to accept or reject my decision before 25 May 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman