DRN-3294463
The complaint
Mrs V is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund all the money shes lost to a scam.
Whats happened?
Mrs V saw a private advert for a motorhome on a well-known online marketplace. She 
contacted the seller and was told that she was selling the motorhome at a reasonable price 
because she had returned to Germany and no longer required the vehicle. 
Mrs V received what she thought was a genuine invoice via email from the online 
marketplace (she says she had used the marketplace a lot in the past for smaller purchases 
and the email looked authentic) asking her to make a faster payment to the marketplaces 
bank account and providing her with the relevant account details. Mrs Vs understanding was 
that the marketplace would hold her payment until the motorhome had been delivered to her 
and she had had the opportunity to inspect it. If she was happy with the motorhome, her 
payment would be released to the seller. If she wasnt, she could return the motorhome and 
the marketplace would reimburse her funds. 
Mrs V visited a HSBC branch on 5 August 2021 and transferred £8,800 to the account 
details she had been given.
When the motorhome wasnt delivered as expected, Mrs V realised that she had been 
scammed. She reported the matter to HSBC on 23 August 2021.
Mrs V has said that:
she only ever spoke to the seller (and their representative) via email.
she didnt view the motorhome because she had the opportunity to return it and 
receive a full refund if she wasnt happy with it.
she saw photos of the motorhome on the sellers advert, but she didnt receive any 
additional photos of it.
she didnt ask the seller any questions about the motorhome.
she didnt ask for the motorhomes registration number and couldnt see it on the 
advert.
she didnt carry out any vehicle checks on the motorhome.
the motorhome was priced similarly to other vehicles of the same make and year 
advertised on the online marketplace.
it never crossed her mind that this was a scam  everything looked authentic.
HSBC accepted partial responsibility in this case and reimbursed £4,400. It acknowledged 
that it shouldve done more to protect and advise Mrs V when she made the payment         
in-branch, but it said she could also have done more checks to protect herself prior to 
making the payment.
Mrs V has said that £2,357.94 has been recovered from the scammers account. She would 
now like HSBC to refund the remaining £2,042.06 loss.
What did our investigator say?
Our investigator didnt recommend that HSBC take any further steps to resolve this 
complaint.
Mrs V asked for her complaint to be escalated to an ombudsman, so it has now been passed 
to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC is a signatory of the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(CRM Code), which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of 
Authorised Push Payment scams, like the one Mrs V has fallen victim to, in all but a limited 
number of circumstances. HSBC has acknowledged that it didnt provide Mrs V with an 
effective warning during the payment journey in this case. But its argued that Mrs V made 
the payment without a reasonable basis for belief that the payee was the person she was 
expecting to pay, the payment was for genuine goods or services and/or the person or 
business she was transacting with was legitimate.
Ive thought about what steps Mrs V took to reassure herself about the legitimacy of the 
transaction, and whether it was reasonable for her to proceed with the payment.
Mrs V has said that it never crossed her mind that this was a scam, and the invoice she 
received via email from the online marketplace looked authentic  it had the marketplaces 
header on it and contained her personal details. But Ive looked at the invoice and I can see 
that it was sent from an email address which does not belong to the online marketplace. 
I appreciate that Mrs V has said she didnt notice this but the email address the invoice was 
sent from is clearly visible at the top of the invoice and I think she ought reasonably to have 
seen it and/or been on the lookout for clear indications of a scam such as this. The invoice 
also requested payment to the online marketplaces bank account, which is not how buyers 
usually pay for items purchased on the marketplace. I think Mrs V ought to have been aware 
of this having used the marketplace a lot in the past. 
In the circumstances, I wouldve expected Mrs V, or anyone else to be put on guard. But by 
her own admission, she didnt carry out any checks or make any attempts to protect herself. 
For example, she didnt:
take any steps to verify the seller was genuine.
try to view the vehicle prior to paying for it.
request further photos of the motorhome, or more information about it  such as the 
vehicles registration number.
carry out any checks on the motorhome to ensure that it wasnt stolen, was free from 
finance and belonged to the seller.
attempt to pay for the motorhome via more secure means than faster payment.
Overall, Im not persuaded that Mrs V had a reasonable basis for belief in this case. 
As HSBC failed to provide Mrs V with an effective warning and that failure is likely to have 
had a material effect on preventing the scam, but Mrs V also lacked a reasonable basis for 
belief, she should be reimbursed 50% of her loss under the provisions of the CRM Code. 
HSBC reimbursed £4,400 in early September 2021. So, it has already taken the action 
I would expect it to take in this respect.Ive considered whether HSBC took reasonable steps to recover Mrs Vs funds, and I think it 
did. It contacted the receiving bank on the same day that Mrs V reported the scam to it, and 
Mrs V has told us that £2,357.94 has been recovered from the scammers account and 
returned to her. Im not persuaded that HSBC couldve taken any further action that wouldve 
led to the recovery of a higher proportion of Mrs Vs funds.
Finally, Ive thought about whether HSBC ought reasonably to have done more to prevent 
this scam. Ive looked at Mrs Vs account activity in the months leading up to the scam and 
I think that the payment she made was unusual enough to alert HSBC to the possibility that 
she was at risk of financial harm. So, Im satisfied that HSBC shouldve asked Mrs V some 
questions about the payment when she instructed it in-branch and done more to adequately 
explain the relevant risk to her. Had it done so, I think its likely that Mrs Vs decision-making 
wouldve been affected, and she wouldve taken steps to protect herself from fraud. But, as 
Ive set out above, I think that Mrs V shouldve done more to protect herself too in the 
circumstances, so I still think its fair for her to bear 50% of the loss shes incurred. And, as 
shes recovered more than 75% of the payment she made, I dont require HSBC to do 
anything further to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs V to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2022.
 
Kyley Hanson
Ombudsman