DRN-1942723
The complaint
This complaint is about a monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy 
taken out in 2010. Mr S says Close Brothers Limited (trading as Close Motor Finance) mis-
sold him the PPI.
 
What happened
Mr S (who bought the PPI in a former name) said he felt pressured, bullied and hounded 
with telephone calls to buy the PPI. He said he didnt need PPI, so he concludes it was mis-
sold. 
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should not be upheld. Mr S disagreed with our 
adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be looked at again.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Close Brothers made it clear that Mr S didnt have to take out the PPI and he 
chose to take it out. I say this because Close Brothers has produced a copy of the 
telephone call script which its adviser would have used around the time of the sale. 
Having looked through it carefully, I can see that Mr S would have been given a choice 
about whether to buy PPI. So because he had that choice, I have to conclude the policy 
was presented to him as an optional product. I havent heard a recording of the call, so 
there isnt enough persuasive evidence here to say the script wasnt followed or that Mr 
S was pressured to buy PPI. So I cant uphold this complaint on that basis.
Close Brothers recommended the PPI to Mr S, so it had to check that the PPI was right 
for him  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it 
probably was. I say this because he was eligible to buy it, it seemed affordable at the 
time and he wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or limits on the PPI cover. I also 
think he had a need for the cover.
Its possible the information Close Brothers gave Mr S about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it should have been. But having decided he chose to take it out - it looks like he wanted 
this type of cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for him if something went 
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the 
PPI would have put him off taking out the cover. 
Which means Close Brothers doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr 
S. 
But Close Brothers has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr S because: 
Close Brothers got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr S about that. Because Close Brothers didnt tell 
Mr S, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Close Brothers has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr S has said - including what he has said about his sick pay 
and savings. But these points dont change my decision. I say this because I dont know 
exactly what his savings were in 2010, so Ive concluded the PPI is more likely to have 
lasted longer than his sick pay.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Close Brothers Limited does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr S. 
But Close Brothers Limited does have to pay back to Mr S any commission and profit share 
it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2020.
 
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman