DRN-3434193
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy about Equifax Limited reporting his personal information on his brothers 
credit report. 
Mr W is represented in his complaint by a firm of solicitors.
What happened
In mid-2021, Mr W became aware that his data had mistakenly appeared on his brothers 
Equifax credit report. Mr Ws solicitors sent Equifax a detailed letter of claim alleging various 
causes of action and seeking damages.
Equifax responded to Mr Ws letter and explained why it thought his claims wouldnt 
succeed. Equifax told Mr W that he could approach this service for free to try and resolve his 
complaint.
Mr W wasnt happy with Equifaxs response so brought his concerns to this service. 
The investigator thought that although Equifax had promptly dealt with the data issue, the 
reporting of information on his brothers credit file was embarrassing and upsetting for Mr W. 
She thought it reasonable that Equifax pay Mr W £150 compensation and Equifax agreed.
Mr W doesnt think the compensation is high enough. Through his solicitor Mr W thinks £500 
in damages plus legal costs is more appropriate.
As Mr W doesnt agree with the proposed outcome, the complaint has come to me to make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should first say we can only consider how Mr W has been affected by Equifaxs mistake 
and not his brother.
We offer an informal and impartial dispute resolution service as an alternative to court. 
Although Mr W instructed solicitors to deal with his complaint, this was his choice, so I dont 
make any award to cover his legal costs.
Equifax has explained that the data appeared on Mr Ws brothers credit file because they 
share some of the same details including surname and date of birth. Equifax has now 
corrected the mistake by loading a notice of disassociation. As far as Im aware, Mr Ws data 
is no longer showing on his brothers Equifax credit report. I hope that this goes some way to 
reassuring Mr W.
When we look at complaints, we look to see if a consumer has lost out financially due to the 
businesses mistake. If they have, we will try and put the consumer back in the position they 
wouldve been in had the mistake not happened. In Mr Ws case, hes not given this service 
any evidence to show that he incurred any financial loss as a direct result of Equifaxs data-
matching problem. However, Mr W has told us that the mistake did cause him distress and 
inconvenience, so Ive taken account of this.
Mr W says that his brother told him about his personal data appearing on his credit report. 
Mr Ws brother was unhappy as this impacted on his mortgage application. I can understand 
that this was all upsetting and embarrassing for Mr W  particularly as he says that he and 
his brother dont have a very good relationship. But taking everything into consideration, I 
consider the investigators recommendation to pay £150 is fair and reasonable - particularly 
as Equifax seems to have promptly resolved the data problem for Mr Ws brother. 
The investigator also mentioned the possibility of Mr W using Cifas, the UKs fraud 
prevention community, to monitor the use of his data in the future. Although it didnt form part 
of the investigators recommendation, I consider it fair to require Equifax to bear the cost of 
Mr Ws first application for protective registration if he decides to sign up.
I realise that Mr W has concerns about the severity of the data breaches and thinks a higher 
amount of compensation is warranted. But this service isnt a regulator so we dont punish 
businesses for their mistakes. It would be for the regulator to consider matters further if Mr W 
remains unhappy with the situation. 
Putting things right
To put things right, Equifax Limited should take the following steps:
Pay Mr W £150; and
If Mr W decides to apply for protective registration with Cifas, Equifax should 
reimburse the cost of his first application.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement, I require Equifax 
limited to take the steps outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2022.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman