DRN-4089022
The complaint
Mr P complains TSB Bank plc (TSB) closed his accounts causing him significant financial 
loss, distress, and inconvenience. 
What happened
On 2 November 2022, TSB sent Mr P a letter informing him it was closing his account in two 
months time on 2 January 2023. Mr P lives abroad. 
When Mr P discovered what TSB was looking to do, he complained. TSB sent Mr P its final 
response on 22 November 2022. In summary, the key points it made were: 
- It hasnt made a mistake in taking the actions it has. And as it doesnt have an 
up-to-date telephone number for Mr P, its writing to him to explain what its done 
- TSBs Personal Account Review Unit carried out a review and took the decision to 
close the account and sent correspondence about this on 2 November 2022, giving 
60 days notice 
- But if Mr P contacts the review team as they need information from him, they will 
review this. TSB explained that as Mr P was abroad, he would need to call a specific 
telephone number during its UK business operating hours
- TSB set-out eight items for which it needed information for, ranging from Mr Ps tax 
residency, employment, source of funds for his overseas property and other 
questions about specific transactions 
Mr P responded to this email and explained where he had received money for one of TSBs 
questions. He also said he received income into his account from properties he rents, and 
hes been doing this for many years. He also said one of his payees is his daughter.  Mr P 
also explained that by having his account closed it would cost him severe inconvenience and 
costs given hed need to travel to the UK to sort the matter out or open another bank 
account. 
Unhappy with TSBs responses, Mr P referred his complaint to this service. His accounts 
were closed in January 2023. 
One of our Investigators then looked into Mr Ps complaint. They recommended his 
complaint wasnt upheld. In short, their key findings were: 
- TSBC acted in line with the terms of the account and followed its legal and regulatory 
obligations in doing so
- Having considered TSBs reasons for closing the accounts, they found it had acted 
fairly and did so in line with the terms of the accounts 
Mr P didnt agree with what our Investigator said. He says hes been a long-standing 
customer of TSBs and its actions left him in a difficult position abroad. 
As Mr P didnt agree, his complaint has now been passed to me to decide.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to not uphold this complaint. I know this will disappoint Mr P, 
so Ill explain why. 
Banks in the UK are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their 
legal and regulatory obligations. They are also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of an 
existing business relationship. That sometimes means banks need to restrict, or in some 
cases go as far as closing, customers accounts.
Id also add that as a regulated financial business, TSB must comply with extensive legal 
and regulatory obligations. These generally cover the entire period of its customer 
relationship  from application to eventually the end of the relationship. This includes KYC 
checks and/or Customer Due Diligence (CDD).
TSB has sent me two letters dated 19 August 2022, and 30 August 2022, which were sent to 
Mr P on a UK address. Both letters explained that to meet its legal and regulatory obligations 
TSB had to ensure it had the most up-to-date information about Mr P and his accounts. 
TSB also explained it attempted to contact Mr P to clarify some details so that it doesnt fail 
to meet these obligations, and without this information it may lead to the closure of his 
accounts. A contact number was also made available for Mr P. 
Mr P may argue he didnt receive these letters as he was living abroad. But TSB have sent 
me a copy of a change of address form Mr P signed in June 2022. In that form he has listed 
the same UK address the two letters were sent to as his correspondence address. He did 
also say his new residential address was abroad. 
But given Mr P said his correspondence address was the UK one two months before TSBs 
review, Im satisfied TSB acted fairly in sending the letters there and it was reasonable for it 
to expect him to have received them as per his instructions.  
When Mr P discovered his accounts were being closed, he complained. And TSB sent its 
response by email. In that response TSB explained in detail what information it required for 
its review. Mr P responded to this email and explained the difficult predicament TSBs 
actions placed him in. But importantly, he only partially gave TSB the information it required. 
Mr P was made aware he needed to speak to TSBs Personal Account Review Unit in the 
emailed final response, and it appears he failed to do this. So because of this, TSB didnt 
receive all the information it needed to satisfy its legal and regulatory obligations. 
TSB is entitled to close an account just as a customer may close an account with it. But 
before TSB closes an account, it must do so in a way, which complies with the terms and 
conditions of the account.
The terms and conditions of the account, which TSB and Mr P had to comply with, say that it 
could close the account by giving him at least two months notice. And in certain 
circumstances it can close an account immediately or with less notice. So having looked at 
the information given to me by Mr P and TSB, Im satisfied it was entitled to close the 
account in the way that it has done. Mr P says this matter has caused him financial loss. He also says it has caused him trouble 
and upset. I do appreciate that this matter wouldve caused him some difficulty. But having 
looked at whats happened in this particular case, I can see no basis on which I might make 
an award against TSB given I dont think its done anything wrong, given it was attempting to 
meet its obligations.  
So Im not going to ask TSB to compensate Mr P for any financial loss, distress, and 
inconvenience this may have caused. Nor will I be directing TSB to re-open the accounts.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2023.
 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman