DRN-3470766
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that CIGNA Life Insurance Company of Europe SA-NV didnt pay a 
medical emergency claim they made on an international medical insurance policy.
What happened
In October 2017, CIGNA sold Mr and Mrs M a Global Health Options international medical 
insurance policy. This provided cover for, amongst other things, emergency medical 
treatment. Mr and Mrs M later completed a medical questionnaire and Mr M declared that 
hed previously had a cardiac condition. So CIGNA excluded cover for any cardiovascular 
disorder and associated/linked conditions, symptoms or complications for Mr M.
Mr and Mrs M were living abroad. In July 2021, Mr M was admitted to hospital. The hospital 
contacted CIGNA to obtain a guarantee of payment for his treatment. At that point, CIGNA 
understood that Mr M was suffering from a gall-bladder issue. It asked the hospital to provide 
a copy of Mr Ms medical report. On receipt of the report, it noted that Mr M was suffering 
from chest pain and required a cardiac catheterisation. On this basis, CIGNA concluded that 
Mr Ms condition was down to a cardiovascular disorder and declined to offer the guarantee 
of payment. It told the hospital it wouldnt provide a guarantee of payment.
Ultimately, Mr M underwent surgery and incurred treatment costs of thousands of pounds. 
He said that friends and family had had to provide financial support. He and Mrs M 
complained to CIGNA and to us, both about CIGNAs decision not to provide a guarantee of 
payment and about the way the policy had been sold to them. He said that the sales person 
had told him that the 24 hour emergency section of the contract would cover his heart 
condition regardless.
Our investigator thought Mr and Mrs Ms complaint should be partly upheld. CIGNA no 
longer had a copy of the sales call between Mr M and its sales person, so she couldnt listen 
to exactly what was said. But she noted that all of the policy schedules Mr M had been sent 
since the policy had started clearly set out the cardiovascular exclusion. So she didnt think it 
was likely Mr M had been told his cardiac condition would be covered. And she felt the policy 
terms made it clear that while there was cover for emergency medical treatment; pre-existing 
conditions were excluded. In her view, the medical evidence showed Mr M had had a pre-
existing medical condition. She was satisfied that the condition causing the claim was linked 
to a cardiovascular condition. So she felt itd been fair for CIGNA to decline to offer a 
guarantee of payment for Mr Ms costs.
But she noted that CIGNA hadnt told Mr and Mrs M directly that it wasnt offering a 
guarantee of payment. It had only discussed this with Mrs M some weeks later. The 
investigator thought this had likely caused Mr and Mrs M additional upset, so she 
recommended that CIGNA should pay Mr and Mrs M £250 compensation.
CIGNA accepted the investigators recommendation.
Mr and Mrs M disagreed. In summary, they said thered been a lack of equality in the 
investigation. They said at the point of sale, theyd been guaranteed that all medical 
conditions would be covered. They didnt think it was right that cover for new conditions 
could be declined if those conditions were related to an existing condition. They said theyd 
never have taken out the policy if theyd known it didnt provide 24-hour emergency cover for 
all conditions. They felt CIGNA had guaranteed to the hospital that it would cover Mr Ms 
costs and so it needed to honour that agreement. And they felt the compensation the 
investigator had recommended was an insult. They referred to a medical condition Mr M had 
and said that as CIGNA couldnt provide a copy of the sales phone call, it was a breach of 
CIGNAs requirement to make reasonable adjustments for him. They also considered it 
convenient that the sales call couldnt be found.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs M, I think it was fair for CIGNA to 
decline to cover their medical costs, although I do find it must pay some compensation. Ill 
explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
terms of Mr and Mrs Ms policy and the available evidence, to decide whether CIGNA treated 
them fairly.
It seems to me that there are key issues I need to decide. Did CIGNA handle this claim 
fairly? Is there evidence it mis-sold the policy to Mr and Mrs M? Did it fail to make 
reasonable adjustments for Mr Ms medical condition? Ill deal with each point in turn.
Did CIGNA handle this claim fairly?
First, I appreciate what an upsetting and worrying time this mustve been for Mr and Mrs M 
after Mr M became seriously ill abroad. I sympathise with their situation and I do hope Mr M 
has made a good recovery.
Ive looked closely at Mr and Mrs Ms policy schedule for the 2020-21 policy year. This sets 
out the cover CIGNA had agreed to offer for that particular contract period. I can see that on 
page two, at the top of the page, CIGNA has listed the Medical Exclusions which apply to 
the policy. Adjacent to Mr Ms name, the following medical condition is listed as excluded 
from cover:
In addition to the standard policy exclusions in the Policy Rules, we will not pay for any 
medical attention or treatment arising directly or indirectly from the condition(s) stated below:
CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE/DISORDER  CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE/DISORDER 
and any associated or related conditions or symptoms and any complications arising 
therefrom.
Having looked at Mr Ms medical screening questionnaire, its clear that he declared hed 
previously suffered from a cardiac condition. And I think too that its clear CIGNA decided 
that whilst it was prepared to offer Mr M a policy, it wasnt prepared to cover any condition 
which was down to or related to a cardiac condition. So if Mr Ms illness in July 2021 was 
due to a cardiac issue, then I think CIGNA was entitled to conclude that it wasnt covered.Accordingly then, Ive looked carefully at the medical report which the treating hospital sent 
CIGNA. This states:
Current illness; chest pain (It also set out that Mr M had a history of Ischaemic Heart 
Disease and a stent).
Observations: ecg (echocardiogram) with ST elevation in V2, V3, V4 and dynamic changes 
with respect to initial ecg, chest pain with ST elevation protocol was activated.
SBAR (situation, background, assessment, recommendation) reasons: Cardiac 
catheterisation.
In my view, the medical report clearly shows that Mr M was undergoing diagnostic testing for 
chest pain and was recommended for cardiac catheterisation  a more invasive diagnostic 
test. On this basis then, I think it was reasonable for CIGNA to conclude that Mr Ms 
condition was linked to a symptom of cardiovascular disease or disorder and that therefore, 
any claim wouldnt be covered.
Mr and Mrs M feel strongly that CIGNA gave the treating hospital a guarantee of payment 
and that it should be bound to honour such a guarantee. Ive looked closely at the contact 
records between CIGNA and the hospital and Im afraid I dont agree that any guarantee was 
given. On 6 July 2021, the hospital called CIGNA to request a guarantee of payment. CIGNA 
told the hospital it would need to see a medical report and a cost estimate. This is standard 
procedure in medical insurance claims, so that an insurer can check whether a medical 
claim appears to be covered before agreeing to pay any costs. The hospital sent CIGNA a 
copy of the medical report and invoice that day for it to consider. CIGNA responded on 7 
July 2021 and said:
I truly apologies (sic) as member have an exclusion on cardiovascular diseases which 
means we unable to cover for the emergency treatment.
Member should be aware on (sic) the exclusion.
CIGNAs records dont indicate that it agreed to give a guarantee of payment. Instead, the 
contemporaneous evidence shows that CIGNA requested evidence from the hospital (as its 
entitled to do) so that it could assess whether or not to offer cover. On receipt and 
consideration of that evidence, it let the hospital know that it wouldnt be able to pay Mr Ms 
emergency costs. So I dont find that any payment guarantee was given to the hospital and it 
follows that I dont agree that CIGNA is bound to pay any treatment costs.
What is clear from the records though is that CIGNA wasnt able to let Mr and Mrs M know 
directly that any costs would not be met. In the circumstances, I think it ought reasonably to 
have made more effort to do so, even if that isnt its standard procedure. And there were 
several months between CIGNA deciding not to cover Mr Ms costs and it issuing a final 
response to the complaint. I dont doubt that this caused Mr and Mrs M additional upset and 
concern at an already distressing time for them. So I think its appropriate for CIGNA to pay 
compensation to recognise the impact its failure to keep Mr and Mrs M fully updated had on 
them. In the round, Im satisfied that £250 is a fair award of compensation to reflect its 
mistake and I was pleased to note CIGNA agreed to the investigators recommended award. 
Im directing CIGNA to pay Mr and Mrs M £250 compensation.
Did CIGNA give Mr and Mrs M inaccurate information about the policy? 
Mr and Mrs M say that when they took out the policy by phone, CIGNAs call handler told 
them that all emergency-related claims would be covered, including claims related to Mr Ms heart. Unfortunately, CIGNAs told us that given over three years have passed since the call 
took place, its no longer available due to its internal record-keeping requirements. 
Therefore, I need to make a decision based on the evidence I have and what I think is most 
likely to have happened at the point of sale.
It's possible that Mr and Mrs M were told that Mr Ms existing cardiac condition would be 
covered in emergency situations and that they chose to buy the cover on this basis. But I 
need to bear in mind that the phone call happened a few weeks before Mr and Mrs M filled 
out CIGNAs medical screening questionnaire. It was on this questionnaire that Mr M 
declared that hed had prior heart disease and stent surgery. And it was following this 
questionnaire that CIGNA assessed the risk of Mr M needing to make a claim and decided 
not to cover any conditions related to his heart. As medical screening took place after the 
phone call, it seems less likely that the call handler wouldve been in a position to confirm 
cover or to agree that all medical conditions would be covered without exception.
And I need to bear in mind too the documentation that Mr M was sent after the sale. A policy 
schedule was first issued to cover the November 2017-18 policy year and a new schedule 
has been issued at each subsequent annual renewal. These set out the terms on which 
CIGNA has agreed to cover Mr and Mrs M  the price, their excess and the cover level. As 
Ive explained above, each schedule also sets out the specific exclusion clause for 
cardiovascular conditions in relation to Mr M and explains that no treatment will be covered 
for related symptoms or illnesses. So I think this was clear enough to let Mr and Mrs M know 
that there wouldnt be cover for any cardiac-related conditions. And if this wasnt the cover 
theyd been led to expect theyd receive, the policy terms gave them 14 days to cancel the 
policy and receive a full refund.
Overall, the totality of the evidence makes me think, on balance, that its more likely than not 
that CIGNA didnt give Mr and Mrs M inaccurate information about the policy.
Did CIGNA fail to make reasonable adjustments for Mr M?
Mr M says that he has a long term condition which impairs his ability to read and write. He 
says that CIGNA is aware of this and that when it failed to send him the sales phone call, it 
failed in its duty to make reasonable adjustments under the Equality Act 2010. Mr Ms 
condition isnt one that is automatically deemed to be a disability as defined by the Equality 
Act 2010. However, even if  for the purpose of this decision  I assumed that he is disabled 
as defined by the Act and CIGNA was under a duty to make reasonable adjustments to 
ensure that he wasnt placed at a disadvantage because of this condition and the Equality 
Act 2010 is a relevant consideration when deciding this complaint, I dont think CIGNA has 
acted unfairly or unreasonably here.  
I say that because CIGNA has told us it has no record of Mr M telling it about this particular 
condition and it isnt noted on the policy paperwork or contact notes Ive seen. On balance, I 
havent seen enough evidence to show me that Mr M did tell CIGNA about his condition at 
the time the policy was sold to him. And the reason CIGNA cant provide Mr M with a copy of 
the sales call is because it only retains call records for a certain number of years, which 
appears to be a reasonable explanation for its inability to provide this evidence. If Mr and 
Mrs M feel that CIGNA hasnt complied with any data subject access request theyve made 
though, they may be able to make a complaint to the Information Commissioners Office 
about that issue alone.
In summary, I find that CIGNA didnt act unfairly when it declined to pay any medical costs. I 
find the compensation its agreed to pay Mr and Mrs M is reasonable and I dont think theres 
evidence to show Mr M was treated unfairly. My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I think CIGNA has now made a 
fair offer of compensation.
I direct CIGNA Life Insurance Company of Europe SA-NV to pay Mr and Mrs M £250 
compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 July 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman