DRN-3952268
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (BOI) has unfairly refused to remove his 
former partner, Ms D, from their joint mortgage account, even after he offered to add his 
mother to the account to meet the banks affordability requirements.
To settle the complaint Mr S wants the bank to remove Ms D from the mortgage account.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, so 
there is no need for me to repeat the details here. I will instead concentrate on giving the 
reasons for my decision. In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont 
include any information that might lead to the parties being identified. So for these reasons, I 
will keep my summary of what happened quite brief.
In 2008 Mr S and Ms D took out a joint mortgage on a property in which Mr S still lives. The 
relationship broke down, and Ms D left the property. The mortgage has not been paid since 
December 2018 and the arrears are substantial. Legal action by the bank has been put on 
hold while we consider this complaint.
In March 2022 Mr S asked BOI to agree to a transfer of equity (TOE). He said that his 
mother would be gifting the full amount to pay off the arrears, but this was conditional on 
Ms D being removed from the mortgage. 
However, BOI wasnt able to agree to this. The banks policy is that the mortgage account 
has to be up-to-date with no missed payments for at least six months before the bank will 
consider an application for a TOE. But in any event, after assessing Mr Ss income the bank 
said that the application wouldnt pass its affordability criteria. Mr S offered to add his mother 
onto the mortgage, but even with her income affordability still couldnt be met.
Mr S complained, but BOI didnt uphold the complaint. In its final response letter BOI 
reiterated that it wasnt able to agree a TOE whilst the account was in arrears. However, if 
the arrears were paid off and payments were maintained for six months, the bank would 
reconsider an application, which would be subject to its lending criteria.
Unhappy with BOIs response, Mr S brought his complaint to our service. An investigator 
looked at what had happened but didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She didnt 
think the bank had acted unfairly, or that it had assured Mr S that a TOE would be approved.
Mr S didnt accept this. He said the phone calls with the bank would support his position that 
BOI told him the application would be approved. At my request, the investigator obtained 
and listened to those calls. She explained to Mr S that they didnt contain any such 
assurance. Mr S asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im afraid I have disappointing news for Mr S; Im not upholding the 
complaint. These are my reasons.
BOI is entitled to set its own lending criteria. Decisions that BOI makes in respect of what 
those criteria are, its attitude to risk involved in this particular lending assessment, and 
whether it should lend and if so, on what terms are clearly discretionary matters for BOIs 
own commercial judgement that I would not interfere with.
BOIs criteria include a requirement that, before considering a TOE, the mortgage account 
must not be in arrears and that payments have been made on time and in full for at least six 
months. In addition, in order to remove a party from the mortgage, the bank has to be 
satisfied that the mortgage would be affordable for the other party, either on their own or with 
another joint party.
Ive listened to the phone calls between Mr S and BOI. Im satisfied that the bank explained 
that any application for a TOE would be subject to meeting lending criteria and that the 
arrears would have to be cleared before a TOE could be considered. Im also satisfied that, 
after taking details of Mr Ss income and that of his mother, he was told that the TOE was 
failing affordability. Mr S was also told that any application would be subject to underwriting, 
and the call handler wasnt able to guarantee that this would be agreed.
In summary, BOIs decision to refuse the TOE while the account is in arrears and its 
explanation that, in any event, affordability criteria were not met were commercial 
judgements for BOI to make. Insofar as neither decision was inconsistent with the banks 
lending policy and current regulatory requirements, theres no reasonable grounds for me to 
second-guess BOIs judgement.
The evidence is persuasive that Mr S wasnt told that a TOE would be agreed and Im 
satisfied BOI did not at any point tell Mr S that it would. I fully understand that Mr S has 
found the banks decision unwelcome, but it wasnt unfair, and that is the test that I have to 
apply.
I appreciate Mr S doesnt want Ms D to benefit from the arrears being paid off by Mr Ss 
mother, which is why Mr S wants the TOE to go ahead before the arrears are repaid. But Im 
afraid thats not how things work. Its not up to Mr S to make paying the mortgage conditional 
on removing Ms D from the mortgage. He is contractually bound to pay the mortgage. 
Furthermore, the mortgage isnt divided into his half and her half where both parties are 
only required to pay 50%. It is a joint and several liability, so Mr S is liable for the full 
mortgage payment. I know that might seem unfair, given that Ms D is also on the mortgage, 
but she has exactly the same liability that he has. That is the contract to which he agreed 
when the mortgage was taken out. And it is, of course, standard industry practice for a 
contract in joint names to be joint and several.
I must also explain that BOI cant remove a party from a mortgage account unless that party 
specifically asks the bank to do this. In addition, removing someone from a mortgage 
account doesnt necessarily remove them from the property title. That is a separate matter, 
which wouldnt involve BOI, as its a legal issue. Mr S has told us that Ms D has agreed that 
she would agree to a TOE if she was bought out but thats a matter Mr S will need to 
resolve with Ms D. The mortgage hasnt been paid for more than four years. BOI agreed to put legal action on 
hold whilst we considered the complaint; lenders will sometimes agree to this, but they dont 
have to and we cant force them to. If the Financial Ombudsman Service had that power it 
would undermine our impartiality between the parties to a complaint. It would also create the 
potential risk of consumers using our service to bring complaints with the intention of 
postponing legal action and obstructing businesses that were trying to take legitimate action 
to recover money owed to them.
I do not want Mr S to be under any misunderstanding that if he was to bring another 
complaint to us about the mortgage, that we would tell BOI to suspend any legal action. I do 
not intend to cause any distress to Mr S, but I think its important that he doesnt 
underestimate the seriousness of the situation; he and his mother are at risk of losing their 
home and if the arrears arent repaid, the bank will be entitled to apply to court for 
possession of the property. Its therefore important that Mr S addresses the arrears situation 
sooner rather than later, and without trying to impose conditions of his own.
It might help Mr S to get some advice from one of the free debt advisory services such as 
StepChange, Citizens Advice or Shelter. We can provide Mr S with contact details for those 
agencies, if hed like us to.
I know this isnt the outcome Mr S was hoping for. I am sorry if my decision adds to his 
distress. But after considering all the evidence, Im unable to find that BOI has done anything 
wrong. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman