DRN-3223094
The complaint
 Miss M is unhappy Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Skoda Financial 
Services (VWFS) declined her request for a payment deferral when she was in financial 
difficulty due to COVID-19.
What happened
 In August 2019 Miss M acquired a used car and took a hire purchase agreement with 
VWFS to finance the cost.
Unfortunately, Miss M was later furloughed due to the COVID-19 pandemic and had a 
reduction to her income. She emailed VWFS in April 2020 and asked for assistance. She 
received an automatic email back detailing some support that might be available. She 
emailed VWFS again later in the month asking for help. At this point Miss M said she 
couldnt make her monthly repayment and so cancelled her direct debit.
VWFS then said to Miss M that she could apply for a payment deferral and sent her some 
details of how to do so. Miss M continued to contact VWFS asking for assistance and she 
asked for its collections department to call her back, which wasnt done.
In July 2020 Miss M spoke to someone at VWFS and again asked for help with her situation. 
VWFS then told her that she wasnt eligible for a payment deferral as her account was in 
arrears. It instead offered her breathing space or said she could voluntarily terminate the 
agreement if she paid around £8,000. 
Miss M was unhappy with this and complained to VWFS. It issued its final response. In 
summary, this said it was right that Miss M wasnt eligible for a payment deferral due to 
arrears on the account. It said the service Miss M had received fell below what it would 
expect, as it didnt call her back when she asked. VWFS waived £298.42 from her account 
because of this.
Miss M remained unhappy and brought the complaint to our service. While we were looking 
into things, Miss M told us she was now back at work and had arranged a payment plan with 
VWFS.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said, in summary, that VWFS didnt act in line 
with the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCAs) guidance and it shouldve given Miss M a 
payment deferral to cover May, June and July 2020. She thought it was likely a further 
payment deferral shouldve also then been given for the following three months. So, she said 
the payment deferral should now be backdated to cover this period and Miss Ms credit file 
should be amended to show this. 
VWFS disagreed with this. It went into some detail about its processes at the time and what 
it did in response to the FCA guidance. Our investigator explained this didnt change her 
opinion. So, the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
Miss M complains about support offered in relation to a hire purchase agreement. Entering 
into regulated consumer credit contracts such as this is a regulated activity, so Im satisfied I 
can consider Miss Ms complaint against VWFS.
What I need to consider here is whether VWFS acted fairly when it declined Miss Ms 
request for a payment deferral. If it didnt, I need to think about what shouldve happened 
and what, if anything, VWFS need to do to put things right.
Should the payment deferral have been agreed?
I accept VWFSs point that the FCA hadnt yet issued specific guidance to firms about 
COVID-19 when Miss M first got in touch with it. But, it still needed to follow the existing 
relevant rules that were in place. Some of these are set out in the FCAs Consumer Credit 
Sourcebook (CONC). 
I appreciate that due to COVID-19 businesses were dealing with an unprecedented situation 
at this point. But I cant see VWFS initially took any action other than sending Miss M an 
automatic reply to her email. This email included details of support potentially available, but I 
cant see it gave details of how to access it, or that anything specific was considered for 
Miss M.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law, guidance and 
regulations. On 24 April 2020 the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) published guidance 
Motor finance agreements and coronavirus: temporary guidance for firms. This came into 
effect on 27 April 2020 and explained:
Where a customer is already experiencing or reasonably expects to experience temporary
payment difficulties as a result of circumstances relating to coronavirus, and wishes to
receive a payment deferral, a firm should grant the customer a payment deferral for 3
months unless the firm determines (acting reasonably) that it is obviously not in the
customers interests to do so.
In May 2020 Miss M asked VWFS for a payment deferral. Im satisfied VWFS wouldve been 
aware that she was experiencing temporary financial difficulty as a result of COVID-19. I say 
this because Miss M told VWFS that her financial issues were due to her being furloughed 
and I can see this is specifically recorded on its contact notes.
Miss M didnt get a response to her request for a payment deferral until July 2020. At this 
point, VWFS declined her request as it said she wasnt eligible for the support as she had 
missed three repayments.
Ive thought carefully about this. But, I dont think VWFS acted fairly and reasonably here. 
The FCA guidance said, in very brief summary, to provide a payment deferral to consumers 
who were experiencing temporary financial difficulty due to COVID-19. VWFS declined this 
support to Miss M because she was experiencing temporary financial difficulty due to 
COVID-19. This does not make sense to me, nor does it follow the letter nor the spirit of the 
FCA guidance.
I have considered that VWFS told us Miss M contacted them in early May 2020 and said she 
was not in need of a payment deferral. Im not sure if this was a mistake from VWFS, but either way I can see she told it around this time in an email I do need the Deferral option as 
I have been furloughed since March. So, this doesnt change my opinion.
Ive also carefully considered what VWFS said in response to our investigators view. It gave 
quite a lengthy, detailed reply with a number of points to think about. But, I wont echo the 
same level of detail here. This is because all of this information is about VWFSs general 
approach to payment deferrals and its general response to the FCA guidance  it doesnt 
address anything specific about Miss M. 
I want to reassure VWFS that I have read everything it said in response to the investigators 
view. And I appreciate it was dealing with a very difficult situation and had to quickly react to 
rules and guidance that came out. But, it hasnt mentioned anything to persuade me it was in 
Miss Ms best interests to decline her request for a payment deferral.
What shouldve happened?
As Ive explained above, I dont think it was reasonable for VWFS to decline Miss Ms 
request for a payment deferral. It follows that Im satisfied she shouldve been given a 
deferral to cover the May, June and July 2020 repayments.
Im aware that at the point the deferral wouldve ended, Miss M hadnt returned to work full 
time. So, Ive considered what shouldve happened once her initial deferral period ran out. 
The FCA issued further guidance that came into effect on 17 July 2020. Part of this 
explained, in summary, that at the end of a three month payment deferral, if a consumer is 
still unable to afford any payments, then a firm should offer a further payment deferral  if 
this is in the consumers best interests.
So, I think its most likely, on balance, that VWFS shouldve agreed a further payment 
deferral to cover August, September and October 2020.
Thinking about how to put this right, Miss M cancelled her direct debit and didnt make any 
repayments towards her agreement during this period. So, VWFS do not need to refund her 
anything. But, I think its fair and reasonable that it treats the account as though these 
payment deferrals were put in place. And, it should update Miss Ms credit file to reflect this.
Customer service
Miss M was unhappy that she asked VWFS to arrange for its collections team to call her 
directly and this wasnt done. I understand VWFS were receiving a lot of requests at this 
time and dealing with a lot of issues due to the pandemic. So, I understand why it wasnt 
possible to call Miss M. But, I do think it shouldve made it clear to her that it wouldnt be able 
to do so rather than trying to arrange this.
I also think Miss M was waiting too long for VWFS to respond to her request for help, even 
taking into account the situation with COVID-19.
Finally, I think not being given a payment deferral when she shouldve been has also caused 
Miss M distress and inconvenience. 
Ive thought about whether to make an award here. VWFS said it has already waived one 
months repayment, £298.42, from Miss Ms account, to apologise for the customer service 
provided. Taking everything into account, I dont think it needs to do anything further here.  
My final decision My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I instruct Volkswagen Financial Services 
(UK) Limited trading as Skoda Financial Services to put things right by doing the following:
Treat the account as though a payment deferral was put in place to cover six months 
from May to October 2020
Amend Miss Ms credit file to reflect the above
Arrange for the deferred payments from the above period to be repaid in line with the 
relevant FCA guidance
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Skoda Financial Services should 
also treat Miss Ms current financial situation with forbearance and due consideration.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 January 2022.
 
John Bower
Ombudsman