DRN-3184539
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as IP complains about the service they received from HSBC
UK Bank Plc when making an international payment from their account.
Mr S brought the complaint on behalf of IP, so I may refer to him in part below.
What happened
Below is intended to be a summary of what happened and does not therefore include a full
timeline or list every point that has been made.
In May 2020 IP arranged to make an international payment from their account to a
third party
Mr S later contacted HSBC as the payment hadnt reached the third party  who
were chasing IP for the money
Mr S said he was only informed after contacting HSBC the payment had been
rejected the day after the transfer was initiated
Mr S was unhappy HSBC hadnt contacted him to make him aware of this as it was
now around 9 days since the initial transfer had been processed. Mr S raised a
complaint on behalf of IP with HSBC
HSBC said it contacted the intermediary bank and was told the payment had been
rejected due to no beneficiary account being held with the intermediary bank
HSBC said it obtained alternative details from the receiving bank and the payment
was reprocessed
HSBC said they had not received any further communication to say the payment had
been returned so it assumed it had been received with no issues
It also said it wasnt HSBCs policy to contact customers about failed payments
HSBC offered IP £50 compensation as a gesture of goodwill
Mr S says following this, the payment had still not been received by the third party,
who were chasing IP daily. He says IP had no access to the funds and wasnt
provided any information from HSBC about the whereabouts of the money
Mr S continued to escalate his concerns with HSBC both through his local HSBC
business banking manager and through another HSBC representative
Mr S said he had to continually chase the HSBC representative for responses and
that IP were still not given any information to the whereabouts of the funds
Mr S said the HSBC representative promised to provide a letter he could give to the
third party, explaining IP was not responsible for the delay in receiving the money. Mr
S said he had to continually chase HSBC for this letter and eventually the local
business manager had to intervene to send it in June 2020
Mr S remained unhappy and escalated IPs complaint, HSBC provided a further
response in July 2020. It reiterated that It wasnt its policy to contact customers
regarding failed payments and the issues raised regarding the payment had been
handled as it would expect
Mr S was unhappy with HSBCs response. He said IP had been left for over a month
without any idea of where the funds were located and were unable to make their
client aware of where the money was
Mr S said HSBC never explained about the alternative details being provided by the
intermediary and so they were never able to provide the third party with any updates.
Mr S said as a result IP incurred a loss as they had to waive fees for services
provided to the third party. Mr S brought the complaint to our service
Our Investigator didnt recommend we uphold IPs complaint.
She said contacting customers in the event of a returned international payment is not part of
the accounts terms and conditions. And as she could see HSBC contacted the intermediary
bank to enquire about the payment failing, she felt it had acted fairly.
She said the beneficiary provided alternative bank details and no further information was
requested from HSBC. So as the payment wasnt returned when It was resent, it was
reasonable for HSBC to assume it had gone through.
She said she wasnt persuaded from the information available that IP incurred losses
because of HSBC - so she felt HSBCs offer of compensation was fair.
Mr S didnt agree with our Investigators view of IPs complaint and asked for an ombudsman
to review the matter. The complaint has now passed to me. The complaint then passed to 
me.
My provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision on 11 November 2021.  In my provisional findings, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr S has strong views about what has happened, and he has provided
numerous submissions to support IPs complaint. I want to assure him Ive considered
everything he said carefully.
However, I hope Mr S wont take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the
central issues, and not all the points raised, as a discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point the parties have raised or to
answer every question asked. My role is to consider the evidence presented by IP, and by
HSBC, to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case.
HSBC provided screen shots which show it made enquiries about the payment a few days
after the payment had been actioned.
Mr S only found out the payment had been rejected when he contacted HSBCs payment
services department, almost a week after the payment had been rejected.
Although the initial payment failing was not HSBCs fault. I do think it could have been more
proactive in making IP aware there was a problem with the payment. IP had a relationship
managed account and regularly made payments of this type to their client, so although
HSBC say it is not its policy to do so, I think it would have been reasonable for it to make IP
aware there had been an issue and the payment had been reprocessed.
IP would have then been able to proactively make their client aware of the issue. Instead IP
only found out over a week later after their client had been in touch to chase the funds.
The payment still hadnt arrived by the end of May (and doesnt appear to have arrived until
June). Ive not seen anything that persuades me the funds were still accessible to IP during
this time, and HSBC didnt provide any update on where the funds were.I can see why this would have been of concern to IP as they were unable to provide any
further information to their client. As HSBC had been able to enquire about the rejected
payment initially at the beginning of May 2020, I think it had the facility to check the payment
had experienced no further issues and enquire about the whereabouts of the funds. But it
didnt do so, and I can see IP was only made aware of the initial payment was rejected due
to an issue with the intermediary bank at the end of May 2020.
Due to ongoing issues with the payment not arriving, HSBC agreed to provide IP with a
repair of reputation letter they could provide to their client explaining the issue was not IPs
fault. The letter was first discussed in May 2020 and was issued just over two weeks later In
June 2020.
However, given the situation and concerns IP had, I think it was reasonable in the
circumstances for this letter to have been produced quicker. I can see IP chased HSBC for
this several times and was eventually issued by IPs Relationship Manager, who intervened
when it still hadnt been processed.
Mr S says due to the issues with the funds not arriving, IP, had to waive two months of
commission it usually charges their client.
Mr S provided a breakdown of how this is calculated on a spreadsheet but Ive explained to
him during a phone call this alone isnt sufficient proof of the loss.
The payment not reaching its intended destination wasnt HSBCs fault. So, in these
circumstances I dont think its reasonable HSBC cover these costs. However, as Ive set out
above, I think HSBC could have done more to help Mr S and IP. Mr S was continuously
chasing HSBC for answers regarding the whereabouts of the money and as Ive also said, I
think HSBC could have acted quicker in providing the repair of reputation letter when it was
promised to Mr S. So, I think HSBC should pay a total £200 compensation for the
inconvenience it has caused IP.
Ive noted Mr Ss previous comments to HSBC about what he feels is adequate
compensation, so Im aware he might feel my intended direction may not feel sufficient. But
as Ive explained to Mr S, our role is not to punish or fine financial businesses.
I also acknowledge the personal worry Mr S has described to me about the whereabouts of
the money. But any compensation I award IP is to reflect the inconvenience they have been
caused  and Im unable to consider how this has affected him personally in any award I
make. 
Our approach to compensation is also set out in more detail on our website.
Responses to my provisional decision
HSBC responded to say it believed it had done everything it could to assist Mr S and IP.
Mr S didnt agree with my provisional findings. He said he never said it was HSBCs fault the 
funds were initially rejected, but they were at fault for what happened after. And if they had 
acted in a professional manner, IP would not have been left in the position they were and 
been caused losses.
Mr S also asked what evidence he needed to provide to show IPs losses.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what both parties have said, but it doesnt change my decision  or my 
reasoning.
 
Its not in dispute the funds being rejected are not HSBCs fault  and I can see Mr S has 
acknowledged this throughout the claim. Ive already considered this in my provisional 
findings. But this is important to acknowledge regarding the losses Mr S says IP suffered. 
Mr S says due to the issues with the funds not arriving, IP had to waive two months of
commission it usually charges their client. The evidence Mr S has provided is a spreadsheet 
with a breakdown, but this isnt proof of the fees being waived.
My role here is to be impartial, so Im unable to provide advice on what evidence or 
information Mr S could have provided to support IPs complaint. Our services impartiality is 
something Ive also explained previously.
While I think HSBC could have done more to help IP, such as providing the repair of 
reputation letter earlier, it wasnt at fault for the payment being rejected. And HSBC quickly 
re-actioned it. 
Even if the letter had been provided earlier, the issue with the funds not arriving would have 
still existed. So, Im not persuaded HSBC can be held responsible directly for this loss. 
But as Ive set out in my provisional findings, I think HSBC could have done more to help 
Mr S and IP. So, I think HSBC should pay a total £200 compensation for the
inconvenience it has caused IP.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold IPs complaint.
To put things right I direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay IP £200 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask IP to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 December 2021.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman