DRN-2248964
The complaint
Miss J complains that it was irresponsible for Progressive Money Limited to accept her as a 
guarantor for a loan.  
What happened
Miss J was accepted by Progressive as guarantor for a loan taken by her ex-husband in 
November 2014. Her ex-husband borrowed £5,000 and agreed to repay the loan in 
60 monthly instalments.
Miss J signed a Guarantee and Indemnity agreement in respect of the loan. That meant, 
should the borrower be unable or unwilling to make the required repayments, that 
Progressive could seek repayment from Miss J. I understand that Miss J repaid the 
outstanding balance when the borrower failed to keep up with his repayments.
In this decision I will not be considering whether it was reasonable for Progressive to give 
the loan to Miss Js ex-husband. That is a matter between him and the lender. I will only be 
considering whether it was reasonable for Progressive to accept Miss J as guarantor for the 
loan.
Miss Js complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. Although he thought the 
checks Progressive had done before accepting Miss J as a guarantor had been sufficient, he 
thought the results of those checks should have led to the lender concluding it was unlikely 
that Miss J could sustainably afford the loan repayments should she be required to as 
guarantor. So he asked Progressive to pay Miss J some compensation.
Progressive didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints of this nature on our website and Ive kept this in 
mind while deciding Miss Js complaint.
The rules and regulations at the time Progressive added Miss J as a guarantor required it to 
carry out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether she could afford to repay 
what was owed in a sustainable manner should she be required to do so. This assessment 
is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Progressive had to think about whether 
repaying the credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Miss J. 
In practice this meant that Progressive had to ensure that making the repayments wouldnt 
cause Miss J undue difficulty or adverse consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough for 
Progressive to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its money back, it had to 
consider the impact of any repayments on Miss J. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the application. In 
general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are 
guaranteeing. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income); 
the longer the period of time a guarantor might be indebted for (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required 
to make repayments for an extended period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
guarantor vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about whether Progressive did what it needed to before agreeing 
to Miss J acting as guarantor.
Progressive gathered some information from Miss J before it agreed to her acting as 
guarantor on the loan. It asked her for details of her income and her normal expenditure. It 
checked her credit file to assess how much she was repaying to other creditors. And it asked 
for a copy of Miss Js bank statement so it could verify the information shed provided about 
her income and expenditure.
Miss J was entering into a significant commitment with Progressive. She might be required 
to make monthly repayments for a period of five years. So I think it was right that 
Progressive wanted to gather, and independently check, some detailed information about 
Miss Js finances. I think that the checks it did were proportionate.
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs to 
react appropriately to what those checks show. That might lead a lender to ask a guarantor 
for additional information about their finances. Or it might lead a lender to decline the 
application outright. And that is what I think should have happened here.
When Progressive checked Miss Js disposable income it determined that she would have 
around £50 left over each month if she was required to make the repayments on the loan. 
Those repayments could be required to be made over a lengthy period and would be 
unsustainable should Miss J have faced even the smallest fluctuation in her normal 
expenditure. And given what I discuss below about the problems with the information 
Progressive used, I think that situation was extremely likely.Progressives checks showed that Miss J was carrying significant credit card balances 
across at least four separate accounts. Miss Js estimates of her normal monthly repayments 
fell below the 3% minimum repayment that Progressive suggested on its data gathering 
form. So should those card issuers have expected Miss J to make a higher repayment she 
wouldnt have the means to do so.
Miss Js finances were heavily linked to those of her ex-husband, for whom she was 
guaranteeing the loan. If Miss J was asked to fulfil her responsibilities as the guarantor 
I think it very likely that she would have faced other pressures on her finances as a result of 
any problems her ex-husband was facing.
Miss J cared for two children. Those children were below school age and needed nursery 
care whilst Miss J was working. The costs of that childcare were significant and shared 
equally between Miss J and her ex-husband. But should he have faced financial problems, 
and so the guarantee was invoked, it is likely that Miss J would have needed to meet a far 
larger proportion of the childcare costs.
Miss J also said that she received maintenance each month from her ex-husband to support 
the living costs of her and the children. Progressive didnt take those payments into account 
when assessing whether the loan repayments would be affordable for Miss J. But it did tell 
us that the additional income provided a safety buffer for Miss J in excess of the £50 I noted 
above. But I dont agree. For the same reasons I set out in relation to the childcare costs, 
I think these payments would also have been likely to cease or be reduced if the borrower 
had been unable to make his repayments to Progressive.
So taking everything into account, I think the information that Progressive gathered showed 
that it would be unlikely that Miss J would be able to sustainably meet her obligations as the 
guarantor of the loan if she was required to do so. I dont therefore think it was reasonable 
for Progressive to accept her as guarantor for this loan. Progressive needs to pay Miss J 
some compensation.
In considering that compensation I have noted that Miss J said she used cash withdrawals 
from multiple credit cards to repay the loan. I expect that this will have led to her incurring 
additional costs. Our adjudicator has discussed that situation with Miss J who has confirmed 
that she cannot now provide evidence of the additional costs. So I am not making any 
additional award to her in that respect.
  
Putting things right
As I said earlier, I understand that Miss J repaid the outstanding loan balance when the 
borrower failed to make the required repayments. Whilst I accept that Progressive might not 
have legally required Miss J to fully repay the loan I think it reasonable to conclude that she 
only did so because of her guarantor obligations. So to put things right Progressive should;
Refund to Miss J any repayments she has made on this loan. 
Pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded repayments from the date they 
were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement
Remove any information recorded on Miss Js credit file in relation to the loan
If it hasnt already, release Miss J from any obligations under the guarantee and 
indemnity agreement and then terminate it
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Progressive to take off tax from this interest. 
Progressive must give Miss J a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for 
one.  My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Js complaint and direct Progressive Money Limited to 
put things right as detailed above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2021.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman