DRN-2669275
The complaint
Mr T complains about charges Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited has applied to his personal 
pension plans. He feels it has unfairly applied a higher charge than those of other personal 
pension plans it offers.
What happened
Mr T initially invested in two pension accounts as part of a pension taken out through his 
employers at the time. One of these employers ceased trading and Mr T left the employment 
of the other one, which meant that over time both his pension plans were converted to 
Individual Personal Pensions (IPP). The plans had annual administrative charges of 0.6% 
and 0.5% respectively.
Mt T noticed Aviva were advertising lower annual management charges for other personal 
pension plans. He found it unfair that he was charges a higher rate for his pension products 
and so he complained to Aviva.
Aviva issued its final response on 14 February 2020. It said Mr Ts current plan charges 
were rates agreed with his previous employers and Aviva when the pension schemes were 
set up. It explained it had offered discounted rates at the time based on a number of factors 
such as the number of members the employers brought as well as other factors that were 
passed onto members such as Mr T.
They explained that as these pension plans were older legacy plans the administrative costs 
were higher than the newer products offered today. The more recent products have a 
different structure, are different products and as such can be offered with lower annual 
administrative charges.
Aviva explained it cant give advice to Mr T, but he is able to look at moving his existing 
investments into alternative products either with Aviva or an alternative provider and that 
other funds may have lower annual charges. It recommended he seek independent financial 
advice but also provide him with fund factsheets of his existing pension plans.
Dissatisfied, Mr T brought his complaint to this service. He feels strongly this is an unfair 
practice and essentially discriminates against existing customers.
An investigator looked into things for Mr T. In his first view he didnt uphold Mr Ts complaint. 
He said Aviva had been upfront about the charges and it was common in the industry to see 
higher charges on older products, so he didnt agree Aviva had done anything wrong.
Mr T raised a number of other concerns and asked the investigator to look at what options 
Aviva had offered. The investigator then issued a second view but reached the same 
conclusion. Aviva explained when the Mr T left his employer and the other stopped trading 
the only action Aviva took was to delink the plan from an employer and so it then became an 
individual personal pension plan and retained the same plan charges as those agreed at the 
initial set up. Again, the investigator found Aviva had correctly followed its policies and 
procedures and so he didnt ask it to do anything further.
Mr T remained unhappy. He feels he has received a less than adequate service from Aviva 
and paid a higher annual administrative charge than other personal pension plan holders. He 
asks for an ombudsman review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have looked at all the information provided by both parties afresh. Having done so Ive 
reached the same conclusion as our investigator. I appreciate this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr T. Ill explain why.
Im aware Mr T has made more than one complaint regarding Aviva. Here I have only 
considered his complaint regarding the charges applied to his pension plan.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr T and by Aviva. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are conflicts, 
I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words, I have looked 
at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me decide what I 
think is more likely to, or should, have happened. 
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
Im also not able to direct a business regarding commercial decisions either. It is not unusual 
to see different products with different charging structures offered by the same provider. As 
the investigator has said the development of newer products which have a higher degree of 
automation and need less manual intervention, are amongst a number of reasons why some 
products can then be offered at a lower price. This is commonplace within the investment 
industry. Although this is reasonable it is important that the charges are clear and that if Mr T
wanted to, he could take advantage of any other product available.
From what Ive seen the charging structure on all the products are clear and were explained 
to Mr T. There is no barrier to Mr T switching to one of the newer products with lower 
management charges should he choose to do so. Aviva is also the product provider here. It 
doesnt act as an adviser and so it isnt incumbent upon it to advise Mr T about different 
products that may or may not be suitable. 
I understand Mr T says he is happy with his investment and asks that Aviva applies the 
lower charges of other products to his plan but Im afraid for the reasons I have given Im not 
in a position to direct it to do so.
I appreciate Mr T will be disappointed but Im unable to uphold his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2021.
 
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman