DRN-3594754
The complaint
Mrs R complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax wont reimburse money she 
paid using her credit card for a holiday villa she wasnt able to use because of restrictions 
imposed due to the Covid-19 pandemic.
What happened
Mrs R and her partner paid for a holiday villa from a supplier Ill call M, using their 
respective credit cards. But like many holidaymakers, their plans were affected by the 
pandemic. A couple of months before they were due to depart, the UK Government advised 
against non-essential international travel. It went on to impose restrictions on leaving homes, 
commonly referred to as lockdown. Mrs R and her partner found themselves unable to 
travel following cancellation of their flights, and following correspondence with M the holiday 
booking was cancelled.
M told Mrs R that the booking was non-refundable. It provided her with a letter confirming 
cancellation. She and her partner contacted their respective card providers to seek 
reimbursement. Mrs Rs partner received his money back. But Mrs R didnt. While Halifax 
gave Mrs R an initial refund, this was reversed when M responded to the chargeback claim 
Halifax submitted to M. Halifax told Mrs R it couldnt help as the booking had been cancelled 
and M wasnt in breach of contract as it had remained willing to fulfil the booking. 
Mrs R was unhappy with Halifaxs response and complained to the bank. She noted the 
disparity between its position and that taken by her partners bank. Mrs R also highlighted 
guidance issued by the Competition and Markets Authority (CMA) that she believed 
supported her refund claim. And she was dissatisfied that Halifax hadnt told her it was 
reversing the initial refund.
However, Halifax wasnt minded to change its position, and Mrs R referred matters to us. 
Our investigator thought Halifax had acted fairly towards Mrs R. She said it had attempted a 
chargeback but that this had been successfully defended with evidence Mrs R had cancelled 
the booking. The investigator noted that Mrs R had entered into separate contracts for 
accommodation and flights, and while the restrictions meant she couldnt travel, the position 
in the country in which Mrs R had booked the villa wasnt the same as in the UK. As such, M 
was still able to provide the accommodation as booked and so Halifax wasnt liable for a 
breach of contract.
Mrs R disputed that shed cancelled the villa booking. She maintained that shed been 
unable to travel because doing so would possibly have broken the law. Mrs R said her point 
about the CMA guidance hadnt been addressed, nor had the investigator commented on 
Halifaxs reliance on Ms force majeure clause. In addition, Mrs R queried why Halifax had 
reversed its initial refund and declined to reimburse her when her partner had received his 
money back despite his card provider being part of the same banking group, raising the 
possibility that it was because she was female.
The investigator responded to Mrs R, addressing her points and providing copy 
correspondence on which the finding in relation to the booking cancellation was based. She 
noted Halifax had contacted Mrs R prior to reversing the initial refund. And she said there 
was no evidence that Halifax had declined the claim based on any force majeure clause; 
rather, Ms position had been that the contract was capable of being performed. She didnt 
comment on the refund given to Mrs Rs partner as there was no evidence submitted as to 
the basis of that refund. The investigator also thought the CMA guidance didnt help Mrs Rs 
claim against Halifax, in light of the finding that the bank had no liability towards her. 
Mrs R didnt accept the investigators conclusions and asked for this review. In doing so, she 
acknowledged that Halifax hadnt sought to rely on the force majeure clause in its response, 
though she felt the bank supported Ms argument in this respect. She also made the 
following points:
she couldnt utilise the booking because the UK Government imposed a holiday travel 
ban due to the pandemic. The investigators interpretation means that it was inevitable  
that, due to the legislation in force, people in her position who had paid for a holiday 
but could not then travel due to the ban would forfeit their money
she had no recollection or record of cancelling the villa booking and was not sure why 
she would be requesting a cancellation letter, which was unusual wording. Mrs R 
questioned the form her cancellation message took
the investigators finding over whether Halifax contacted her prior to redebiting the 
initial credit was at odds with her statement that shed not received any such 
notification. Halifax hadnt resent any email when she flagged non-receipt
she found it difficult to understand why the investigator thought the fact her partner had 
received a refund whereas she hadnt had no bearing on the case. These were two 
payments for the same contract
based on the current position taken by our service, the CMA guidance appeared to 
have little relevance in practice. She intended to take up this matter with her MP
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I fully understand Mrs Rs concerns  she clearly feels very strongly that she shouldnt be out 
of pocket where she was seeking to comply with government restrictions and guidance. That 
said, I cant say that this makes it fair for Halifax to refund her, or that it should be able to 
recover the money on the basis shes lost out. It would only be fair to do so if Halifax was in 
some way responsible for Mrs Rs loss  perhaps due to the way in which it handled her 
request for assistance, or because of some other liability it has accrued.
Mrs R used her credit card to pay her share of the booking. The transaction meets the 
financial limits of section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. This means that if Mrs R has 
a claim for breach of contract or misrepresentation against M, she has the same claim 
against Halifax. Theres no suggestion here of misrepresentation, so Ive focused on the 
banks response in the face of a breach of contract claim.
So how did Halifax deal with this potential liability? It concluded that M hadnt breached its 
contract with Mrs R, saying that the contract for the villa accommodation was still capable of 
being performed and that M had acted on a cancellation instruction from Mrs R. That doesnt mean it supported arguments made by M. It means Halifax reviewed the situation and came 
to its own conclusions on the claim made upon it, as it is entitled to do.
That position appears to me consistent with the available evidence. I recognise that Mrs R 
was adhering to government guidance, which at the time advised against all but essential 
travel. And the cancellation of her flights, booked under a separate contract, made it 
impossible for her to get to the villa. But none of that amounts to a breach of contract on Ms 
part. M didnt fail to supply its services, and the contract between the parties didnt oblige it 
to provide her with a refund.
Much of what Mrs R has said speaks more to whether the contract was frustrated, rather 
than breached. I will seek to deal with the points shes made as far as Im able to do so, 
though in fairness I must make clear that a frustrated contract is not covered by the 
provisions of section 75.
Im conscious Mrs M has placed emphasis on the restrictions imposed by the UK 
government and on CMA guidance. The restrictions in the UK didnt apply to the country 
shed intended to visit and M was not prevented from providing accommodation in that 
location at the material time. While the villa was overseas, M is a UK company and the 
contract subject to English law. But as the CMA guidance itself says, it should not be 
regarded as a substitute for, or a definitive interpretation of, the law.
So although the guidance is relevant to the dispute at hand, it didnt create a legal obligation 
on M to reimburse Mrs R such that a failure to follow that guidance would in itself amount to 
a breach of contract. Nor did the lockdown regulations or FCO guidance. That was an option 
open to the government that it did not include in the legislation. The rights or wrongs of that 
position have undoubtedly had an impact on Mrs R, but that isnt a basis on which I can 
properly make a finding against Halifax.
Mrs R and her partner didnt book a package holiday, where there are regulations governing 
customers entitlement to a full refund in the event of cancellation in light of government 
advice. The CMA guidance (updated 28 August 2020) says that in circumstances other than 
package holiday arrangements:
because government guidance does not contain legal restrictions, it is not clear 
whether a contract would be considered to have been legally frustrated (which 
would generally entitle the consumer to a full refund).
If a contract has not been frustrated, then any applicable pre-existing terms and 
conditions on cancellation and refunds will apply (as long as they are fair).
However, it is important to note that whether a contract has been frustrated will 
depend on the circumstances. Although frustration is less likely where there are no 
legal restrictions in place, it is not impossible. If advice or guidance means a 
consumer would be at serious risk if the contract went ahead as agreed, it is possible 
a court might find that the contract had been frustrated.
With this in mind, its possible the circumstances at play in Mrs Rs situation amount to an 
event of frustration. But that wouldnt be the case if Mrs R cancelled the booking, as that 
would bring to an end Ms obligation to provide the villa while at the same time triggering the 
cancellation terms, which didnt entitle her to a refund.
Ive looked at Mrs Rs correspondence with M that led to cancellation of the villa booking. 
The correspondence takes the form of an online message, sent on 9 May 2020 at 13:13. I 
understand weve sent a copy of this correspondence to Mrs R. In the message, Mrs R refers to a conversation with M, the cancellation of her flights, and says I would therefore 
request a cancellation letter from yourself in order to go forward with a refund from my credit 
card.
In response, M wrote that Further to our correspondence I can confirm your accommodation 
booking has been cancelled. Cancellation charges as outlined in our Booking Terms and 
Conditions do apply. As such the amount paid for this booking of £1981.51 are non-
refundable and irrecoverable.
In my view, the appropriate interpretation of this exchange is that cancellation of the villa 
booking was prompted by Mrs Rs online message. As at that point M hadnt suggested to 
Mrs R it was cancelling her booking, it was a reasonable inference from her request for a 
cancellation letter that she wanted to cancel. I appreciate Mrs R might have thought the 
booking would be cancelled as a matter of course simply because she couldnt travel. That 
might explain the wording she used. But as Ive already observed, the contract with M was 
separate and distinct from her flight booking and M's performance of the former wasnt 
contingent on the latter.
So although Halifax attempted to assist Mrs R in recovering her money through the 
chargeback process, raising a claim under a suitable reason code, submitting what Mrs R 
had told it in evidence, this was successfully defended by M on this basis. M submitted 
supporting evidence that the booking was cancelled and that Mrs R wasnt entitled to a 
refund. Halifaxs actions were in line with the card scheme guidance, and in light of Ms 
response Im satisfied the bank was entitled to take the view that pursuing chargeback 
further was unlikely to lead to a successful outcome.
In relation to notification of the chargeback claim outcome, I accept Mrs Rs evidence that 
she didnt receive this prior to her account being redebated. She has been consistent on this 
point and it formed a significant part of her reasons for dissatisfaction. I cant be sure that 
Halifax sent this notification correctly.
The banks contemporaneous contact notes support that the outcome it reached on 24 
September 2020 was to be sent by email with the intention to redebit her account on 1 
October, though ultimately it looks like the redebit transaction doesnt appear on her account 
statement until 17 November. The email it has submitted in evidence is undated, so I dont 
think I can fairly say the bank definitely sent the notification. That doesnt mean it didnt; I 
note the email address in the banks record is different from the one from which Mrs R has 
corresponded with us, and its not unknown for messages to be blocked by junk mail filters.
But in any event, I dont find that the failure to receive advance notification placed Mrs R at a 
material disadvantage. Its an unfortunate situation and I can see why she was upset about 
it. Overall, this didnt affect Mrs Rs ability to use the available credit on her account, and in 
the circumstances I dont consider it appropriate to award compensation in respect of this.
Mrs R has questioned why her partner was able to secure a refund of his payment, which he 
made using his own card issued by a bank in the same group as Halifax. In light of my 
findings in relation to Mrs Rs position, Im not persuaded this makes a material difference to 
the outcome.
Noting that Ms response to the cancellation email said the total amount was non-refundable, 
it might simply have been that her partner was refunded because M failed to submit a 
defence to the claim his bank made. Or his bank might simply have elected to settle the 
claim, whereas Halifax did not. Neither of these points to unfair treatment of Mrs R on 
Halifaxs part. Ultimately, if Mrs R wants a clearer understanding of the basis on which her partner received a refund, I can only suggest she asks him to clarify this with his bank, as 
her submissions indicate no reason was given.
Taking all of this into account, I dont believe it would be right for me to find that Halifax 
treated Mrs R unfairly in declining to meet her claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out here, my decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2022.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman