DRN-3354780
The complaint
Ms B complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax provided inaccurate information 
to credit reference agencies. She says this has affected her ability to obtain credit.
What happened
In mid-2021, Ms B called Halifax to let it know about a recent change to her personal 
circumstances. She said she needed some time to sort out her financial obligations. The 
Halifax adviser agreed to freeze interest on her accounts and refund some charges. They 
said they would put a plan in place on both her loan and current account so she wouldnt 
need to make any repayments for the next three months. 
Shortly afterwards, the Halifax adviser phoned Ms B to explain that the three month nil 
payment plan couldnt be placed on the loan account because there was already a payment 
holiday in place. Ms B says she said this was fine. She was concerned about any special 
arrangements being implemented on her accounts because this might impact future 
borrowing and in particular her application for a drawdown on her existing mortgage. Ms B 
says she explicitly requested that no action be taken on her current or loan account as she 
didnt want anything to impact her credit file. 
Around a month later, Ms B checked her credit file and found that special arrangement was 
noted for both her current account and loan account. So, she raised a complaint with Halifax.
Halifax apologised for the arrangements being reported on Ms Bs credit file and said it 
would request that the incorrect information be removed. It paid her £75 to compensate her 
for the frustration and inconvenience shed experienced.
Ms B remained unhappy and asked our service to consider her complaint. Our investigator 
looked into her concerns but didnt think Ms Bs complaint should be upheld. He didnt think 
there was enough evidence to show that Ms Bs applications to borrow from other lenders 
were declined solely because of Halifaxs error. He thought the £75 Halifax had already paid 
Ms B was enough to put things right.
Ms B disagreed with our investigators view. So, her complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
Halifax has acknowledged that it made an error and has apologised for this. So, what Ive 
needed to think about is the impact the error is likely to have had on Ms B and whether 
Halifax has done enough to put things right.
Ms B says that Halifax didnt arrange for her credit file to be corrected as promised in its 
response to her complaint. But Halifax has provided screenshots of Ms Bs credit file with 
two credit reference agencies it reports to that show that the information was corrected 
within a couple of weeks of it responding to her complaint. 
Ms B provided a screenshot which suggests that the special arrangement was still showing 
on her credit file when she brought her complaint to our service. But this was only a few days 
after Halifax responded to her claim and it can take several weeks for the update to show. 
Ms B says there were some discrepancies on her credit file for several months after this and 
has provided some further screenshots from a free service she uses to monitor information 
on her credit file. Its unclear precisely what these screenshots show. But from what Ms B 
has said, I understand that this matter has been resolved and her credit score had improved 
by early 2022.  
On balance, Im satisfied that Halifax took the necessary steps to arrange for Ms Bs credit 
file to be corrected once it was aware of its error.
Ms B strongly believes that the reason her applications for a mortgage drawdown and for a 
loan were turned down because of Halifaxs error. She says this has impacted her financially 
and she had to increase borrowing on credit cards. But lenders base their decisions to lend 
on several criteria. And Ms B says she wasnt told specifically why her lending applications 
were turned down, which means theres nothing to show me that the incorrect information 
was the only reason for them being declined. So, I havent seen sufficient evidence to 
persuade me that Ms B has lost out financially as a result of Halifaxs error.
I acknowledge what Ms B has said about the impact of Halifaxs actions on her mental 
health. I understand that Ms B has been going through a difficult time and has been doing 
everything she can to improve her financial position. I empathise with her. But, as I havent 
found Halifax to be responsible for Ms Bs mortgage and loan applications being turned 
down, I cant hold it responsible for any stress she experienced as a result.
It was no doubt frustrating for Ms B to find that her credit file had been incorrectly updated. 
However, Im satisfied that Halifax took steps to put things right within days of Ms B raising 
her complaint. And I think the £75 its already paid her is reasonable compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience she experienced as a result of Halifaxs error.
I appreciate my answer will be disappointing for Ms B, but I dont require Halifax to do 
anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Ms Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2022.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman