DRN-2834905
The complaint
Mr L complains that Utmost Life and Pensions Limited (Utmost) caused delays in 
transferring his pension policy to another provider. He says this has caused him a loss.
What happened
Mr L held a pension policy with a previous provider. That provider told him that it intended to 
transfer his policy to Utmost. It explained that the transfer process would be subject to an 
approval process. But that if approved, the changes would be effective as of 1 January 2020. 
Mr L wanted to transfer his pension policy from Utmost as soon as he could. He needed to 
wait for his final policy value to be confirmed first. He expected this to happen in mid-January 
2020, as the previous provider had indicated.
But by 18 January 2020, Mr L had still heard nothing from Utmost. So he emailed them to 
ask them for his policy value. He received an automated reply stating that this value wouldnt 
be provided until later that month.
Mr L replied to Utmost on 21 January 2020. He said that the value of his pension fund was at 
risk as it was currently held in cash. He needed the policy value so he could arrange to 
transfer his pension fund to his chosen provider.  Utmost replied the same day, stating that 
theyd arranged for an updated policy value to be sent by first class post that day. 
On 23 January 2020 Mr L received his policy value as at 1 January 2020. And on 28 January 
2020 he received confirmation from his chosen provider that they would accept his transfer 
as an addition to an existing plan held with them.
On 28 January 2020 Utmost received a letter from Mr Ls chosen provider enclosing their 
discharge forms and requesting a transfer of his policy. The next day, Utmost replied 
enclosing their Transfer Payment Form and other policy information. 
On the same date, Utmost also wrote to Mr L, as they said they are required to do, to make 
him aware of both the other options available to him, and of scams and where he could get 
advice if he needed it. 
Utmost wrote to Mr Ls chosen provider on 29 January 2020. They explained that they would 
usually issue payment within seven days and that it can take a further five days for funds to 
reach a bank account. 
Mr L said he received Utmosts Transfer Payment Form through his chosen provided on 4 
February 2020. He partially completed it on the same day. Utmost received this on 10 
February 2020. Payment was then made on 13 February 2020. Mr Ls chosen provider 
received cleared funds 17 February 2020. 
On 2 March 2020 Mr L complained to Utmost. He was unhappy with the time itd taken them 
to transfer his pension policy. 
In their final response letter of 20 March 2020, Utmost didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint. They 
said that it was their normal practice to use second class mail. And that they did this to keep 
administrative costs reasonable. They didnt agree that theyd caused delays to the transfer. 
Unhappy with their response, Mr L brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator initially thought the complaint should be upheld. She felt that Utmost 
couldve sent their Transfer Payment Form directly to Mr L instead of to his chosen provider. 
She also felt that the instructions in both Utmosts correspondences of 29 January 2020 
werent clear. Overall, she considered that Mr Ls pension couldve been transferred on 6 
February 2020, not 13 February 2020. 
To put things right, she wanted Utmost to calculate what Mr Ls pension would now be worth 
if theyd transferred the funds on 6 February 2020. And she felt that Utmost should also pay 
Mr L £150 for the trouble and upset the delays had caused him.
Neither Mr L or Utmost agreed with our investigator. 
Mr L didnt agree that it was fair or reasonable for Utmost to use second class post for 
important correspondence. He felt that Utmost owed him a duty of care as his pension was 
at that time uninvested. But was instead held as cash. So he felt that as he was facing 
market risk, Utmost shouldve been doing whatever they could to ensure his transfer went 
ahead quickly. He said that his transfer ought to have been processed during the last week 
of January 2020. 
Utmost didnt agree that theyd acted unfairly. They said theyre required by their regulator to 
make their policyholders aware of their retirement options. And that theyd done this in their 
29 January 2020 letter to Mr L. They said they arent allowed to send a Transfer Payment 
Form at the same time as they send details of the options as they cant be seen to be trying 
to influence which option a client might choose. So this is why they didnt enclose a Transfer 
Payment Form in their 29 January 2020 letter To Mr L. Instead they included it in their letter 
to his chosen provider of the same date. 
Utmost didnt agree that their letters of 29 January 2020 were unclear or contradictory. Nor 
did they agree that the requirement to send Mr L details of the retirement options had 
delayed the transfer. They noted that the Transfer Payment Form is also available to 
download from their website. In summary, Utmost didnt consider that there was any 
evidence that Mr Ls transfer shouldve completed any sooner that it did. 
Our investigator asked Utmost to confirm their service standards. They said that their usual 
turnaround times for dealing with requests for forms and information is 10  15 working days. 
Once they receive all of their requirements to make payment, they aim to complete the 
process within 5  10 working days. But they noted that it can take a further five days for 
funds to reach a bank account.
Our investigator issued her second view after noting what both Mr L and Utmost had said. 
She didnt uphold the complaint. Based on the new information, she now felt that Utmost had 
completed the transfer within a reasonable time. 
Mr L didnt agree with our investigator. He made the following points:
He didnt agree with the regulatory requirement Utmost had said theyd followed
He didnt think Utmost had considered the urgency of his request when theyd used 
second-class postThe material Utmost had provided him with on 29 January 2020 to help him choose 
his options was only concerned with the taking of benefits, and not with the continued 
investment of pension funds
He disagreed with our investigator that hed completed and sent an option form to 
Utmost  hed partially completed a Transfer Payment Form
He felt that Utmosts use of second-class post had caused deliberate delay
Mr L made other points which our investigator has addressed with him. As theyre not 
directly connected to his complaint, Ive not considered them further in my decision. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, this complaint has come to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L has made several detailed submissions to this service. I thank him for the time and 
effort hes taken with this. While Ive read them all, Ill only make reference in my decision to 
those points which I consider have a direct impact on this complaint. 
To uphold a complaint Id need to consider whether the balance of evidence supports that a 
business has done something wrong and caused a customer a loss. Having looked at all the 
evidence, Im not persuaded that Utmost have done anything wrong. Ill explain why.
Was the transfer delayed by Utmost?
Mr Ls transfer fully completed on 17 February 2020. He firmly believes that his pension 
transfer shouldve been ready to transfer in the last week of January 2020. But Utmost 
consider that his transfer was completed in a timely manner. They said: There were only 
two weeks between the date we received [Mr Ls chosen providers] first letter on 28 January 
2020 and 13 February 2020 when payment was made, after we had followed the process 
required by the regulator, which we would argue is reasonable. At each stage of the process, 
the correspondence was treated as a high priority and we prioritised Mr Ls case and dealt 
with each item of correspondence within a day or two of receipt. This was considerably 
quicker than our normal service standards. 
In order to decide if Utmost have done anything wrong, I need to consider what shouldve 
happened. To establish how long the transfer shouldve taken, I need to consider the service 
standards applicable to a transfer of this type. Even if these have been met, I need to decide 
whether they were reasonable.
Utmost have confirmed that their usual turnaround times for dealing with requests for forms 
and information is 10  15 working days. Mr L requested his policy value on 18 January 
2020. Utmost provided it on 21 January 2020. So Im satisfied that they met that requirement 
for responding to Mr Ls initial request for his policy value. And that they responded to his 
request in a reasonable timescale.
First class post?
Mr L asserted that Utmost shouldve used first class post to ensure the paperwork they were 
sending him reached him quickly. He could see that his chosen provider used first class post 
and expected the same of Utmost. He felt that this was a deliberate delay tactic. But I agree with our investigator that there was no requirement on Utmost to use first class post. Utmost 
are entitled to make their own administrative decisions and this service cant direct them to 
change their position on this. Ive not seen any evidence that this was a deliberate delay 
tactic by Utmost. However, Utmost do operate service standards. And I would expect them 
to meet their service standards regardless of the method of delivery they choose to use. 
Should Utmost have requested completion of their own Transfer Payment Form?
Mr L said that Utmost shouldnt have required him to complete their Transfer Payment Form.  
I also consider that its important to review Utmosts approach in sending the form to Mr Ls 
chosen provider, rather than directly to him. 
Mr L felt his chosen providers paperwork shouldve been sufficient. He disagrees that 
Utmost needed to follow regulatory requirements on this. He said that those requirements 
dont relate to a transfer of the type he was trying to complete. Mr L felt that if Utmost hadnt 
required their own forms to be completed his transfer couldve been completed much more 
quickly.
Utmost said that they needed their own Transfer Payment Form to be completed to ensure 
they have the necessary discharge. They explained that another companys form wasnt 
enough. They also noted that Mr Ls chosen providers form stated: there may be certain 
circumstances...where the previous scheme trustee/administrator will require completion of 
additional forms before the transfer can proceed. 
Mr L said that this statement: refers to some purpose additional to that of the simple 
discharge of the previous scheme provider. But I dont agree that it does. Its a common 
requirement in pension transfers that the transferring provider needs their own forms to be 
completed. Many businesses dont accept other businesses forms for this purpose. So it 
wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to ask Utmost to rely on the chosen providers forms for 
the necessary discharge. So I cant find that Utmost did anything wrong when they required 
their own Transfer Payment Form to be used.
Were Utmosts letters dated 29 January 2020 clear, and did Utmost need to follow regulatory 
requirements?
Mr L also said that neither of Utmosts letters dated 29 January 2020 were clear that the 
Transfer Payment Form would need to be completed. I agree that they couldve been 
clearer. But I dont agree that this lack of clarity delayed the transfer process. 
Utmost said that once theyd received Mr Ls chosen providers letter of 27 January 2020 
notifying them of his wish to transfer, they sent them a Transfer Payment Form on 29 
January 2020, which his chosen provider then forwarded to Mr L. They said that Mr L 
wouldve known what he needed to do with the form when he received it through his chosen 
provider. Utmost said this was evidenced by Mr L competing the form and getting his chosen 
provider to send it back to Utmost. Given Mr L did complete the form to a sufficient degree 
that Utmost were able to process his transfer, I agree that Mr L had enough information to 
complete the required paperwork. So Ive no evidence that the lack of clarity in the 29 
January 2020 letters delayed the transfer process.
Regarding the regulatory requirement Utmost said they needed to follow, Mr L didnt agree 
that it was relevant to his situation. He said that Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) 
Rules 19.4 is concerned with accessing pension savings (i.e. the taking of benefits from 
pension funds) and isnt concerned with the continued investment of pension funds. He said 
that Utmost mustve known that he was requesting a transfer so that he could continue to 
invest his pension funds, as all of the paperwork hed supplied referenced that. He also felt it was absurd that Utmost felt they needed to alert him to the risks of scams. 
Ive read COBS 19.4. And while I agree with Mr L that it is concerned with accessing pension 
savings, I consider that is what he was doing. Transferring a pension to another provider is a 
way of accessing the pension. People are often required to do this in order to, for example, 
access tax-free cash or set up a drawdown policy. So Im satisfied that COBS 19.4 is 
relevant here. Therefore Im satisfied that Utmost did need to meet its requirements when 
they were processing Mr Ls transfer request.
So I consider that Utmost did need to send the alerts they sent to Mr L. And they did need to 
send the Transfer Payment Form separately from details of Mr Ls options. Therefore Im 
persuaded that sending the Transfer Payment Form to Mr Ls chosen provider didnt delay 
his transfer. And may have actually saved time given Utmost sent it on the same day that 
they send Mr L details of his options. 
Should the transfer have completed more quickly?
Utmost said that once they receive all of their requirements to make payment, they aim to 
complete the process within 5  10 working days. But they noted that it can take a further 
five days for funds to reach a bank account. 
Utmost received the request from Mr Ls chosen provider to transfer his pension policy on 28 
January 2020. They received the required paperwork for the transfer on 10 February 2020. 
Utmost sent the transferred funds on 13 February 2020, three working days later. This is 
considerably quickly than the 5  10 working day service standard. The transferred funds 
were available for investment at Mr Ls chosen provider on 17 February 2020. So Im 
satisfied that Utmost met their service standards. And I also consider that the transfer was 
completed relatively quickly. 
Mr Ls chosen provider requested the payment to be made by a method which ended up 
taking four days. While I acknowledge that faster methods of transfer exist, Utmost followed 
this request. Therefore it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to hold Utmost responsible for the 
time it took for the transfer to clear. 
I acknowledge that Mr L has a different view of what service standards are reasonable. I can 
see that he feels that his pension transfer shouldve been much faster. I can see that he 
considers that his request shouldve been treated as urgent. And that it shouldnt have 
required some of the steps taken. But that doesnt mean that Utmost have done anything 
wrong. There was no requirement on Utmost to complete Mr Ls transfer differently from 
anyone elses. But I can see that they took reasonable steps to complete the transfer 
quickly. And Ive no evidence that they made a mistake in their process or caused any 
avoidable delays. 
I appreciate that Mr L has also asked this service to consider the length of time Utmost took 
to provide the policy value. He said he expected to receive this in mid-January 2020 based 
on an announcement by the previous provider. In the end, Mr L received this value on 23 
January 2020. I can understand Mr Ls frustration in having to wait for the policy value 
calculations. Until he had this, he didnt know how to instruct his chosen provider on the 
transfer. But I note that Utmost explained  in their final response letter of 20 March 2020  
that they werent able to calculate policy values until 1 January 2020. They said that they: 
also needed to carry out work to ensure that all former [original provider name] policies 
were valued correctly from 1 January. They noted that the original provider had anticipated 
that Utmost: expect to be able to provide you with a policy value from mid-January. But 
explained that, due to the complex work that they needed to complete to ensure policy 
values were correctly calculated, these values were provided a little later than had originally been anticipated. Given this explanation, I dont consider it would be fair or reasonable to 
ask Utmost to provide compensation for the slight delay, as there was no guarantee that the 
policy values would be available by a certain date. And Ive no evidence that Utmost 
committed to any particular timeline. 
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im satisfied that Utmost completed Mr Ls transfer 
within a reasonable timeframe. So Im not going to ask them to do anything.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman