DRN-3398077
The complaint
Ms S complains that Next Retail Limited (Next Retail) lent to her irresponsibly. 
What happened
Ms S opened a credit account with Next Retail in 2005. She then entered into a debt 
management plan (DMP) so, from August 2015, her credit limit was suspended while Ms S 
was on a reduced payment plan. The suspension was lifted in 2017 and Next Retail 
reinstated the credit limit of £400. Then in 2018, Next Retail increased the credit limit to 
£5,000. In March 2019, the limit was reduced to £3,750 and was reduced again down to 
£3,000 in June 2019. Ms S complained that Next Retail shouldnt have reinstated her credit 
limit following the DMP and it was further irresponsible of them to increase her credit limit. 
Next Retail responded and explained, following the end of the reduced payment plan, Ms S 
kept up her monthly payment for the next two months, so they decided to reinstate her credit 
limit of £400. Next Retail said they make credit decisions based on scores they receive from 
a Credit Reference Agency (CRA). They said this takes into account a range of factors 
which they review together with their internal data. They said, based on this, the checks 
suggested a credit limit increase to £5,000 was affordable. Next Retail said, they offer 
customers the option to accept or decline the offer, and Ms S accepted it. They said, since 
the increase, Ms S had managed her account well. So, they didnt uphold the complaint. 
Our investigator looked into things for Ms S. She thought Next Retail hadnt lent irresponsibly 
in relation to reinstating the £400 credit limit. In relation to the increase to £5,000, she 
thought the decision to lend was irresponsible and recommended Next Retail refund all 
interest and charges on balances over £400 together with 8% simple interest. And, they 
should remove any adverse information on Ms Ss credit file since increasing the credit limit. 
Next Retail havent responded so the matter has come to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. And, I think the investigators 
recommendation here is a fair way to resolve matters. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Next Retail needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that they didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that they shouldve carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Ms S could repay the credit in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. 
The first point Ive addressed is whether I think Next Retail carried out reasonable and 
proportionate checks. Section 5 of the Consumer Credit (CONC) sourcebook, in place at the 
time, outline that the assessment that Next Retail needed to complete shouldve been 
dependent on, and proportionate to, a number of factors  including the amount and cost of 
the credit and the consumers borrowing history. CONC also provides guidance on the 
sources of information Next Retail may have wanted to consider as part of making a 
proportionate assessment. It then gives examples of factors a firm must consider and refers 
to whether the information the firm has is sufficient and whether to obtain additional 
information from the customer and any other sources of information to use.    
   
Next Retail is free to decide how to set their lending criteria but they should complete 
proportionate checks to ensure borrowing is sustainable. In this case, and in relation to 
reinstating the credit limit of £400, Next Retail say the reduced payment plan had ended at 
this point and Ms S kept up with her payments. I think its important to add here this involved 
reinstating a credit limit which was originally in place rather than Ms S applying for this or 
Next Retail increasing the credit limit. The information Ive seen shows Next Retail 
suspended the credit limit while Ms S was making reduced payments. The suspension was 
then lifted and the £400 credit limit was reinstated. I can see, at this point, payments were 
consistently made in line with the reduced payment plan and Ms S reduced the arrears on 
her account significantly  down to under £20. Ms S then brought her account up to date by 
clearing the arrears. So, given that the account was brought up to date, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Next Retail to reinstate the limit of £400.     
In relation to the credit limit increase, Next Retail say they receive an Index of Affordability 
from the CRAs which gives them an idea of a customers incomings/outgoings and the 
utilisation of other credit commitments  the higher the score the greater the risk. Next Retail 
have also provided a process document which sets out their approach to creditworthiness 
and affordability. This says, The highest credit limit obtainable is £5,000, but this can only 
be achieved after a minimum of 24 statements (not time related) and a high creditworthiness 
assessment. It also says Fully drawn, the highest credit limit gives a monthly minimum 
payment of £250. However, this is achievable only after an extended period of trade without 
recent signs of financial difficulty.
Given what this information shows, I dont think the checks carried out by Next Retail are 
reasonable and proportionate in the circumstances. The credit limit is increased in March 
2018 but this isnt long after Ms S had been in arrears on this account and had completed a 
reduced payment plan. And, the reduced payment plan and DMP had been in place for a 
significant period of time. I think its also important to note that Ms S was still in a DMP at the 
point the credit limit was increased. So, taking these factors into account, and given that this 
involved a more than ten-fold credit limit increase, I dont think relying on scores from CRAs 
was sufficient here and I dont believe this demonstrates the high creditworthiness 
assessment Next Retails process document suggests takes place when applying their 
maximum credit limit. 
While I accept the scores might well take into account a range of factors including Ms Ss 
other credit commitments and income and outgoings, I think further checks shouldve been 
done by Next Retail given that Ms S was in significant financial difficulty not long before the 
credit limit increase. And, Next Retail were fully aware of those financial difficulties. 
In these circumstances, given that theyd increased the credit limit to the maximum available, 
I think Next Retail shouldve carried out further checks. And, I think, in the circumstances of 
this case, it wouldve been reasonable and proportionate for Next Retail to ask to see Ms Ss 
bank statements to get a clearer picture of Ms Ss income and expenditure. And, given Ms S 
was still in a DMP, they shouldve obtained her credit report to get a clearer picture of her 
other credit commitments.    Given that I dont think reasonable and proportionate checks were completed in this case, 
the next point Ive considered is, if reasonable and proportionate checks had been 
completed, would they more likely than not have shown that Ms S was more likely than not 
unable to sustainably repay what she was being lent. 
To help decide this, Ive looked at Ms Ss bank statements for the three months leading up to 
the credit limit increase. This shows Ms Ss average net monthly income as around £1,400. 
It also shows her monthly outgoings, in the form of bills, payment of her DMP and a loan, 
was around £650. In their process document, Next Retail refer to a minimum payment of 5% 
of the balance and I can see theyve also applied this percentage when referring to the 
monthly minimum payment on a £5,000 balance being £250. So, its fair and reasonable for 
Next Retail to consider a monthly payment of £250 in the event that Ms S might take the 
maximum credit limit available to her. Their process document says a 5% minimum payment 
ensures a sufficient amount of the principal is paid each month and avoids a customer 
entering into persistent debt. Ms Ss credit report and bank statements show payments to 
other lenders towards other credit  this includes credit card accounts and catalogue 
accounts. So, I think its also fair to consider 5% of the balance on these accounts as being 
the minimum monthly payment for the same reasons set out in Next Retails process 
document. So, Ms S was paying a combined figure of around £200 per month towards these 
balances. 
Deducting these outgoings would leave Ms S with a monthly disposable income of around 
£300. This would need to cover shopping, travel (work and general) and other 
discretionary/non-discretionary spending. And, I dont think this is sufficient given that Ms S 
was still in a DMP and there being a recent history of financial difficulties.     
Ive gone further and looked at other information which Next Retail wouldve taken into 
consideration. Next Retail say Ms Ss Customer Indebtedness Index score (CII) when they 
offered the credit limit increase was 24 which indicated there was little risk the account would 
become unaffordable. I agree this was the case, but given Ms Ss recent financial difficulties, 
I think it wouldve been reasonable to consider this score over a longer period. The month 
before it was 47  almost double the score it became a month later. And, the month before 
that it was 38. I think this is particularly important because over a 10-month period, while   
Ms S was on a DMP and making reduced payments of £21.58, her average CII score over 
this period was 36. This shows, at the point Ms S was in significant financial difficulty, her 
average CII score was 11 less than it was the month before Next Retail offered the credit 
limit increase to an amount which was more than 10 times greater than the previous credit 
limit. And, it was two less than it was two months before they offered the credit limit increase. 
So, looking at this in comparison to a point in time when Ms S was clearly in financial 
difficulty  I dont think the CII scores leading up to the credit limit increase pointed towards it 
being affordable.    
The process document refers to how Next Retail assess affordability and gives examples of 
indicators for high indebtedness. One example refers to a CII score above 25 in cases where 
a customer is paying the minimum instalment. In this case, the score when Next Retail 
offered the credit limit increase was only one less than this. But, as mentioned above, the CII 
score was higher than this in the two months preceding this. 
While, strictly, Ms S wasnt making the minimum contractual instalments, she was on a 
reduced payment plan  and I think this should be treated in the same way as though Ms S 
was making minimum payments. 
Taking this all into account, I dont think the information shows Ms S would be able to repay 
any borrowing in a sustainable manner. The information Ive seen shows Ms S was in 
significant financial difficulties shortly before the credit limit increase and she was still on a 
DMP when it was applied. Next Retail were aware of Ms Ss financial circumstances so, given the CII scores they received for the months leading up to the credit limit increase, I 
think they shouldve gathered further information to ensure they were carrying out a high 
creditworthiness assessment. I feel if Next Retail had carried out reasonable and 
proportionate checks it wouldve showed the credit limit increase wasnt affordable for Ms S. 
And, it wouldve highlighted that Ms S wouldnt be able to repay the extra credit in a 
sustainable manner and without any undue difficulty. 
  
Given that I think Next Retail lent irresponsibly to Ms S by increasing her credit limit above 
the reinstated £400 limit, it follows that I think the later credit limits of £3,750 and £3,000 
were also irresponsible. 
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that Next Retail lent irresponsibly to Ms S when they increased her credit 
limit above the £400 limit theyd reinstated. I therefore consider this is irresponsible lending 
and Next Retail should put this right. So, they should refund all interest, fees and charges 
accrued or incurred on Ms Ss account on balances over £400 from the date the credit limit 
was increased to £5,000. The refund should be deducted against any outstanding balance. If 
this leaves a credit balance in Ms Ss favour, Next Retail must pay this amount to Ms S 
together with 8% simple interest, calculated from the dates of any overpayments to the date 
that the payment is made to Ms S. This would put Ms S back in the position she would have 
been in were it not for the lending decisions taken by Next Retail. Next Retail should provide 
Ms S with a certificate showing any taxation deducted.
Next Retail must also remove all adverse reporting from Ms Ss credit file for this account 
from the date the credit limit was increased to £5,000.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Next Retail Limited must take the steps in 
accordance with what Ive said under Putting things right above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2022.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman