DRN-4272081
The complaint
Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) failed to refund transactions he 
didnt recognise after his phone was stolen.
What happened
What Mr M says
Mr M explained that he was out with a friend and early in the morning when both their 
phones were stolen by unknown persons who drove away in a vehicle. Mr M said his was 
unlocked at the time.
Following the theft, Mr M believes the thieves managed to compromise the security of all his 
various banking apps including his Barclays Mobile Banking (BMB) app. It was later 
suggested that the thieves jailbroke his phone which accounted for access to the banking 
app.
A number of transactions were then made which Mr M denies knowing about totalling about 
£6,000. Another bank later refunded part of this, leaving about £4,000 in losses which Mr M 
asked Barclays to refund.
At the time of the theft, Mr M notified both the police and Barclays. He said that despite 
telling Barclays his account was compromised, they allowed further payments to leave his 
account. Later, Barclays declined to refund the money. 
Mr M complained to Barclays about the loss of his funds, but they didnt change their 
position about the refund and Mr M then brough this complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service for an independent review.
What Barclays said
Barclays fraud detection system noted payments leaving Mr Ms account on the day he said 
his phone was stolen. They carried out verification using various methods and at one stage 
spoke with a caller who said he was Mr M. That caller was able to pass security by providing 
details about Mr M including his place of birth. 
A lengthy discussion about scams was held with the caller and a payment was cancelled at 
the callers request. Further payments were noted, and the caller made another smaller 
payment whilst on the phone using Mr Ms BMB app.
Later, further verification using a passport and driving licence were carried out before Mr M 
notified Barclays about the loss of his phone and the disputed transactions.  
Barclays carried out an investigation into the circumstances and believed Mr M was 
responsible because the BMB app was accessed using a passcode known only to Mr M in 
conjunction with a biometric check (Face ID). They again declined a refund when he 
complained.
The investigation so far
An investigator was assigned to look into Mr Ms complaint and asked for evidence from both 
parties. Mr M provided details about his experience and evidence of reporting the loss to the 
police. Unfortunately, the police couldnt identify any evidence about the theft due to the lack 
of CCTV coverage and no UK link could be found to a suspect. He also provided information 
concerning contact with other merchants following the loss of his phone and evidence of a 
number of loans applied for in his name. Mr M had also confirmed that he hadnt had his 
passcode written down.
Barclays provided details of the use of Mr Ms account and how his registered phone was 
used to access the account. This included details of which authentication method was used 
(passcode and Face ID). 
Barclays were asked to identify if any unusual activity had taken place on Mr Ms phone. 
They advised that they couldnt detect any attempts to subvert their banking app. They didnt 
believe that any other person could have used the app due to the biometric authentication 
process. 
After considering the evidence, the investigator didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. He thought 
that because there was no plausible way for the BMB to be accessed, it was unlikely to have 
been anyone other than Mr M who was responsible for the disputed transactions.
Mr M disagreed with the investigators outcome and asked for a further review of his 
complaint. As no agreement could be reached, Mr Ms complaint has now been passed to 
me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017. The 
basic position is that Barclays can hold Mr M liable for the disputed payments if the evidence 
suggests that its more likely than not that he made them or authorised them. 
Barclays can only refuse to refund unauthorised payments if it can prove Mr M authorised 
the transactions, but Barclays cannot say that the use of the Barclays Mobile Banking app 
(BMB) conclusively proves that the payments were authorised. 
Unless Barclays can show that consent has been given, it has no authority to make the 
payment or to debit Mr Ms account and any such transaction must be regarded as 
unauthorised. To start with, Ive seen the banks technical evidence for the disputed 
transactions. It shows that the transactions were authenticated using the payment tools 
issued to Mr M. Ill now need to consider the information provided by both parties to 
determine whether theres sufficient evidence to hold Mr M responsible for the disputed 
transactions or not.
Mr Ms case is that his phone was stolen whilst in an unlocked state. Barclays notes say that 
he told them the thieves then drove off (with his and his friends phones). 
Barclays case is the disputed transactions couldnt have been without Mr M because they 
required both his passcode and biometric authentication (Face ID) to both access the BMB 
and then to authorise the payments from his account.
The process to access the BMB requires either a passcode or biometric authentication. Mr M confirmed he hadnt given this (passcode) to anyone or had it written down on his phone. 
When looking at the circumstances of the reported theft, its unlikely the thieves were able to 
gather the passcode for the BMB because they sped off after taking the phones. Mr M was 
told by another organisation that they could have accessed his BMB through jailbreaking 
his phone.
Whilst I can see that the thieves could access some parts of the phone because it was 
unlocked, I cant identify how they would be able to acquire the passcode known only to Mr 
M or replicate the facial biometric authentication. The BMB has its own security and would 
be unlikely to allow access just because someone had the phone. 
I understand the suggestion about jailbreaking, and could see how some aspects of the 
phone could be altered, but this doesnt account for how the thieves knew the passcode or 
were able to pass authentication with Mr Ms biometric ID.
Its also apparent that two different people spoke with Barclays claiming to be Mr M. The 
voices are very different and assuming the person who called was the thief (because this 
call was about transactions that were later disputed), they had information about Mr M that 
was unlikely to be known to a random thief. They used this information to satisfy Barclays 
they were the genuine account holder after confirming security actions using the BMB which 
theyd already logged in to.
I accept that two different persons spoke with Barclays, but this doesnt automatically mean 
that Mr M wasnt responsible. The balance of the evidence shows that access to the BMB 
was unlikely to have been successful without Mr Ms knowledge. That access was then used 
to make the payments that were later disputed. So, when Ive assessed the overall evidence, 
I think its more likely than not that Mr M was responsible for these transactions by allowing 
others to use his account, and it was reasonable for Barclays to hold him liable for them.
I understand this will not be the outcome Mr M wanted and hes strongly denied any 
involvement here, but I have to make my decision on what the evidence shows. In this case, 
that evidence shows theres no reasonable or plausible explanation for how the BMB was 
accessed by third parties. Without stronger evidence to the contrary  Im unable to uphold 
this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2023.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman