DRN-4107704
The complaint
Mrs M complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc closed her credit card account without reason. 
She would like to know the reason. And compensation for the way she was treated.
I am aware that there is a complaint about Mrs Ms current account, but I will only be dealing 
with the closure of the credit card account in this decision.
What happened
Mrs M had a credit card with HSBC for many years.
Following a review by HSBC, on 4 January 2022 she received a notice to close letter from 
HSBC saying her credit card account would close on 9 March 2022.
Mrs M was unhappy that she hadnt been given a reason for the closure. Mrs M complained 
to HSBC.
Mrs M made numerous calls to HSBC where she was given misinformation and the calls 
were cut off or transferred to the wrong department.
Mrs M has said that dealing with the bank on the phone has caused her a great deal of 
stress.
Mrs M has said that as a result of the closure of the credit card she has taken out a new 
credit card with another bank but has seen her credit limit drop from £7,500 to £1,800 and 
this has resulted in a substantial drop in spending power.
HSBC said they hadnt done anything wrong when they closed her credit card account.
Unhappy with the response she complained to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into the complaint. She thought HSBC had done nothing 
wrong when they closed the credit card account. She acknowledged that Mrs M had spent a 
long time chasing HSBC to establish why the account was closed. But she thought that as 
HSBC had given the correct notice and they werent obliged to give a reason; they hadnt 
done anything wrong.
Mrs M said she was unhappy with the view. The complaint was about the way in which 
HSBC closed the account and the lack of reasons given for it. Mrs M said they were 
concerned that the reason for the closure was because there had been fraud on the address 
or account.
Mrs M complained about the service they got on the phones, she says she had been given 
misinformation, transferred to the wrong departments and she had had received a letter 
which was incorrect  Mrs M has also said she received a letter indicating she had asked for 
the credit card to be closed which upset her as this was obviously not the case.
I am aware that HSBC provided a final response to the service issues raised by Mrs M in a 
letter dated January 2023. HSBC addressed Mrs Ms complaints about the service she 
received on the phone. They didnt think they had done anything wrong as they werent able 
to provide Mrs M with the reason for the closure which was the information she required.
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me to decide.
In my provisional decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I would like to reassure both parties that while I may not comment on everything 
raised, I have considered all the arguments that Mrs M has put forward as well as the 
information provided by HSBC.
The issues raised in relation to the current account closure will be dealt with separately.
Account review and closure
Financial businesses, like HSBC, are subject to a number of legal and regulatory 
requirements. These mean they have to monitor their customers accounts and may need to 
review an account at any time. While that is happening, they may need to block or restrict 
any payments. I am satisfied HSBC were complying with these obligations when they 
reviewed Mrs Ms account.
Following the review HSBC decided to close Mrs Ms credit card account.
As the adjudicator explained its generally for banks to decide whether or not they want to 
provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any particular customer. Unless 
theres a good reason to do so, this service wont usually say that a bank must keep a 
customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had their account closed.
Banks should, however, give reasonable notice before closing an account. Usually that 
means 60 days notice, but it can be less depending on the circumstances. I can see that 
HSBC wrote to Mrs M on 4 January 2022 and let her know it was closing her account on 
9 March 2022 giving her 60 days notice. So, Im satisfied HSBC closed the accounts in line 
with the account terms. And gave Mrs M adequate time to open another credit card account.
Ive considered whether HSBC acted fairly when it closed Mrs Ms credit card. Mrs M has 
pointed out that she has been a loyal customer of HSBC for many years and that the closure 
of her credit card has caused her a lot of problems and stress. Im sorry that whats 
happened has caused Mrs M trouble and upset but as Ive said HSBC closed the account in 
line with the account terms. And having looked at the evidence provided Im satisfied that 
HSBC havent done anything wrong when they decided to close the account. It follows that I 
wont be awarding compensation for the closure although I understand the stress that Mrs M 
was put under as a result of the closure.
Credit limit reduction
I appreciate that as a result of the closure Mrs M has taken out a different credit card with 
another bank. Mrs M has said her new credit card limit has been considerably reduced and 
this has made her life more stressful than before. I appreciate that the reduction of Mrs Ms 
credit limit to £1,800 was a difficult situation especially during the pandemic. I dont think 
HSBC can be held responsible for another banks commercial decision on Mrs Ms credit 
limit. I do accept that Mrs M wouldnt find herself in this difficult position if HSBC hadnt closed her credit card account but Ive already said HSBC were entitled to close the account 
so I cant hold them liable for the reduction in the credit limit.
Reasons
Mrs M has expressed her frustration at not being told the reason for the account closure. 
She is also upset that the closure letter referred to a reason when none was given.
Mrs M has said she wants to know the reasons why HSBC closed her account. Whilst Mrs M 
mayve expected to be given the reasons for the account closure. HSBC isnt required to 
give her a specific reason. HSBC doesnt disclose to its customers what triggers an account 
review and closure. And I can understand Mrs Ms frustration that she hasnt been provided 
a detailed explanation but been referred to the terms and conditions. But as the adjudicator 
has explained, HSBC is under no obligation to provide this information to her, as much as 
shed like to know. So, I cant say HSBC have done anything wrong by not giving Mrs M this 
information.
I know Mrs M has been frustrated by the content of the closure letter she has received from 
HSBC. I can understand the letter may have been confusing. However, I can see that HSBC 
have said they have reviewed the account and decided to close the account in line with the 
account terms. HSBC arent obliged to give Mrs M a more specific reason, so I dont think 
theyve done anything wrong.
I appreciate that Mrs M is concerned that the reason for the closure may have been because 
of fraud on the address or the account. I can see this would be concerning as it would mean 
her personal details had been compromised. I would therefore like to reassure Mrs M that 
Ive seen no evidence of her personal details being compromised and I hope that provides 
her with some comfort.
Service issues
I appreciate Mrs M has told us about the service issues that she experienced when seeking 
clarification from HSBC and pursuing the complaint. Mrs M has also said she received a 
letter indicating she had asked for the credit card to be closed which upset her as this was 
obviously not the case.
HSBC were within their right to close Mrs Ms account, but I would have expected them to 
provide a better service on the phone, to be clearer in their message to Mrs M regarding 
them not being able to provide a reason for the closure. The lack of clarity meant Mrs M 
continued calling the customer service team to try and get answers to her questions. 
Because of this I think HSBC should pay Mrs M £50 for the inconvenience they caused her. 
In awarding this amount I have taken into account that it was mainly Mrs M that dealt with 
the phone calls.
In summary I know Mrs M will be disappointed with my decision but having looked at the 
evidence Im satisfied that HSBC acted fairly when it reviewed and closed Mrs Ms credit 
card account. I also dont think they did anything wrong by not giving Mrs M a reason for the 
closure. And as Ive said I cant hold HSBC responsible for another banks commercial 
decision regarding credit limits.
I think HSBC should pay Mrs M £50 for the stress and inconvenience caused.
Responses to my provisional decision 
HSBC have said they have nothing further to add to my decision. Mrs M has agreed with my provisional findings but would like me to reconsider the amount of compensation I was 
minded to award because of inflation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank Mrs M for her comments about my provisional decision. Having considered them I 
havent seen any grounds to increase the compensation.
I have awarded £50 compensation in respect of the service issues on this account. I am 
aware that there are other complaints borne out of the same circumstances and I have dealt 
with those in separate decisions.
I consider the award of £50 in respect of this complaint to be reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Putting things right
HSBC should pay Mrs M £50 for the distress caused during the calls to the customer service 
team.
My final decision
For the reasons stated above I partially uphold this complaint. I require HSBC UK Bank Plc 
to pay Mrs M £50 for her material distress.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 May 2023.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman