DRN-2581783
The complaint
Mr K complains about the service he received from his broker, Taylor Francis Limited (Taylor 
Francis) in respect of a niche building warranty cover. 
Mr K says because Taylor Francis didnt request an insurer extend its deadline to accept a 
quote, as he believes it shouldve done, he missed out on cover and has had to purchase it 
with another insurer at an increased cost.
What happened
Mr K enlisted an insurance broker, Taylor Francis, to obtain a residential building 
warranty. 
In July and August 2019, Taylor Francis supplied quotes to Mr K. 
Mr K considered these but didnt proceed with the quotes at the time.
In October 2019, Taylor Francis asked Mr K if he had an estimated date for when 
cover would commence. To which Mr K responded [] a couple of months is about 
right.
In November 2019 Mr K asked to start the policy but was told the insurer was no 
longer offering the cover he required. 
Mr K feels hes been misled by Taylor Francis as he was under the impression the 
quote had been extended. 
Our investigator considered the complaint. She explained its the insurers decision to 
grant or decline cover and this isnt something Taylor Francis has control over. She 
added that even if Taylor Francis had extended the quote, this didnt mean cover was 
guaranteed - as the insurer had chosen to stop insuring the particular risk he required 
insurance for.  
Mr K disagreed. He said the insurer told him that had Taylor Francis extended his 
quote, he wouldnt have been treated as new business and wouldve been provided 
with cover.
Because Mr K disagreed the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. And Ive considered relevant industry 
codes of practice and guidelines. Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and Ill 
explain why. 
Taylor Francis has said the insurer wouldnt have provided cover even if the quote had been 
extended because it had left the market. Ive seen an email from the insurer to Taylor 
Francis which says:
[] Since the original quote was issued, our underwriters had provided updates of 
their appetite, or lack thereof, for barn conversions that have had any works start and 
have progressed to completion. As the quote would have required fresh terms, it 
would therefore not have been a risk which the underwriters are now able to offer 
terms on, hence why we had to decline cover.
Im satisfied this shows the decision not to offer cover was due to the insurer having 
changed its position in respect of insuring the particular risk. An insurer can withdraw up until 
the point cover starts and so, I agree that even if the quote been extended  which the 
decision to do so wouldve been at the insurers discretion - cover wasnt guaranteed. 
Mr K says the insurer told him it wouldve provided cover had the quote been extended, but 
he hasnt provided evidence to support this. And without it, I dont think its reasonable to 
conclude that Mr K incurring increased costs can be solely attributable to Taylor Francis 
alleged inaction. This is particularly so when the insurers email clearly notes it stopped 
underwriting the particular risk involved.
Mr K has said the email from Taylor Francis, dated 2 October 2019, suggests there was a 
live quote. Ive looked at the email - it says:
 
Regarding the structural warranty, the insurers have asked if we have an estimated 
start date. Shall I advise it is likely to be in a couple of months once the tree issues 
have been resolved, or did you want to sort out sooner?
Mr K responded and said:
Will put the houses on market after tree downs. So I guess a couple of months is 
about right.
Mr K said he sent this reply following a conversation hed had with Taylor Francis in which 
he was told the quote would be extended for 60 days. But, again, I havent been provided 
with evidence to support this. I must reach a decision based on the information available, 
and having read the emails, Im not persuaded Mr Ks reply amounts to an explicit request to 
extend a quote by 60 days. Nor do I think Taylor Francis email can be construed as a 
guarantee to do so. 
Instead, it reads as Taylor Francis asking Mr K of his intentions to start cover  which isnt 
the same as asking if he wants an existing quote extended. So, Im not persuaded these 
emails prove an agreement was made between the parties that the quote would be extended 
in order to allow Mr K to accept it a later date. For these reasons, Im not persuaded Taylor 
Francis misled Mr K as he has alleged.
Mr K has suggested the quotes were unclear that they would be valid for 30 days. However, 
by nature of his request to extend them, I think its clear he would have known these werent 
open indefinitely.
I know Mr K is aggrieved and feels Taylor Francis stopped helping him once it was unable to 
provide a quote, but Ive seen that it gave him the details of other firms which may have 
been able to assist him in finding alternative cover. So, I dont agree with him on this point. For completeness  and as explained by the investigator - I havent addressed the point Mr 
K raised about the locks, as he would need to raise this with Taylor Francis as a new 
complaint before we could become involved.
I know my decision will disappoint Mr K. But for the reasons set out above, I dont think 
Taylor Francis treated Mr K unfairly, and so I wont be asking it to pay the difference in 
premiums. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 May 2021. 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman