DRN-4140841
The complaint
Mr M complains that Wise Payments Limited (Wise) wont refund him after he was the 
victim of a scam.
What happened
Mr M is represented in this case but for ease Ill refer to Mr M in this decision.
Mr M says that earlier in 2022 he fell victim to a romance/cryptocurrency scam (and was the 
victim of a binary options scam in 2007). Later in 2022 he received a call from someone Ill 
refer to in this decision as J who said he was associated with the Financial Action Task 
Force (FATF) and could help Mr M to recover his lost funds, which were now in 
cryptocurrency wallets. Mr M had lost around £43,000 and was told that he had funds worth 
£40,000 in a cryptocurrency wallet to recover but needed to pay around £6,000 to recover 
the funds. 
Mr M looked at FATFs website and at other information about FATF and thought it looked 
like a professional organisation. And J knew personal information about him and the amount 
he lost in the previous scam. Mr M made the first three payments in the table below.
Then Mr M was told an amount of £140,000 had appeared in his wallet. When Mr M 
questioned this, he was told it likely related to a scam Mr M fell victim to in 2007 and that its 
value had risen over the years. Mr M made the £20,050 payment so that he could obtain this 
large sum that had been found. 
Its not clear what the next payments related to, other than to release funds, but Ive seen 
fake emails from Blockchain dated 15 and 16 September 2022. The one on 15 September 
says its clear Mr M had tried to make a withdrawal from his wallet, but he needed to send a 
minimum of 1% of the amount he was going to withdraw as a guarantee. When this amount 
was paid, Mr Ms accounts would be linked, and hed receive €158,860.18. The fake email 
the following day said the amount had increased and Mr M needed to pay more. 
J used a screen sharing application to open a Wise account and make the payments in the 
table below (with Mr Ms authorisation).
Date Amount Method
02/08/22 £2,141 Transfer
03/08/22 £4,500 Transfer
03/08/22 £727 Transfer
11/08/22 £20,050 Transfer
08/09/22 £6,260 - returned
09/09/22 £5,000 Transfer
09/09/22 £1,260 Transfer
09/09/22 £2,100 Transfer
14/09/22 £430 Card
15/09/22 £1,588 Transfer
16/09/22 £1,300 Transfer
16/09/22 £900 Transfer
Total £39,269
All payments were to a cryptocurrency exchange or to individuals to buy cryptocurrency 
using the peer-to peer-platform. 
Mr M didnt receive his lost funds and J stopped communicating with him. He also called the 
cryptocurrency wallet provider and was advised there were no funds. He called Wise to 
report the scam on 20 September 2022. 
Wise investigated Mr Ms complaint but didnt agree to reimburse anything. It referred to its 
terms of use and said it is unable to get involved in disputes between senders and recipients 
and cant be held responsible for losses that are beyond its control. Once it was aware of the 
potential scam, Wise said it took steps to prevent further transfers through its service. Wise 
attempted to recall the funds but was unsuccessful. 
Mr M thinks Wise should have been aware of this type of scam and that its very unusual for 
a customer with Mr Ms profile to suddenly start to transfer large sums of money. Wise 
should have warned him that FATF wouldnt ask him for money. 
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered this complaint recommended that it be upheld in part. He 
said Wise acted reasonably when processing the first three payments as they were 
unremarkable and there was no payment history to compare them with. But when Mr M 
made the fourth payment on 11 August 2020 Wise should have intervened given the 
significant increase in value and the fact the increasing pattern of payments matched a 
known cryptocurrency scam. The investigator said that had Wise asked questions the scam 
would have been prevented. He didnt think Mr M should be held partly responsible for his 
loss.
Mr M accepted the investigators findings, but Wise did not. In summary, Wise said:
- It provided ample warnings to Mr M. Although Wise had previously said no warnings 
were provided this was a mistake. Mr M was provided with scam warnings in respect 
of most of the scam payments (excluding the transactions for £5,000, £1,260 and 
£2,100). 
- Its not reasonable or practical to expect Wise to stop the payments and speak to 
every customer who is shown the warnings. 
- Mr M should take responsibility for his loss.
The complaint was passed to me, and I issued my provisional decision on 11 October 2023. 
In the What Ive provisionally decided  and why section of my provisional decision I said,
Im very sorry that Mr M has lost so much money in a cruel scam. I need to decide whether 
it would be fair and reasonable for Wise, in all the circumstances of this case, to be held 
responsible for this loss.
Wise is an electronic money institute (EMI) and not a bank so isnt subject to the same 
expectations set out in guidance and regulation as a bank when it comes to fraud 
prevention. Wise should execute payment instructions without undue delay. And as a 
starting point there is a presumption that liability for authorised payments is on the payer, 
even where it mightve been made as part of a scam. But I think Wise might be liable for reasonably foreseeable losses if, in breach of its duty of care, it fails to act on information 
which ought reasonably to alert a prudent authorised payment institution to potential fraud or 
financial crime by, or against its customer. 
Ive thought carefully about Wises obligations in this case, particularly given that Mr M was a 
new customer without previous activity to compare his actions against. 
Like the investigator, I dont consider the first three payments in this case were so unusual or 
indicative of common scams that Wise ought reasonably to have done anything more than it 
did in providing an onscreen warning that broadly covered some common scams. The 
warning provided said:
Protect yourself from scams
This could be a scam. Its hard to get your money back once you send it  so first, tell us 
what this transfers for to get advice.
[Theres a dropdown where Mr M chose sending money to himself]
Has someone asked you to move money to a safe account?
Stop  this is a scam. Wise, your bank, or the police will never ask you to do this.  
Do you feel rushed or pressured into moving money?
Scammers will try to make you panic so you dont have time to think. If you feel this way, its 
OK to cancel this payment now and come back later.
Mr M hadnt been asked to move funds to a safe account and Ive not seen any evidence to 
suggest Mr M was rushed or pressured into making the payments, so I can understand why 
the warning above didnt resonate with him. 
But when Mr M made the fourth transaction for over £20,000, Im not persuaded Wise went 
far enough. The value of the payment had significantly increased and there was a pattern of 
payments common to scams of this nature. Its also clear that Wise recognised some form of 
risk in sending funds to a cryptocurrency exchange, as the above warning was provided in 
respect of each payment to the exchange but not when Mr M sent money to named 
individuals. The onscreen warning provided by Wise fails to mention cryptocurrency scams 
at all though and instead focuses on safe account scams and being under pressure. 
Im satisfied that if Wise had intervened when Mr M made the £20,050 payment the scam 
would have been uncovered. I say this because Mr M wasnt given any form of cover story 
and I see no reason why he wouldnt have given an honest answer. Mr M would have 
explained that he was trying to recover funds lost in a scam earlier in the year and had been 
communicating with FATF. Given Wises knowledge of scams of this nature Wise would 
have been able to explain that paying cryptocurrency to recover funds lost in a previous 
scam is not legitimate meaning the loss (and all future payments) could have been 
prevented.
So I consider Wise should be responsible to some extent for this transaction and each 
subsequent payment.
Should Mr M be held partly responsible for the loss?
Ive gone on to consider whether Mr M should share the loss with Wise.  
The original basis of this scam was that Mr M was trying to recover the funds he lost in an 
earlier scam. I asked Mr M some questions about the original 2022 scam and whether he 
made a claim to his bank. I have received evidence that Mr Ms bank refunded £35,855 in 
April 2022 and am told this relates to a refund under the Contingent Reimbursement Model 
Code (the CRM Code). So, if Mr M received a refund of the amount he lost in the earlier 
scam, I question why he thought hed be able to recover more through J/FATF. It might be that Mr Ms bank didnt refund him in full, in which case Id be grateful if Mr M could provide 
more information and evidence in response to this provisional decision.
Given the refund from Mr Ms bank though, I consider he ought reasonably to have had 
concerns about being asked to pay over £6,000 to recover a further £40,000 - particularly as 
he said he lost around £43,000 in the original scam.  
J told Mr M that he was associated with FATF  but didnt say he was from this organisation 
which is what Id expect. FATF is an international policy-making and standard-setting body 
dedicated to combating money laundering and terrorist financing. Nothing on FATFs 
website, or any other information I have seen about FATF, suggests it gets involved in 
recovering funds for individuals. So, I think that if Mr M did any research into FATF hed have 
had serious concerns about Js claims. 
Mr M has also said that J claimed to have his own investment company. Mr Ms payments 
though werent made to FATF or to a company associated with J. And I dont consider that a 
legitimate company would ask Mr M to pay using cryptocurrency.
Im also struggling to understand Js connection to Blockchain and how this relationship 
would make it easier to release Mr Ms funds.  
I think Mr M should also have had concerns about Js claim that funds from a 2007 scam 
had been located and about the amount that was available to return to him. 
Overall, Im provisionally satisfied that Mr M should share responsibility for his loss. Wise 
should refund half of all scam payments from (and including) 11 August 2022 as well as 
interest as set out below. 
Taking into account good business practice and what I deem to be fair and reasonable, Wise 
is generally expected to assist its customers in recovering misappropriated or misdirected 
funds when put on notice. Wise attempted to recover Mr Ms funds but was unsuccessful. I 
dont think Wise could have done anything more.
Mr M let me know that he accepted my provisional decision. Wise didnt respond. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr M has accepted my provisional findings and Wise hasnt responded I see no reason to 
depart from them. For the reasons set out in my provisional decision (and reproduced 
above) Ive reached the decision that Wise should reimburse Mr M as set out below. 
My final decision
I require Wise Payments Limited to:
- Refund 50% of £20,050 and all further scam payments listed in the table above (but 
not including the returned payment).
- Pay interest on the above amount at the rate of 8% simple per year from the date of 
each transaction to the date of settlement.  
If Wise Payments Limited is legally required to deduct tax from the interest it should send Mr 
M a tax deduction certificate so he can claim it back from HMRC if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2023.
 
Jay HadfieldOmbudsman