DRN-3030996
complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1988. Mr and Mrs T say Bradford & Bingley Plc mis-sold them PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr and   
Mrs Ts circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations 
and exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
 
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mr and Mrs Ts representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise 
any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ts. I havent set out that detailed 
information here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr and 
Mrs Ts complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
I think Bradford & Bingley made it clear that Mr and Mrs T didnt have to take out the PPI 
and they chose to take it out. Bradford & Bingley have given me a number of documents 
from the time of the sale. This includes a copy of the signed mortgage application form 
that was completed in branch. This had a separate section for PPI in which Mr and Mrs T 
requested accident and sickness cover only, meaning that they declined the 
unemployment cover. And they asked for the cover to be in Mr Ts name only, which ties 
in with Mrs Ts circumstances at the time as she was unemployed. I note that Mr T was 
self-employed, which may have affected his decision to decline the unemployment cover 
which can, at times, be more restrictive for self-employed people. They also requested 
the level of cover to be £500. I can see that they had the option to mark a box if they 
didnt want the cover, so I think it was clear that they could decline the cover if they didnt 
want it. 
Bradford & Bingley didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs T - so it didnt have to check 
that the PPI was right or suitable for them. But it did have to give Mr and Mrs T enough 
clear and timely information so they could decide for themselves if it was right for them.
Its possible the information Bradford & Bingley gave Mr and Mrs T about the PPI wasnt 
as clear as it shouldve been. But Ive found that they chose to take it out - so it looks like 
they wanted this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr T  for 
example he wasnt affected by the significant exclusions on or limits to the cover. And it 
wasnt too dissimilar to what Mr and Mrs T reasonably thought they were buying from the 
information they were given. There were also no additional restrictions on cover for 
mental health or back problems. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it 
would have been useful for them if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think 
Mr and Mrs T would have declined the cover had Bradford & Bingley done anything 
more.
Overall, I consider that Mr and Mrs T would have still taken out PPI. The policy was 
sufficiently close to what its likely they thought they were getting and I think the policy could 
provide a useful benefit in a difficult time, given their circumstances at the time. And in those 
circumstances, I think that they would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs Ts representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a 
claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules 
and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of 
the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant Bradford & Bingley should have disclosed the 
poor value and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it 
had on the chances of making a claim.
But Mr and Mrs Ts representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts 
and circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ts individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Ts particular 
case. But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold this complaint. 
This means Bradford & Bingley doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 December 2021.
 
Rebecca NorrisOmbudsman