DRN-3565428
The complaint
Mr C has complained about the advice he received from Bank of Scotland plc, trading as 
Halifax Life (Halifax). He thinks the investments recommended were too high risk for him. 
Mr C is represented by a third party in bringing his complaint but for ease of reference I shall 
refer to Mr C in my decision. 
What happened
In May 1996 Mr C was advised to invest £15,000 into an Investment Bond. He didnt think 
the level of risk was appropriate for a novice investor who had recently retired so complained 
to Halifax. 
Halifax responded to Mr Cs complaint. It said;
When Mr C met with the adviser he had wanted to discuss investing a portfolio of his 
savings for the potential of greater returns and the ability to take a monthly income if 
needed. He was asked about his personal and financial details before the 
recommendation was made. 
Mr C was advised to invest into the Investment Bond with his money invested in the 
default Halifax Investment Mandate portfolio made up of three life bonds  Balanced, 
Opportunity and Foundation. Each fund carried its own level of risk, some potentially 
higher than low/medium but overall, the risk was appropriate when the portfolio was 
taken as a whole as the funds balanced each other out. 
When the investment was made it was low/medium risk and this could have been 
changed and he would have been advised of this if he had seen an adviser. Halifax 
later confirmed the overall risk was medium rather than low/medium.
Mr C was given all the documentation and signed to go ahead with the plans. There 
was no reason to think he didnt understand the information given to him. 
Dissatisfied with the outcome, Mr C brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. Our 
investigator who considered Mr Cs complaint, didnt think it should be upheld. She said;
When Mr C received the advice his investment objective was for capital growth and 
income and had a low/medium attitude to risk.
Halifax had said the funds within the Investment Bond had their own levels of risk but 
overall, the funds were balanced.
Its recorded that Mr C wanted capital growth and income from his investment. Mr C 
didnt take any income from the bond until 2010  14 years later. And as at             
January 2020 Mr C had withdrawn a total of £28,150 and the value of the portfolio in 
May 2022 was £9,152. So, Mr Cs objective of capital growth was also achieved. 
The investigator thought Mr C was willing and able to take the level of risk he was 
exposed to and it matched his objectives. And even though Mr C was a first-time 
investor that wasnt enough to say the investment was too high risk for him. 
Mr C didnt agree with the investigator. He said;
There wasnt any significant evidence that he was willing to taking such a level of 
risk. Mr C could have been sold low-risk investments that contained some equities, 
but the majority invested in less volatile fixed interest securities. The Investment 
Bond was over 80% exposed to equities. 
While the investment might have been affordable, Mr C was on a low income and 
had no surplus income to earn back any losses. He should have been advised to 
invest in a cautious investment. 
The growth the investigator had referred to took 26 years to achieve so the funds 
performance was poor. Mr C should have been sold a cautious investment. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved, it has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Cs circumstances
Halifax has given us a copy of the Personal Financial Questionnaire that was completed at 
the time of Mr Cs meeting with Halifaxs adviser. 
It records that Mr C was 56 years of age, married and recently retired. Mr Cs annual income 
was £7,181 earning a monthly income of £598 per month which after regular outgoings, left 
him with £248 per month. 
He jointly owned his home with his wife, and which was valued at around £45,000. Mr C had 
cash of £59,875 at the time which he told us came about as a result of a pension lump sum 
payment and accumulated savings. No other investments were recorded.  
Under the Capital Investment section of the form it refers to income and Mr C needing to 
draw on his capital to provide long term income and that he was prepared to use some or all 
of his capital to maximise his income. At that time, he hadnt expressed his attitude to capital 
investment but wanted to retain access to his capital although he had no plans to withdraw 
funds for at least five years. 
Mr Cs priority for his personal objectives was for Capital Investment Growth/Income. Under 
the notes section the adviser recorded that Mr C was recently retired and was looking for 
advice on how best to arrange his funds in order to raise additional income of around £200 
per month to supplement his pension. Mr C could take a medium-term view and there was 
currently no actual shortfall in income, but Mr C wanted to know the funds were available 
should he wish to call on them. 
As part of the overall advice given to Mr C it was recommended that he keep back £38,875 
in various building society/bank deposit accounts, invest £6,000 into a PEP and £15,000 into 
a Halifax Life Investment Bond unit trust growth fund for the main purpose of capital 
investment. 
Mr Cs attitude to riskTheres no record that Mr Cs attitude to risk was established or recorded. So, I have gone 
onto consider whether Halifax collected sufficient information about Mr Cs circumstances 
and objectives to enable it to assess his attitude to risk. 
And Ive also borne in mind that Mr C was a novice investor who was seeking advice 
because he didnt have the knowledge or experience to make such an investment decision 
unaided and that taking early retirement was a significant change in lifestyle. So, Halifax 
needs to demonstrate that it gave suitable advice taking into account Mr Cs circumstances, 
understanding and knowledge after ascertaining his attitude to risk.
Clearly I cant know for sure what was discussed at the meeting Mr C had with Halifaxs 
representative but from the documentary evidence that is available, Im not convinced that 
Halifax has been able to show us how it established Mr Cs attitude to risk. 
However, in the absence of documentation to evidence how the risk assessment for Mr C 
was carried out I have taken into account his circumstances as recorded in the Personal 
Financial Questionnaire to see whether the level of risk the investment exposed him to was 
right for him.
Mr C was recently retired, relatively young, had a modest pension and he wasnt eligible for 
the state pension at that time. He had a lump sum available that he could use to finance his 
retirement.
Its recorded that Mr C wanted access to his capital and to take income from the investment if 
necessary but had no plans to do so at the time. So, it doesnt seem unreasonable for Mr C 
invest a proportion of his funds for capital growth from which he could access income and 
capital in the future. And its recorded that Mr C had no plans to withdraw any funds for at 
least the next five years so again medium to long term investment for capital growth for 
some of his funds doesnt seem unreasonable. 
Overall, Im satisfied that taking into account Mr Cs circumstances and investment 
objectives I dont think it was unsuitable for him to take some risk with his money. But I have 
gone on to consider whether what he was advised to invest into was right for him. 
The advice  was it suitable
Of the £59,875 Mr C had available he was advised to keep cash of around £39,000 in 
various accounts. £6,000 was to be invested into a PEP and Mr C was advised to invested 
£15,000  25% of his capital  into the Halifax Life Investment Bond which included a death 
benefit. 
Mr Cs representative has said the funds within the Investment Bond were medium-high risk 
investments that our client had no detailed understanding ofindeed to get an 
understanding of our clients exposure they would have needed to look at the constituents of 
3 different investment funds with significant overlaps. This was far too high risk and 
complex.
The Investment Bond was split equally between the Foundation, Balanced and Opportunity 
Funds. Ive seen and reviewed the fund factsheets  although I do appreciate they are dated 
April 2003, several years after the investment was made  for each of the funds to see if 
they matched Mr Cs investment objectives and requirements.
Each of the funds aim was to produce growth over the medium to long term. And this was to 
be achieved by investing in conjunction with each of the other funds and by using a 
balanced investment approach, gaining exposure to a number of different asset types including shares and bonds across a broad range of key international markets.  The UK 
equity exposure for the three funds ranged between 53% and 69%. And there was also UK 
gilt exposure of 12% and 20% in two of the funds. 
I appreciate the three funds invested in were largely made up of equities. Although as noted 
the proportion did vary according to the fund. Ive looked at the three funds altogether which 
I dont think is unreasonable as they were to be invested into in conjunction with each other. 
The largest exposure was to UK equities at 58.4%, UK fixed interest securities at 10.6%, 
European equities at 10.2% and North American equities at 8.3%. 
So, there was a significant proportion of international equities in the three funds although UK 
equities was the largest asset class. But taking into account the proportion of Mr Cs 
available assets invested  25% - and the medium to long term nature of the investment I 
am not persuaded the recommended investment posed more risk than Mr C was willing to 
take. Mr C has said he wasnt in the position to recoup any losses to his capital but while the 
investment exposed him to that it also provided him with the opportunity to grow capital for 
the future which was one of his objectives. 
Halifax has said overall the Investment Bond exposed Mr C to a medium level of risk, and I 
dont find that to be an unreasonable reflection of the risk he was willing to take and which 
matched his objectives. I am satisfied that Mr C was looking to invest some of his capital to 
try and obtain a better return than it was earning on deposit and that is what the investment 
gave him the opportunity to do. 
Its also recorded he was thinking about the potential for income now that he was retired, 
and I note Mr C did take income some 14 years after the investment. 
Ive taken into account that theres no record that Mr C had any investment experience. And 
as Ive said above, without any investment experience Mr C would have been totally reliant 
upon the advice given to him. And Ive borne in mind what hed done previously with his 
money  by keeping it in a risk-free environment in his bank and that without any earnings 
income Mr C wasnt in the position to recoup capital losses. 
Mr C has said that as a novice investor the risk he was exposed to was too high for him. But 
Ive seen nothing to conclude that this was the case. As mentioned above, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Mr C to have invested for the potential for capital growth  in order to take 
income in the future  so it seems likely that Mr C did want to explore the opportunity to 
make his money growth more than it would do in his bank account. I consider Mr C was 
willing to take some risk over the medium to long term.
I am not persuaded on balance that the Investment Bond recommended by the Halifax in 
1996 was unsuitable for Mr C taking into account his objectives and circumstances.
However, I do appreciate that there were probably lower risk options available to Mr C at the 
time that could have potentially offered him better returns than savings. But my role isnt to 
re-visit the advice that he was given and what other options were potentially available to him. 
Rather its to consider whether the advice that was given to Mr C was suitable for him at the 
time and as identified prior to the investment and I am satisfied that it was.
Taking all of the above into consideration, and in the individual circumstances of this 
complaint, I dont have anything to conclude that the advice given to Mr C was unsuitable for 
him bearing in mind his personal and financial circumstances, and his investment 
requirements. It follows that I dont intend to uphold Mr Cs complaint.No doubt Mr C will be disappointed with my decision, but I hope I have been able to explain 
how and why I have reached it.
My final decision
For the reasons give, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint and make no award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2023.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman