DRN-2201653
The complaint
Mrs L says PRAC Financial Limited has treated her unfairly in the way it is pursuing her for a 
debt.
What happened
Mrs L took out a fixed sum loan agreement in January 2014 from a lender. The lender 
registered a default on Mrs Ls credit file in December 2014. In December 2016 PRAC 
bought this debt from the lender and took over reporting on Mrs Ls credit file. It 
subsequently instructed a firm to collect the debt from Mrs L. Mrs L points to periods of being 
chased by the firm and periods of being ignored by it. Mrs L wants the default removed and 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience suffered.
Mrs L complained to PRAC about what happened, and it said that it had treated her fairly 
overall. Mrs L disagreed, so she brought her complaint to our service. 
Our Investigator decided that PRAC had treated Mrs L fairly. As Mrs L remains unhappy this 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
PRAC and Mrs L dont agree to some of the key issues here. So I can only make my 
decision based on the evidence provided to me by the parties. In short I must decide what is 
most likely to have happened. Or in other words, what happened on the balance of 
probabilities.
One of Mrs Ls main arguments regards the legality of the sale of the debt book (which 
included this particular debt) from the lender to PRAC. She contends it is unfair and was 
contrary to the law. I should start by saying it is not for this Service to be deciding on 
commercial arrangements between firms. I should add that under the rules which this 
service (and thus I) operate I am required to take into account the law, but I am not 
necessarily bound by it. I am obligated to make fair and reasonable decisions based on the 
evidence available in particular disputes.
Here I must consider whether PRAC has treated Mrs L fairly or not. And bearing in mind that 
Mrs L accepts she took the loan agreement originally (and thus had the benefit of the credit) 
and that PRAC says she owes it the money, it is fair that if Im satisfied she owes the money 
then she should repay it to the company who holds the debt now, namely PRAC.
Furthermore this decision is with regard to PRAC and PRAC solely. Mrs L has made a 
number of comments regarding the lenders sale of the loan to her and its fairness. PRAC 
isnt responsible for the sale of the loan as it only took responsibility for the debt not the loan 
sale when it purchased this debt. Mrs L has said the lender doesnt exist anymore. Where 
consumers have a complaint about financial services firms who can no longer meet their 
obligations they can contact the Financial Services Compensation Scheme to see if their 
complaint is covered under that scheme.
I have considered the fixed sum loan agreement and I can see Mrs L borrowed £700 and 
was due to repay a total of £895.93. Ive seen an account statement from the lender showing 
Mrs L had made repayments totalling £391 leaving a balance of £504.93. Ive not seen any 
persuasive evidence from Mrs L to show that she has made any payments to this debt since 
PRAC took ownership of the debt. On balance Im satisfied that PRAC purchased this debt 
from the lender. I can see the firm acting as agent for PRAC is asking Mrs L to pay £504.93. 
So Im satisfied that Mrs L owes PRAC £504.93. So I think it fair that Mrs L should pay 
PRAC that amount and that PRAC or its agents is entitled to ask her to pay it. Whether or 
not the agreement is enforceable in law is for a Court to decide. Nevertheless I think it fair 
that PRAC can ask Mrs L to pay it what she owes (whether it is enforceable or not) as Im 
satisfied she owes that amount.
Mrs L points to a letter stating she has repaid £3910 towards the debt. Ive considered this 
letter carefully and the statement from the lender showing Mrs L had repaid £391. Mrs L 
hasnt provided any persuasive evidence that she had paid the lender or indeed PRAC more 
than £391 described. So on balance I consider this to be a typographical error in this letter.
Mrs L has asked for the default to be removed from her credit file. PRAC didnt default Mrs L 
the lender did. So if Mrs L wishes to complain about the lender defaulting her originally I 
refer to my earlier comments on the matter. 
PRAC is however responsible for the credit reporting regarding this debt and has been since 
it purchased the debt. After six years defaults drop off credit files and that amount of time 
has now passed since the default was registered. Ive seen no persuasive evidence of any 
mistake here in reporting the default on Mrs Ls credit file by PRAC. So I dont think PRAC 
has done anything wrong here. And if it volunteered to remove the default as a gesture of 
goodwill then that was its commercial decision, but overall I see no unfairness here.
Mrs L points to the correspondence issues with PRAC and the firm it chose to represent it. 
Ive not seen any persuasive evidence of Mrs L informing PRAC shed moved address. So 
when PRAC or the firm representing it wrote to her at the wrong address I dont think this 
was its fault. I can also see Mrs L wrote on occasion to the wrong address for the business 
also. So I can understand why there was some failings in communications between the 
parties. But as Ive seen no persuasive evidence of Mrs L trying to pay this debt for some 
time Im not persuaded shes lost out significantly. And I can see PRAC has attempted to 
contact Mrs L on numerous occasions.
Mrs L has also argued about some rules that the Financial Conduct Authority introduced for 
loans such as Mrs L took. However, as has been explained to Mrs L, her loan isnt covered 
by these rules as the loan was made prior to the rules coming into force. Furthermore 
considering the terms of the loan it wasnt impacted by these rules anyway. So I dont think 
Mrs L has made a persuasive argument here.
PRAC points to making an offer to Mrs L so she could close the matter by paying back less 
than she owes. So I think PRAC has treated her fairly in trying to bring this issue to an 
amicable resolution. Whether or not it reopens this offer is up to it as its a commercial 
decision for PRAC.
Mrs L argues that she asked for a lot of the documentation in this case previously. The 
investigator in this case enclosed these with his views on the matter. Ive seen these 
documents and if Mrs L wishes further copies these can be forwarded to her at her request.All in all Im satisfied that PRAC hasnt treated Mrs L unfairly. So I dont think it needs to do 
anymore.
I appreciate Mrs L will be disappointed by my decision. Mrs L is at liberty not to accept this 
decision if she doesnt want to. It may be that she wishes to continue her dispute with PRAC 
through other avenues. However this final decision ends this Services involvement in Mrs 
Ls dispute with PRAC on this matter.
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint against PRAC Financial 
Limited. It has nothing more to do with regard to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 February 2021.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman