DRN-3072072
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Sainsburys Bank Plc unfairly applied interest and charges to her 
credit card after she forgot to make a payment. 
What happened
Mrs M used her credit card to make a purchase at the beginning of June 2020. Sainsburys 
issued a new statement a few days later that requested Mrs M make a payment. 
Mrs M has told us her account is paperless and that she received an email from Sainsburys 
to say a statement had been issued. But she has explained no reminder to say a payment 
was due was received. 
In October 2020 Mrs M made a payment to clear the balance. In November 2020 she made 
a small payment to cover residual interest. 
Mrs M complained but Sainsburys didnt agree it had made a mistake and didnt offer to 
refund the interest and charges applied. Sainsburys switched Mrs Ms statement 
communication method to the post. 
Mrs M referred her complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They 
thought Sainsburys had dealt with Mrs Ms complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything 
else. Mrs M asked to appeal and said that whilst she received an email to say her statement 
was ready, that was sent by Sainsburys regardless of whether she had an outstanding 
balance. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs M has explained that after she used her credit card she forgot to make the monthly 
payment. I can see it was a genuine oversight by Mrs M. Whilst I understand Mrs M feels its 
unfair for Sainsburys to charge interest and fees in the circumstances, Im unable to agree. 
I havent found any evidence of a mistake by Sainsburys in this case. Mrs M used her credit 
card and it issued a monthly statement that told her how much she needed to pay and the 
date the payment needed to be made. Sainsburys sent follow up monthly statements that 
showed the outstanding balance and additional interest and charges that had been applied. 
Sainsburys also sent Mrs M reminders that a statement was ready to view and included 
details of her account activity over the previous month. 
I know Mrs M feels Sainsburys shouldve also sent her payment reminders. But theres 
nothing in the terms and conditions that says Sainsburys will take that step or that a 
payment would only become due once a reminder was sent. 
Mrs M has told us that Sainsburys sends statements even if she hasnt used the account. 
Whilst that may be the case, I dont agree that means Sainsburys acted unfairly by applying 
interest and charges to her account when no payment was received. I can see the amount 
Mrs M was charged was more than the transaction, but that reflects the length of time a 
payment remained outstanding and the interest and charges applied. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs M but as Im satisfied Sainsburys dealt with her complaint fairly, 
Im not telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 October 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman