DRN-2589485
The complaint
Mr G complains about a motor insurance policy he had with One Call Insurance Services.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 13 January 2021. I wanted to give both 
parties time to respond to my provisional decision.
I have copied my provisional decision below, which also forms part of this final decision.
Mr G initially applied for car insurance through a third-party comparison site on 17 July 
2020.
He accepted the quote and was redirected to One Calls website to complete the purchase.
Mr G input his payment details for the premiums to be taken, but he says that he didnt
submit these.
Then on 24 July 2020, Mr G noticed that a payment had been taken from his account. He
says that he didnt ever agree to take out this policy, and he had since taken out a different
policy with another insurer.
One Call looked into things for Mr G. It said that the only way it would have received his
information to set up a policy was if he had accepted the quote it offered, and he submitted
his payment details through the website. One Call says that it sent Mr G information about
his policy through its online portal, and that Mr G ought to have been aware of the existence
of the policy as it could see that he had accessed the portal.
As a gesture of goodwill, One Call agreed to refund Mr G the cancellation fee. But it didnt
agree to refund him the cost of the premiums for the days it insured Mr G. Mr G says that he
took out a different policy with a different insurer and so he had paid twice for cover.
One Call told Mr G that if he was able to provide evidence that he had a taken a different
policy and that his new policy was in place at the same time, then it would refund the
premiums for the time he had double cover. Mr G gave One Call a letter from the other
insurer, but it didnt accept this as proof that there was other cover in place at the time. One
Call says it also checked the Motor Insurance Database (MID), and this confirmed that Mr G
didnt have any other cover in place at the time. It asked Mr G for evidence by way of an
insurance certificate. It agreed to refund the premiums once it had received this.
Mr G says that he has spent over £60 in phone calls to One Call to try and resolve the issue
and that One Call have caused him financial difficulties as a result of it collecting the
payment. In order to resolve this complaint, he would like an apology from One Call and
what he thinks is a fair offer of compensation for the distress caused to him.
Mr G wasnt happy with One Calls response and so he came to our service. Our investigator
looked into things and thought that One Call had acted fairly. The investigator thought that it
was fair for One Call to only charge Mr G a premium for the days he had cover  especially
given that Mr G hadnt been able to provide it with a certificate to show that he had cover
elsewhere at the time. She didnt uphold the complaint and didnt think One Call needed to
do anything more for Mr G.
Since this complaint has been waiting for a decision, we have received further information
from Mr Gs new insurer to confirm that he took out a new policy with them on 18 July 2020.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed everything on file, I dont intend to uphold this complaint.
Looking at all the information available to me, I think it more likely that Mr G accepted the
quote from One Call and submitted his payment details for it to collect the premiums. Ive
seen a copy of the information Mr G submitted at the time, and I dont think it likely that One
Call would have had this information had Mr G not submitted it.
Further to this, I think it likely Mr G was aware there was a policy in place, as I have seen a
copy of One Calls internal information to show that he has accessed its online portal on a
few occasions. The policy documents and welcome letters were stored in there, and so Mr G
ought to have seen these.
With this in mind, I cant fairly say that One Call has done anything wrong in setting up an
insurance policy for Mr G, or collecting a premium for this.
Once Mr G had notified One Call that he already had cover in place, One Call cancelled the
policy. It said it would waive the cancellation fee of £49.99, and only charge Mr G for the
days it had provided him cover  unless Mr G could prove that he had other cover in place at
the time. Mr G did provide One Call with a copy of a letter from the new provider, but One
Call didnt accept this as it wanted to see the insurance certificate.
I have since seen evidence that Mr G had cover with a different provider that started on 18
July 2020. I have sent this to One Call, and I think that this is acceptable as proof of a
different policy being in place. One Call has already agreed to refund Mr G any premiums
that it charged while he had two policies in place. So I think that One Call should honour
what it said it would do.
I dont think One Call were responsible for the situation Mr G found himself in. So, Im not
going to ask One Call to do as Mr G has asked and apologise, refund the cost of the calls
made to rectify the issue, or pay him any additional compensation.
In response to my provisional decision One Call said that the number plate of the car it 
agreed to insure was different to the number plates on the car that Mr G had insured with his 
new provider. 
We asked Mr G about this and he said it was the same car he insured.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, Im still not upholding Mr Gs complaint. 
Neither party had any new information that I thought might change the outcome of this 
decision. Because of this, I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings.
In response to One Calls point about the difference in the registration plates Mr G insured, I 
can see that they are only one digit away from each other, which suggests that Mr G might 
have incorrectly input the details when he applied for the insurance. So, I think it likely that 
he intended to insure the same vehicle but made a mistake in the application process.
One Call has still agreed to refund Mr G for the days he had two policies running. Mr G 
should get in touch with One Call to arrange repayment of these premiums.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint.
However, One Call should refund Mr G the premiums he paid while he had double cover in 
place.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 March 2021.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman