DRN-2975468
The complaint
Mr P says he was mis-sold a with-profits bond by a predecessor scheme of Aviva Life & 
Pensions UK Limited (Aviva). It matured after almost forty years and Mr P says it has paid 
out significantly less than he was told it would. 
What happened
Mr P took out the policy in May 1982. It had a monthly premium of £40 (rising over the first 
six years to £80 per month). It had a maximum term of 38 years and a sum assured of 
£26,280. 
The policy matured in August 2020. It paid out the guaranteed sum and approximately 
£60,000 in bonuses. This equated to £86,376.72. 
In September 2020 Mr P complained to Aviva. He said that when he took the policy out he 
was told he would get £225,000 if it remained invested for 38 years. He said that was a 
projection of 4.85% bonus rates and that it was 10% at the time of sale. Mr P provided an 
illustration that he had been given when he was sold the policy, which he said supported 
what he had been told. 
Aviva looked into it but didnt uphold the complaint. They said that bonus rates hadnt been 
guaranteed and that they were satisfied the advisor had acted with reasonable care and skill. 
Mr P remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service for an independent review. 
Our investigator looked into it but he didnt think Aviva had done anything wrong. He also 
didnt believe that the bonus rates were guaranteed. 
As Mr P remained unhappy, the case has been passed to me to reach a decision on. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed all of the information carefully, I am of the view that this complaint should 
not succeed. My reasons for that are summarised below. 
Investment advice became regulated under the Financial Services Act 1986 with effect from 
29 April 1988. Before this date, advisers didnt have to consider if a recommendation was 
suitable for a consumers circumstances. Instead, advisers had to advise with reasonable 
skill and care, ensuring he or she didnt make mis-statements and that material information 
(if relevant) was disclosed. 
I recognise that because of the passage of time, there is little available information from the 
time of the sale in 1982. However, we do have a copy of the application form and illustration. 
From these, I cannot safely conclude what the advice was that was given to Mr P. However, 
it would seem that the suggestion to take out a with-profits bond was a reasonable fit in the 
circumstances of Mr P wanting to save for his retirement and that it would provide some 
cover also.
The illustration provided to Mr P at the time gave projected returns, if Mr P kept the 
investment for 38 years, as he did. Whilst it gives the figure of £225,228 that Mr P says he 
was expecting, it does explain that this was projected and that the projected bonuses are 
not guaranteed and assume that the current rates of bonus earned by the Life Fund will 
continue. 
I dont have any more evidence of what Mr P was told at the time, apart from his own 
testimony. That acknowledges that the advisor told him the figure was a forecast and he was 
expecting a shortfall from that figure. I am satisfied that he was aware that there was no 
guarantee. 
I empathise with Mr P that it is clear the investment that he paid into and held for a very long 
time has not paid out near to what he was expecting. However, no rate was guaranteed. The 
projections were based on bonus rates being achieved at that time and this was a 
reasonable thing to do. Further the investment choice seems to have been a reasonable fit 
for his circumstances at the time. 
My final decision
For the above reasons, I am unable to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 April 2022.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman