DRN-2600351
The complaint
Mr P complains that a car supplied to him by First Response Finance Ltd (First Response) 
under a Hire Purchase agreement was not of satisfactory quality.
What happened
The circumstances surrounding this complaint and my initial findings were set out in my 
provisional decision of 26 January 2021, which said:
On 18 March 2020 Mr P bought a second-hand car through a Hire Purchase agreement with 
First Response. The cars mileage was 96,100, and was registered on 11 December 2013, 
which means it was about six years and three months old when Mr P agreed the purchase. 
The credit agreement was for the cash price of £7,751. 
Mr P explained that soon after buying the car he noticed a crunching sound near the front of 
the car, but he was unable to get it looked at by a mechanic because many garages had 
closed as a result of the national lockdown. In early July 2020 he noticed the crunching noise 
again and around a couple days later, as he was taking it to a garage to be looked at, the 
engine failed. 
After paying £50 to have the car recovered to a garage, he was told it was the timing chain 
which had failed and damaged the engine in the process. 
Over the following weeks Mr P was in regular contact with the dealer, First Response and 
the warranty provider. The warranty provider made it clear to him that they would only 
communicate with the car dealer about this issue. First response took ownership of the 
problem and explained that theyd need to have an independent and impartial inspection 
carried out to identify the fault.  According to their records First Response covered the cost 
of the inspection at around £108. The independent mechanic confirmed the issue was due to 
a failed timing chain that had damaged the valves and rockers, which in turn had broken into 
small pieces and got inside the engine. The mechanic recommended a replacement engine, 
as the rocker particles could continue to damage the engine if it was repaired or rebuilt. The 
mechanic also advised that the timing chain would have failed suddenly with no prior 
symptoms or warning signs, and for this reason didnt believe the problem would have been 
present at the point of sale. 
On 29 July 2020 the mechanic provided a quotation for a replacement engine at £2,840.78. 
First Response concluded that the mechanics report was proof that the problem was not 
present at the point of sale and because of this the liability for repair lay with Mr P. However, 
they added that considering the unfortunate position Mr P found himself in, they were willing 
to make an offer to support Mr P in paying for the repairs needed. 
First Response recommended:
- Warranty to contribute £1,000 (if Mr P can agree this with them)
- Mr P pays £1,300 with the option of an interest free loan added to the end of his Hire 
Purchase agreement
- First Response to contribute £540.78 as a gesture of goodwill
Mr P wasnt happy with First Responses proposal, he complained to them that he didnt feel 
he should have to pay anything towards the car and felt he was within his rights, under the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) to hand the car back to the dealer due to the car being of 
unsatisfactory quality when purchased.
On 4 August 2020 First Response sent their final response letter to Mr P maintaining their 
position and confirming their earlier offer. Further correspondence was made between Mr P 
and First response reaffirming their positions. Due to the situation not moving forward, Mr P 
brought his complaint to us here. While his concerns were being looked into by our 
investigator, First Response revised their initial offer to the following:
- Warranty provider to contribute £1,000 (this had been confirmed by the dealer)
- First Response to contribute £1,420 as a gesture of goodwill
- Mr P to pay £420.40 with the option of an interest free loan added to the end of his 
Hire Purchase agreement
Although initially looking to accept the revised offer, in principal, Mr P declined after the 
warranty provider confirmed that theyd expect him to pay £336 to have the engine stripped 
so they could confirm that the issue was something theyd cover. It was only after theyd 
confirm this that theyd agree to contribute £1,000. Mr P wanted the certainty and didnt want 
any upfront costs that were not included in First Responses proposal. Overall Mr P wanted 
the car repaired but would rather hand the car back than have to contribute towards the 
repairs.
Our investigator reviewed the complaint in full and found in favour of Mr P, asking First 
Response to repair the car at no cost to Mr P and to refund any monthly payments from July 
2020, remove any adverse information from Mr Ps credit file as a result of this problem and 
to pay some distress, inconvenience and costs incurred.
First response challenged the investigators view on the basis that the mechanics report 
found there to be no confirmed issue at the point of sale. They asked that an ombudsman 
provide their final decision.
In January 2021 I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. 
The hire purchase agreement in this case is a regulated consumer credit agreement. As 
such, this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. First Response is the supplier 
of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible for a complaint about their 
quality. 
Ive reviewed all the information afresh and the relevant legislation that applies in this 
instance. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) applies to contracts which supply goods to a consumer and is relevant in this case. It says that under a contract to supply goods, there 
is an implied term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory, fit for purpose and as 
described. To be considered satisfactory, the goods would need to meet the standard that 
a reasonable person would consider satisfactory, considering any description of the goods, 
the price and all the other relevant circumstances. So, it seems likely that in a case involving 
a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would consider might include things like the 
age and mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history. 
Theres no real dispute here that the car does need repair, as described above. The issue 
here though isnt whether the car needs repairs, but whether it was of satisfactory quality at 
the point it was sold to Mr P. From the evidence Ive seen I agree that Mr Ps car needed a 
significant engine repair or replacement.
service history and condition
When Mr P bought his car, it was just over six years old with a cash price of £7,751 and had 
travelled over 96,000 miles. Considering the mileage and price of the car I think its fair to 
say that a reasonable person would expect that parts of the car might have already suffered 
wear and tear. And theres a greater risk this car might need repair and/or maintenance 
sooner than a car which wasnt as road-worn when it was supplied.
Mr P explained that he was told by the dealer that it had a full-service history, which was 
recorded on the cars internal system. He was told it wasnt available in the form of a service 
booklet. Section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 explains that in certain situations 
finance providers are liable for what is said by a supplier before the consumer takes out a 
credit agreement. So if the dealer incorrectly told Mr B the car had a full service history, its 
taken as if First Response told Mr B the same. 
First Response have not been able to verify what Mr P has said, nor have I seen any 
definitive evidence besides what Mr P has said. For example I havent seen an advert 
describing the car as having a full service history. Also, while its useful information to know, 
there was no obligation on the dealer to disclose the service history to Mr B during the pre-
agreement negotiations in this case. From the evidence Ive seen Im not able to say with 
any confidence whether the conversation as described by Mr P took place or not; and so I 
cannot hold First Response accountable for this.  
Mr P explained that soon after purchasing the car he later discovered, through a friend who 
had checked this for him, that the car hadnt been serviced in around 50,000 miles. This is 
evident from the information held on the cars system and hasnt been disputed by the dealer 
or by First Response. Cam chains arent typically serviceable components, so although 
regular servicing is recommended theres no guarantee the cam chain would have been in a 
better condition had the car been serviced regularly, although I do appreciate its likely. 
Nevertheless I havent seen anything that makes me think a lack of servicing is the reason 
the chain failed in this case and in any event I think a reasonable person might expect this 
kind of thing to happen on an older car with such high mileage. 
Mr P also explained that he noticed a crunching sound at the front of the car soon after 
purchasing it. Many garages were closed so he was unable to have the concern looked into 
immediately. As the noises havent been investigated, I dont think anyone can, with any 
confidence say what the cause of the noises were.  They could have been a number of 
things. So I dont think itd be fair or appropriate in this instance to connect the noises with a 
failing cam chain. 
the independent checkFirst Response arranged for an independent check of the car to be carried out, to determine 
the nature of the failure. The advice came back that the problem with the cam chain wouldnt 
have been present at the time of purchase and would have happened suddenly with no 
warning signs. I listened to a phone call between the mechanic and First Response where 
this was confirmed verbally. Ive not seen anything that makes me doubt the credibility of the 
independent check  and so I think its fair to conclude from the evidence provided that the 
problems with the cam chain wouldnt have been made clear at the time of purchase, as its 
likely to have been wear and tear over the entirety of miles travelled. Taking into 
consideration the age and mileage of the car and the price which reflects the condition Im 
not persuaded that First Response are liable for the failure of the cam chain.  
Its an unfortunate situation that Mr P has found himself in, which I sympathise with. 
particularly in this circumstance where he must now have the engine of his car replaced in 
less than four months of driving it. However, in considering the overall context of the age 
mileage and condition I dont think it would be unreasonable to expect there to be a higher 
risk of maintenance required on the car than not. Overall, and in the circumstances, I think 
Mr Ps car was of satisfactory quality at the point of sale, and I cant see how First response 
has acted unfairly. 
As I have concluded that the car was of satisfactory quality at the point it was supplied, I do 
not require First Response to take any action in respect of this complaint. I leave it to Mr B to 
decide if on reflection he would like to accept the offer made by First Response (if it is still 
available). 
First Response responded to say they agreed with my provisional decision. However, Mr P 
responded to say that he didnt accept it. He made some further comments which Ill address 
below. 
Now both sides have had an opportunity to comment, I can go ahead with my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Within his response Mr P gave the following reasons (mainly) why he disagreed with my 
provisional decision:
Mr P felt my reasoning was flawed and incompatible with the Consumer Protection 
Act (CPA), the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) and the Consumer Credit Act 
(CCA)
First Responses obligations under the contract
the service history of the car was a pivotal and significant factor in his decision to go 
ahead with the purchase. In addition, the longevity of the cam chain is linked to 
regular servicing 
have I considered the indemnity guarantee that the dealer would have provided First 
Response giving assurances of the quality of their vehicles 
The points above are not exhaustive but a summary of what I considered to be the main 
issues raised in Mr Ps response to my provisional decision. To be clear, Ive considered all 
the information provided by both parties in relation to this complaint, however to maintain the 
informal approach of this service Ive focussed on what Ive considered to be the main issues here.
my reasoning is incompatible with the CRA, CPA and CCA; and First Responses obligations 
under the contract
In my provisional decision I explained that when considering whats fair and reasonable, I 
need to have regard to the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. My provisional decision makes clear that this includes 
the CRA, the CCA and any relevant law and regulations.
As well as giving consumers the right for compensation for defective goods, in specific 
circumstances, the CPA also contains a liability test which in certain circumstances holds 
producers of goods liable for damage caused to the goods. And similar to the CRA in this 
instance the goods must be considered to have been defective when supplied. However as 
First Response is not the producer of the goods the CPA is largely irrelevant in this case.
As Ive explained in my provisional decision, Ive given careful consideration to whether Mr 
Ps car was of satisfactory quality at the point it was supplied to him; and Ive considered its 
durability as an inherent part of the cars quality. In arriving at my decision Ive considered 
the cars quality in the context of its age and mileage at the point of supply and the vehicles 
history, and for the reasons Ive explained, Ive found on balance that it was of satisfactory 
quality. And in the circumstances of this complaint, that First Response have fulfilled their 
obligations under the Hire Purchase contract. 
The car had covered 96,000 miles at the time of supply, so its likely there were parts that 
had reached or were coming towards the end of their natural life and would require 
replacement. When considering durability, I must consider things such as the cars age and 
mileage, not just the period of time Mr P had possession of the car. Im persuaded that the 
fault with the car doesnt make the car unsatisfactory so there was no obligation for First 
Response to repair it. Given the point in the life of the car that the timing chain broke, I dont 
find this meant the car was not durable. 
Its possible that a lack of servicing contributed towards the failure of the timing chain. But as 
Ive explained previously, at this kind of age and mileage, there is no guarantee a car has 
been serviced annually and it is just one of the risks inherent with buying such a well-used 
and older car.  
Mr P has referred me to some observations made by an engineer he says he knows. These 
include some explanations about how a lack of oil, due to lack of servicing, can shorten the 
life of a timing chain  which he says may have made the problem inherent at the point of 
supply. These are not however the observations of a detailed inspection of the car and I still 
havent seen anything which explains what went wrong with the timing chain and why  
beyond the fact it failed and broke. 
the service history being a factor in Mr Ps decision to purchase the car
In my provisional findings Ive noted the responsibilities of First Response under Section 56 
of the Consumer Credit Act 1974, that in certain situations finance providers are liable for 
what is said by a supplier before the consumer takes out a credit agreement. However, Ive 
also recognised that in the circumstances, the dealer wasnt necessarily obliged to discuss 
this information with Mr P. 
I acknowledge the impact a lack of regular servicing can have on various components of a 
car and I recognise that Mr P has said throughout his complaint that the service history was very important to him. 
Mr P has added that the conversation with the dealer about the service history was 
witnessed by his friend at the point of sale. However as previously explained Ive seen no 
supporting evidence of a conversation or reference indicating the service history by the 
dealer prior to its sale. 
the indemnity guarantee
I havent been provided with an indemnity guarantee, nor have I requested one from First 
Response. I believe the relevant obligations in this complaint in respect of the standard of 
the goods supplied are those of First Response towards Mr P. As Ive explained already, 
these are set out in the CRA and implied into Mr Ps contract with First Response. 
I recognise that this decision is likely to be disappointing for Mr P, however I can assure him 
that Ive considered all the evidence provided and believe on balance that First Response 
has acted fairly in the circumstances.
I still consider my provisional findings to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Neither 
party has added anything which gives me cause to change these. Therefore, for the reasons 
as set out above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is the same.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint about First Response Finance Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 May 2021.
 
Benjamin John
Ombudsman