DRN-3798864
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain about the value of the settlement offer Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) 
Limited (Admiral) made in response to their claim.
Mr and Mrs B had home insurance with Admiral. Although the policy was in joint names, for 
ease of reading Ill refer only to Mr B throughout my decision. Any reference to Admirals 
actions includes those of its agents.
What happened
In response to Mr Bs claim for water damage, Admiral made a cash settlement offer based 
on a schedule of works. The offer was around half the amount Mr B had been quoted. He 
sent the quote to Admiral.
Admiral reassessed its offer based on the works shown in the quote, and its revised offer 
was in line with what Mr B expected.
Mr B complained to Admiral because he felt it had tried to push him to accept the lower 
quote as a way of minimising its costs. He also complained that Admiral hadnt responded to 
his correspondence or requests for a breakdown of its offer.
Admiral apologised to Mr B for its low offer. It also agreed that it hadnt handled Mr Bs claim 
as well as it couldve done, resulting in avoidable delays. Admiral paid £250 compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience caused and offered a further £50 for the delays handling 
his claim. However, Mr B didnt think its offer addressed his concerns about the original low 
offer, so he brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. She agreed that Admiral hadnt handled the 
claim as Mr B might reasonably have expected, but she thought it had done enough to put 
matters right. Our investigator noted that the settlement offer was in line with the quote Mr B 
had provided and the compensation for the inconvenience caused and the delays was 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mr B didnt agree. He provided a copy of Admirals original schedule of work and, with the 
exception of two relatively minor omissions, he said it identified all work to be undertaken. 
Therefore, Mr B wasn't convinced that Admiral had made a mistake with the schedule of 
works and it had purposely costed the repairs at a much lower value.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise he may be frustrated with this outcome, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs 
complaint. That doesnt mean Admiral didnt do anything wrong, but Im satisfied it did 
enough to put matters right. Ill explain.
To begin with, I must be clear about what my decision covers. Mr B wanted me to make a 
ruling about what he thinks is a business model of low cash settlement offers designed to 
minimise Admirals own costs at the expense of its policyholders. As its not within my remit 
to rule on business-wide policy  thats a matter for the regulator  I havent addressed Mr 
Bs concerns about a more widespread issue.
My role is to look at individual complaints and, if I find the business acted unfairly or 
unreasonably, I will reach a decision to put matters right. Here, Mr B isnt unhappy with the 
final settlement of his claim, or the amount Admiral offered in compensation to address the 
inconvenience and delays. He confirmed that he isnt out of pocket, so theres nothing more 
for Admiral to put right.
Schedule of works (SOW)
The remaining issue, then, is whether Admiral had a different schedule of work which it didnt 
make available to Mr B, and upon which it based its original lower offer.
After checking with Admiral, it confirmed that it only ever had the same SOW as Mr B had. 
So there is just one SOW. I understand that wont necessarily reassure Mr B because it 
doesnt explain the significant difference between the original settlement offer and the final 
settlement. 
So, Ive looked through all the records Admiral provided relating to this claim to see why the 
offers were so different. Having done so, the only conclusion Ive reached is that Admiral 
made a mistake with costing rates. I can see that there was a question around the line on 
the SOW from which the calculation started, and there was a query around the value of 
some parts of the work. Further, I note that Admirals agents didnt have permission to 
authorise work to the value of Mr Bs claim, so it needed to pass the SOW for review. But 
theres no evidence of a different SOW or that Admiral disputed the need for the work to be 
done.
The evidence indicates that Admiral and its agents just made some mistakes with the way 
they handled communication about the work, which caused a knock-on effect in its handling 
of Mr Bs claim. I havent seen anything in the evidence to suggest that Admiral purposely 
made a low settlement offer to Mr B to avoid paying for the full repairs needed. 
Compensation
Mr B hasnt disputed the amount of compensation Admiral paid. I understand there was a 
delay paying the additional compensation of £50, which Admiral has since paid with a further 
nominal amount by way of apology. Having considered the evidence, Im satisfied that 
Admirals overall offer of £300 in recognition of the inconvenience caused and the delays is 
reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 January 2023.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman