DRN-1374884
 
complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1998. Mr K says Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ks case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Barclays made it clear that Mr K didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose 
to take it out  although I can understand why he cant remember this. I say this 
because Ive been given a copy of the application form Mr K completed at the time. I 
can see that to get the PPI Mr K had to tick a Yes box for it. The Yes box is ticked 
and Mr K has signed the form which suggests his agreement to its contents. If Mr K 
hadnt wanted it he could have ticked the No box. So, it seems Mr K wanted this sort 
of cover and would have known this was something he could say No to.  
 
Barclays recommended the PPI to Mr K so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
him  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it 
was. For example he was eligible for the policy and wasnt affected by any of the 
exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. And he seems to have had a need for the 
cover. I say this as his sick pay at work was modest such that Mr K thought he might 
have had to rely on his family for support. This policy couldve covered 10% of his 
monthly balance for up to 12 months, if he was too ill to work, or if he lost his job. So 
as it wouldve paid in addition to, and potentially for longer than, any other pay he 
may have received, I think he couldve found this cover useful.
The policy cost appears to have been comparable to other similar policies at the time 
and it appears to have been affordable. 
 
So having thought about everything carefully, I think the policy was suitable for Mr K.
As well as checking the policy was right for Mr K, Barclays also had to give him clear enough 
information about the policy, so he could decide if he wanted to buy it. Its possible the 
information Barclays gave Mr K about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. But for 
the same reasons Ive mentioned above that I think the policy was suitable for him, I dont 
think better information wouldve stopped him from buying it. 
my final decisionThe PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so I do not uphold the complaint about Barclays Bank UK 
PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2020.
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman