DRN-2441581
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them two payment
protection insurance (PPI) policies.
What happened
Mr and Mrs K bought a PPI policy when they took out a mortgage in 1996. It gave them 
accident, sickness and unemployment cover.
They then took out a Total Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP) in 2002, again at the same 
time as they were taking out a mortgage. This plan offered life and critical illness insurance 
as well as PPI. They selected just the PPI which gave them accident, sickness and 
unemployment cover. 
Both sales took place in a bank branch and they paid a monthly amount for the policies.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs K disagreed so the complaint was
passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general approach to complaints about PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here.
In response to the adjudicators view Mr and Mrs K said they are concerned at the lack of 
evidence supporting Halifaxs position. They are right that some of the evidence is 
incomplete in this case  but thats not surprising or unreasonable given the time since the 
sales. In cases like this I have to reach a decision based on the balance of probabilities  in 
other words, based on what I consider is most likely given the available evidence and what 
we know about how Halifax sold PPI at the time. As an independent and impartial 
organisation we dont act on behalf of either consumer or banks - theres no benefit for us to 
find in favour of one party over the other.
Mrs K also said that Halifax has already admitted fault on a PPI loan sale which supports 
their argument that these polices were mis-sold. They did not agree to buy them showing a 
consistent risk position. But people often make different protection decisions for a mortgage 
because of the increased value of the debt and the fact its secured on their home.
I can only comment here on the individual merits of this complaint. But I would add that the 
outcome of PPI complaints will vary based on a number of different factors, including  but 
not limited to  how and when the policy was sold; the credit product it protected; the cost 
and benefit level; and the terms and conditions of the policy  as well as the customers 
circumstances. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ks complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs K say they didnt agree to taking out PPI at the time of either mortgage 
application. And there are no records available that show they gave their consent. I have 
considered their comments carefully, and I dont doubt these are their honest recollections of 
the sales, but I also have to take into account how long ago they were and how that might 
affect what they recall. 
the 1996 sale
Halifax had to make clear the PPI was optional, and Mr and Mrs K had to agree to take it 
out. I cant know what was said during the meeting, Halifax cant show how the PPI was 
presented to Mr and Mrs K and it doesnt have the paperwork from the sale. It has provided 
screenshots that show a number of PPI eligibility questions were likely asked about Mr and 
Mrs Ks age, employment situation and their health. So I think its likely that the PPI was 
discussed at the time even if Mr and Mrs K can no longer remember this now. In order to 
uphold Mr and Mrs Ks complaint on this issue Id have to think that Halifax added the PPI 
without their consent, and I dont think thats likely.  So I am not upholding their complaint on 
this point.
the 2002 sale
Based on what we know about the banks sales process at this time, I think its most likely Mr 
and Mrs K completed a TMPP application form selecting which elements of the cover they 
wanted, after discussion with the bank. I say this as Halifax has provided samples of the 
documents it used when selling TMPP at this time. I cant find enough evidence to conclude 
that it didnt follow its standard sales process here. 
Mr and Mrs K only took the PPI part of the plan (not the life or critical illness cover) which 
suggests there was discussion with the bank, and they understood they had choices. I can 
see from screenshots the bank has provided that they were likely asked questions about 
their employment and health as part of the policy quotation process. So it seems Mr and 
Mrs K were engaged in the process about buying the PPI. On balance, I think its most likely 
Halifax made it clear Mr and Mrs K had a choice about PPI - and they opted to take it out.
both sales
On both occasions Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs K, so it had to make sure it 
was suitable. They have asked what information has led us to think the policies were 
recommended. Its based on what we know about how the bank sold PPI in branches, and 
the banks submission. It is to Mr and Mrs Ks advantage as if the bank recommended the 
PPI it had more obligations to meet. It had to check the cover was right for them, rather than 
just provide information to allow them to make an informed decision. 
I think the PPI seems to have been right for them based on what Ive seen of their 
circumstances at the time. Mr and Mrs K have confirmed their circumstances hadnt changed 
between 1996 and 2002. They were both entitled to between six- and 12-months sick pay 
but the PPI wouldve paid out in addition to their work benefits, for up to 12 months under the 
1996 policy and for up to 24 months under the 2002 policy. It also gave them redundancy 
cover for the same lengths of time  again this would have paid out in addition to any 
employee benefits allowing them to protect any lump sum redundancy payment(s) at an 
already difficult time. Mr and Mrs K said they had savings worth around three months salary, 
but the PPI would have allowed them to use these to cover other living expenses whilst not 
working, or to keep them intact for their future needs.
Overall, given the consequences for Mr and Mrs K of defaulting on a high-value, long-termdebt secured against their home, I think the PPI would have been useful for them - in 
addition to their existing means - if they were sick or lost their job(s). 
Its possible Halifax didnt give Mr and Mrs K all the information they needed before they
decided to buy PPI. But this alone doesnt mean the policies were mis-sold. What I need to 
decide is if its most likely Mr and Mrs K would have made a different decision with better 
information. I dont know when the costs were first made clear, but the PPI was reasonably 
priced for the benefit it offered, and apparently affordable. I also dont know when Halifax 
first pointed out the main things the policies didnt cover, like medical exclusions or 
limitations for certain types of employment contract. But Mr and Mrs K dont appear to have 
been affected by any of those things. So overall, I dont think its most likely better 
information wouldve changed their decisions.
It follows I dont think Mr and Mrs K have lost out because of any problems with the sales.
My final decision
I am not upholding this complaint for the reasons set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 March 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman