DRN-3322301
The complaint
Mrs G complains that Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc (Mitsubishi) lent her a loan she couldnt 
afford.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them all again
here.
Mitsubishi lent Mrs G a loan of £2000 in September 2019, this is not in dispute, so Ill focus 
on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator, and I will explain 
why.
Mitsubishi gathered some information from Mrs G before it agreed to the loan. It asked her 
about her income and then verified this amount using an online verification tool. It then 
asked her questions about expenditure during the application process. It finally then carried 
out a credit search to check against any existing credit commitments.
Mrs G was entering into a significant commitment with Mitsubishi. She was agreeing to make 
monthly repayments for 2 years. So, I think it is right that Mitsubishi wanted to gather, and 
independently check (regarding her income and through the credit search), some detailed 
information about Mrs Gs financial circumstances before it agreed to lend to her. I think that 
the checks it did achieved that aim. I think on balance its checks were proportionate. I say 
this as this was the first loan that Mrs G had requested from Mitsubishi. The information Mrs 
G provided seemed to tally with what Mitsubishi had gathered through its verification tool 
and also the credit check. So, I think it would have taken some assurance from the checks it 
did carry out in this instance.
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs to
react appropriately to the information those checks show. So, Ive looked at the information
Mitsubishi gathered from Mrs G to check whether I agree it was appropriate for her to be 
given the loan.
Mitsubishi say that Mrs Gs monthly income was around £1830 and that it had validated this. 
It says after working out what Mrs Gs approximate rent was and also credit commitments, 
that Mrs G would be left with around £695 for living expenses after it had deducted the loan 
repayment. I can see that Mitsubishi had worked out Mrs G had enough disposable income 
to be able to afford the loan. From the information it gathered, I think it would have been 
apparent to Mitsubishi that the loan was affordable and there was nothing that it would have 
had in front of it that would have shown it she was struggling to manage her finances.
So, overall, I agree with the investigator. On balance, I dont think Mitsubishis proportionate 
checks would have suggested that Mrs G would have problems repaying this loan. So, I 
dont think Mitsubishi was wrong on this occasion to give the loan to Mrs G. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman