DRN-1978475
 
The complaint
Mr B complains that The Co-operative Bank plc ('Co-op') gave him incorrect information 
which caused him distress and financial loss.
What happened
In 2015 Mr B took out a Professional and Career Development Loan (the loan) with Co-op. 
He began repaying the loan in August 2016 but due to financial difficulties, he fell behind on 
payments from early 2017.
During a call with the Co-op in May 2017 he was told that as the loan was administered by a 
government agency, it wasnt possible to organise a more affordable repayment plan until it 
was passed to a debt collection agent. He was also told that a default could be registered 
against his credit file if this happened. In response, Mr B said he was thinking of selling 
some personal belongings to raise funds to service the loan  the call handler told him he 
didnt have to do this.
Mr B brought the account up to date in June 2017. Mr B missed another payment after this 
and in August 2017 he called Co-op. On this occasion, he was told that Co-op didnt report 
defaults for this type of loan to credit reference agencies. Once told this, Mr B continued to 
make a payment to bring the account up to date.
In 2019 Mr B complained to Co-op about what hed been told in May 2017, namely, that if he 
defaulted on the loan it would be reported to credit reference agencies. He said this had 
prompted him to sell personal possessions, obtain credit and use savings to service the 
loan, as he was concerned about the impact a reported default would have on his career 
prospects. He said this had left him worse off financially as well as causing him distress.
The Co-op didnt think it was responsible for Mr Bs actions and that it was his choice as to 
how he serviced the loan. But it did recognise that what he was told in May 2017 caused him 
trouble and upset, so it paid him £125 compensation for its mistake. 
Mr B was unhappy with Co-ops response, so referred his complaint to this service.
In brief, our investigator considered the compensation paid by Co-op, was fair. She didnt 
think there was enough evidence to show that it was to blame for Mr Bs decision to sell his 
belonging or to take out further credit. Mr B disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans 
decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I begin my reasoning I want to assure both parties that Ive read and considered all 
the information and comments they sent in. Im not going to respond to every point thats 
been raised but will focus on what I think are the key issues. No discourtesy is intended by 
this, it simply reflects the informal nature of our service. Ill also mention at this stage that 
where theres a dispute about what happened Ive based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
I know Mr B said he had evidence of someone in similar circumstances suffering financial 
loss as a direct consequence of incorrect information, which he says supports his case. He 
should, however, note that whilst I do take into account the law, including case law, I must 
decide each complaint on the individual circumstances of the case.
There is no dispute Co-op made a mistake when its call handler told Mr B that it would 
record a default with credit reference agencies  this isnt something that it normally does 
with this type of loan. I appreciate Co-ops letters to Mr B did contain a warning that missed 
payments could impact on his credit file. But Co-op puts this warning in its letters as this 
could happen if payments are missed  but its internal process means it doesnt do so and I 
think this is what wasnt made clear to Mr B during the call in May. So whilst I dont find it did 
anything wrong with its letter, I do think the call handler shouldve told Mr B that this isnt 
normally something Co-op does for this type of loan. And as this wasnt done, Ill consider 
the impact of this on Mr B.
Mr B says the incorrect information led him raise funds through selling personal possessions 
and obtaining more credit. But hes not been able to provide evidence of any financial loss 
as a result of these actions. In any event, for me to hold Co-op responsible for any such 
losses, Id first need to be satisfied its mistake was the cause of him taking steps which 
resulted in financial loss.
I can see within a month of the mistake in May, Mr B did bring the account up to date by 
making a payment to cover three missed payments. But I can also see that in the following 
August, he called Co-op to make another payment, again to cover missed payments. During 
this call the mistake was rectified when he was clearly told by the call handler that his 
(Mr Bs) credit record wouldnt be affected by a default. But despite being updated, Mr B 
made it clear he still wanted to proceed with the proposed payment. From what I can hear 
thered been no change in his circumstances  he was still out of work and had no income. 
Mr B continued to make payments for a further year after this call.
So looking at the actions of Mr B after he was told the correct position, its clear that he 
considered making repayments a priority regardless of whether Co-ops process involved 
registering a default or not. So on balance, I cant fairly say it was Co-ops mistake in May 
that was the cause of Mr B taking steps such as selling personal belongings to raise funds  
this is something I think he was more likely than not to do, regardless of Co-ops error.
That said, I can hear Co-ops mistake did cause Mr B distress  listening to the calls I can 
hear he was clearly concerned about the impact a default on his credit file could have on his 
future career prospects. But I need to balance this with the fact I dont think this caused Mr B 
to do things differently as Ive outlined above. 
Further, I can also see that the mistake was corrected within a relatively short period. I know 
Mr B disputes it only took four months before he was told the correct information. But 
listening to the calls, I can hear he was told the incorrect information in May 2017 and that 
this was corrected in August the same year. And during the call in May he clearly indicated 
that before this call, hed been told by Co-op that a default wouldnt affect his credit file for 
this type of loan. Therefore Im persuaded that four months is the correct timeframe. So all in 
all, Im satisfied the £125 paid to Mr B by Co-op for its mistake, was fair.
Finally Ive also considered whether, overall, Co-op dealt with Mr Bs financial situation 
appropriately before the account was passed to a debt collection agent in 2018. As noted 
above, because of the type of loan  namely, it was administered by a government agency  Co-op couldnt arrange an affordable repayment plan. This could only be organised once the 
loan had been passed to debt collection agents. This was explained to Mr B at the time. 
I can, however, hear other steps were taken by Co-op during its contact with Mr B in 
response to his financial difficulties. For example, in May when he indicated he was 
intending to sell personal possessions, the call handler discouraged him from doing so. And 
in August after hearing about Mr Bs financial situation in detail, the call handler asked Mr B 
if he was sure he wanted to make the payment he was about to authorise and also checked 
if the payment was affordable to him  Mr B responded by saying yes, definitely. Mr B was 
also signposted to a not-for-profit debt advice agency. So overall, I consider Co-op did 
respond to Mr Bs particular circumstances in a positive and sympathetic way.
For all these reasons, whilst I appreciate Mr B will be disappointed with this outcome, Im not 
going to ask Co-op to do anything further.
My final decision
Im not upholding the complaint as I think the settlement already paid by The Co-operative 
Bank plc of £125, is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2020. 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman