DRN-3572985
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy that Nationwide Building Society did not tell him that when the introductory 
rate ended on his flex direct account the new lower interest would only be earned on part of 
his balance.
What happened
Mr H opened his account in a branch in December 2016. He says he was under the 
impression that when the 12-month promotional rate ended the reduced interest rate would 
be applied to the whole balance. He would never have used the account as he did had he 
known this was not the case.
He says he visited the branch several times over the subsequent years and the staff never 
advised him about this or recommended he reviewed his account holdings, even when he 
recently alerted Nationwide that he was going to make a large seven-figure deposit. He feels 
the manager should have at this point been transparent and warned him the majority of his 
money would earn no interest.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Hs complaint. He said as Mr H opened his account in a 
branch he would most likely have been given information about the account to read and 
keep. He has reviewed the terms and brochure for the flex direct account in place at the 
time. This set out that as long as Mr H paid in £1,000 each month he would receive 5% 
interest on balances up to £2,500. This fell to 1% after 12 months. In June this year the 
terms changed and reduced the eligible balance to up to £1,500 and the interest rate to 
0.25%. So he felt Mr H would have been given information as to how the account worked. 
He added Nationwide has also said Mr H would have received a reminder letter two months 
before the introductory rate ended.
Unhappy with this assessment Mr H asked for an ombudsmans review. He said this view 
sides with Nationwide and is unfair. The manager should definitely have told him he would 
only get interest on the first £1,500 when he said he was about to deposit a large sum. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have listened to the call Mr H made to this service when he registered his complaint and 
explained his dissatisfaction in full. Mr H said the investigator sided with Nationwide but as 
an independent and impartial organisation we dont act on behalf of either consumer or 
banks - theres no benefit for us to find in favour of one party over the other.
I am not upholding Mr Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr H opened his account in a branch but there is no record of the meeting so I cannot know 
with certainty what he was told. But I think its most likely that he was given the flex direct 
account information that I have seen a copy of. This makes clear the lower interest rate that 
comes into effect after 12 months would only apply on the first £2,500 of balance. Ive seen 
nothing Nationwide issued that could have given Mr H the impression that the lower rate 
would apply to the full balance. So I think its most likely Mr H was properly equipped with 
information that was clear, fair and not misleading and he opted to take the account out on 
this basis. I am not doubting his testimony that he thought the full balance would earn 
interest, but I cant fairly conclude that Nationwide did anything to contribute to this 
misunderstanding.
Mr H feels strongly that the branch staff ought to have flagged that his account was only 
paying interest on the first £2,500, and more recently £1,500. But Ive seen no evidence that 
he had requested financial advice, that the branch had failed to provide. And whilst it might 
have been welcomed by Mr H the bank was under no obligation to intervene in the way he 
describes. 
It follows, I cant fairly find the bank made any errors.
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman