DRN-4311415
The complaint
Mr D has complained that Astrenska Insurance Limited trading as Collinson Insurance 
(Astrenska) has unfairly declined his claim.
What happened
Mr D bought a travel insurance policy, underwritten by Astrenska. 
He travelled abroad but on his return journey his flight was cancelled by the airline due to air 
traffic control. Mr D made a complaint to Astrenska but it declined the claim on the basis that 
the reason for cancellation wasnt covered under the terms of his policy. 
Mr D complained and unhappy with Astrenskas response, referred his complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think Astrenska had unfairly declined the 
claim. 
Mr D disagreed and in summary he said he didnt think the policy was clear, his brothers 
claim had been paid and Consumer Duty rules hadnt been applied. He asked for an 
Ombudsmans decision. 
And so the case has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
The relevant rules and industry regulations say an insurer should handle claims promptly 
and fairly. And shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
The relevant policy term under the travel delay section says:
If your departure is delayed because the public transport carrier you have checked 
in for is delayed by at least 12 hours from the time shown in your travel itinerary as a 
result of strike, industrial action, adverse weather, mechanical breakdown or 
grounding of an aircraft due to mechanical or structural defect, we will pay up to the 
limits specifiedafter 12 hours delay
Mr Ds flight wasnt cancelled due to any of the reasons covered in the policy (strike, 
industrial action, adverse weather, mechanical breakdown or grounding of an aircraft due to 
mechanical or structural defect) and so Astrenska didnt unfairly decline his claim. As there 
are specified reasons covered under this section, I dont think Astrenska treated Mr D 
unfairly.
Mr D says he doesnt understand why his brothers claim was paid but his was not. Mr Ds 
brother isnt insured on Mr Ds policy and may have been subject to different terms and 
conditions. I can only comment on Mr Ds complaint and policy. 
Mr D also said he doesnt think the terms are clear. But I think they are clear. They set out 
the specific events that are covered in the event of delay or cancellation. 
Finally, Mr D says the Consumer Duty rules havent been applied but this was introduced on 
31 July 2023 and isnt retrospective. So it doesnt apply to his complaint as the event he is 
complaining about happened before the Consumer Duty was introduced. However, I have 
considered the rules and standards that were in place at the time, as set out above. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2023.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman