DRN-3128031
The complaint
Mr K and Miss W complain that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold a total 
mortgage protection plan (TMPP) to them in 2001. 
What happened
A TMPP typically comprised a number of different types of insurance products such as 
payment protection insurance (PPI), critical illness cover and life protection. It was possible 
to choose some or all of the products that were offered. In this case, I can see that Mr K was 
covered for all elements  life, critical illness and PPI. Miss W was sold life and PPI cover. 
Mr K and Miss W complained to Halifax and said the TMPP had been mis-sold in its entirety. 
Halifax didnt uphold the complaint. However, as a gesture of goodwill, it did offer to refund 
some of the commission Mr K and Miss W paid as part of their premiums. Mr K and Miss W 
didnt accept that offer. They complained to this service. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the PPI element had been mis-sold. He didnt think it was wrong 
for Halifax to recommend life cover and critical illness cover. But he thought Halifax should 
have sold them decreasing level cover, instead of level term cover. 
Halifax accepted our adjudicators view and offered to pay back to Mr K and Miss W the 
difference between a level term and decreasing term life and critical illness policy. Mr K and 
Miss W did not accept that view. They maintained their position that the policy had been 
entirely mis-sold. They were also concerned that they may have been overcharged for the 
policy because Miss W was not eligible for critical illness cover. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered this matter at some length, I agree with our adjudicator that the PPI 
element of the cover was not mis-sold. And I think the offer Halifax made to refund some of 
the commission Mr K and Miss W paid for the PPI element was a fair way to settle that part 
of the complaint. I further agree with our adjudicator that decreasing level term assurance 
would have been more appropriate for Mr K and Miss W for life and critical illness cover. Ill 
explain why below. 
The TMPP was sold to Mr K and Miss W in a Halifax branch. I cant know what was said 
during that meeting. So to help me decide whats likely to have happened, Ive looked at 
what Mr K and Miss W told us about it. And Ive also carefully considered the documentary 
and electronic evidence thats available from the point of sale. 
The first thing Ive considered is whether it would have been made clear to Mr K and Miss W 
that the TMPP was optional, and they didnt have to take it out if they didnt want it. I can see 
that in their submissions, Mr K and Miss W have been clear that they were wrongly told they 
needed to have cover or their mortgage wouldnt have been agreed. 
I accept that what Mr K and Miss W told us is what they honestly remember about the sale. 
But I also must bear in mind that its difficult to remember precisely what happened 20 years 
ago  which is when this policy was sold. I can see it was compulsory for Mr K and Miss W 
to have buildings insurance. But I have seen a copy of a letter Halifax sent to Mr K and Miss 
W on 8 June 2001 in which it was stated that they had been provided with information about 
PPI. It also says they were able to choose different mortgage products. I think the language 
in that letter indicates that Mr K and Miss W had a choice about which products they took out 
with Halifax. On balance, I think its likely that Mr K and Miss W were told that buildings 
insurance was a condition of their mortgage. But I think the TMPP would have been 
presented as optional. 
Halifax recommended this PPI cover to Mr K and Miss W. That means it had to take 
reasonable steps to make sure the cover was suitable for their needs. To help me decide 
whether the cover was suitable, Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the policy. And 
Ive also looked carefully at what Mr K and Miss W told us about heir circumstances at the 
relevant time. 
Life and critical illness elements 
As I said above, both Mr K and Miss W had life cover. Critical illness cover was sold to Mr K. 
Halifax did not recommend critical illness cover to Miss W as she was not eligible due to 
some familial medical conditions. Halifax recommended level term cover, which means that 
in the unfortunate event of Mr K or Miss Ws death, £22,000 would have been paid out. This 
was the amount theyd borrowed when the cover was sold. If Mr K was diagnosed with a 
defined critical illness, the same amount would have also been paid out. 
I cant reasonably say Halifax was wrong to recommend life or critical illness cover. Life 
cover would have allowed the surviving partner to repay the mortgage in full, and I can see 
how that would have been of great benefit. Similarly, the mortgage could have been repaid 
in full if Mr K had been diagnosed with a critical illness, leaving Mr K and Miss W free to 
spend their existing resources on any additional care costs without their home being at risk. 
I know Mr K and Miss W were concerned that theyd paid too much for the critical illness 
cover if only Mr K was covered. But looking at the electronic information Halifax provided to 
us, I can see they were only charged for critical illness cover in respect of Mr K. Im satisfied 
they didnt pay more for Miss W when she wasnt covered. 
However, I agree with our adjudicator that a decreasing term life and critical illness cover 
would have been more suitable in these circumstances. Mr K and Miss W had a capital 
repayment mortgage and so the value of a decreasing term policy would have decreased in 
line with the outstanding mortgage balance. The cover that was sold to Mr K and Miss W 
was a level term policy  which meant that the amount of cover stayed the same throughout 
the life of the mortgage. A level term policy would have paid more than Mr K and Miss W 
needed. I note Halifax agreed with our adjudicator on this point. 
PPI element 
I can see that if Mr K or Miss W made a PPI claim, a proportion of their mortgage 
repayments would have been covered for up to two years if they were off sick or if they were 
made redundant. Mr K was covered for 55% of the repayments, and Miss W was covered for 
45%. From the mortgage application form, I can see that this was broadly in line with their 
salaries. 
Mr K and Miss W told us they had good sickness provision from their respective employers. 
Despite that, as the PPI would have covered them for up to two years, I think its unlikely 
their sick pay and redundancy pay would have lasted for longer than that. So I can see how 
PPI could have been helpful in that regard. The cover would have also paid out in addition to 
their work benefits, so they could have used those other resources on their other essential 
expenditure at what would have no doubt been a difficult time if one or both of them was out 
of work. I must stress that their borrowing was secured on their home, which could have 
been at risk if they fell behind with their mortgage repayments. Ive also checked whether any of the exclusions or limitations on the policy would have made 
it more difficult for Mr K or Miss W to make a claim. I understand they were in good health 
when the PPI was sold. So I dont think they would have been affected by any of the policys 
exclusions about medical conditions. And I havent seen anything unusual about their 
circumstances that would have stopped them from being able to make a successful claim on 
the policy. Looking at their declared income and expenditure on the mortgage application 
form, it looks as though the cover would have been affordable. With all of these things in 
mind, Im satisfied Halifaxs recommendation to take PPI was suitable for Mr K and Miss W 
in their circumstances. 
Even so, Halifax still had to give Mr K and Miss W enough information about the TMPP so 
they could decide for themselves whether it was a good fit for their needs. I accept its 
possible Halifax didnt tell Mr K and Miss W everything it should have done about the PPI 
policy. But Ive set out how the policy could have been useful if Mr K or Miss W was out of 
work. So looking at things objectively, I dont think they would have acted differently if Halifax 
had given them more or better information about the cover. 
Commission 
When it sold cover to Mr K and Miss W, Halifax expected to get some commission from the 
insurer as a reward for selling that policy. The commission would have been paid from Mr K 
and Miss Ws PPI premiums. In cases such as this, I would usually expect a business to 
refund to a consumer the amount of profit share and commission that would have been more 
than 50% of the PPI premiums. 
But in this case, Halifax told us that the anticipated amount of commission and profit would 
have been less than 50%. So, in usual circumstances, I wouldnt usually expect it to make a 
commission refund. But, as a gesture of goodwill, Halifax offered to give back some of the 
commission Mr K and Miss W paid. And I think that is a fair offer in respect of commission. 
So, putting all of this together, I cant say the TMPP was mis-sold in full. But Im satisfied 
Halifax should have recommended decreasing level cover for the life and critical illness 
elements that were sold to Mr K and Miss W. And its offer to pay back some of the 
commission is fair in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Putting things right
Halifax must: 
Calculate and pay Mr K and Miss W the difference between their monthly level term 
assurance payments and decreasing level cover payments;  
Pay 8% simple interest on each monthly payment from the date they paid their 
premiums to the date they get that money back;* 
If it hasnt done so already, make arrangements to pay its commission offer to Mr K 
and Miss W. 
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Halifax to take off tax from this interest. It must give Mr K 
and Miss W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
I need to make clear to Mr K and Miss W that I wouldnt usually expect the difference 
between the cost of the decreasing level cover and level term cover to be significant. In 
some cases, a refund may not be due at all depending on how competitively priced the level 
term assurance policy sold to Mr K and Miss W was. My final decision
I have upheld the complaint to the extent set out above. I require Bank of Scotland plc, 
trading as Halifax, to comply with the above putting things right section. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Miss W 
to accept or reject my decision before 8 March 2022.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman