DRN-4355082
Complaint
Mr C is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt reimburse him after he told it hed fallen 
victim to a scam.
Background
In June 2023, Mr C hired a contractor (Mr K) to carry out repair works at his home. As I 
understand it, Mr K agreed to replaster and repaint the ceilings in two rooms, reinstall the 
electrical fittings and appliances disturbed by this work and repaint the walls. He paid the 
contractor a total of £2,100 divided up into two separate payments from his HSBC account.
Unfortunately, the quality of the work fell considerably below the standard one would expect 
of a professional. Mr C tells me that he was unhappy with a painter that the contractor sent 
to carry out part of the works. He asked Mr K to change and says that he responded by 
becoming verbally abusive. Eventually, the contractor abandoned the job. Mr C says that he 
left wiring exposed in places and damaged the handles on his kitchen windows. There were 
several other shortcomings with the work of the contractor which Mr C has detailed in email 
correspondence with us. He says he has attempted to get the builders to come back to his 
home to rectify the issues but that hes not been able to make contact with them.
Mr C told HSBC that hed fallen victim to a scam. HSBC looked into things but didnt agree 
with him  it thought Mr C had a private civil dispute with the contractor and so it didnt agree 
to refund him. Mr C was unhappy with that response and so he referred his complaint to this 
service. It was looked at by an Investigator who didnt uphold it. Broadly speaking, she came 
to the same outcome as the bank.
Mr C disagreed with the Investigators view and so the complaint has been passed to me to 
consider and come to a final decision. 
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, that isnt the 
end of the story. HSBC is a signatory to the Lending Standards Boards Contingent 
Reimbursement Model Code (the CRM code). This Code requires firms to reimburse 
customers who have been the victim of authorised push payment (APP) scams in all but a 
limited number of circumstances. 
The Code defines APP scams in the following way:
a transfer of funds executed across Faster Payments, CHAPS or an internal book 
transfer, authorised by a Customer in accordance with regulation 67 of the PSRs, 
where:
(i) The Customer intended to transfer funds to another person, but was instead 
deceived into transferring the funds to a different person; or 
(ii) The Customer transferred funds to another person for what they believed 
were legitimate purposes but which were in fact fraudulent.
The Code also specifically excludes certain types of dispute. It says:
This Code does not apply to  private civil disputes, such as where a Customer has 
paid a legitimate supplier for goods, services, or digital content but has not received 
them, they are defective in some way, or the Customer is otherwise dissatisfied with 
the supplier.
This means that HSBC isnt required to reimburse Mr C if the evidence doesnt show that its 
more likely than not that he was the victim of fraud. To conclude that he was, Id need to be 
persuaded that the contractor he hired had a settled intention to scam him. Obviously, I 
cannot know what was in the mind of the builder at the time they agreed to carry out these 
repairs. As a result, I must infer what his intentions were based on what the available 
evidence tells me.
Mr C has given us a detailed description of the shortcomings of the work, but Im not 
persuaded that these are an indication that the contractor intended to scam him. Its at least 
as likely that the root cause was incompetence. In such circumstances, Mr C may have a 
civil claim for damages for breach of contract against Mr K, but it wouldnt entitle him to have 
his losses reimbursed by the bank under the CRM Code. I accept that Mr C has suffered a 
significant amount of stress here and has been let down badly. He appears to have had work 
carried out to a very low standard and this has left him needing to carry out remedial works. 
But disputes of this nature, in my view, belong in the civil, rather than criminal, courts.
Finally, Mr C has said that he told HSBC he was going to pay £2,100 in a single payment but 
instead he made two payments. He says HSBC shouldve been concerned by this, but Im 
afraid I dont agree. I dont find it wouldve had any reasonable basis for thinking that this 
slight change was an indication that Mr C was at risk of fraud, so I dont think it did anything 
wrong by not intervening or questioning the payments with him.
Final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2023.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman