DRN-4362424
The complaint
Mr B is complaining that TSB Bank plc havent returned some money he said he transferred 
by mistake.
What happened
On 6 and 7 June 2023 Mr B made payments of £350 to the recipient, who is an 
acquaintance of his. Mr B used TSBs automated telephone banking system to make the 
payments.
On 28 June 2023 Mr B called TSB. He said that he thought the information on the back of 
his statement about the availability of TSBs telephone banking advisers was incorrect. He 
then explained that hed checked his statement and had seen that hed sent two payments of 
£350 by mistake when he made the transactions on 6 and 7 June 2023. He said the 
recipient was making some noise in the background while he used the automated telephone 
banking system which had caused the mistake. On the same day TSB contacted the 
receiving bank to attempt to recover the money Mr B had sent.
On 7 July 2023 the receiving bank responded to TSB to say the recipient didnt have enough 
money to return it at that time, but hed told them he would return it at a later date. On 26 
July 2023 TSB let Mr B know of the receiving banks response.
The recipient didnt return the money to Mr B on the day he said he would. And TSB told Mr 
B they couldnt do any more to recover the money.
Mr B brought his complaint to us. He said, in summary, that hed made two payments of 
£350 to the recipient by mistake and was unhappy that TSB hadnt returned any of the 
money to him. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened, but she didnt think TSB had treated Mr B 
unfairly. Mr B didnt agree, so his complaints been passed to me for review and a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
The relevant guidelines here are laid down by the Faster Payments Service. The guidelines 
apply where:
a customer has made a payment in error;
theres clear evidence of a genuine mistake;
the recipient doesnt dispute what happened; and
the moneys still available. 
The guidelines say that when theyre told about a mistake, the sending bank must contact 
the receiving bank within two working days. If the mistakes clear, they should ask the 
receiving bank to prevent the money being spent. If the moneys still available and the 
recipient doesnt dispute what happened, the sender should get the money back within 20 
working days. And if its not possible to get the money back  for example, if its been spent - 
the sender should be told about the outcome within 20 working days from the point of their 
enquiry. 
Mr Bs said he told TSB about the mistake earlier than 28 June 2023, but Im satisfied that 
the call Mr B made on 28 June 2023 was the first time hed reported this to TSB. Ive 
reviewed the records of the phone calls Mr B made to TSB and they have no record of Mr B 
calling them about the mistaken payments before 28 June 2023. Ive listened to the call and 
Mr B doesnt mention having reported the mistake earlier  and I think he would have done if 
he had. So, I dont think TSB had an opportunity to recall the payments any sooner than they 
did.  
TSB have questioned whether Mr B made the payments by mistake or whether hed 
changed his mind after falling out with the recipient after hed sent them. Mr B does mention 
in the phone call that hes recently fallen out with the recipient. But I dont think this matters 
here  because I can see that when Mr B reported the issue on 28 June 2023 TSB did what 
Id expect them to have done if a genuine mistake had been made, by contacting the 
receiving bank within two working days of Mr B reporting the issue.
The guidelines say that as long as the moneys still available and the recipient doesnt 
dispute what happened, the sender should get the money back within 20 working days. But 
in this case the receiving bank told TSB the money wasnt available, so couldnt be returned 
to Mr B.
Its not clear from the receiving banks response if the recipient accepted hed received the 
money by mistake, but in any case I dont think there was anything else TSB ought to have 
done to recover the money after receiving this response from the receiving bank. Although 
the recipient did say they would return the money to Mr B at a later date, this wasnt 
something TSB had control over or could enforce. TSB told Mr B about the outcome on 26 
July 2023 which was within 20 working days of when he first contacted them, in line with the 
guidelines.
Its not the main point of Mr Bs complaint, but for completeness, Ive not seen anything to 
show that TSB misled him about the availability of their telephone banking advisers.  
Overall, I dont think TSB have treated Mr B unfairly here. I know Mr B is experiencing some 
difficult circumstances and Im very sorry to disappoint him. But Im not upholding his 
complaint.My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2023.
 
Helen Sutcliffe
Ombudsman