DRN-1624079
The complaint 
Miss I and Miss Ks complaint (brought through their relative Mr I) is about Mapfre 
Asistencia, Compania Interacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, SA ("Mapfre") and its decision 
to decline their claim under a travel insurance policy, as well as its handling of the claim 
itself. They want matters put right.
Background
Miss I and Miss K took out a travel insurance policy with Mapfre and went abroad in 
September 2018.
Miss K had a stroke while abroad. The treating consultant said she could return to 
the UK after a few days. Mapfre said it would consider the claim, and then said it 
would refund only 37.9% of the cost of any claim due to a failure to disclose all of 
Miss Ks pre-existing medical history. It told the family to organise the repatriation.
Mr I complained to Mapfre through a solicitor about its handling of the claim 
(including the time taken).
Mapfre said it couldnt have made its decision any earlier as it needed to check Miss 
Ks medical history to see if she had an undisclosed pre-existing medical condition, 
which needed her to sign a form to gain access to the medical records. Mapfre said 
that it didnt get the completed form until the GP practice was closed for a weekend, 
but got the records within a day of it reopening, which were promptly reviewed. 
Mapfre also said that it was surprised by the first mention of Miss K's fitness to travel  
given her blood pressure wasnt under control and her family described her situation 
as critical. It said that it wouldnt have approved flight until Miss Ks condition was 
stable, which at the earliest wouldve been 3 October (after it had declined the claim).
Mapfre said that it was correct to decline the claim as Miss K didnt declare a stroke 
that she suffered in 2017 (or other matters), though she did declare hypertension. It 
said that this meant under the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Misrepresentations) Act 2012 (CIDRA), Mapfre had to think about what it wouldve 
done if the 2017 stroke had been declared from the outset. While it said that it was 
incorrect to initially say that the original premium paid reflected only 37.9% of the 
correct premium (which was why it first said it would cover 37.9% of the claim), this 
was because Mapfre had overlooked Miss Ks high cholesterol and her failure to take 
statins as recommended by her GP. It also noted that Miss K hadnt given correct 
information about her high blood pressure as she had told Mapfre that she was only 
on one medication for this, when she was taking two for this reason. The 
recalculation meant that 44% of the correct premium had been paid, and so Mapfre 
accepted that it was liable for 44% of any valid claim and confirmed that it would pay 
that.
Mapfre accepted that its staff shouldve managed the familys expectations better and 
shouldnt have made them repeat information or chase for responses. It paid £400 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused by its service failures.
Mr I didnt agree and brought the complaint to us.
After investigating, our investigator concluded the complaint shouldnt be upheld.
Mr I, Miss I and Miss K dont agree.
Ill now set out my decision and the reasons for it. My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive decided this 
complaint should not be upheld for these reasons: 
When I refer to Mapfre, Im also referring to its agents. The relevant rules and 
industry guidelines say that Mapfre has a responsibility to handle claims promptly 
and fairly. And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. I cant consider complaints 
about complaints handling as this isnt a regulated activity within the jurisdiction of 
this service, but I will look at whether Mapfre has generally acted fairly and 
reasonably in all the circumstances.
CIDRA does apply in this case - this requires consumers to take reasonable care not 
to make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a 
policy). The standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer. And if a consumer 
fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the misrepresentation is - 
what CIDRA describes - as a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be a qualifying 
misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed 
to take reasonable care. One of these is how clear and specific the insurers 
questions were. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on 
whether the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless or careless. If the 
misrepresentation was reckless or deliberate and an insurer can show it would have 
at least offered the policy on different terms, it is entitled to avoid the consumers 
policy. If the misrepresentation was careless, then to avoid the policy, the insurer 
must show it would not have offered the policy at all if it wasnt for the 
misrepresentation. If the insurer is entitled to avoid the policy, it means it will not have 
to deal with any claims under it. If the qualifying misrepresentation was careless and 
the insurer would have charged a higher premium if the consumer hadnt made the 
misrepresentation, it will have to consider the claim and settle it proportionately if it 
accepts it. 
CIDRA reflects our long-established approach to misrepresentation cases. In the 
circumstances of this complaint, given the failure to declare Miss Ks stroke in 2017 
and other relevant medical information when taking out the policy, I think a 
reasonable consumer wouldve mentioned these points and Mapfre has shown the 
disclosure wouldve changed the premium significantly. I note that Mapfre has in 
essence said that it was careless. This is fair and reasonable as such key information 
was not disclosed and shouldve been, but the form was completed by Miss I, who 
was Miss Ks niece. While I accept Miss I completed the form to the best of her 
knowledge, she was required to ensure she had all of Miss Ks medical information 
and that she disclosed it, particularly as one question gave strokes as an example 
and the decision to refuse to take a statin was recent. Mapfre can only rely on the 
information it received as set out in the medical declaration and Im not persuaded by 
the evidence sent by Mr I as to how he says Miss I completed the form as it isnt as 
cogent as the evidence Mapfre has sent. I think allowing Mapfre to rely on the 
careless qualifying misrepresentation to only pay 44% of any valid claim under the 
policy produces the fair and reasonable outcome in this complaint as it has shown 
only 44% of the correct premium has been paid. Interest at 8% simple a year should 
be paid from the date the monies were paid out by Miss I and Miss K or on their 
behalf to the date of refund.
I accept that trouble and upset has been caused to Miss I and Miss K due to the 
incorrect calculation of the amount of any claim that would be paid by Mapfre, but 
much of the trouble and upset is about the refusal to pay in full, for which I havent found Mapfre to be at fault. I also bear in mind that only Miss I and Miss K have any 
entitlement to compensation for trouble and upset, not the wider family.
I note Mapfre accepts it made other errors, such as requiring information to be 
repeated and a failure to manage expectations better. I havent found that it delayed 
repatriation as I dont think it couldve acted any quicker  its fair and reasonable for 
an insurer to need a reasonable opportunity to gather the medical evidence. And 
while the treating doctors clearly thought Miss K could be repatriated sooner, its fair 
and reasonable that this couldnt be done if Mapfre was to organise the repatriation 
until either the claim was validated for more than a 50% liability or the insurers 
specialist advisers (who are experts in repatriation and flight medicine) were satisfied 
that it was safe for Miss K to travel. Blood pressure is a key factor and I note the 
contact notes reflect that the family felt Miss Ks condition was critical. And I also note 
that in the end as Mapfres liability was less than 50% of any claim, I dont think that it 
was unfair or unreasonable for it to not arrange the repatriation itself  the policy 
doesnt say that Mapfre will do this and its liability was less than 50%; it also 
saved the policyholder paying agency fees. In all the circumstances, I think £400 
compensation is fair and reasonable.
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Mapfre Asistencia, Compania 
Interacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, SA. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Miss I and Miss K to accept or reject my decision before 25 June 
2020.
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman