DRN-3222560
Complaint
Mrs B is unhappy with what Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) has agreed to do to put things right 
after she complained about unfair charges on her overdraft.
Background
Weve already explained we cant look at what happened on Mrs Bs account prior to    
March 2018 because of her previous complaint about this issue. Weve also explained that 
were considering her complaint about the packaged account fees added to her account 
separately. So this decision is only looking at Mrs Bs complaint about the interest and 
charges added from March 2018 onwards.
As a result of our adjudicators involvement, Lloyds agreed that it should refund all the 
interest, fees and charges it added to Mrs Bs overdraft from March 2018 and it proposed to 
reduce what Mrs B owed by this amount.
One of our adjudicators looked at Mrs Bs complaint and he thought that what Lloyds had 
agreed to do to put things right was fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances of the 
case. Mrs B didnt agree so the complaint was passed for an ombudsmans decision.   
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I think that what Lloyds has already agreed to
do to put things right for Mrs B is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of his 
complaint. Ill explain why I think this is the case. 
Lloyds has agreed that it ought to have realised that it was unfair to continue adding interest, 
fees and charges to Mrs Bs account as it ought to have realised the overdraft was 
unsustainable at this stage. And it has agreed to refund all the interest, fees and charges 
added it to Mrs Bs overdraft from then in order to put things right. 
It might help for me to start by explaining that where a business accepts (or we decide) it did 
something wrong, wed expect the business to put the consumer in the position they would 
be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. And in an ideal world, wed tell a business to put a 
consumer in the position theyd now be in if they hadnt been given the credit they shouldnt 
have. However, thats not possible in cases where funds that shouldnt have been advanced 
were advanced because typically those funds will have already been spent. 
So we have to look at a way of asking a business to put things right in a fair and reasonable 
way. And where a business provided, or continued to allow a consumer to use, a credit 
facility which it should have realised was unsustainable, wed typically expect it to put the 
consumer in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt paid any further interest and charges 
on that credit.
This means wed normally expect a lender to refund the interest and charges added to any 
credit from the point the lender ought to have realised it was unsustainable. And if those 
interest and charges were paid also add 8% simple interest per year. Thats what Lloyds has 
agreed to do here, so it has agreed to do what Id normally expect a firm to do in these 
circumstances.
In this case, Mrs B has been left with an outstanding balance even though shes been 
refunded all of the interest, fees and charges applied. So while Mrs B has been left with an 
outstanding balance to repay and she might be unhappy with this, Lloyds has done what Id 
normally expect it to do here.
That said, we do look at each case individually and on its own particular merits. And while 
we have a general approach to how we how we might tell a lender to put things right where it 
continued to provided credit it shouldnt have (such as here), we can and will tell it to do 
something different and/or something more if theres a strong reason to say thats what 
would be fair and reasonable to do in the circumstances of that individual case.
Mrs B believes that Lloyds should do more. As I understand it, shes unhappy with the 
amount of her reduction and that adverse information will continue to be recorded on her 
credit.
Ive carefully thought about what Mrs B has said. But all the interest, fees and charges 
Lloyds shouldnt have added have been removed from the overdraft. So what Mrs B is left 
with to repay are the funds which she used and benefitted from and crucially I dont agree 
that the interest, fees and charges have left her with a debt that she wouldnt otherwise have 
been left with. Equally as Lloyds ought to have realised that Mrs Bs overdraft had already 
become unsustainable for her by March 2018, I would have expected Lloyds to have taken 
corrective action at this point. 
So asking Lloyds to reinstate the overdraft, or remove all adverse information here, when it 
seems unlikely Mrs B will be able to repay this debt in line with the initial arrangements, 
would arguably be counterproductive and not in Mrs Bs interests or that of any future lender.
In these circumstances, Im satisfied that Lloyds reflecting what would have been recorded 
had it started the process of taking corrective action on Mrs Bs overdraft in March 2018, 
puts Mrs B in the position she would be in if things had gone as they should have done. And 
Im satisfied that this represents a fair and reasonable outcome to Mrs Bs complaint. 
Bearing in mind all of this, Im satisfied that what Lloyds has already agreed to do to put 
things right for Mrs B  reworking her account so that all the interest, fees and charges 
added since March 2018 are removed and backdating any adverse credit file information to 
when it should have taken corrective action  is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
this case. And Im not requiring it to do anything more. As this is the case, its up to Mrs B to 
decide whether she wishes to accept Lloyds offer.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what Lloyds UK Bank PLC has already 
agreed to do to put things right for Mrs B is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of her 
complaint. So Im not requiring it to do anything more.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman