DRN-2183588
The complaint
Mr. and Mrs. B complain that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS)wont 
allow Mrs. B to return a missing parcel shelf for a lease car. They would like MBFS to accept 
the parcel shelf back. And to waive the charge for it.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here 
again. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for these reasons: -
MFBS say its collections agent advised Mr. and Mrs. B to contact MBFS as soon as 
possible about the missing shelf. The car was collected on 29 August 2019.  Mr. or 
Mrs. B contacted the de fleet team not MBFS when they received an invoice dated 5 
September 2019. I cant be sure what exactly the collections agent told Mr. and Mrs. 
But given the item was missing it would have been sensible to have contact MBFS 
straight after collection  rather than wait until an invoice came.
The hire agreement Mrs. B signed stated the car had to be returned with all items 
supplied with it. I dont think the fact Mrs. B ended her contract a few weeks early is 
relevant. What matter is what the state of the car when it was returned. And as Mrs. 
B didnt return the parcel shelf when the car was collected, I dont think it was wrong 
for MBFS to charge for it.
I appreciate Mr. and Mrs. Bs point that they feel its economically and 
environmentally wrong to dispose of an unused parcel shelf. MBFS has suggested 
they try to sell the parcel shelf to recoup some of their loss. If they can do this, it 
would avoid the need to dispose of the shelf.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 February 2021.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman
