DRN-4459241
The complaint
Mr A complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) irresponsibly gave a loan that he couldnt 
afford.
What happened
On 13 November 2017, Mr A asked for and was given a loan for £5,000 which had a term 
of four years. 
In 2022, Mr A complained to Lloyds to say that the loan shouldnt have been opened for 
him because it wasnt affordable and that Lloyds ought to have made a better effort to 
understand his financial circumstances before providing him with credit. Lloyds declined to 
uphold the complaint. And Mr A brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator thought the complaint should not be upheld. Mr A didnt agree. So, the 
complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not because Ive failed to consider it 
but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in 
the round.
Lloyds will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Mr As complaint is that Lloyds made credit available that was unaffordable. Lloyds has 
explained that it relied in part on information that Mr A provided at the time of application 
to assess affordability. The income and expenditure exercise that took place before the 
lending suggested that the new borrowing was affordable. Lloyds said they also carried 
out a credit search in Mr As name to assess Mr As level of debt at that time and to 
understand how he had been managing that debt. That seems like proportionate checks 
for a loan amount that was reasonably modest, both in itself and in relation to Mr As 
declared income. With that information and using their own scoring metric, Lloyds decided 
to agree to the loan. 
The Lloyds checks showed that Mr As recent credit file was clean at the time of the loan 
applications. When I say this, I mean that Mr As management of his existing credit 
showed no recent history of CCJs, defaults or bankruptcies. There was some evidence of 
historic adverse credit history, but the most recent of those was over 18 months prior to 
this application for credit. 
So, it would have seemed to Lloyds from the information they had from credit reference 
agencies that, at the point that the lending decision was made, Mr A was affording his 
recent existing credit. And so, Lloyds were not put on notice of any reason not to agree 
the lending from that. And so, I have seen insufficient evidence that the other information 
that Lloyds acquired or had presented to it at the time of the lending decision, would have 
led them to think that they were remiss in not checking Mr As finances more closely 
before they lent money to him.  
But even had the checks not been sufficient, Im not persuaded that fuller checks would 
have put Lloyds off lending the reasonably modest sum to Mr A. I say that because I have 
noted the bank statements for the joint account provided by Lloyds. They showed a 
largely well managed account, with equivalent amounts going out compared to the 
amounts going into the account and a positive balance maintained throughout. The same 
is true of Mr As sole account, except he managed it with a negative balance using an 
overdraft facility. In this case, I am not persuaded that this is sufficient to make otherwise 
reasonable lending unreasonable. 
And I have seen no evidence that Mr A made Lloyds aware of his gambling at the time 
the loan was applied for. But had Lloyds studied Mr As accounts more closely, I am not 
persuaded that they would have noted sufficient evidence of gambling to avoid providing 
the loan. The evidence that Lloyds had presented to it by Mr A and that they sourced for 
themselves at the time, suggested that gambling was not a reason to decline the loan at 
the time they made their lending decision.
I cannot use hindsight in deciding complaints about unaffordable lending. If financial 
difficulty happened later after the loan was given, that does not mean that the lender failed 
at the time they made their lending decision. And having considered all the submissions 
made in this case, and in the absence of any extra evidence from Mr A to the contrary, I 
have seen insufficient evidence to think that more thorough affordability checks would 
have led Lloyds to think that the credit it provided Mr A was unreasonable, or that more 
searching checks would have prompted them to have acted differently than they did. 
I know that Mr A will be disappointed with my decision, in itself and because he has 
invested time and energy in pursuing his complaint. And because Mr A has told us he has 
had some other complaints upheld. At this service each complaint is judged on the 
individual circumstances of that particular case. 
But I want Mr A to know that I considered all the submissions made in this case. But 
having considered all the submissions in this case, particularly those at the time of the 
lending decisions, I have not found sufficient evidence to uphold this complaint. I have 
seen insufficient evidence to think that the credit Lloyds are responsible for was 
unreasonable. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2023.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman