DRN-3823553
The complaint
Ms P and Mr V complain that Jelf Insurance Brokers Limited failed to make a claim on their 
behalf under their Claims Assist policy. This was in connection with a storm claim they had 
made for their let property under their Commercial Insurance policy.
What happened
Ms P and Mr V are the owners of two flats insured under a Commercial Insurance policy 
supplied by N. In June 2020 they made a storm claim under that policy. They had a Claims 
Assist policy underwritten by L, which could have helped them by appointing a loss adjuster 
to assist them in making the claim.
The claim was accepted by N. Jelf assisted Ms P and Mr V by liaising with N, but Ms P and 
Mr V were expected to provide full details of the claim and to provide a scope of works and a 
quote for the repairs. In November 2020 N carried out a claims assessment resulting in a 
pay-out of just over £24,000, £18,000 of which was paid to Ms P and Mr Vs contractor. Ms P 
and Mr V have said that they required assistance under the Claims Assist policy saying 
firstly that they had needed assistance in presenting their claim and subsequently asserting 
that the pay-out was considerably short of what they required.
However Jelf hadnt made a claim to L on Ms P and Mr Vs behalf. It did so in April 2021. 
However L said that it had been notified the claim was settled so its loss adjusters 
assistance wasnt required. But in any event it said the policy only provided cover for claims 
with a value greater than £5,000 but not in excess of £25,000. As at the time the claim was 
notified to L it was going to exceed £25,000 there was no cover under the Claims Assist 
policy. In further correspondence with the loss adjuster (H) they said that they couldnt have 
offered help under the policy in any event as Ms P and Mr Vs further claims related to 
issues of betterment and maintenance which wouldnt be covered under the Commercial 
policy so wouldnt be part of claim covered under the Claims Assist policy. They may have 
been able to assist at the time the Commercial claim was made if it was for under £25,000.
Ms P and Mr V made a complaint to Jelf that it failed to make a timely claim to L, and as a 
result they missed out on having assistance under the policy because the claim had by then 
exceeded £25,000 and so werent eligible for help under the Claims Assist policy. They 
believed that as a result they had made financial losses.
Jelf gave its final response on 28 January 2022. It said that the evidence showed that the 
claim was reported to it promptly, and that Ms P and Mr V provided it with an update on the 
matter in July 2020. It said it should have identified at both of those stages that the claim 
was likely to exceed the £5,000 minimum claim threshold to trigger the cover with L. It 
accepted that it did not notify L at that point. It noted that H had advised it would not provide 
assistance on maintenance, or betterment issues, which it understood were the matters 
under dispute between Ms P and Mr V and N.
Therefore, even if L had instructed H from the outset, and if it had not been of the
understanding that the claim exceeded £25,000, the policy would not have provided cover
for this. It was satisfied that whilst it did not report the claim to L in a timely manner, this did 
not affect the fundamental outcome of Ms P and Mr Vs claim.
Ms P and Mr V made a complaint about L. I wont go into the details of that. The evidence 
from Jelfs file is that the claim was made to L on 29 April 2021.
Ms P and Mr V were successful in recovering some of their additional costs from N, of 
additional loss of rent. However N wouldnt pay additional costs for what it considered were 
maintenance and betterment. It also wouldnt pay further additional loss of rent, advertising 
costs or further interest on part of the settlement. 
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service, our investigator said that he agreed there 
had been a delay in notifying L about a possible claim. Ms P and Mr V were left managing 
the claim themselves, so he felt Ms P and Mr V had been troubled by Jelfs mistake and 
£300 was fair compensation in recognition of this.
Jelf accepted the proposed compensation award.
Ms P and Mr V did not and made the following points:
They disagreed with the compensation amount which they felt should be several 
magnitudes larger.
With regard to the outcome of Ms P and Mr Vs claim the Financial Ombudsman Service 
should compel Jelf to produce further documents which would show when it registered 
the claim with both N and L
I should declare the amount Ms P and Mr V were successful in recovering as a proxy 
award L should have obtained.
They pointed out that the investigators finding that there werent an unreasonable 
amount of emails sent up to April 2021 implies that the number sent after that date were 
unreasonable.
Jelf brokered the policies with L, reducing the extent of cover without instructions from 
Ms P and Mr V, meaning that they were subject to the £25,000 claim limit.
Jelf had an undeclared actual conflict of interest which caused damage to Ms P and Mr V 
because L declined its claim.
They made comment on a separate complaint they had made against N.
Our investigator pointed out that issues over the premium and the brokering of the policies 
werent matters Ms P and Mr V had raised as complaints with Jelf, and should be raised 
separately
Ms P and Mr V didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.failure to make a claim on time 
I think theres no dispute that Jelf should have notified L of a claim under the Claims Assist 
policy at or about the same time as notifying the storm claim to N. It didnt do so. In my 
decision concerning L, I found that the actual claim was notified to L on or about 29 April 
2021. By that time the cost of the claim was likely to be over £25,000 which was over the 
policy limit. 
Because of this L said it could not assist with the claim. It also said that the claim was settled 
by then and that the outstanding issues related to maintenance, betterment, and advertising 
costs, none of which it would have been able to help with in any event.
I think the evidence shows that at the outset of the claim it wasnt likely to exceed £25,000, 
so I have to consider what might have happened had Ms P and Mr V been able to take 
advantage of the claims assistance (which would have appointed a loss adjuster to help with 
the claim) from the outset.
I dont think that Ms P and Mr V would have been able to benefit from very much help from a 
loss adjuster under the policy. When the claim was first made Ms P and Mr V were asked to 
provide a scope of works and quotes. The loss adjuster could have assisted with this part of 
the process, but it appears Mr V was able to appoint contractors to provide the evidence N 
needed.
I understand that N accepted it was at fault for its delays in progressing the claim and it 
wasnt until November 2020 that it agreed on a payment for the repairs and some loss of 
rent which it paid to Ms P and Mr V. This resulted in a pay-out of just over £24,000, £18,000 
of which was paid to Ms P and Mr Vs contractor.
I dont think its likely that a loss adjuster would have been able to provide much help with 
the claim up to the point where N paid the initial settlement. From considering the 
documentation Mr V has produced hes clearly experienced at arguing his case, and he was 
able to appoint contractors and provide the necessary quotes.. A loss adjuster might have 
been able to help in pushing the case along but what difference that would have made is just 
speculation.
Ms P and Mr V clearly wanted the loss adjuster to help with the outstanding claim after the 
initial settlement, but the loss adjuster has said they wouldnt have been able to help with 
that in any event. This is because the claim had been settled  the repairs took place in 
March and April 2021. And the outstanding items concerned maintenance and betterment, 
advertising costs, loss of rent and interest at more than 8%. 
While the loss adjuster might have been able to help regarding loss of rent I do think their 
position regarding the other items was reasonable  that falls outside the terms of the 
commercial policy. I think it most likely that a loss adjuster wouldnt have achieved any 
greater settlement. So I dont think that Ms P and Mr V have shown that they have suffered 
any financial loss. 
The compensation award proposed by our investigator is in respect of the distress and 
inconvenience caused to Ms P and Mr V having to argue their case without assistance. I 
think the amount proposed, of £300 is reasonable.
wrong policy/ premium charged
Ms P and Mr V raised in their submissions to us that Jelf wrongly sold them a light policy 
which had a claim limit, whereas the standard policy (which they say they previously had) had no such limit. They also say that in February 2021 the premium on the Claims Assist 
policy was due to increase because of the claim so L knew about the claim then rather than 
in April 2021.
As our investigator has pointed out, this is a new complaint which wasnt raised with Jelf, so 
cant be dealt with under this complaint.
Further, as the claim limit wasnt the only reason for L declining to provide loss adjuster 
assistance, and in light of my findings as to what might have happened if L had been notified 
of the claim earlier, I dont think that the sale of the policy is relevant to this complaint.
conflict of interests
This issue was dealt with under the complaint against L, so I wont be commenting on it in 
this decision. 
number of emails
Ms P and Mr V object to the investigator saying that [Ms P and Mr V] has sent a running 
total for emails sent to all parties, when considering up to April 2021 - I dont feel there was 
an unreasonable amount of emails over the period.. They say this implies that the number 
of emails set after that was unreasonable.
I think the investigator was considering matters up until the date of the repair and that to 
settle the matter Ms P and Mr V didnt have to send an unreasonable amount of emails. I 
dont think that after that the number sent after April 2021 was unreasonable either.
interest 
This issue was dealt with under the complaint against L, so I wont be commenting on it in 
this decision. Its not relevant to this complaint and in this decision I cant make directions 
concerning any party other than Jelf.
Putting things right
Jelf should pay £300 compensation.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Jelf Insurance Brokers Limited to pay Ms P and Mr V 
£300 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P and Mr V to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 March 2023.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman