DRN-3369136
The complaint
Mr T complains Provident Personal Credit Limited (Provident) incorrectly took deductions 
from a compensation payment to repay an outstanding debt. Mr T says he had already 
settled the debt with a third-party debt collection agency. 
What happened
Mr T said he an outstanding balance due to Provident and this was passed to a debt 
collection company (who will be referred here as Company A). Mr T says that he made his 
final payment towards his outstanding balance in February 2016 and he provided bank 
statements to show the payment to Company A. 
He said that a complaint was made against Provident for irresponsible lending and when it 
concluded its investigation it took deductions from the compensation that it paid him because 
Provident said Mr T still owed money. 
Mr T says he was unaware of any outstanding balance and he hadnt heard anything from 
either Provident or any debt company since the debt was repaid in 2016. 
Unhappy with this deduction, Mr T logged a complaint with Provident. It issued a final 
response letter in December 2021. 
In the FRL, Provident explained the debt had been sold to a different third-party debt 
company than Mr T had repaid in February 2016 (who I refer to as Company B). Provident 
said Company B told it that no payments had been made and when the loan balance was 
returned to Provident from Company B the amount returned was the same. Further 
indicating no payments had been made. Provident didnt uphold Mr Ts complaint. 
Unhappy with this response Mr T referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. 
Our adjudicator considered the complaint and didnt think it could be upheld. She said 
Provident had provided information from Company B that made it clear it hadnt received any 
payments from Mr T or anything to suggest Company A had made any payments to 
Company B. The adjudicator therefore concluded that it was fair of Provident to make 
deductions from redress to cover the outstanding debt.  
The adjudicator accepted that Mr T had shown evidence that hed made payments to 
Company A but the adjudicator was unable to say what debt those payments related to. 
Provident appear to have accepted his findings.
Mr T didnt accept the findings, in response he said;
Mr T has provided evidence that he successfully repaid his debts with payments to 
Company A.
At the time, Mr T says Company A couldnt find his records on its systems. 
Mr T has now paid the same debt twice. 
Mr T then told the Financial Ombudsman Service that he had raised a complaint against 
Company A and with the relevant complaint handling body. 
Later, Mr T forwarded an email he had received from Company A. The email confirmed that 
the debt had been loaded onto Company As system in 2014 and as far as it could see the 
debt related to a communication company. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt in dispute that Mr Ts debt was transferred to a loan company, what is in dispute is 
whether Mr T has in effect repaid the same loan twice. Having looked at all the information 
both Mr T and Provident have provided show, that it is more likely than not that any 
payments made to Company A were for a different debt. 
Mr T had an outstanding balance and so Provident says it was passed to Company B. Mr T 
hasnt provided any evidence to show he made repayments to this company. The bank 
statements provided by Mr T show he made payments to Company A. 
It is of course possible, that once Company B had the debt it asked Company A to collect the 
debt on its behalf. But I havent been provided with any evidence to suggest this happened. 
Ive also considered whether there is any obvious relationship between Company A and 
Company B. Based, on my research I cant find a link  for example through a shared 
director. 
That doesnt mean that Company B didnt pass the debt to Company A, only the evidence I 
have doesnt suggest that this happened and as there is no evidence or supporting 
documents which suggest payments being made to Company B, Im going to conclude that 
Provident was correct to offset the compensation against his outstanding balance. 
This is further supported by the screen shots of its system that Provident has provided which 
shows that the balance given to Company B was the same amount as what was returned to 
Provident. Which further indicates no payments were received by Company B.  
It is clear, from the bank statements that Mr T has provided that he did have a debt with 
Company A. Indeed, his bank statements show a payment made to it on 2 February 2016 for 
£23.21. To me, that does suggest that Mr T had a debt that was owed to Company A. After 
February 2016, I cant see any further payments, which would suggest either the debt had 
been repaid.
However, for me to conclude that Mr T has in effect repaid the outstanding balance Id have 
to see evidence that the payments he was making to Company A was related to the 
Provident debt and the evidence I have doesnt support this. 
Mr T has provided the Financial Ombudsman with a copy of an email that he has received 
from Company A. The email says.
I have had our accounts team locate the account to which these payments were 
allocated to, however as this account was loaded on our system in 2014, the data 
has been wiped due to our data retention policy. Please also be advised that this account is in relation to our client [company name removed]. This account is paid on 
our system but I am unable to issue any further details as they have been wiped.
This email came from Company A and the company name I removed was not Provident but 
a communication company. Therefore, on balance, it seems the money that Mr T was 
repaying Company A in 2016 wasnt connected to the outstanding balance held by Company 
B / or Provident. 
Therefore, Provident making deductions to the compensation that was paid to Mr T was 
entirely reasonable, because the evidence I have been provided with shows that while Mr T 
has repaid Company A  this was in connection with a different debt  there is nothing to 
suggest the debt he repaid related to Provident. 
As no further evidence has been provided which suggests that the repayments were 
connected to Provident or Company B than the only reasonable conclusion, I can make is 
that Provident was correct to make deductions from the redress it paid Mr T. 
Im therefore not upholding Mr Ts complaint; I appreciate this will be disappointing for Mr T 
but I hope my explanation has been useful for him in understanding why Ive had to reach 
the decision that I have. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman