DRN-3973225
The complaint
Mr T complains that Gain Credit LLC trading as Lending Stream (Lending Stream) gave him 
a loan he couldnt afford to repay. Mr T went on to say that had further checks been carried 
out, Lending Stream wouldve discovered he had several outstanding payday loans and he 
was borrowing from lenders to repay other loans.  
What happened
Mr T took one loan from Lending Stream for £900 on 6 April 2015. Mr T was due to make six 
monthly repayments of different amounts, with the largest repayment due to Lending Stream 
of £403.20. Mr T has had some problems repaying the outstanding balance for his loan and 
Lending Stream says the outstanding balance has been sold to a third party. 
After Mr T complained, Lending Stream issued its final response letter in February 2022 and 
it explained why it wasnt going to uphold his complaint. Unhappy with this response, Mr T 
referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator. She concluded Lending Stream made a 
reasonable decision to lend the loan because based on the information Lending Stream 
gathered the largest monthly repayment looked affordable for Mr T.  
Mr T said he didnt agree, and he asked for an ombudsmans decision. Mr T didnt think the 
complaint had been fully investigated and he has already sent in through email all the 
information needed. He also, reaffirmed his complaint was about irresponsible lending 
because his credit file wasnt checked, and his circumstances were not considered. He 
reiterated, he had 12 payday loans, was in a debt management plan and had a guarantor 
loan outstanding.  
Lending Stream didnt have anything further to add in response to the adjudicators 
assessment. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Lending Stream had to assess the lending to check if Mr T could afford to pay back the 
amount hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. Lending Stream s checks could have taken into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, 
and Mr Ts income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Lending Stream should 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr T. These factors 
include:
Mr T having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr T having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr T coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr T. The adjudicator didnt think this 
applied to Mr Ts complaint as it only advanced one loan. 
Lending Stream was required to establish whether Mr T could sustainably repay the loan  
not just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough 
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr T was able to repay 
his loan sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Ts complaint.
Having done so, Im satisfied Lending Stream carried out proportionate checks which 
showed it that Mr T could afford the repayments, Ive explained why below. 
Lending Stream has shown, that as part of the affordability assessment it asked Mr T for 
details of his income and expenditure. Mr Ts income has been recorded as being £2,250 
per month. As part of his application Mr T also provided details of his employer, he worked 
full time and had worked for the same employer since 2010. 
Lending Stream says that as part of its third party checks it decreased Mr Ts income by 
£225, therefore when it carried out its affordability assessment it assumed Mr T earned 
£2,025 per month. Lending Stream hasnt explained why it did this. But to be clear, whether 
it used Mr Ts actual declared income or the reduced amount  the outcome remains the 
same that the loan appeared affordable. 
As part of the application to Lending Stream Mr T also declared that he had total monthly 
outgoings of £725. Of which, £225 were for Mr Ts monthly credit commitments of £225  
Lending Stream says this was supported by Mr Ts credit check. 
Overall, using the reduced monthly income and his overall declared expenditure, this left
Mr T £1,075 each month to pay back the largest loan repayment he was due to make. The 
loan therefore looked affordable.  Before this loan was approved Lending Stream also carried out a credit search and it has 
provided the Financial Ombudsman Service with a summary of the results it received from 
the credit reference agency. I want to add that although Lending Stream carried out a credit 
search there isnt a regulatory requirement to do one, let alone one to a specific standard. 
Therefore, its entirely possible that the information Lending Stream received may not 
entirely reflect the information Mr T can provide or what he can see in his actual credit 
report. There could be for a number of reasons for this, such as Lending Stream only asking 
for certain pieces of information. But what Lending Stream cant do, is carry out a credit 
search and then not react to the to the information it received  if necessary.  
Lending Stream was also entitled to rely on the results it was given. So, Ive taken a look at 
the results to see whether there was anything contained within it that wouldve either 
prompted Lending Stream to have carried out further checks or possibly have led it to 
decline Mr Ts application. 
Having reviewed the credit check summary, there isnt anything in the results, that I can see 
that wouldve led Lending Stream to have carried out further checks. For example, there 
wasnt anything to suggest that Mr T had either defaulted on an account or had any 
delinquent accounts at the time this loan was advanced. Lending Stream was also told, that 
at the time Mr T only had one outstanding credit account, with a debt of £500 and didnt have 
a mortgage. 
While I appreciate Mr T says that he had several outstanding loans at the time this loan was 
approved  which may have been case, that wasnt reflected in the information
Lending Stream received from the credit reference agency. And this is what Lending Stream 
saw before approving the loan. 
There was also nothing else in the information that Ive seen that wouldve led
Lending Stream to believe that it needed to go further with its checks  such as verifying the 
information Mr T had provided. Nor was there anything to suggest the loan may have been 
unsustainable for Mr T in some other way. 
Given it was early on in the lending relationship, I think it was reasonable for Lending Stream 
to have relied on the information Mr T provided as well as the information it received from 
the credit reference agency. These checks showed Lending Stream that Mr T had sufficient 
disposable income to afford the repayments he was committed to making. So, like the 
adjudicator Im not upholding Mr Ts complaint about the loan.
Im therefore not upholding Mr Ts complaint. 
My final decision
So, for the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Ts complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman