DRN-3180380
The complaint
Mr A complains that a loan given to him by TFS Loans Limited trading as TFS Loans was 
unaffordable for him. Hes represented in this complaint by a claims management company, 
but for ease Ill refer only to Mr A.
What happened
In February 2017, Mr A applied for and was given a loan of £7,500. It was to be repaid in 60 
monthly instalments of £293.19. The loan was to be used to repay some other debt and 
leave around £2,500 for home improvements. Mr A says that he couldnt afford the 
repayments from the outset and that if TFS had carried out sufficient checks, it would have 
refused to lend to him.
TFS looked into his complaint. It said it had obtained proof of Mr As income (which came 
from several sources) through bank statements and other evidence provided by him. It then 
asked him about his expenditure. It wasnt satisfied with some of the figures he gave for 
expenditure, so used higher figures provided by the Office of National Statistics (ONS) for 
some of them. After allowing for the repayment to the new loan, he was left with a 
disposable income of almost £900 per month, so TFS was satisfied the loan was affordable.
Mr A was unhappy with TFS response, so referred his complaint to us. One of our 
investigators looked into it. He said TFS should have taken into account the fact that Mr A 
had had a previous loan with it which had been repaid just two months previously. Mr As 
credit file showed hed had difficulties repaying the loan, so our investigator thought TFS 
ought to have looked more closely at the application. He felt that if it had done so, TFS ought 
to have identified that Mr A was in financial difficulty and refused to lend. Our investigator 
asked TFS to put things right.
Mr A accepted what our investigator said but TFS didnt. It said (in summary) Mr A had 
explained why hed missed payments and his credit file didnt show he was reliant on credit. 
As there was no agreement, the complaint has been referred to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about high cost credit on our website  
including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. Ive considered 
this approach when deciding this complaint.
TFS needed to ensure that it didnt lend to Mr A irresponsibly. I think there are key 
questions I need to consider in order to decide what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint:
Did TFS carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr A 
was in a position to sustainably repay the loan?
If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time 
and did it make a fair lending decision?
Did TFS act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr A in some other way?
TFS had to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr A would be 
able to repay the loan sustainably. Its not about TFS assessing the likelihood of it being 
repaid, but it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on him. The fact that the 
loan was guaranteed by a third party and the potential for TFS to pursue the guarantor 
instead of Mr A doesnt alter or lessen the obligation.
There is no set list of checks that it had to do, but it could take into account several different 
things such as the amount and length of the loan, the amount of the monthly repayments 
and the overall circumstances of the borrower.
Taking all that into account, I think a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to 
have been more thorough where:
a customer has a low income (because it may make it more difficult to make loan 
payments of a set amount from a low level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (because it may be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment for a particular level of income);
the longer the term of the loan (because the total cost of the credit is likely to be 
higher, and the customer is obliged to make payments for a longer period); and
the greater the number and frequency of loans and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (because of the risk of repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing has become or was becoming 
unsustainable).
Did TFS carry out reasonable and proportionate checks?
The rules lenders must follow are set out by the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct 
Authority, in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). At the time this loan was agreed, 
CONC 5.2.4(3) set out a number of things a lender may use in its assessment of an 
application. TFS repeated them in its final response to Mr As complaint and explained went 
on to explain what it had considered at the time. It listed:
a) record of previous dealings
b) evidence of income
c) evidence of expenditure
d) a credit score
e) a cred reference agency report; and 
f) information provided by the customer. 
TFS correctly pointed out that it didnt have to use all of the information listed above but said 
it took into account all of the items listed above, with the exception of the evidence of 
[Mr As] expenditure and credit score.
So Ive thought about the evidence TFS says took into account to see if I think it can be 
considered as reasonable and proportionate. Having done so, if TFS had properly 
considered the information, I think it could have argued it had conducted reasonable and 
proportionate checks  but Im not satisfied it did properly consider the information. Let me 
explain why. Its fair to say TFS went to appropriate lengths to confirm Mr As income which was not 
straightforward. And it has provided a copy of the credit reference agency report it obtained 
and calls it had with Mr A to obtain further information. But it has said that Mr A had no 
previous dealings with it which isnt correct  hed had a loan from 2015 which hed repaid 
just two months before this application.
CONC 1.3 sets out circumstances that may indicate a customer is in financial difficulties. 
Examples include consecutively failing to meet minimum repayments in relation to a credit 
card or store card, adverse accurate entries on a credit file, which are not in dispute and 
consecutively failing to meet repayments when due.
The credit file TFS has provided shows Mr A had defaulted - or was in arrears  on several 
other credit agreements. So using the examples set out it CONC, it seems Mr A was 
displaying signs of financial difficulties so Id expect TFS to make further checks to ensure 
he could sustainably afford the repayments to this loan. 
At the time TFS agreed this loan, CONC 5.3.1 4(b) said it is not generally sufficient for a 
firm to rely solely for its assessment of the customers income and expenditure, on a 
statement of those matters made by the customer. TFS did obtain figures from Mr A for his 
income and expenditure during the application process, and it asked for evidence of his 
income. But given the signs that Mr A may have been in financial difficulty at the time, I think 
a reasonable person would have expected it didnt obtain evidence of expenditure too.
Im not satisfied that TFS carried out reasonable and proportionate checks as I dont think it 
properly consider the information it says did.
What would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time and did it make a 
fair lending decision?
If TFS had considered Mr As previous dealings with it  as it says it did - it would have noted 
the loan hed had previously. He drew a loan of £5,000 in February 2015 which was to be 
repaid over 72 months in instalments of £185.78. This loan doesnt form part of this 
complaint, but I think it should have been considered as part of TFSs checks for the loan 
complained about.
In March 2016, Mr A contacted TFS to request a settlement figure for the loan which was 
provided. Mr A paid a lump sum around £200 short of that figure and informed TFS that as 
he was critically ill, hed need to spread the remainder over three months to June 2016 at 
£66.68 per month. TFS accepted that offer.
Mr A didnt stick to that arrangement. This resulted in numerous chasers from TFS and in 
June 2016, Mr A informed TFS that hed lost his job and needed a little respite so I can get 
my affairs in order. After further correspondence and several small payments, the loan was 
finally repaid on 17 December 2016.
The loan was repaid earlier than was due from the outset, but throughout the nine months of 
early repayment of the loan, Mr A said several times that hed lost his job. And yet in the 
application for a new loan  just two months later - he said hed been employed for 
2 years. Whatever the truth of the matter regarding the length of his employment at the 
time of the new application, it is clear that Mr A had struggled to repay £200 for almost nine 
months. So its not entirely clear how, believing hed been in the same employment for 2 
years, TFS thought he could afford to pay £293.19 every month.
TFS did obtain some bank statements from Mr A as part of its checks on his income. The 
copies it has provided to me show several unpaid items  some of a relatively low value  which further indicates signs of financial difficulty. It indicates to me that Mr As expenditure 
was much greater than declared to TFS as he clearly didnt have the £900 per month 
disposable income TFS had calculated.
It should be remembered to that Mr A wasnt borrowing money to repay other debts to 
reduce his expenditure but was looking to borrow an extra £2,500 increasing his 
indebtedness. If TFS had paid close attention to the information it gathered as part of its 
checks and the information that it ought reasonably to have been aware of, I think it ought to 
have concluded Mr A was in financial difficulty and refused to lend. 
It follows that I dont think TFS reached a fair lending decision.  
Did TFS act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr A in some other way?
Ive carefully read, listened to and thought about all the evidence provided by each party to 
this complaint. Having done so, I dont think TFS has acted unfairly or unreasonably towards 
Mr A in some other way. 
But I do think TFS should have refused to lend to Mr A, so I am upholding his complaint 
about the loan.
Putting things right
When I find that a business has done something wrong, Id normally direct that business to 
put the complainant in the position they would be in now if the mistake it made hadnt 
happened, as far as is reasonably practical. 
In this case, that would mean putting Mr A in the position he would be in now if he hadnt 
been given the loan. Mr A was given the loan, used the money so its right he should repay 
that.
So, I think TFS should:
Calculate the total amount Mr A received from TFS and deduct from that figure the 
repayments hes made to loan. 
oIf this results in Mr A having repaid more than he received, any overpayments 
should be refunded to him. Interest at a rate of 8% simple per year should be 
added to any overpayments from the date they were made until the date of 
settlement*.
oIf the calculation means theres still a balance for Mr A to pay, TFS should let 
him know how much is outstanding and reach a suitable, affordable payment 
plan with him. I remind TFS of its obligation to treat customers fairly.
 
Remove any negative information recorded on Mr As credit file regarding each loan. 
* If TFS considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr A how much its taken off. It should also give him a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. TFS Loans Limited trading as TFS Loans 
should put things right as Ive described above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2022.
 
Richard Hale
Ombudsman