DRN-4056037
The complaint
Miss A complains about Smart Currency Exchange Limiteds actions in relation to a currency 
exchange payment transfer she was looking to make to buy a property overseas.
What happened
Miss A was looking to buy a property abroad. She originally approached Smart Currency 
Exchange Limited (SCEL) in September 2020 via an online property sales agent, as she 
needed to buy the property in local currency and transfer funds. Due to the Covid-19 
pandemic Miss A postponed her plans, resuming them in 2022. On 20 May of that year, Miss 
A booked a forward dated currency exchange contract, which required her to pay £4,500 
deposit to secure the rate.
The contract was scheduled for settlement on 17 June. But on 25 May Miss A contacted 
SCEL to say shed been advised she needed a conversion certificate to support her property 
purchase. Earlier in the year thered been a change to legislation in the destination country 
that made this a requirement for purchases made by foreign nationals. SCEL was unable to 
provide this certificate, which appears can only be issued by providers connected to the 
central bank in the intended destination country.
Miss A felt that, as SCEL held itself out as an expert in overseas property transactions, it 
ought to have been aware of this requirement and that it would be unable to fulfil it. She 
complained to SCEL, seeking the return of her deposit. SCEL declined to reimburse Miss A. 
It said it had performed similar transfers for other customers without difficulty, and that it had 
acted in line with its agreement with Miss A, which didnt include the provision of advice. 
SCEL told Miss A she was able to cancel the contract and that it would return her deposit 
less any costs.
The contract was cancelled on 9 June. However, due to currency movements these costs 
broadly amounted to the whole deposit. Miss A wasnt happy that SCEL wouldnt refund her 
in full, so she referred the matter to us.
Our investigator wasnt persuaded SCEL had acted incorrectly. It had followed Miss As 
instructions and not undertaken to advise her on the purchase of property or overseas 
legislation. He considered those aspects to be the responsibility of the solicitor Miss A had 
appointed to deal with the purchase. The contract Miss A had agreed with SCEL permitted it 
to retain the money it had. So he didnt recommend that her complaint should be upheld.
Miss A didnt accept our investigators conclusions. She believes SCEL to be in breach of 
relevant legislation, including the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) and the Consumer 
Protection from Unfair Trading Regulations 2008 (CPUT), as well as other government 
guidance. The dispute has now been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while I appreciate the amount in question represents a significant amount 
that Miss A is out of pocket, Im not going to require SCEL to reimburse her. Ill explain why.
Miss A has referenced legislation that is incorporated into her agreement with SCEL, as well 
as government guidance on their application to foreign exchange providers. I dont find her 
arguments based on this to be sufficiently persuasive. That SCELs website said it was a 
specialist in transfers for people looking to purchase overseas property is not the same as 
saying it held itself out as a specialist in overseas property purchases. While I accept that is 
how Miss A read it, I dont find it was a false or misleading statement such that it breaches 
CPUT provisions.
I am of course aware that Section 49(1) of the CRA provides that: Every contract to supply 
a service is to be treated as including a term that the trader must perform the service with 
reasonable care and skill.  But under that section, the service that must be provided with 
reasonable skill and care is the service that contract says is to be supplied.
The contract Miss A entered into with SCEL didnt include an obligation on SCEL to advise 
Miss A about the way in which shed decided to undertake her purchase arrangements. Nor 
did it require SCEL to alert her to the possibility that she may fall foul of new legislation 
relating to those arrangements.
The legislation enacted in early 2022 was a few months before Miss A entered into the 
contract with SCEL. Miss A contacted SCEL in May 2022 to say she wanted to execute the 
currency exchange and onward transfer. It wouldnt be unreasonable for SCEL, in such 
circumstances, to expect that before giving her instruction Miss A had ensured she was 
complying with any relevant legislation or regulations relating to her planned purchase.
As has already been noted, she was receiving legal advice in respect of the property 
purchase. It doesnt seem to me right to say that SCEL was the cause of any loss she 
incurred due to being unable to comply with the legislation that was in effect before she 
instructed SCEL.
Taking all of this into account, I see no proper basis on which I could say that in accepting 
the contract and deposit, SCEL failed to perform its contracted services with reasonable care 
and skill. Further, Miss A agreed in section 9 of the contract that if SCEL accepted 
cancellation of her order it could offset any costs or losses it incurred in connection with the 
contract against her deposit. The loss due to currency fluctuation between the instruction 
and cancellation would fall into that category.
Its unfortunate that the currency exchange moved against Miss A during that time to such 
an extent. But that doesnt enable me to find SCEL to have acted unreasonably in declining 
to reimburse Miss A.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out here, my final decision is that I dont uphold Miss As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 September 2023.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman