DRN-4157101
The complaint
Mrs N complains about how esure Insurance Limited handled her claim on her motor 
insurance policy and the incorrect information she was given. She wants it to pay her the 
difference between her cars market value and the outstanding finance payment.
 
What happened
Mrs N had a lease car insured with esure. The car was declared to be a total loss following 
an accident and so esure paid the lease company the outstanding balance to settle the 
lease. Mrs N said esures agent told her she would be paid the difference between the cars 
market value and the outstanding finance. But esure said Mrs N had been misinformed and 
it paid her £200 compensation for this loss of expectation. 
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. He thought 
esure was required by the policy terms and conditions to pay the lease company the 
outstanding balance for the lease. But he thought Mrs Ns equity in the car was just the 
deposit she had paid. And so he thought she shouldnt benefit from being paid the difference 
between this lease balance and the cars market value. 
However, he thought esure should pay Mrs N for the unused part of her deposit, in keeping 
with our approach. He thought this amounted to £658.44 and that esure should add interest 
to this. He also thought esure should increase its payment of compensation to £300 because 
of its delays in paying the lease company. 
Mrs N replied that she agreed. esure replied that it wasnt required by the policy to refund a 
proportion of the deposit. It said it was for the lease company to pay this. It said it wasnt 
responsible for the delay in payment as the lease company didnt accept a cheque. esure 
asked for an Ombudsmans review, so the complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mrs N felt disappointed that she didnt receive the payment she 
expected. She said she had replaced her car on the strength of this. Our approach in cases 
like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy and fairly and reasonably. Mrs Ns policy booklet states on page 12, 
If you have acquired your car through lease or contract hire, we will pay the lease or 
contract hire company either the market value of the car, or the amount required to settle the 
agreement, whichever is less
Mrs N thought this term was hidden away and so not brought to her attention when she 
bought her policy. But Im satisfied the policy terms explaining how esure will settle the claim 
arent significant or unusual. So Im satisfied that esure doesnt have to highlight this in the 
key facts or summary document.
esures agent told Mrs N that she would receive the difference between the cars pre-loss 
market value and the outstanding finance. But I agree with esure that this was incorrect. This 
is because paying this to Mrs N could put her in a better position financially where the policy 
is meant to indemnify her for her loss. And the only equity Mrs N had in the car was the 
unused proportion of the deposit she paid. 
Our approach where the policys terms and conditions state that the most the insurer will pay 
in the case of total loss is the cars market value, as here, is that we expect the insurer to 
pay:
the amount required by the lease company, plus, 
an amount to cover a proportion of the deposit,
up to a combined maximum of the market value. 
esure hasnt paid Mrs N a pro-rata refund of her deposit and I cant see that this is provided 
by Mrs Ns lease company, as esure thought it was. So I think esure should now pay this. 
This is calculated by deducting the first months payment from the deposit Mrs N paid, then 
dividing this by the length of the lease (36 months). Mrs N used the car for 18 months, so 
she is entitled to a refund of the remaining 18 months of her deposit. This amounts to 
£658.44. As Mrs N has been without her money for some time, I think esure should 
reasonably add interest to the payment. 
esure paid Mrs N £200 compensation for the loss of expectation caused by its agent and for 
the long call waits she experienced. But Mrs N has also been chased by the lease company 
for payment of the settlement. This was delayed when esure sent the company a cheque 
which it didnt accept. 
esure then paid it by other means, but I think esure could have checked what payment 
method was required and so Mrs N would have avoided this additional trouble and upset. I 
agree that it should pay her a further £100 compensation for this as thats in keeping with our 
published guidance.
Putting things right
I require esure Insurance Limited to do the following:
1. Pay Mrs N £658.44 for the unused portion of her deposit, adding interest to this amount 
at the rate of 8% simple per annum from the date of settlement to the date of payment. 
2. Pay Mrs N £100 further compensation (£300) in total for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by its handling of her claim.
If esure considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mrs N how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs N a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require esure 
Insurance Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman