DRN-4322012
The complaint
Mr L complains about AWP P&C SAs (AWP) decision to decline his claim under his travel 
insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr L made a claim for two phones which were damaged during a trip. Mr L says, first AWP 
said there was a limit to the amount he could claim for phones under his policy, but then said 
phones werent covered under the policy. Mr L says he challenged this and then AWP 
declined his claim for both phones saying they couldnt understand how one phone had 
become water damaged and that Mr L didnt act with reasonable care for the other phone. 
So, Mr L complained about AWPs decision to decline his claim. 
AWP responded and explained Mr Ls claim was declined under the policy terms and 
conditions. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr L. She thought AWPs decision to decline the claim 
was unreasonable and recommended they reconsider the claim further, and also pay Mr L 
£100 compensation. Mr L agreed but AWP disagreed so the matter has come to me for a 
decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. And, I think the investigators 
recommendation is a fair way to resolve matters. 
My starting point is Mr Ls travel insurance policy booklet. This sets out the terms and 
conditions and, under a section headed Baggage it says Mr L is covered for baggage 
damage, loss or theft  and this includes up to £250 in total for all high value items. The 
policy defines baggage as Personal property you take with you The definition of high 
value items lists a number of items which includes, mobile devices, smartphones 
The policy says cover will be provided for the cost to repair or replace damaged baggage, 
and also sets out conditions which apply in relation to a baggage claim, and this includes 
You have taken necessary steps to keep your baggage safe and intact and to recover it. 
I can see Mr L emails AWP to make a claim for two phones. He explains phone 1, was 
damaged due to being covered in water and phone 2, fell when I was disembarking the 
plane after landing back. Mr L then completes a claim form which says one of his phones 
Got covered by incoming water on the beach. By the time I found my phone it had already 
been covered in water. Mr L explains his phone was on a towel next to him at the time. In 
relation to the other phone he says, Spare phone (different SIM) fell as I was disembarking 
the plane and smashed. Mr L explains the phone was in his hand prior to it falling.   
Following receipt of Mr Ls claim, AWP email Mr L to acknowledge his email and confirm 
receipt of correspondence relating to his claim. They remind Mr L that phones are classified 
as high value items under the policy  which are covered to a maximum £250 for all items 
being claimed for. They email again and explain theyre unable to consider Mr Ls claim as 
he cannot claim for phone damage under his policy. A couple of days later they email again 
and explain theyre unable to consider Mr Ls claim as phones arent covered under his 
policy. 
The policy provides cover for baggage  which includes high value items. And the definition 
of high value items includes mobile devices and smartphones  which is what Mr L is 
claiming for. So, I think AWP have made an error here in initially saying theres no cover 
under the policy for phones or phone damage.  
AWP then write to Mr L and explain theyve completed an assessment of his claim and 
decided to decline it. They explain theyve noticed in the information provided that a liability 
of the policyholder is present in the event regarding the claim for not having taken all 
reasonable precautions to prevent the damage. They say Mr L did not take necessary 
steps to ensure phone would not fall from a secure location while disembarking from the 
plane. Also, I cannot understand how the phone was underwater, unless [Mr L] was also 
underwater. AWP say, in line with the terms and conditions of the policy, the event isnt 
covered. 
Mr L emails AWP and asks how they determine if necessary steps are taken to ensure a 
phone isnt dropped. Mr L explains he was looking to book a taxi and he dropped his phone 
despite holding it with two hands and looking at it. Mr L asks AWP what additional steps 
should he have taken when holding a hand-held device with both hands. In relation to the 
other phone, Mr L explains he was on the beach sun bathing and a wave came up further 
than normal and cover us and all our belongings, including my phone. When the wave 
retreated, it took a couple of minutes to find and gather our belongings. By this time water 
had obviously gotten into the phone. 
I cant see AWP responded directly to Mr L on these points. But they have provided a 
response to our service and say they agree, from Mr Ls description of holding his phone, 
that he did take reasonable steps to protect his phone from dropping. In relation to the other 
phone, AWP say they dont deem Mr L to have taken reasonable care given that the tide 
would come in/out slowly throughout the day, and they feel that a wave coming in isnt a 
sudden or unforeseen event. They say Mr L therefore shouldve taken more care to protect 
his phone. So, there doesnt appear to be a dispute in relation to Mr Ls phone which fell. 
AWP still believe though that Mr L didnt take reasonable care in relation to his phone which 
had water damage. 
The policy contains general provisions and conditions which apply, and this says, You must 
take reasonable care to protect yourself and your property against accident, injury, loss and 
damage, as if you were not insured The policy doesnt define reasonable care. The test of 
recklessness we use is set out in the leading legal case on reasonable care  Sofi v 
Prudential Assurance (1993) 2 Lloyds Rep.559. 
For AWP to be able to reasonably turn down the claim on the basis that Mr L failed to take 
reasonable care there needs to be evidence to show he acted in a way that amounted to 
recklessness. That means AWP needs to show Mr L recognised a risk but took it anyway by 
taking measures which he knew were inadequate or no measures at all. 
Mr L says he placed his phone on a towel beside him. I acknowledge AWPs points about a 
tide coming in/out slowly throughout the day, but Mr L hasnt said that was the case here. 
And neither have I seen any evidence of Mr L saying that he noticed the wave, which caused 
the damage, approaching him or that he was aware from previous waves the water was slowly approaching, but decided to risk leaving his phone where it was. Given Mr Ls 
testimony, Im not persuaded this demonstrates he recognised a risk but took it anyway. So, 
I dont think AWP have shown that Mr Ls phone was damaged because he didnt take 
reasonable care. 
In these circumstances, I think AWP have unreasonably declined the claim. So I think the 
fair outcome is for AWP to reconsider the claim. As well as declining Mr Ls claim unfairly, 
and as mentioned above, I think AWP also incorrectly informed Mr L that phone damage 
wasnt covered under the policy. I think this caused confusion as theyd previously explained 
a phone is classified as a high value item under the policy and is covered up to £250. I also 
think there was frustration caused to Mr L when AWP didnt respond to his email providing 
further clarity to the claim circumstances. Taking this all into account, I think AWP should 
pay Mr L £100 compensation for the confusion and frustration caused.  
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that AWP have unfairly declined Mr Ls claim. So, AWP should 
reconsider Mr Ls claim further, in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. 
It is of course open to them to make any other further enquiries they feel are necessary, but I 
dont think its reasonable for them to use the reasons they have to justify their decision to 
decline the claim. AWP should also pay Mr L £100 compensation for the confusion and 
frustration caused.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. AWP P&C SA must take the steps in 
accordance with what Ive said under Putting things right above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman