DRN-3765864
The complaint
Mr I complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) contacted him frequently.
What happened
Mr I has a current account with Barclays and an overdraft limit of £4,500. He doesnt pay any 
interest or charges. Barclays wrote to him several times  they sent seven letters between 
October 2020 and August 2022.
Mr I complained that he felt hassled by the letters and calls, especially as he has a disability 
and is unable to work. He said his mental health is being affected by the contact from 
Barclays. He was disturbed that Barclays final response said they may start to charge 
interest.
Barclays said theyd contacted Mr I to offer support and to see if his situation had changed. 
They said that having reviewed his account, they may start to charge interest in the future.
Mr I brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said Barclays acted reasonably. Mr Is 
account was permanently overdrawn, and it was the right thing for Barclays to contact him  
as a responsible lender. He didnt think the letters were excessive or intended to bother Mr I. 
He could see that Barclays were going to review the charges and interest on Mr Is account 
 and if he didnt agree with that, then he should make a further complaint to Barclays.
Mr I asked that an ombudsman look at his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr Is current account is permanently overdrawn  with the balance always 
close to the limit of £4,500. He doesnt pay interest or charges.
Ive considered what both Mr I and Barclays have said. Its only reasonable that a lender 
such as Barclays contacts customers to see if they can help, or if a customer is in difficulty. 
This is the right thing for Barclays to do  it also ensures they are lending money 
responsibly, and that customers can afford to pay the money back. And I think thats what 
Barclays have done here. 
I reviewed the letters sent to Mr I. There were seven letters between October 2020 and 
August 2022. I looked at the letters, and they were offering help to Mr I, and wanting to 
ensure he could afford the borrowing  which was the right thing to do. The letters said 
Overdrafts can be useful for short-term borrowing, but they can be an expensive way to 
borrow money if you're overdrawn most of the time. As a responsible lender, we want to 
make sure that people can afford the money they borrow and we believe your overdraft may 
be becoming unaffordable for you. We want to discuss how we might be able to help you 
reduce the overdrawn balance on your current account but we've been unable to reach you.
I also considered the calls made by Barclays to Mr I  there were two that I could see in 
2022  in August 2022 and June 2022. The call in June 2022 was to discuss Mr Is overdraft 
usage  but there was no response by Mr I to the call. I dont think the calls were excessive 
and were well intentioned - for the purposes Ive described.
Mr I has said he is concerned that Barclays are going to start charging him interest on his 
overdraft. Let me set out what Barclays obligations are here.
Businesses have an obligation to treat customers in financial difficulty sympathetically and 
the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) says that businesses like Barclays should treat 
customers in difficulties with forbearance and due consideration. For example, a business 
might suspend or waive interest, accept lower payments, or defer them, and allow customers 
more time to repay their debt.
I cant say what Mr Is circumstances are  and it looks like Barclays arent completely aware 
of them either. But if he is in financial difficulty, and can reasonably demonstrate that, then 
Barclays must consider his situation and put in place a solution that supports him. But its 
also only fair to expect that Mr I sets out his circumstances for Barclays to assess. Its not 
reasonable to expect Barclays to give Mr I, or any customer, an interest free overdraft or 
loan without proper assessment and consideration. 
In general, as Barclays letters have said, its not sensible for a customer to have a fully 
drawn overdraft which isnt being reduced or repaid. It may be that Barclays agree to put Mr 
Is overdraft onto a loan to help him  that may be with debit interest or interest-free: but 
thats completely down to Barclays assessment of his situation and circumstances. Its 
Barclays decision. Id encourage Mr I to get in touch with Barclays to establish whats right 
for him.
I can see that Mr I feels strongly about his complaint and will therefore be disappointed by 
my decision, but Im not going to ask Barclays to do anything here. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman