DRN-3102553
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain that they had to pay an ERC when they bought another property and 
took out another mortgage product with Barclays. Their understanding had been that 
Barclays wasnt going to charge an early repayment charge (ERC). Mr and Mrs J want 
Barclays to waive the ERC.
What happened
Mr and Mrs J had a mortgage with Barclays with a ten-year fixed rate mortgage product with 
an interest rate of 3.89% pa on which an ERC was payable but could be ported. Mr and Mrs 
J were moving house. Their bank accounts were with another bank and they were thinking of 
taking out a mortgage with that bank. Mr and Mrs J met with a Barclays adviser and say that 
she told them that if they stayed with Barclays and took out another mortgage product - a 
five year fixed rate of 1.36% - with Barclays that they wouldnt have to pay an ERC. On that 
basis Mr and Mrs J say that they proceeded with the mortgage.
Mr and Mrs Js solicitor was told on 26 November 2020 that no ERC was payable as they 
were doing a simultaneous port and the transaction completed on 15 December 2020. In 
January Barclays again told Mr and Mrs J that an ERC wasnt payable but in February they 
were told it was. A manager contacted Mr and Mrs J to sat that as the deduction of the ERC 
hadnt been made clear to them that she would try to organise a refund. In March Barclays 
issued a response saying that the ERC wouldnt be refunded and offered £100 increased to 
£200 as an apology.
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld as she felt that the 
ERC was payable and that £200 should be reasonable compensation for Barclays errors. Mr 
and Mrs J and their solicitor disagreed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr J met with a Barclays mortgage adviser in early July 2020 to discuss the possibility of 
selling Mr and Mrs Js property and buying another one. The sale of their own property 
happened quite quickly and on 13 July Mr J wrote to the mortgage adviser to try and bring 
forward the appointment. In that letter Mr J makes a number of relevant statements which 
gives some context to the further meeting with the adviser later in July:
Therefore we now find ourselves in the situation that we have agreed a purchase price for
the property we are buying but arent able to move into that property until October 2020.
Nevertheless you may remember we discussed the current product I currently have and
penalties involved with redemption early.
I have checked my paperwork again and I believe it is a 10 yr fixed rate that started Sept
2014 so I will have to swallow the penalty on this occasion I think unless you can perform
any magic or existing customer counts for anything? I dont think given that we are looking
at lending more over a longer period it is worth sticking with the same product but let me
know what you think.
And further on in the correspondence
New Product
Now in order to support the new purchase I will pay back the existing mortgage I have with
you in full (redemption) and then I would like to take out the following new product with
Barclays as a joint application once again with my wife on these terms,
 Mortgage amount: £300,000 (LTV 35%)
 5 year fixed rate @ 1.38%
 Product fee £999
 Over 12 years @ approx. £2,262 repayment per month against a property value of
£840,000 (marketed at £895,000 but we agreed a significant reduction on the basis
we could move quickly)
We can increase the years of repayment if the MCOB rules arent comfortable with our
payment rate but we are paying £2,300 comfortably today. I dont know how your
affordability test works on existing customers so will take your guidance on this.
I note that it a significant part of Mr and Mrs Js case as referred to most recently in their 
solicitors letter to us of 6 January 2022 that Mr J was looking to move to another lender 
which would have saved them money even of an ERC was being applied and that Barclays 
were in the position where they had to come up with an alternative namely waiving the ERC. 
But in the whole of this email there is mention of any alternative lender or a more attractive 
alternative mortgage product which Barclays would have had to compete with. The pressure 
isnt on Barclays to do so. In fact, Mr J colourfully concedes his position by telling the adviser 
he will have to swallow the penalty.
As a result of the further meeting with Mr J the advisers notes record that the following was 
recommended:
I am recommending that you take a repayment mortgage as you want to pay capital and 
interest so that balance will be repaid at end of term with no risks. MORTGAGE PRODUCT 
AND TERM OF FEATURE you want stable payments for the next 5 years as you think that 
at this point your business will have grown and you may be able to reassess finances again 
so due to this you dont want to tie in for any longer than 5 years. Your current mortgage has 
47 months remaining on a 10 year fixed rate product at 3.89% and although we discussed 
the ability to port this product you do not want to do this and instead want to pay the early 
repayment charges on this product and take the entire mortgage on a new 5 yr fixed rate at 
1.36%. By doing a like for like calculation to compare the existing fixed rate with a new 
mortgage on the same term but the new rate is worth paying the erc charges as your total 
saving would be £8372.33 based on a like for like calculation.
That would indicate that at least two discussions took place with Mr J about the pros and 
cons of porting the existing mortgage product and avoiding the ERC or taking out a new 
mortgage product and paying the ERC with Mr and Mrs J opting for the latter. Mr J has a 
different recollection of these discussions which was that the adviser told him that if he 
stayed with Barclays that the mortgage we arranged would port over and no ERC would be 
due.
There are clearly different recollections as to what was said at that meeting and I have to 
consider what is likely to have occurred. The Barclays notes are consistent with what I would 
have expected to have occurred namely that there was a discussion of the pros and cons of the two strategies and a consideration of the economic benefits to Mr and Mrs J of porting or 
not with a discussion of the actual savings. I believe that Mr J has a partial and inaccurate 
recollection of that discussion. Mr J in his submissions to us makes no mention of any 
figures being discussed. In fact, he says that the calculations for the saving of the ERC was 
never mentioned or shared with him. But that seems highly unlikely in a discussion that 
involved looking at two different strategies with two different financial outcomes. 
Mr J suggests that to retain his business Barclays was prepared to forego the ERC and give 
him a new mortgage product. His solicitor has re-iterated that in his most recent email.   Mr J 
says that he was dissatisfied with Barclays and was looking to go elsewhere and so Barclays 
conceded the new mortgage without the ERC. But there is no mention of taking their 
business elsewhere in the email of !3 July. In fact, Mr J concedes that its likely that they 
would have to swallow the penalty of the ERC.
 
Mr J in that letter holds out the hope that by the mortgage advisers magic or Barclays 
goodwill that the ERC might be avoided. But if for some reason Barclays conceded that out 
of its goodwill and that it agreed to forego the ERC why doesnt Barclays notes simply say 
that?  If Mr and Mrs J are correct that Barclays agreed out of its goodwill that there be no 
ERC it would seem that Barclays agreed one strategy but then wrote up an explanation for 
why they recommended a different strategy. Theres no reasonable explanation for that. If 
Barclays wanted to keep Mr and Mrs Js business and give them a new mortgage and a new 
mortgage product, surely the notes would simply record that? 
I was not at the meeting but have to form a view given the surrounding evidence on what 
was likely to have been discussed. My view is that  a discussion was likely to have been held 
discussing the alternative strategies as disclosed in Mr Js email and Barclays notes and that 
Mr and Mrs J opted for Barclays recommendation for the most economically beneficial 
strategy to Mr and Mrs J namely to take out a new mortgage product, not port their existing 
one and pay the  ERC. So, my view is that when Mr and Mrs J agreed the new mortgage 
with Barclays as the notes say, they were aware that they werent porting and would have to 
pay the ERC. 
After the mortgage offer issued Mr and Mrs J say that their solicitor confirmed in writing to 
Barclays on 26 November that the ERC wasnt applicable to Mr and Mrs Js account as they 
were doing a simultaneous port. As evidence of that Mr and Mrs J supplied an email trail 
ending on 26 November 2020 when Halifax tell the solicitor indeed that as its a 
simultaneous porting case you can deduct the ERC
But this email trail refers to an account for a new mortgage ending in 332 which isnt Mr and 
Mrs Js account number. Their new account ends in 558.There is a reference in the email 
trail to a he rather than they which also suggests that this correspondence refers to 
someone else not Mr and Mrs J. That was also our investigators view.  But Ive had the 
opportunity to see the whole email trail for this correspondence beginning with an enquiry on 
17 November for a redemption statement for a totally different person than Mr and Mrs J. 
This email trail which is submitted to us in support of Mr and Mrs Js case has nothing to do 
with them at all. 
It appears that the solicitor connected this to Mr and Mrs Js account as Mr and Mrs Js 
redemption statement which includes an ERC has a note made by the solicitor that the ERC 
should be deducted from the settlement figure as porting and referring to the email of 26 
November. But this is simply a confusion with another account not caused by Barclays and 
doesnt support Mr and Mrs Js complaint. 
Recently in an email of 22 February 2022 the solicitor acting for Mr and Mrs J said that she 
got verbal confirmation from Barclays prior to completion of the sale of their property that the ERC would not be payable as they were taking out a new Barclays mortgage on a new 
property. I note that in his evidence to us of 10 March 2021 Mr J doesnt refer to such a 
phone call. I also note that in her email of 10 February 2021 to Barclays, the solicitor only 
refers to the email trail and doesnt say that she was somehow misled by Barclays in a 
phone call. In that email she refers to phone calls made to Barclays by Mr J but significantly 
doesnt refer to any made by her. Crucially, written on the redemption statement was a 
reference to the solicitors reliance on the erroneous email trail deduct as porting=see email 
26/11 . There is no reference to relying on any phone call for deducting the ERC and would 
a phone call be necessary as the solicitor already thought she knew from the email that no 
ERC was payable? I have to consider that as time passes recollections are not as precise as 
they would be closer to the time. I would have thought that if the solicitor had in fact been 
relying on a phone call from Barclays for her information about the ERC there would have 
been some mention of it or close to the time. But the evidence is clear that the solicitor was 
relying on the email trail which was related to another persons account. 
As the ERC had not been paid Barclays chased this up in January. I note on 6 January that 
the solicitor tells Mr J that the ERC wasnt payable as they were porting which of course they 
werent. There appears to be several conversations in January and February that Mr J had 
with Barclays which gave him hope that the ERC would be waived. Clearly Barclays had no 
reason to waive it. But there was some internal confusion which appears to have been 
caused by the emails from the solicitor which suggested that as this was a porting 
transaction  which of course it was not  no ERC was payable. In my view this confusion 
was not the fault of Barclays although Barclays should have double checked before 
suggesting that the ERC might be waived. But Ive no doubt that Mr and Mrs J were aware 
from the time that they made the application back in the summer that an ERC was due. I will 
leave Mr and Mrs J to accept the £200 offered by Barclays for the confused messages in 
early 2021. But for the reasons set out above I cant fairly uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman