DRN-3717785
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that their life assurance policy with Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited 
is a decreasing term policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs P were sold their life assurance policy in 2007. The company that sold them the 
policy  a broker  is no longer in business. The policy was provided by Aviva. 
Aviva say they set up the policy based on what the broker told them Mr and Mrs P wanted. 
Theyve shown us the policy summary from the time, which shows the initial sum assured 
was £165,000. This would decrease over a term of 22 years.
Mr and Mrs P say they found out the sum assured had decreased in 2022 after Aviva sent 
them a letter. The cancelled the policy in March as a result. 
Mr and Mrs P feel the policy didnt meet their needs, and would have left a shortfall repaying 
their mortgage if anything happened to them. Theyve said they feel the policy was mis-sold 
as a result. 
Aviva explained in response to the complaint that they hadnt sold the policy  the broker did. 
Aviva explained they simply provided the policy, as requested. They felt theyd made it clear 
this was a decreasing term assurance policy. 
The complaint was brought to us, but our investigator agreed with Aviva. They hadnt sold 
the policy to Mr and Mrs P, so werent responsible for Mr and Mrs Ps complaint that it had 
been mis-sold. 
Mr and Mrs P didnt accept that view, so the case has come to me for a formal decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator noted, Aviva didnt sell this policy to Mr and Mrs P. So a complaint that 
the policy was mis-sold doesnt really sit against Aviva. 
In any case, I cant say this policy looks to be wrong on the details we have. Mr and Mrs P 
have described how the policy was to cover their mortgage. A decreasing term assurance 
policy could do that. The sum assured would start at the amount borrowed, and then reduce 
over a similar term to the term of the mortgage. By the time the policy no longer provided 
cover, there would be no more to pay on the mortgage. 
Getting those details to match up would be the responsibility of the broker. The broker would 
then be responsible for passing the details to a policy provider  such as Aviva. The extent 
of Avivas role would then be to make sure the policy they provided matched up with the 
details theyd received. 
I cant see any evidence here that Aviva failed to match the details of the policy provided to 
the details they received from Mr and Mrs Ps broker. So it follows I find no issue that 
requires further action from Aviva to resolve.
My final decision
For the reasons above, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 November 2022.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman