DRN-4019099
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy with how theyve been treated by Lloyds Bank PLC in relation to 
requests to extend their buy-to-let (BTL) mortgages. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs H took out two BTL mortgages with a mortgage lender, in 2008. Both mortgages 
were on an interest only basis, with a 10 year term. Therefore under the original contract, the 
amounts borrowed needed to be paid in 2018. Lloyds is responsible for dealing with the 
complaint.
In 2017, both mortgages were extended to run until 2021.
In March 2022, Mr and Mrs H complained about various things to do with the mortgages. 
They said that both mortgages were meant to have been set up over a 20 year term, to 
mirror the arrangement with their other rental property, funded by a mortgage with a different 
lender.
In relation to the term extension agreed in 2017, they complained that:
- They had wanted the extension to be for longer, but Lloyds says it was only prepared to 
agree to 4 years to tie in with Mrs Hs retirement.
- The extension was meant to be for 4 years, but in reality it was only for 3 years and 2 
months.
- They were made to pay extra capital that they couldnt afford.
They also complained that when they applied to extend both mortgages in 2021, Lloyds only 
agreed to extend one of them, despite the rental being more than enough to cover the 
mortgage payments on each property.
Lloyds didnt uphold the complaint. In summary, it said that the documentation from when 
the original mortgages were taken out stated the term was for 10 years. In relation to the 
term extension in 2017 and the refusal to extend one of the mortgages in 2021, Lloyds didnt 
think it had made any errors.
Unhappy with Lloyds response, Mr and Mrs H referred their concerns to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service.
An investigator here reached a view on the complaint. In summary, they didnt think Lloyds 
needed to do anything different in relation to any aspect of the complaint.
Subsequent to this, Lloyds agreed to extend the mortgage on the property where it hadnt 
previously been prepared to do this. Mr and Mrs H remained unhappy though with how 
theyd been treated and asked for the matter to be escalated to an Ombudsman. The case 
was passed to me to decide.
I issued a Provisional Decision (PD) under a separate complaint reference saying that the 
issue raised by Mr and Mrs H about the original term of the mortgages being incorrect was 
unlikely to be one that I could consider, because it appeared to have been brought too late. 
In terms of the other issues raised that I thought did fall within my remit, I said the following:
The issues I can consider fall under two broad categories:
- The actions taken and any advice given by Lloyds in relation to the term extensions agreed 
in 2017.
- Lloyds original decision to not agree a term extension on one of the mortgages in 2021 (it 
having subsequently changed its stance on this).
The 2017 term extensions
Mr and Mrs H have raised a number of concerns about how they were treated by Lloyds in 
relation to the term extensions, including that the representative put them under undue 
pressure to agree to the extension terms offered. The underlying products werent regulated 
at the time and Lloyds says it wasnt giving advice, however it is within my remit to consider 
whether Lloyds treated Mr and Mrs H fairly.
Mr and Mrs H say that they wanted Lloyds to agree to a longer extension than the 4 years it 
agreed to, for example another 10 years to take it up to the 20 years they say they thought 
they were getting at the outset. They say they dont recall any discussion about how this tied 
in with Mrs Hs retirement age. Lloyds has said that its adviser followed the correct 
processes when dealing with the extension request and didnt think the adviser had put 
Mr and Mrs H under pressure.
Ive listened to recordings of the relevant calls between Mr H and the Lloyds representative, 
before the extension was agreed.
The Lloyds representative was clear in explaining the rationale behind the 4 year term 
extension  that it was to tie in with Mrs Hs anticipated retirement age. This was on the 
basis that her income was likely to change at this point and so it would be a sensible point to 
reappraise the situation as regards the mortgages at that time. Its clear to me that Mr H 
understood all of this.
Lloyds could have decided to offer Mr and Mrs H different terms for the mortgages, but I 
cannot say that it was wrong to offer the extensions on the basis that it did. Given that the 
original term was 10 years (appreciating that this is a point of dispute for Mr and Mrs H), it 
wasnt obliged to offer any kind of extension beyond that.
Its also clear from listening to the call recordings that the Lloyds representative didnt put 
Mr H under any pressure to proceed. In fact, the representative suggested that 
Mr and Mrs H could approach other lenders to see what they might be prepared to offer. The 
representative also asked Mr H on a number of occasions if he and Mrs H would like to think 
things over rather than proceed with the term extension straight away. So, I dont uphold this 
element of the complaint.
Mr and Mrs H also say that the term extension should have been for a full 4 years from when 
the original term was due to end, rather than from when the extension was agreed. I dont 
think there is anything unusual or wrong about the way in which this was arranged. There 
was no requirement for Lloyds to agree the extension in the way Mr and Mrs H say should 
have been the case. During the relevant calls, Mr H did ask the representative whether the term could be extended to 4 years from the end of the current term, but the Lloyds 
representative clearly explained that the 4 years would be from the current point and not the 
original end date. Mr H clearly understood this. So, I dont uphold this element of the 
complaint either.
The other issue Mr and Mrs H raised is to do with part of the mortgage switching to capital 
repayment at the point of the extension. Mr and Mrs H say the representative didnt take 
account of repayments on their residential mortgage and that they couldnt afford the higher 
monthly payments that resulted from the additional capital repayments.
Its clear from listening to the call recordings that when the Lloyds representative came up 
with the first proposal for how much of each mortgage would be on capital repayment and 
how much on interest only, they hadnt included details of Mr and Mrs Hs residential 
mortgage repayments. This was because this wasnt mentioned in the prior budgeting 
conversation where the representative was establishing details of Mr and Mrs Hs income 
and expenditure. However, Mr H realised this and after explaining how much the residential 
mortgage repayments were, the Lloyds representative adjusted the figures accordingly, 
resulting in the amounts switching to capital repayment being significantly less and the 
monthly payments also reducing down from the original suggestion.
Mr H clearly says during the call that he thinks the amounts are affordable. Bearing this in 
mind alongside the fact that the Lloyds representatives proposal was based on income and 
expenditure information provided by Mr H and that the representative didnt pressure 
Mr and Mrs H into going ahead, I cannot see that Lloyds has made any error here either.
Mr and Mrs H have said that the additional capital repayments are additional charges that 
they neednt have incurred and have said that Lloyds should refund these. However, Lloyds 
was entitled to offer the term extension on the basis that it did. The Lloyds representative 
made it clear to Mr H that he and Mrs H were free to explore other options with other 
lenders, which may have included mortgages on a completely interest only basis. Bearing 
this in mind and that the additional repayment will have reduced the capital amount they 
owed, it would not be reasonable to say that Lloyds should refund any of these payments.
Lloyds original decision to not agree a term extension on one of the mortgages in 2021
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy that Lloyds was only prepared to agree a term extension on one 
of the mortgages when they asked about this in 2021. Mr and Mrs H say that the decision 
didnt make sense, because in their opinion there was no material difference between the 
two properties as regards a mortgage and that the rental income was more than enough to 
cover the mortgage repayments. They also say that the decision was at odds with what the 
Homewise information suggests.
Lloyds says that the extension was initially declined on the relevant mortgage because it 
didnt meet its lending criteria, based on the rental data it uses. It says the extension was 
subsequently granted, because the rental assumption figures are updated on a quarterly 
basis and when the new figures came out, the property/mortgage met the necessary 
threshold.
I can understand Mr and Mrs Hs surprise and disappointment when the extension was 
originally declined. Particularly given theyd been paying the mortgage for a long time. 
However, Lloyds is entitled to make lending decisions based on its lending criteria. Whilst it 
could choose to take account of specific rental information, I cannot say that it was wrong to 
use the rental assumption data that it did. It has provided information to show how the rental 
assumption figures it used initially didnt and then did meet the relevant criteria. That being 
the case, I cant reasonably say it did anything wrong when it initially declined a further extension.
In terms of the Homewise information Mr and Mrs H have referred to, its not clear to me 
how this is relevant to the issue of the rental assumption Lloyds used in the context of 
assessing the term extension against its lending criteria. So I dont currently think this makes 
a difference to the outcome of the complaint.
In conclusion, I dont currently uphold any elements of Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
I asked for any further evidence and/or arguments to be provided by 8 March 2023. Lloyds 
responded to say it had nothing further to add. Mr and Mrs H disagreed with my findings.
In terms of the issues relevant to this complaint reference, Mr and Mrs Hs response didnt 
engage with the specifics of anything that I said in my provisional decision. They did say that 
I had been duped by Lloyds and mentioned other unrelated issues theyd had with Lloyds, 
saying this confirmed Lloyds aggressive and inconsiderate attitude and that it always refuted 
responsibility for its actions and blamed anyone but itself.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings (which form part of 
this Final Decision), because neither party has provided me with any new material evidence 
and/or arguments to take into account. 
In response to my provisional findings, Mr and Mrs H have said they consider Ive been 
duped by Lloyds. I appreciate their disappointment at my provisional findings, but do not 
agree that this is the case. 
Mr and Mrs Hs reference to other (unrelated) issues theyve experienced with Lloyds has no 
bearing on or relevance to the facts of this case. 
For all of the reasons set out in my provisional findings, I cannot see that Lloyds has made 
any error or otherwise treated Mr and Mrs H unfairly in relation to either the 2017 term 
extensions or Lloyds original decision to not agree a term extension on one of the 
mortgages in 2021. 
As such, there are no grounds upon which I should uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the parts of Mr and Mrs Hs complaint about Lloyds 
Bank PLC that are within my remit.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 April 2023.
 
Ben Brewer
Ombudsman