DRN-3583459
The complaint
Mr S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC failed to refund him transactions he didnt 
recognise which impacted his credit score and they were unprofessional when he reported 
the situation to them.
What happened
Mr S approached Barclays about transactions that had been made from his account to a 
merchant who Ill refer to as P amounting to £7,000. P are an online gambling business. Mr 
S asked Barclays for a refund because he didnt recognise the transactions. Barclays started 
a fraud investigation and contacted P about the payments.
Mr S received a temporary refund from Barclays which was immediately removed from the 
account by him. Mr S later told Barclays that P had failed to pay him winnings he believed he 
was owed. Barclays reassessed the situation and because Mr S had told them hed made 
these transactions himself, they no longer had the grounds to challenge them against P. 
Barclays only took back part of the temporary refund (£2,080), leaving the rest in Mr Ss 
account. P later informed Mr S that this money was from them after Barclays had started 
their fraud investigation and they (P) had taken the loss themselves.
Mr S complained to Barclays about the removal of the funds from his account and that his 
credit profile had been impacted by how Barclays had handled the situation. Mr S was also 
unhappy with how he was treated by Barclays during their investigation. 
Barclays looked into the complaint and didnt agree that theyd made any error. Barclays 
wrote to Mr S and explained that because hed made the transactions, they were holding Mr 
S liable for them.
Mr S disagreed with them and brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service 
for an independent review. Mr Ss complaint was looked into by one of our investigators who 
asked both parties for information about the complaint. Mr S explained that he was due a 
refund from Barclays, but they took back part of it. Mr S later explained that he was in 
dispute with P about his winnings and that Barclays had denied him the appropriate refund. 
Barclays provided information about the complaint and details of the transactions from Mr 
Ss account to P. Barclays explained that the refund Mr S was given was a mistake, but they 
werent going to ask for the remainder to be paid back.
Our investigator thought that it was reasonable for Barclays to take back the refund (£2,080) 
because Mr S authorised the transactions himself. She also thought that the refund Mr S 
was able to keep was in excess of any award she might have recommended for poor 
customer service. Mr S disagreed and made a further claim of additional disputed 
transactions which have been registered as an additional investigation by Barclays and dont 
form part of this complaint.
Mr Ss complaint has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S confirmed to our investigator that hed had an issue with the merchant (P) and was in 
dispute with them about his winnings  he said:
I raised this merchant dispute (P) dont pay my winnings 15 k£
Barclays also provided details of a similar comment by Mr S, although at some stage Mr S 
also denied making these transactions. Its apparent that Mr S was having a dispute with P 
about his account with them. He believed they owed him money from online gambling. 
Firstly, I have to determine the issue of authorisation  put simply if the evidence indicates it 
was more likely than not that Mr S authorised these transactions, then he wouldnt be due a 
refund based on the transactions hes disputed. Because Mr S confirmed hed made them  - 
based on a dispute about winnings  then I dont need to further consider the issue of 
whether the transactions were authorised.
From looking at the evidence from both parties, Mr S asked Barclays to obtain a refund for 
him. Mr S was given a temporary refund of about £7,000 whilst Barclays looked into the 
matter. The same day the refund was paid to Mr S, most of it was transferred out of the 
account. Barclays have said that they made a mistake when they attempted to obtain a 
refund for Mr S. Once they realised hed authorised the transactions, they withdrew their 
efforts to obtain a refund.
By this time, over £4,000 had been refunded, although its not clear if P or Barclays made 
the payment to Mr S. Barclays took back the remaining temporary credit  amounting to 
about £2,000. Barclays have confirmed that whilst they believe Mr S wasnt entitled to the 
refund, theyre not going to ask him to pay back the bulk of the refund.
Mr S continued to pursue Barclays for the remainder of the refund, but I think it was 
appropriate for Barclays to decline him the remaining monies because he authorised the 
original payments and received a service from P. Im not aware of the details of Mr Ss 
dispute with P, but for the purposes of this complaint I dont think its relevant. 
Thats because Mr S authorised the original transactions and Barclays were unable to use 
the VISA system to challenge the transactions. Theyve explained that there isnt a 
reasonable chance of success using the VISA system and Im inclined to agree. From 
looking at the submissions, the only likely way to challenge the payments is if P had already 
provided Mr S with documents agreeing to pay him monies following the dispute (but hadnt). 
If Mr S had such a document, hed have been able to use that as evidence for Barclays to 
pursue a refund from P, but as far as Im aware, P didnt issue such a document, which 
means theres no likely grounds for a successful challenge using the VISA system. 
I appreciate Mr S was having financial difficulties at the time, but I can only instruct Barclays 
to make a refund if theyve somehow failed Mr S with how theyve approached the issue. I 
dont think they have here, so wont be asking them to do anything further.
Mr S also complained about the way he was treated by Barclays. Ive listened to many calls 
between Mr S and Barclays and read the contact notes. I didnt read or hear any times when 
Barclays were rude or unprofessional to Mr S. I did note that on some occasions, Mr S was 
left frustrated by calls dropping and having to wait for periods on hold. I understand his frustration about this, but I dont think theres evidence to show Barclays were rude or 
unprofessional towards Mr S. 
Mr S had a number of issues with Barclays involving other accounts and I think this 
complicated matters. It would have been beneficial to isolate Mr Ss particular complaints, 
but I understand that in the context of the calls, this was sometimes difficult. 
I appreciate Mr S was also concerned about his credit scoring, but as Mr S authorised the 
original transactions and wasnt due any refund (even though he received a significant sum 
back into his account), I dont think the subsequent operation of his account was due to how 
Barclays dealt with him. Barclays are required to accurately report the operation of the 
account in the context of any credit products (including overdrafts). Because Mr S found his 
account in such an overdraft, I dont think it was unreasonable for Barclays to report this 
activity.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman