DRN-4347196
The complaint
Mr M complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) unfairly declined his pet 
insurance claim.
What happened
Mr Ms dog was in the garden and began limping on his left hind leg. The vet diagnosed a 
cruciate ligament rupture. The vet contacted the vet to pre-authorise the costs of surgery. 
RSA said Mr Ms policy covered accident and injury only. RSA did not consider the dog had 
been injured by an accident, which its policy defined as A sudden, unexpected, specific 
event, that results in an injury to the pet. 
Mr M complained. RSA initially said that his policy did not cover treatment for any cruciate 
ligament problems however caused. But it later said that this was not correct as the 
exclusion applied only to more recent policies. RSA apologised and offered to pay 
Mr M £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it had caused him. 
But RSA maintained there had not been any evidence of an accident. Mr Ms vet submitted 
the claim as traumatic cruciate rupture. The initial consultation indicated that the dog had 
been jumping for his food, which was a normal activity. 
RSA said it had contacted Mr Ms vet for further information including the x-rays. The vet 
sent the x-rays and clinical history and said: The owner reported [the dog] was running in 
the garden which caused the traumatic rupture. RSA said running in the garden was a 
normal activity for dogs and did not fit the policy definition of an accident, unless the joint had 
already been weakened by disease. RSA referred to two veterinary articles, which it said 
supported its position that cruciate ligament rupture is likely to be due to cruciate ligament 
disease. 
Mr M came to us. On his complaint form, he included some more information about what had 
happened to his dog. Mr M said that that his dog had been running on a fenced off area of 
decking behind his house having seen a fox and Mr M believed the dog had collided with a 
closed gate. Following our initial review of the complaint, RSA carried out some additional 
investigation because it said Mr M had given several different versions of what had 
happened to his dog. Having done so, RSA accepted the dog had been running in the 
garden but not that he had collided with a gate, as there had been no other injuries. 
Our Investigator upheld Mr Ms complaint. He thought the dogs injury had met the policy 
definition of an accident. He did not consider that RSA had shown that the dogs injury was 
due to illness or disease. He said RSA should pay Mr Ms claim with interest and he thought 
the £200 compensation was fair. 
RSA did not agree to pay the claim, saying that running and jumping would not have injured 
a healthy joint. It asked for an Ombudsman review, as it is entitled to do.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am very sorry to hear that Mr Ms dog has recently passed away. 
RSA says that Mr Ms dogs injury was caused by an illness rather than an accident. And its 
policy excludes injury due to illness. As RSA is relying on an exclusion, the burden is on 
RSA to show that the exclusion applies. I dont think it has done so and so I think that RSA 
should fairly pay Mr Ms claim. Ill explain my reasons. 
Mr Ms policy covered accident and injury to his dog. The policy defined Accident as A 
sudden, unexpected, specific event, that results in an injury to the pet.
Injury is defined in the policy as Damage to one or more parts of your pets body, as a 
result of one accidental cause, including related problems, arising directly as a result of that 
one accidental cause.
The policy says RSA will not pay Any claim for an illness which is not directly caused by an 
injury. Illness is defined as Sickness or disease or any clinical signs which are not caused 
by an injury.
The note made at the time of Mr Ms first consultation with his vet reported that the dog was 
in the garden, no trauma O [owner] can remember was jumping for his food. The claim was 
for traumatic cruciate rupture. The vet later said that the dogs cruciate rupture is an injury 
and that Mr M had reported the injury had occurred when the dog was running in the garden. 
I appreciate that Mr M has added further information about what he thinks might have 
happened. But it seems to me from the evidence that neither he nor his relative saw what 
happened. Rather, they heard a yelp and saw that the dog could not stand on his own. But in 
any event, I can see from RSAs submissions that it is now common ground that the dog was 
injured while running in the garden.
RSA says that running in the garden is a normal activity for dogs and does not fit the policy 
definition of an accident. It takes a lot of force of a twisting nature to rupture a healthy 
cruciate ligament. Running and/or jumping would not achieve this, however, it could possibly 
exacerbate a ligament weakened by disease. In support of its position, RSA has sent links 
to two internet based veterinary articles about cruciate ligament disease. 
Ive read the articles. In summary, they say that the cruciate ligament in dogs usually 
degenerates slowly over time, rather like a fraying rope. For the majority of dogs, the cranial 
cruciate ligament ruptures as a result of long-term degeneration, where the fibres within the 
ligament weaken over time. Dogs with cruciate ligament disease will commonly limp, and 
this may appear suddenly during or after exercise or it might be progressive and intermittent. 
Sudden rupture of a healthy ligament is very rare. 
I see the point that RSA is making. But importantly I havent seen anything in the clinical 
notes to say that Mr Ms dog had cruciate ligament disease or that Mr Ms vet suspected or 
discussed cruciate ligament disease. While the internet articles say that sudden rupture of a 
healthy ligament is very rare, theres no veterinary evidence in this case specific to Mr Ms 
dog to say that his dog had cruciate ligament disease or that the cruciate rupture was likely 
due to cruciate ligament disease. And even if sudden rupture without underlying disease is 
very rare, this does not mean it can never happen. The vet said the dogs cruciate rupture was an injury. The clinical notes show the joint was 
unstable, and the x-rays showed a swollen (effused) joint. There is not any reference to 
cruciate ligament disease in Mr Ms dog.  
Having considered all the evidence, I dont consider RSA has shown that the dogs injury 
was due to illness rather than an accident. The evidence suggests that the injury was a 
sudden, unexpected, specific event while the dog was running outside. As such, the fair and 
reasonable outcome is that RSA should pay Mr Ms claim. 
The clinical notes show that Mr M agreed to pay the vets bill in instalments. Subject to 
evidence of the dates on which he made those payments, RSA should add simple interest to 
the claim payment at the rate of 8% per year from the date Mr M made each instalment 
payment to the date of settlement. 
I think RSA made a fair offer of compensation of £200 to reflect the distress caused by 
quoting incorrect policy terms when turning down Mr Ms claim. I appreciate that Mr M was 
concerned that RSA offered this amount to encourage him to withdraw his complaint. But 
I dont think this was the case. Mr M was able to pursue his complaint with both RSA and 
this service. I think RSA made a fair gesture to reflect its admitted error. If RSA has not 
already paid the £200 compensation to Mr M it should now do so. 
Putting things right
I require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to:
Pay Mr Ms claim/s for the dogs traumatic cruciate rupture, subject to the policy limit 
and any applicable excess; and
Add interest* to the resulting claim payment at the simple rate of 8% per year from 
the date Mr M paid each instalment of the vets bill until the date of settlement, 
subject to evidence of the instalment payments and dates of those payments; and
Pay Mr M the £200 compensation, but only if it has not already done so. 
*If RSA considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr M how much its taken off. It should also give Mr M a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue 
& Customs if appropriate. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to take the steps 
set out in the Putting things right section above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2023.
 
Amanda Maycock
Ombudsman