DRN-3375758
The complaint
Mr O complains that Monzo Bank Ltds decision to reject his account applications was 
racially motivated.
What happened
Mr O says he made three applications for a Monzo account which were declined. He says he 
believes that the decisions were racially motivated and says Monzos actions have affected 
his self-worth. Mr O says he would like an account opened and further information about the 
decisions to reject the applications. He says he has been able to open accounts elsewhere.
Monzo says it rejected the applications which had nothing to do with race. It says it will not 
provide Mr O with further information.
Mr O brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
explained that Monzo had provided us with confidential information about the reasons why 
the account applications were rejected and didnt think those reasons had anything to do 
with race.
Mr O doesnt accept that view and questions why confidentiality is allowed to cover bad 
behaviour.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr O will be disappointed by my decision and appreciate how strongly he feels 
about what took place. I also make clear to Mr O that a business is not obliged to reveal 
potentially commercially sensitive material to its customers.
I have looked carefully at Monzos records which have been provided to us in confidence. 
Im satisfied that its up to Monzo when exercising its commercial judgement to decide with 
whom it has a business relationship. And I make clear I have not seen anything on those 
records that suggests Mr Os race played any part in the decision to reject his applications. 
Based on the information I have seen Im satisfied that Monzo was reasonably entitled to 
reject Mr Os account applications and those decisions had nothing to do with race.
I find this now brings an end to what we in trying to resolve this dispute informally can do and 
make clear to Mr O I have not seen any evidence of Monzo using confidentiality to cover bad 
behaviour as he suggests has taken place here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman