DRN-3279302
The complaint
Miss F has complained that Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Limited 
(CGICE) has declined a claim under her pet insurance policy on the ground that her dogs 
condition was pre-existing.
What happened
Miss F took out a policy with CGICE for the insurance of her dog which Ill refer to as S on 
20 January 2021. This followed a period of free cover which was available through her 
veterinary practice.
The policy contains an exclusion, customary in pet insurance policies, for any claims arising 
from pre-existing conditions. That means the policy doesnt cover any claims where the 
condition or signs and symptoms were present prior to the policy start date or within the 14-
day period thereafter.
In Miss Fs case therefore, her policy would not cover any claims she made for conditions 
that were diagnosed or symptoms of which arose before 3 February 2021.
Miss Fs veterinary practices records show that she contacted it by email on 18 February 
2021 wanting to discuss if S was showing signs of hip dysplasia. An appointment was made 
for 5 March 2021 when S was examined. The vet suspected hip dysplasia and a referral to a 
veterinary hospital was made where S was seen on 30 March 2021. X-rays confirmed that S 
had osteoarthritis.
CGICE maintains that this suggests that the condition first presented clinical signs prior to 
the inception of the policy or within the 14-day waiting period, ie before 3 February 2021. It 
says that Miss Fs claim was therefore correctly denied.
CGICE has also said that when taking out the policy for S, Miss F didnt disclose any pre-
existing condition. Had she done so, it says it wouldve added an endorsement to her policy 
excluding cover for any claims relating to the hip and pelvis and any degenerative disease, 
effective from 20 January 2021. CGICE has now applied this endorsement to the policy.
Disappointed with CGICEs rejection of her claim, Miss F brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigators view was that she wasnt satisfied that there was persuasive evidence to 
show that S began showing signs of hip dysplasia on or before 3 February 2021. As a result, 
she didnt agree that CGICE could fairly rely on the pre-existing conditions exclusion to 
decline the claim. She was also not satisfied that Miss F had answered the question about 
pre-existing conditions incorrectly when she took out her policy and in doing so had made a 
misrepresentation to CGICE which had resulted in CGICE adding an endorsement to her 
policy.
As CGICE doesnt agree with our investigators view, it requested that the complaint be 
referred to an ombudsman. Its therefore been referred to me to make a final decision from 
this service. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im upholding Miss Fs complaint and Ill give my reasons for doing so.
Ive read Ss medical records from the veterinary practice. These show that Miss F first 
raised an awareness of Ss movement problem in an email to the vet on 18 February 2021. 
S was then examined by the vet on 5 March 2021. The vets record from that visit was that 
Miss F had noted over the last few weeks that S was reluctant to stand up on his hind limbs 
and seems quite slow on walks. The reference to the last few weeks is vague but could 
equally include a period before 3 February 2021 as well as a period starting after that date.
A letter from the vet to whom S was referred makes a reference to the condition having been 
noticed for the last 2 months or so. This could also potentially include a period before 3 
February 2021 as well as a period starting after that date. The referral vet has stated that the 
reference to 2 months should not be taken literally.
My view is that if CGICE wishes to rely upon an exclusion in the policy it must provide 
sufficient evidence that such an exclusion can reasonably apply. In this case I dont consider 
it has done so. Neither vet has provided sufficient information to enable me to find that it is 
more likely than not that Miss F noticed the problems S was having before 3 February 2021. 
I dont accept CGICEs contention that on the balance of probability [Miss F] took out the 
policy  when there was problem with her pet. It could equally be said that on the balance 
of probabilities that when Miss F contacted her vet on 18 February 2021 shed done so very 
shortly after noticing Ss problem rather than waiting over 2 weeks to report something shed 
known about before 3 February 2021, or even a condition shed known about before 20 
January 2021.
I am similarly unable to find any basis upon which I can find any misrepresentation by Miss F 
when applying for her policy.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im upholding Miss Fs complaint.
I require Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Limited to settle Miss Fs claim 
for the treatment for Ss condition diagnosed on 30 March 2021 subject to any other terms 
and conditions of her policy and to pay interest on any sums payable to her at the simple 
rate of 8% from the date such claim was made until the date of payment.
I also require Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Limited to remove from her 
policy the endorsement added to it following the said diagnosis.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 May 2022.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman