DRN-2322584
The complaint
Mr L complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays) unfairly recorded a default on his 
credit file. He says he wasnt notified of it and it should be removed from his credit file.
What happened
The history of this complaint is well known to both parties so Ive summarised events below.
Mr L took out a loan with Barclays. 
The account fell into arrears after Mr L missed payments. A short-term plan (STP) 
was agreed in June 2019 to allow Mr L to pay a reduced sum for six months. The 
reduced payment was less than the contractual monthly payment, meaning arrears 
would continue to build. 
After the STP ended in December 2019, further payments were missed. Mr L says 
this is because the direct debit had been cancelled and he was unaware the 
payments were not being made. 
An agreement was reached in January 2020 to put a 30 day hold on the account, to 
give Mr L time to contact Barclays with an offer of payment regarding the outstanding 
balance (including arrears).
Barclays said as it had no contact from Mr L it issued two notices of default by letter, 
and because the necessary payments werent made a default was recorded on the 
account in March 2020.
Mr L says he didnt receive these notices so he wasnt aware payments were missed 
and the account would be defaulted until he discovered the default in May 2020.
He complained and Barclays said it had notified Mr L, and recorded the default fairly. 
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She didnt think Barclays had acted 
unreasonably as Mr L had failed to meet the conditions of the agreement. She was 
also satisfied Barclays had sent the appropriate notice of default before doing so.
Mr L didnt agree with our investigator, reiterating hed not received Barclays letters. 
As a result, this case has been passed to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same conclusions on this complaint as our investigator for the following 
reasons:
A default in the context of a loan describes the failure to meet the legal obligations of 
the loan  this includes the full monthly repayments as and when they are due.
Mr L failed to make all the full monthly repayments on his loan and by June 2019 the 
account was in arrears. Following the STP, arrears remained on Mr Ls account.
Ive seen evidence Barclays sent Mr L several arrears notices that were correctly 
addressed. These letters outlined the current arrears amounts and included a 
Financial Conduct Authority information sheet that confirmed missing payments could 
affect a borrowers credit rating.
Other than the agreement to put a hold on the account in January 2020, Ive nothing 
to suggest that Mr L contacted Barclays to make an offer to repay the outstanding 
balance and arrears. 
Ive seen Mr L had previously asked to extend the term of the loan with interest 
added but Barclays had declined this. 
Barclays has provided two notice of default letters, both correctly addressed from 
January and February 2020. The arrears amounted to over six months repayments 
so I think this was fair. Both confirm the arrears owed and Barclays intention to 
register a default if the amount wasnt paid or an agreement reached. The second 
notice gave a deadline of March 2020 and its not in dispute this wasnt met. So 
Barclays proceeded to record a default on the account  Im satisfied this is fair.
Mr L has said he didnt receive any of the notice of default letters. But Ive seen 
evidence they were sent and I dont think it would be reasonable to hold Barclays 
responsible for any issues Mr L may have with receiving post.
Mr L has said he was unaware payments werent being made from November 2019. 
But Im satisfied Barclays notified him, and in any case, it was ultimately his 
responsibility to ensure they were made  which he didnt.
Mr L said Barclays told him arrears on his account wouldnt be an issue if monthly 
payments were met. This isnt reflected in what Ive seen but regardless Mr L didnt 
keep up his monthly repayments. So this doesnt change anything. 
Barclays has a duty to register accurate information about consumers handling of 
their accounts, and thats what it has done here.
Ive carefully considered all of the points Mr L has put to our service, but these 
havent changed my mind for the reasons given above.
My final decision
For the reasons detailed above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2021.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman