DRN-1972714
The complaint
Mr H has complained that his home contents insurer, Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited. 
has declined his claim for a Rolex watch lost whilst on holiday.
What happened
Mr H was on holiday in July 2017, and he was wearing his Rolex watch every day. Having 
returned home he realised he didnt have the watch within his belongings. He recalled that 
the last time he had seen it was just before going to bed on his last night at the hotel when 
hed wrapped the watch in a towel. He tried to contact the hotel and then emailed the holiday 
company. After two months the holiday company said theyd been unable to find his watch 
and he made a claim to Admiral.
Admiral noted there had been a delay in the claim being made to it. It contacted the holiday 
company but it said it couldnt advise what investigations had been undertaken at or with the 
hotel. Admiral tried to contact the hotel, but it didnt reply. Admiral concluded that if Mr H had 
left the Rolex in his hotel room, as it since hadnt been found, it must have been stolen. 
Admiral noticed that under the cover for items lost or damaged away from the home, theft of 
items from a hotel room is only covered if force and violence is used to enter the hotel. It 
said there was no sign of that, so it declined the claim. 
Admiral also noted that there is a general policy condition requiring the policyholder to take 
care to prevent loss. Admiral said Mr H hadnt acted in such a way as to mitigate the 
likelihood of a theft occurring. It also said that thefts have to be reported to the police within 
24 hours, which Mr H hadnt done.
Our investigator felt Admiral had unfairly declined the claim. He said it was no more than a 
possibility that the watch had been stolen  there was, in fact, no evidence of this.  He said 
Admiral should reconsider Mr Hs claim.
Admiral said it only had to show on balance that a theft had been likely, and it said given the 
circumstances, this was all that could have happened. Admiral asked for an ombudsmans 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im upholding this complaint. I think Admiral has declined the claim unfairly. 
Ill explain. 
Mr H has cover for loss of belongings away from home. Mr H reported that he had lost his 
watch. Admiral thinks the watch must have been stolen, and has said this is the only 
explanation. But I can think of more possibilities than that  for example the maid may have 
picked up the watch within the towel and left the hotel room whilst unaware of the presence 
of the watch  and any one of a number of things might have happened to the watch from 
there. 
Whilst the holiday company told Mr H the watch couldnt be found, it couldnt tell Admiral 
what investigations had been done. Whilst Admiral tried to make enquiries with the hotel, the 
hotel didnt reply. So that means no-one knows or has been able to find out what enquiries 
were made, what type of searching took place, or what areas were searched. In light of that I 
dont think its fair to say that, on balance, the only conclusion can be that a theft most likely 
occurred. Therefore, I cant say it was reasonable for Admiral to rely on the part of the cover 
for items lost or damaged whilst away from home which relates to incidents of theft in order 
to decline the claim.
Admiral also sought to rely on the lack of care condition within the policy. Im not persuaded 
that Mr H did fail to take reasonable care, although I do note there was a safe in the room. 
And he has explained that he wrapped the watch in a towel to protect it from accidental 
damage, which doesnt seem unreasonable to me. But, in any event, Admiral sought to rely 
on this in respect of Mr H not having taken care to avoid a theft. Im not satisfied that a theft 
did occur so whether or not Mr H acted sufficiently to prevent such is irrelevant.
I also note that Admiral has said Mr H didnt report this matter to the police. The requirement 
to report matters to the policy comes under the theft section of cover. It doesnt feature within 
the general conditions or within those that apply to the cover for items away from the home. 
Mr H didnt believe his watch had been stolen, so I cant reasonably say he should have 
reported a theft to the police.
Mr H has cover for items lost or damaged away from the home. That is what Mr H has 
reported took place. Theres no reason to doubt what Mr H has said. And I note that on the 
day Mr H received an answer from the holiday company he contacted Admiral. So I dont 
think he unreasonably delayed in making the claim. Admiral hasnt shown that a theft most 
likely occurred instead, so it isnt fair for it to seek to decline the claim in the way that it did. 
Im now going to require Admiral to reconsider Mr Hs claim and it wont be able to rely on 
any terms or conditions which it has already relied on to date to decline it again.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to reconsider Mr Hs 
claim for a lost Rolex watch under the remaining terms and conditions of the cover.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2020.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman