DRN-3818453
The complaint
Miss G complains that NewDay Ltd irresponsibly allowed her to open a credit card account 
which was unaffordable.
What happened
Miss G says the NewDay credit card account was opened in 2017 and at the time she was in 
financial difficulties and debt. She says she couldnt afford the monthly repayments and that 
NewDays lending was irresponsible as well as unaffordable. Miss G would like interest and 
charges refunded.
NewDay says Miss G told it she was in employment earning £12,000 a year with additional 
household income of £814 a month. It says it carried out checks and calculated Miss Gs 
other debt at £1,600. It also says it checked Miss Gs credit file which showed no adverse 
information, arrears or defaults. NewDay says it approved the account with a credit limit of 
£500 which it increased to £1,400 in January 2018 following appropriate account 
management.
Miss G brought her complaint to us and our investigator upheld the complaint in part. The 
investigator thought appropriate checks were carried out by NewDay but that it shouldnt 
have increased the credit limit where there were clear signs of unaffordability. The 
investigator thought Miss G had not reduced the balance and had problems managing the 
account. The investigator recommended interest and charges be refunded.
NewDay doesnt accept that view and says Miss G had exceeded the credit limit once.
Miss G accepts that view.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and said as follows.
I explained that lenders and credit providers must carry out reasonable and proportionate 
checks on any credit or lending application. And that those checks will of course vary 
depending on the type and amount of the credit facility or lending. I said this was an 
application for a credit facility and not for example a mortgage and so I wouldnt have 
expected NewDays lending to have been as detailed here compared to that type of lending. 
But appropriate checks must still be carried out to ensure not only affordability but that any 
lending can be repaid appropriately.
I could see that Miss G told NewDay she was in employment earning £12,000 a year with 
additional household income of £814 a month. I was satisfied NewDay checked Miss Gs 
credit file which showed no adverse information such as defaults or arrears and that it 
calculated her other debt, at what I thought was a relatively low amount of £1,600. So, I was 
satisfied that NewDay did carry out reasonable and proportionate checks on Miss Gs 
application and there were no obvious signs of financial difficulties that it ought to have seen. 
I was also satisfied that NewDay approved what I thought was a relatively modest credit limit 
of £500.
I looked carefully at Miss Gs account management before NewDay increased the credit 
limit. I accepted Miss Gs management was not perfect as she exceeded her credit limit by 
about £17. But I could also see from the account statements that Miss G made required 
payments and repaid the full balance before the increase. So, I didnt think NewDay acted 
irresponsibly by increasing the credit limit to what I thought was still a relatively modest 
amount of £1,400. I saw that Miss G didnt use the new balance immediately but some 
months later which I thought suggested that Miss G experienced financial difficulties 
sometime after the credit limit was increased. 
I looked at Miss Gs bank statements and credit file and thought that even if NewDay had 
carried out further checks before the credit limit increase that it unlikely it would have made a 
different lending decision. I said that as Miss Gs account statements, before the increase, in 
December 2017 did not show for example the account being overdrawn and appear to show 
a wage being paid in. I also thought from looking at Miss Gs credit file that at the time of the 
increase, other accounts were appropriately managed, and the difficulties appear to take 
place sometime later. Miss G told NewDay of those difficulties in August 2018 which was 
some time after the credit limit increase. So, I didnt think further checks would have made 
any real difference to NewDays decision to increase the credit limit.
Overall, my provisional view was that NewDay carried out reasonable and proportionate 
checks on Miss Gs application and on the later credit limit increase. And that the lending 
and credit limit increase was not irresponsible, but on the face of it affordable.
Miss G has replied to my provisional view and says she was receiving maternity pay until 
May 2018 when she was unable to work. She says she is now a career for her disabled child 
and her financial position drastically changed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the same overall decision I reached in my provisional view 
and for the same reasons. I appreciate Miss G may have been receiving maternity pay until 
some time after the credit limit increase. But I cant see how NewDay would have known that 
unless Miss G told it and I have not seen any evidence that she did. I am satisfied that Miss 
Gs circumstances changed which led to her financial difficulties which was after the account 
was opened and after the credit limit increase. For those reasons I cant fairly conclude 
NewDays lending was the cause of those difficulties or could have known they would have 
taken place.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 December 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman