DRN-4334156
Complaint
Mr R has complained about a loan Lendable Limited (Lendable) provided to him. 
He says the loan was unaffordable and so shouldnt have been provided to him.
Background
Lendable provided Mr R with a loan for £5,000.00 in March 2022. This loan was due to be 
repaid in 59 monthly instalments of £162.53 and a final instalment of £183.23. The purpose 
of the loan at the time of the application was recorded as debt consolidation.
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr R and Lendable had told us. And he thought that 
Lendable hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mr R unfairly. So he didnt recommend that 
Mr Rs complaint be upheld. 
Mr R disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Rs complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Rs complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail.
Lendable needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means 
is Lendable needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr R 
could afford to repay before providing this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the 
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of 
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect 
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Lendable says it agreed to Mr Rs application after he provided details of his monthly income 
and some information on his expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against information on 
a credit search it carried out. In its view all of this information showed Mr R could to 
comfortably make the repayments he was committing to. 
On the other hand, Mr R has said he should never have been provided with this loan 
because of his existing financial position.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr R and Lendable have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that Lendable didnt simply accept an over-optimistic 
declaration of monthly disposable income at face value. Lendables credit searches showed 
Mr R had some existing debts. But these werent excessive. And the intention was for Mr R 
to clear the vast majority, if not all, of his existing commitments with the proceeds of this 
loan. 
Furthermore, having reviewed the bank statements Mr R has provided, I cant see anything 
on them which indicated he wouldnt be able to make the repayments to this loan had he 
consolidated his existing debts in the way he said he was going to. He was using his 
overdraft before the loan. But it was up to Mr R to contact his bank to arrange for the 
overdraft to be reduced or removed once he was able to repay the balance.
Equally, as this was Mr Rs first loan with Lendable, Im satisfied that it was reasonably 
entitled to believe that it wouldnt be increasing Mr Rs existing indebtedness in a way that 
was unsustainable or otherwise harmful. 
I accept that Mr R says he experienced difficulty making the payments. And I suspect the 
reason is because Mr R ended up re-establishing balances on some of his revolving credit 
accounts. But Lendable could only make a reasonable decision based on the information it 
had available at the time. It wont have known that Mr R might not close his revolving credit 
accounts and would instead spend on them again. 
All Lendable could do was take reasonable steps to ensure the payments would be 
affordable for Mr R. And as Mr R didnt have a history of applying for loans with Lendable for 
consolidation purposes and then returning for further funds after having failing to consolidate 
as he said he would, I think Lendable was reasonably entitled to believe the funds would be 
used for the stated purpose.
As this is the case, I dont think that Lendable did anything wrong when deciding to lend to 
Mr R - it carried out proportionate checks and reasonably relied on what it found out which 
suggested the repayments were affordable. 
So overall I dont think that Lendable treated Mr R unfairly or unreasonably when providing 
him with his loan. And Im not upholding Mr Rs complaint. I appreciate this will be very 
disappointing for Mr R. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that hell 
at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
Although Im not upholding Mr Rs complaint, I would remind Lendable of its obligation to 
exercise forbearance and due consideration should Mr R be experiencing difficulty and it 
choose to collect payments from him.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2023.
 
Jeshen NarayananOmbudsman