DRN-3174775
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy that Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) declined their travel 
insurance claim. 
All reference to Ageas includes its agents.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H have annual travel insurance which cover trips of up to 31 days worldwide. 
The policy is underwritten by Ageas. 
They booked a trip in January 2020 and their intended travel dates were from 24 October to 
31 October 2020. Travel to the country they were intending to go to, had been allowed 
during certain times in 2020. But by 16 September 2020, the FCDO advised against all but 
essential travel to that country.
Mr and Mrs H contacted Ageas to see if they would have cover if they cancelled their trip. 
Ageas said they wouldnt have cover on their policy. So they asked Ageas if they had cover 
if they went ahead with the trip. Ageas said they wouldnt have cover as they would be 
travelling against FCDO advice.
The advice from the FCDO hadnt changed by 23 October 2020, so Mr and Mrs H cancelled 
their trip. They managed to recover most of their costs associated with the trip except for 
their flight costs. The flight provider hadnt cancelled the flight so it said it wouldnt refund Mr 
and Mrs H as there was no obligation to do so. 
Mr and Mrs H made a complaint to Ageas as they thought it wasnt fair that, either way, they 
had no cover if they cancelled and no cover if they went ahead with the trip. Ageas 
responded and said Mr and Mrs H had no cover under their policy for their circumstances. 
They declined their claim for recovering their flight costs and said it hadnt acted unfairly in 
doing so. 
Mr and Mrs H brought their complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into it. She 
upheld it and said overall, the way the policy documents had been presented meant that the 
combined effect of them wasnt clear to Mr and Mrs H. She didnt think it was fair and that it 
was likely Mr and Mrs H wouldnt have bought the policy if they realised there would be no 
cover under the policy if FCDO advice changed.
Ageas responded. It didnt agree with the investigators findings and asked for the complaint 
to be looked at by an ombudsman. So, its been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key issue for me to decide is whether Ageas fairly declined Mr and Mrs Hs claim on the 
basis that they werent covered for a change in the FCDO advice. 
Industry rules and guidance
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS).
ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of their customers, and that they should handle claims promptly and fairly.
ICOBS also says that insurers should give consumers appropriate information about a 
policy in good time and in a way that is easy to understand. This should include an 
Insurance Product Information Document (IPID), giving a consumer a summary of certain 
things  including excluded risks.
Regulatory guidance (The Responsibilities of Providers and Distributors for the Fair 
Treatment of Customers) from the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), says businesses 
should consider the impact of their actions  or inactions  on the customer throughout the 
lifecycle of the service being provided.
The policy terms and conditions and the IPID
Section 1a, on page 19, sets out what cover is available if a trip is cancelled:
Section 1a - If your trip is cancelled  up to £5,000 
We will repay you for your proportion of expenses you have paid or legally have to 
pay for your unused travel and accommodation which you do not use if you have no 
choice but to cancel the trip as a result of one of the following commencing during the 
period of insurance:
a) Your death, injury or illness, or that of your travelling companion (not including a 
tour leader or someone you have paid to provide any part of your trip), the person 
you are going to stay with, a close relative or business associate.
b) You or your travelling companion being required by the police to stay home as a
result of burglary, or serious damage by fire, explosion, subsidence, storm flooding,
vandalism, fallen tree or impact by aircraft or vehicle to your or their home or usual
place of business in the United Kingdom.
c) You or your travelling companion being required for jury service or as witness in a
court of law as long as you became aware of the commitment after taking out this
policy or booking the trip (whichever is later).
d) You being made involuntarily redundant if you are under 65 and have 2 years
continuous employment with the same employer.
e) You or your travelling companion having agreed leave subsequently cancelled by   
the emergency services or armed forces for operational reasons. This cover does not
apply to cancellation of leave due to war, invasion, acts of terrorism, hostilities
(whether war be declared or not), civil unrest, resolution, rebellion, act of foreign
enemy or any similar event.
f) Natural disaster, which directly or indirectly results in the recommended 
cancellation of your booked scheduled transport following any directive issued by any 
recognised government or government body, providing the directive came into force 
after you purchased this insurance or booked the trip, whichever is later. This cover will only apply when you are unable to recover your incurred expenses through any 
other means.
Natural disaster is defined as: Hurricane, tornado, storm, high water, wind, driven 
water, tsunami, earthquake, volcanic eruption, landslide, snowstorm or natural fire. 
Mr and Mrs H cancelled their trip due to advice given by the FCDO against all but essential 
travel to their intended destination. Based on the above, this isnt a listed insured event so 
looking at this alone, Mr and Mrs Hs claim isnt covered under the terms and conditions of 
the policy.
On page 47 of their policy document, theres a list of General Conditions that apply to all 
sections. This says:
2. You will not be covered for the following: 
.
(g) Travel to a country or specific area or event which the Foreign and 
Commonwealth Office or World Health Organisation has advised the public not to.
And, on page 1 of the IPID, it says:
What is Not Insured? 
For a full list of what is and isnt covered, please refer to the policy wording

Travelling against government advice (for example FCO recommendations).
The exclusions applied to the policy means if Mr and Mrs H had travelled to their destination 
and had acted against the FCDO advice, they wouldnt have been able to use their policy at 
all for any claims. 
So, the effect of the general exclusion would be that they werent covered for the cancelled 
trip by following the FCDO advice. But if they had travelled and not cancelled the trip and, 
therefore, not followed the FCDO advice, they still would have been left with no cover.
Taking the relevant law, guidance and industry regulations into consideration, as well as 
whats fair and reasonable, I dont think the exclusion of cover from claims due to the FCDO 
advice was easily understandable from the policy documents. The cancellation section of the 
policy doesnt include changes in FCDO advice as an exclusion. Im therefore not satisfied 
the exclusion thats applied on their policy relating to travelling against FCDO advice was 
prominent or transparent. Mr and Mrs H would have been required to read the policy terms 
and conditions all the way through to understand the full effect of it. I dont think its 
unreasonable to expect such an exclusion to have been brought to their attention in a more 
prominent and transparent way. 
The way Mr and Mrs Hs policy was designed and presented to them meant that the true 
effect of the policy wasnt made clear to them. It created the effect of them having no cover 
whatsoever for when the FCO changed its advice. This created a significant imbalance 
between the rights of Ageas and Mr and Mrs H. And this meant that this shifted the rights 
and obligations under the contract significantly in Ageas favour.
I also dont think the exclusion from cover of cancellation claims is clear or transparent 
enough. While it is in plain English, the FCDO exclusion isnt presented in the same place. 
So, I dont think it would be evident to a policyholder that they would have no cover at all under the policy if FCDO advice changed in respect of their destination after theyd bought 
the policy. I appreciate the consumer would have a cooling-off period. However even with 
this, I dont think a consumer could easily be able to understand the full implications of the 
FCDO exclusion on their cover. I think the way the cancellation section of cover and the 
FCDO exclusion under the General Conditions section of the policy are presented separately 
means the combined effect isnt clear. 
Overall therefore Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs H wouldve agreed to a policy that left them 
without any cover in these circumstances if theyd understood the true effect. So, I think the 
way the information about the cover available under this policy is presented is not fair and I 
dont think Ageas was acting in the best interests of consumers like Mr and Mrs H when 
presenting the information in this way. I dont think this is fair or reasonable in all the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Conclusion
Taking account of all the available evidence, Im not persuaded that Ageas has declined Mr 
and Mrs Hs claim fairly and reasonably. The overall effect of the policy left them with no 
cover on their policy when the FCDO advice changed. And it follows that as the cost of the 
flights was irrecoverable from the flight provider, the claim for this cost should now be paid. 
Putting things right
Ageas should now assess and pay Mr and Mrs Hs claim under the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Mr and Mrs Hs complaint against Ageas 
Insurance Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 December 2021.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman