DRN-4109463
The complaint
Ms W complains about how long it took Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) to recover her 
vehicle under her vehicle rescue policy.
Reference to Ageas includes its agents.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill summarise the key 
points Ive focused on within my decision.
Following a breakdown on a busy roundabout Ms W reported the breakdown via an app to 
Ageas. At 2.27pm Ageas informed Ms W that the estimated time of arrival (ETA) for the 
technician was 60 minutes. The technician attended 10 minutes late.
The technician couldnt complete the repair at the roadside, so a tow truck was requested at 
approximately 4.00pm with an ETA of 60 minutes. The vehicle was moved from the 
roundabout to a safer location at a local petrol station for Ms W and her partner to await the 
tow truck. Due to the distance of Ms Ws onward journey a two-part relay was planned with a 
switch due to take place at a service station on route.
The second-leg tow truck had been arranged for the handover. But unfortunately, the first 
tow truck still hadnt picked up Ms W and her vehicle from the petrol station to transport them 
to the service station. Due to the delays with the first tow truck, it was arranged that the 
second tow truck driver would now drive to the petrol station to pick Ms W up and complete 
the entire journey. This didnt reach Ms W until 8.30pm.
Ms W says she suffered increased upset as she is neurodivergent. Ageas says they were 
not aware of this at the time of the incident. However due to the delays on the day it offered 
Ms W a goodwill payment of £50 based on what she told them at the time. Ms W didnt 
accept this, so the offer was withdrawn.
Ms W made a formal complaint and Ageas acknowledged that there was approximately two 
hours of delays and offered £30 compensation.
Our investigator acknowledged there were delays but felt the compensation offered was fair 
in the circumstances.
Ms W disagreed. So, the complaint has been passed to me, an Ombudsman, for a decision.
I issued my provisional findings on this complaint on 20 April 2023.  This is what I said:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have looked at the timeline of events and Ms W was expecting the tow truck to be picking
her up at the petrol garage at approximately 5.00pm. However, she didnt get picked up from
there until 8.30pm. So, there is approximately a delay of three and a half hours, plus the 10-
minute delay in the initial arrival of the technician. I can appreciate this caused Ms W upset
especially as it appears she was not given clear updates on what was happening and was
being told they will be there soon. The weather at the time was heavy rain and Ms W says
they got incredibly cold due to how long they were waiting.
I understand since making the complaint to Ageas Ms W has made it aware she is
neurodivergent, but I can see Ageas wasnt aware of this at the time of the incident. So, Im
satisfied it couldnt take any further reasonable steps to limit the distress at the time.
However, considering the weather conditions and that Ms W says she was getting upset on
the phone when she was not being given any clear information to when she would be
collected. I think Ageas shouldve have been aware of how distressed Ms W was becoming.
Im therefore not satisfied £30 compensation is fair in the circumstances of this complaint
and I intend to direct Ageas to pay £100 compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have accepted my provisional decision, Im therefore satisfied that my 
provisional decision represents an outcome thats fair and reasonable.
Putting things right
I direct Ageas Insurance Limited to pay Ms W £100 compensation. Ageas must pay the 
compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Ms W accepts my final decision. 
If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my 
final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2023.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman