DRN-2451354
The complaint
Mr H complains about the way Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) handled
a medical expenses claim he made on his travel insurance policy.
Mr H is represented by his father, who Ill call Mr S.
All references to LV include the assistance company which acted on LVs behalf.
What happened
Mr H was cycling abroad on 3 February 2019, when he had an accident and injured his
shoulder. He was taken to hospital, where a broken collarbone was diagnosed, which
required surgery. He got in touch with LV to make a medical expenses claim on his travel
insurance policy.
LV told Mr H the claim would be covered. But it told him it would need a medical report from
the hospital which was treating him to confirm whether surgery was a) medically necessary
and b) whether it was urgent or could wait until Mr H returned to the UK. The first medical
report Mr H provided did say hed need surgery but it didnt say whether it needed to be
done as an emergency or whether it could wait until Mr H got back to the UK. The report said
Mr H needed to see a traumatologist for a follow-up.
There was ongoing communication between LV, Mr H, Mr S and two treating clinics during
the period 3-5 February 2019, as LV still required further medical evidence. Mr H saw the
traumatologist on 5 February 2019 who also diagnosed a fractured left clavicle and
recommended surgery. The report didnt say when or where the surgery needed to be done.
LVs medical officer reviewed the reports and notes of a discussion between LV and a nurse
at the treating clinic and concluded that Mr H was fit to fly home and could wait to have the
surgery in the UK. The doctor did feel that Mr H mightve needed an extra seat on the flight,
to avoid knocks to his shoulder.
Following a review of Mr Hs file, LV also decided the claim shouldve been turned down
when Mr H first called. Thats because Mr H had told the call handler that hed been cycling
in a race, which is specifically excluded by the policy terms.
On this basis, Mr H arranged a return flight on 6 February 2019 at his own expense and flew
home. He sought treatment at an NHS hospital. Mr S said the consultant had reviewed Mr
Hs X-rays and agreed he needed surgery. But due to staff shortages, Mr H wasnt able to
get the surgery done by the NHS. Instead he underwent surgery at a private hospital on 14
February 2019.
Mr S and Mr H were unhappy with the service Mr H had received from the assistance
company. They felt LV had failed in its duty of care and had been professionally negligent.
They said Mr H had been put to unnecessary pain and suffering as a result of not being told
upfront his claim wasnt covered.
LV accepted it had made mistakes in the way itd handled Mr Hs claim. It accepted Mr H
shouldve been told upfront that his claim wasnt covered. So it agreed to cover the costs of
Mr Hs surgery in the UK; his return travel and accommodation costs, his X-ray fees,
together with a payment for the accidental damage to a bike wheel as a gesture of goodwill.
This payment totalled £6594.21. LV also agreed to pay Mr H £200 compensation for the
distress and inconvenience its handling of the claim had caused him.
Mr S didnt accept LVs offer. He asked us to look into Mr Hs complaint. He felt more
realistic compensation would be around £4240, (including the £200 compensation LV had
offered and on top of the amount itd paid out for the claim), representing Mr Hs pain and
suffering; his own time dealing with the complaint, calls to LV and for the care and support
the family had provided to Mr H.
Our investigator didnt think the circumstances of Mr Hs claim were covered by the policy
terms. So he acknowledged that LV shouldve told Mr H upfront that his claim wasnt
covered. This wouldve meant that Mr Hs medical expenses and repatriation costs wouldnt
have been met. He felt that LVs mistake had delayed Mr H getting treatment, which had led
to him experiencing further pain. But he felt that given LV had been entitled to turn down the
claim and instead had paid Mr Hs costs, this should be treated as effective compensation.
Taken together with the £200 LV had already offered as compensation, he thought what LV
had already paid was fair and reasonable.
Mr S disagreed. He responded to our investigator in a great deal of detail, so Ive
summarised his main points. He felt the cycling exclusion was unclear. The medical
expenses section of the policy suggested all medical bills would be paid without exception.
LV hadnt dealt with his complaint about professional negligence or any failure in its duty of
care. LV hadnt provided the level of medical assistance expertise its assistance companys
website purported to offer. They were repeatedly told the claim was covered and it was only
on 6 February 2019 that they were told otherwise. This had led to Mr H suffering 11 days of
pain. He maintained the compensation was inadequate to reflect Mr Hs pain and suffering.
I issued my provisional decision on 20 November 2020. In my provisional decision, I 
explained the reasons why I didnt plan to uphold Mr Hs complaint. I said:
Id first like to reassure Mr S that while Ive summarised the background to this complaint
and his detailed responses to our investigator; Ive carefully considered everything he and
LV have said and sent us. Its clear how strongly Mr S and his family feel about Mr Hs
complaint and Im sorry to hear about the accident and Mr Hs injury.
But in making my decision, I need to weigh up whether LV did anything wrong and if it did,
what I think Mr H wouldve done differently. I also need to think about the amount LV has
paid out as a whole and whether its appropriate to treat this as compensation. I havent
addressed each of Mr S concerns  instead Ive focused on what I believe are the key
issues.
Should LV have told Mr H earlier that his claim wouldnt be covered?
Ive first considered the terms of Mr Hs policy. It sets out a list of activities that are covered.
Ive set out the relevant activity below:
Cycling but not BMX or mountain biking (other than normal road cycling using a mountain
bike) or racing.
I think its clear that while cycling itself is covered, bike racing isnt. Having looked closely at
the records of Mr Hs first call with LV, its clear he told the call handler that his injury had
been sustained while he was racing on his bike. So I do think LV shouldve let Mr H know atthat point, or at least a short time later, that any medical expenses he might incur wouldnt
be covered, along with any accommodation or travel costs to get back to the UK.
What impact do I think LVs error had on Mr H?
It seems to me that if LV had told Mr H either on 3 February 2019 when he first called, or the
following day, that his claim wasnt covered, hed have had two options. 
First, he couldve undergone the surgery while abroad and paid the treatment costs himself.
Ive looked at initial medical report from A and E. While itd diagnosed a fracture, suggested
Mr H might need surgery, immobilised his arm and given him pain relief, it said Mr H would
need to see a traumatologist. I havent seen enough evidence to suggest that this wouldve
been on the same day or even the next day though. And a nurse from the treating hospital
told LV that the treatment could be done in the UK, so it doesnt seem as if they considered
Mr Hs surgery was an emergency.
The other option wouldve been for Mr H to arrange repatriation back to the UK on 3
February 2019 and to seek treatment in an NHS hospital around three days earlier than he
actually did. LV wouldnt have been liable for Mr Hs repatriation costs, and although not
obligated to, it couldve helped to organise assistance for him at his cost if hed asked.
In my opinion, it seems most likely Mr H wouldve taken up this option, given he did return to
the UK once he learned he wasnt covered. So Ive thought about what impact not being in a
position to take up this course of action had on Mr H. Mr H went to a UK hospital on 6
February 2019. He was assessed and surgery was recommended. Mr S says the consultant
told Mr H theyd try to carry it out the following day. But due to staff shortages, the NHS
hospital wasnt in a position to carry out the surgery. Mr S says if Mr H had returned earlier,
this wouldnt have been the case, due to school holidays and backlogs. I accept this is
possible.
But I havent seen enough evidence to show me that if Mr H had returned to the UK on 3 or
4 February 2019, hed have had the surgery urgently and several days sooner than he
actually did. Given Mr H chose to undergo private surgery eight days after his return to the
UK, it isnt clear that the injury was considered to be a medical priority or that the treating
doctors believed it couldnt wait. And it simply wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to hold
LV responsible for any delays in the NHS ability to provide surgery or its clinical decision-
making process.
Theres also no medical evidence available to show that on the balance of probabilities, Mr
Hs injury or recovery were worsened by the fact he didnt return to the UK on 3 or 4 
February 2019. So I dont plan to make any award on this basis.
Is the compensation LV has offered fair and reasonable?
As Ive explained, Im satisfied LV did make a mistake. It told Mr H his claim would be
covered when it shouldnt have done. And I think he probably wouldnt have remained
abroad, made several attempts to get a medical report or visited the traumatologist if hed
known his claim was excluded.
But I think LV has taken generous steps to put things right. Cover under Mr Hs policy ends
once a policyholder either gets home or to a hospital in the UK. UK treatment costs are
specifically excluded, as theyre available on the NHS. So even if LV accepted liability as a
gesture of goodwill, this strictly only extended to paying the medical costs Mr H incurred
abroad; his repatriation costs and the costs of his damaged wheel.In this case, LV has also agreed to cover the costs of Mr Hs private surgery in the UK, which
I consider to be more than fair. I accept its possible Mr H did suffer some unnecessary pain
and suffering as a result of LVs mistake as its possible he could have been treated sooner.
But as Ive explained, given the lack of evidence on this point, Im not persuaded that he
wouldve had the surgery carried out in the window between 3 and 6 February 2019 if hed
returned to the UK at that point. Or that the surgery wouldve been carried out much sooner
than it was.
Overall I currently think the £6594.21 LV paid as a gesture of goodwill, together with £200
compensation is very fair. So Im not planning to tell LV to pay anything more. Id also add
that as a free service we wouldnt generally award compensation for a representatives time
or costs  we look at the impact the mistake has had on a policyholder. So while I accept Mr
S feels compensation should be paid for his time, calls and the support the family provided
Mr H, Im not persuaded it would be appropriate for me to make such an award.
I asked both parties to send me any more evidence they wanted me to consider.
LV had nothing more to add.
Mr S disagreed with my provisional findings on Mr Hs behalf and Ive summarised his 
response below:
He felt there was a danger in me summarising his complaint points, as LV could hide 
many of its failings behind this approach. Hed highlighted a number of instances 
where LV had failed in its duty of care to Mr H and had been negligent;
He thought it wouldve been difficult for LV to do anything other than settle Mr Hs 
expenses, given its response. But he didnt think this should be conflated with an 
award for Mr Hs pain and suffering as a direct result of the way his claim had been 
handled;
LV had already offered £200 compensation on top of its settlement of the claim. So if 
it considered this to be a separate payment for pain and suffering, as Mr H and Mr S 
do, the only thing to be considered is the appropriate amount. Mr S feels Mr Hs 
circumstances mean he should be awarded compensation within the substantial or 
severe categories set out on our website. He was concerned, given my provisional 
findings; that this wouldnt be accepted;
LV stated it had over 60 experienced case managers  but Mr H and Mr S had had to 
deal with a number of different case handlers, some of whom lacked experience. 
They had to update the people dealing with their claim. For example; theyd been 
assured that if the traumatologist said Mr H needed surgery in the treating hospital, it 
would be booked for the next day and LV had planned to provisionally book a bed, 
just in case. But LV had no record of this assurance, or bed booking. He felt the call 
centre was chaotic and the staff lacked training and were frequently unaccountable 
for their actions.
LV has no escalation protocol  given how the claim was progressing; it wouldnt be 
unreasonable to assume that LV would have an escalation process where a senior 
case handler could take over cases;
LV claims to offer multi-lingual services, but this wasnt the case. There were no case 
handlers who could speak the language of the treating hospital and instead, the case 
handlers tried to speak in English, which caused frustration. Eventually, LV was able 
to provide a French-speaking case handler to speak with a French-speaking member 
of staff at the treating hospital;
Multiple medical reports had to be requested as a result of the linguistic issues; which 
added 24 hour delays each time;LV claims to have in-house medical experts, but in Mr S experience; this was not the 
case. It had also mis-diagnosed Mr Hs injury  the medical evidence showed his 
fracture was displaced. Time had been of the essence for surgery to be carried out;
Mr S felt LV had shown a lack of transparency and clarity. He also considered it had 
offered a lack of guidance  as it had never explained that Mr H undergoing surgery 
abroad was an option. Had they been aware this was an option; Mr H couldve been 
saved around a weeks unnecessary pain and suffering;
Mr S believes that there is a history of poor service from LVs assistance company, 
which LV was reviewing;
If I do not explore these points in detail; its possible that LV will whitewash them and 
that less resilient consumers may receive an equally sub-par service. For me to rely 
on a summary of the events is a disservice to everyone concerned. Mr S would like 
me to assist him in confirming the true order of events.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I still dont think Mr Hs complaint should be upheld and Ill explain why.
Its important I make the role of the Financial Ombudsman Service clear. Were an 
independent and impartial organisation, which neither acts for consumers nor the financial 
businesses we cover. My role is to consider the individual and specific circumstances of a 
consumers complaint and to decide, on balance, whether a financial business has treated 
them fairly and reasonably. Were not the industry regulator and so I have no power to tell a 
financial business to change its processes and procedures, nor how it should market its 
products. 
My role also generally isnt to consider the contractual relationship between an insurer and 
any agency or company it uses when its handling or investigating claims or to carry out a 
wider review of that relationship. I appreciate Mr S feels that in not looking at some of the 
issues hes raised, Im doing Mr H (and LV) a disservice and Im sorry to disappoint him. But 
some of the issues hes raised are simply not things that are within my remit to consider 
(such as how the assistance company is staffed or any escalation procedures it may or may 
not have) and others dont appear material to the outcome of Mr Hs complaint. So Ive 
continued to focus on what I consider to be the key issues at hand.
Mr S feels that multiple medical report requests caused additional delays. So Ive carefully 
reconsidered the notes from the assistance company. The first medical report dated 3 
February 2019 stated that Mr H needed to see the traumatologist as soon as possible  but 
it didnt state when surgery would be needed, or where it should be carried out. So it 
appears at that point that until Mr H had seen the traumatologist, no real plans could be 
made either for him to undergo treatment abroad or for repatriation arrangements to begin. 
As the report lacked information LV felt it needed to fully assess Mr Hs condition and the 
situation, I dont think it was unreasonable for it to request further information from the 
treating clinic before making further decisions. And as I mentioned in my provisional 
decision, a nurse at the clinic indicated to LV on 4 February 2019 that while Mr H needed a 
follow-up with a traumatologist to decide whether surgery was needed, this could be done in 
the UK. 
Mr S has now queried why Mr H wasnt given this information immediately, so he could 
make arrangements at that point to return to the UK, rather than being asked for more 
medical information. But the notes show Mr H already had the follow-up booked for 7.45pm 
that same day, which would help LV to ascertain what treatment was needed and within what timescale. It later transpired that Mr H chose to see a specialist on 5 February 2019 at 
the facility he was originally seen at rather than keep this appointment. I cant fairly hold LV 
responsible for this decision. Or the fact that this added a further day of delay in the 
progression of the claim. This was only one day before Mr H did return home. 
Additionally, I appreciate Mr S feels that no medical staff reviewed Mr Hs case. Id like to 
reassure him that the notes state that a medical review Dr was carried out on 6 February 
2019 where Mr Hs claim and the available medical evidence was considered. The findings 
of that review were that Mr H could wait until he returned to the UK for surgery rather than 
undergo surgery abroad. Id also add that the reviewer noted that Mr Hs injury appeared to 
be a left midthird minimally displaced clavicular fracture. So it would seem that LV did 
ultimately conclude the fracture was displaced.
Mr S now states that LV didnt explore the option of Mr H undergoing surgery abroad once 
the claim had been turned down. But the notes suggest Mr H was already at the airport 
before LV had formally turned down the claim  which indicates that his preferred option was 
to return home for surgery. So I still think its most likely Mr H wouldve chosen to return 
home for surgery even if LV had explained he could self-pay for surgery in Spain.
Ive then turned to reconsider whether I think LV should increase its award of compensation. 
I accept that LV shouldve identified when Mr H made the claim that it was very unlikely to be 
covered. And Im still satisfied that if itd done so, Mr H wouldve chosen to return to the UK 
for surgery. So it clearly did make an error here which meant Mr H remained abroad for 
around three days longer than hed likely have done. But its still the case that theres simply 
not enough evidence for me to fairly conclude that if Mr H had flown home on 3 February 
2019, he couldve undergone surgery on the NHS much sooner than he actually did  or that 
the NHS considered the surgery to be a medical priority. And Id reiterate that Mr S has 
provided no medical evidence to suggest that Mr Hs injury or recovery were aggravated or 
affected by the fact he didnt return to the UK any sooner than he did.
On the evidence to hand, Im not satisfied that Mr H or Mr S have shown that LVs error 
materially added to Mr Hs pain and suffering. I think it took reasonable steps to try and 
assist him. And I still think that given technically there is no cover for treatment in UK 
hospitals, it was generous for LV to accept and pay for Mr Hs private surgical costs. It went 
significantly beyond what its policy obligations wouldve been if the claim had been valid. 
And I think this settlement should be considered holistically as part of LVs overall response 
to Mr Hs complaint.  So Im still persuaded that £200 standalone compensation is a fair 
award for Mr Hs trouble and upset. This means Im not telling LV to pay anything more.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman