DRN-3493310
The complaint
Mrs M complains about the money shes been asked to pay by Clydesdale Financial 
Services Limited, trading as Barclays Partner Finance (BPF) when returning a car early 
that she was financing through them. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigators view of this complaint. Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs M acquired her car under a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it. 
I can see that Mrs M is upset that BPF told her the balance on her account was zero but I 
think its clear that, whilst their communication could have been better, it wasnt an 
acceptance that there was nothing due on the account. The debt had been sold on and that 
meant there was no debt on BPFs books, but it didnt mean the debt wasnt still due, albeit 
to another business. 
Mrs M has also suggested the business told her shed only have a small amount to pay after 
the car was returned. The call records havent been provided and BPF dispute that this 
advice would have been given. So, Ive considered what options were provided to Mrs M and 
whether those options were reasonable in the circumstances.
When Mrs M contacted BPF in late 2018 and in early 2019 shes told us that she explained  
her financial circumstances hadnt improved and that shed been in a debt management plan 
that hadnt been working for her.
I would expect BPF to have taken note of the relevant guidance and rules in cases of 
financial difficulty. Theyre available in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (section 7); the 
Standards of Lending Practice and the Finance and Leasing Association (FLA) lending code. 
Put simply guidance says a lender should treat a consumer in financial difficulties fairly. 
BPF could have therefore considered a range of measures and I think Mrs M had a number 
of options, voluntary surrender (VS), voluntary termination (VT), or termination by BPF for 
breach of the agreement with enforced recovery.
BPF say there wasnt a right to VS, but I think a reasonable alternative to repossession 
would in practice be for a consumer to voluntarily hand back (surrender) the car. Whilst that 
can have a significant negative impact on a consumers credit file it is likely to be a viable 
option early on in an agreement when the costs to VT can be expensive.
But, I am not persuaded that the evidence suggests that, even if VS was offered, it was the 
best option for Mrs M at the time. If the car had been surrendered, or repossessed, the 
business would have reduced the balance due on the account by the amount they received 
for the car at auction. BPFs case notes say that there was almost £27,500 still owing on the 
account when it was terminated, and the notes show that the car sold for £14,600 at auction. 
That would have left a balance of about £12,900 on top of which BPF would have added 
collection and auction costs.
Mrs M was charged £12,821 to VT the arrangement and auction costs were not payable. 
So, it seems VT was a reasonable option at the time as it proved to be the cheaper option, 
and because it meant Mrs Ms credit file wasnt adversely impacted by a VS.
BPF agreed to pay Mrs M £2,000 in compensation because their communication of the 
balance on the account had been confusing, their response had been late, and because they 
couldnt locate call records of the conversations Mrs M had with them about returning the 
car. I think that was fair compensation in the circumstances as its significantly more than 
this service would usually tell a business to compensate a consumer for similar issues. BPF 
have confirmed that the compensation is still available to Mrs M should she wish to accept it.
Overall, I dont think BPF have been unreasonable here and Im not asking them to take any 
further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman