DRN-3341099
The complaint
Mr B complains that esure Insurance Limited unfairly valued his car after it was written off.
What happened
Mr Bs car was written off after an accident around August 2021. Following this, esure put 
forward a valuation of £1,800. Mr B complained about this valuation, saying it wasnt enough 
to purchase a similar vehicle. esure carried out a review and increased its valuation to 
£2,215.
The insurer said it had referred to the relevant motor trade guides to determine the valuation 
figure and decided to pay Mr B an average of all four valuations. Mr B remained unhappy 
and asked this service to independently review his complaint.
Mr B says his car is a limited edition and only several hundred were ever manufactured. 
Mr B adds that the market value esure referred to isnt enough to purchase a similar vehicle. 
He also refers to adverts hes seen for similar cars on sale and feels the valuation shouldve 
been around £3,500. One of our investigators decided that esure had provided a fair 
valuation. The investigator referred to the relevant motor trade guides and concluded that 
esures valuation was reasonable.
Mr B didnt agree and asked for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I share the investigators opinion that esures valuation is fair. I know Mr B 
will be disappointed to hear this, so Ill explain why.
The terms of Mr Bs policy say that if his car is damaged, esure will pay to repair or replace 
the car up to its market value and this will be based on the value of the car at the time of the 
claim. The terms define market value as the amount you could reasonably have expected to 
sell your car for on the open market immediately before your accident or loss. Our 
assessment of the value is based on cars of the same make and model and of a similar age, 
condition and mileage at the time of accident or loss. This value is based on research from 
motor trade guides. Under the terms, esure is entitled to decide how to settle the claim.
My role isnt to value Mr Bs car, but to consider whether the valuation esure has reached is 
fair. This service generally considers the fairest approach for an insurer to take when 
determining a valuation, is to consider the relevant motor trade guides. These are based on 
extensive national research of likely selling prices and provide valuations based on the 
make, model, age, condition and specification of a car. This service generally finds these 
trade guides to be more persuasive than other sources, such as adverts that dont consider 
a margin for negotiation from the advertised price.
esure says it used several guides to determine its valuation. Ive checked relevant motor 
trade guides and can see that the market valuation for Mr As car was around £2,000 to 
around £2,300. esure has offered a settlement figure within this range, so I think the 
valuation is fair. 
I acknowledge what Mr B says  that an equivalent car would cost more than the valuation 
and that hes seen similar cars for sale at a higher amount. However, when a car is being 
sold, theres usually a margin applied in the advertised price for profit or negotiation. So the 
advertised price of the car is normally higher than the market value. And the guides are 
based on likely selling prices rather than just the advertised price. 
In summary, I think the valuation figure esure has arrived at is fair in the circumstances and I 
wont be asking it to do anything more in relation to this claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2022.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman