DRN-3088633
The complaint
Miss A is unhappy with the frequency of contact she received from Nationwide Building 
Society when a payment was missed.
What happened
Miss A held a credit card account with Nationwide. Credit was removed in 2017 and since 
that time payments made are just to reduce the outstanding debt. During the last year 
Miss A made some payments late. To alert her Nationwide would contact her through texts, 
calls and letters. Miss A felt this amounted to harassment. Nationwide explained that some 
of the letters were regulatory and that they do all they can to reach out to customers when a 
payment is missed. Miss A remained unhappy and referred her complaint here. 
Our investigator considered all the contact that Nationwide made when a payment was 
missed in the 12 months leading up to Miss As complaint. He didnt recommend that the 
complaint be upheld as he didnt think that the contact was excessive or unreasonable. 
Miss A appealed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The details of this complaint and the amount of contact made by Nationwide is known to 
both parties, so I wont repeat the details here, rather Ill focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision.
Nationwide is bound by regulatory standards, it must pay due regard to the interests of its 
customers and treat them fairly. I dont find that Nationwide treated Miss A unfairly or 
breached its regulatory duties. Ill explain why.
Nationwide is required to identify customers that have paid more in interest, fees and 
charges in the preceding 18 months than theyve paid towards the borrowing. It will then 
send letters at key milestones which explain what Nationwide can do and what may happen 
if no action is taken by the customer, including the suspension of the card.  
These letters are generated automatically, and I note there was reference to card 
suspension even though Miss As card had already been suspended. So although I accept 
that it was confusing and distressing to receive these letters, I dont find that Nationwide did 
anything wrong in sending them to Miss A, as her account met the criteria. Likewise 
Nationwide will contact its customers if a payment is missed. Its process is to notify 
customers and make sure they are able to pay, if not they can offer support with payment 
plans.
As its apparent that there were several occasions when payments were made late Miss A 
received much contact from Nationwide and I do note her frustration about this, particularly 
when the payment was only a day late. But if a payment is not made the implications can 
include legal action and reports to the credit agencies. These are clearly set out in her card 
agreement. Nationwide has said that it uses all contact methods it has to contact a customer 
in these circumstances, in accordance with the account terms. But I understand that when 
Nationwide was made aware that Miss A was unhappy with the amount of contact, it was 
reduced. 
Taking everything into account I dont find that it was unreasonable for Nationwide to contact 
Miss A and I dont find that the contact amounted to harassment. It follows that I dont find 
that Nationwide have treated Miss A unfairly, contrary to her contract terms or its regulatory 
obligations.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 December 2021.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman