DRN-4105135
The complaint
Mr M complains through a representative that Shelby Finance Ltd trading as Dot Dot Loans 
(Shelby) provided him with loans without carrying out appropriate affordability checks. 
What happened
Mr M was granted three loans by Shelby, Ive outlined his borrowing history in the table 
below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
datenumber of 
monthly 
instalmentshighest 
repayment per 
loan
1 £150.00 14/11/2021 16/02/2022 3 £75.59
2 £100.00 06/03/2022 09/05/2022 3 £53.35
3 £100.00 20/05/2022 13/07/2022 3 £53.53
Shelby considered the complaint and concluded it had made a reasonable decision to 
provide these loans because it had carried out proportionate checks.  Unhappy with this 
response, Mr Ms representative referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. It also 
provided copies of Mr Ms bank statements. 
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator, who didnt uphold it. She said, Shelby had 
carried out proportionate checks before each loan was approved which demonstrated Mr M 
could afford his repayments. 
Mr Ms representative didnt agree and instead asked for an ombudsmans final decision.  As 
no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Shelby had to assess the lending to check if Mr M could afford to pay back the amounts hed 
borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate to 
the circumstances. Shelbys checks could have taken into account a number of different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Ms income 
and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Shelby should have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr M. These factors include:
Mr M having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr M having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr M coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr M. The adjudicator didnt consider it 
had reached the point in the lending relationship where this applied.  
Shelby was required to establish whether Mr M could sustainably repay the loans  not just 
whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr M was able to repay his 
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and without 
having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have realised, 
that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, then it 
follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Ms complaint.
Before each loan was approved, Shelby asked Mr M for details of his income, which he 
declared as being £1,650 for loans 1 and 2 and then £1,750 for loan 3. Mr M also declared 
monthly outgoings of £664 for loan 1, £770 for loan 2 and £840 for loan 3. The lowest 
amount of disposable income was when loan 2 was approved. That was disposable income 
of £880 to cover the payment of around £54. Based solely on the information Shelby 
collected the loans appeared affordable. 
As part of the application, Shelby overlaid what Mr M had declared about his expenditure 
with data from two different sources and then if needed, made adjustments to the 
information Mr M had provided. Firstly, it used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data and 
secondly, it used information from Mr Ms credit search (which Ill go into in more detail 
below). 
Therefore, after the ONS data and credit search results were factored into the income and 
expenditure assessment Shelby did make some adjustments to some of the loan details. 
For loan 1, it decreased Mr Ms income from £1,650 to £1,351  this decreased Mr Ms 
disposable income to £687. And the other adjustment it made was for loan 3, where it 
increased, Mr Ms expenditure from £840 to £894 per month  leaving a disposable income 
of £856. However, even when Shelby adjusted the disposable income that Mr M had 
declared, he still had sufficient income to be able to afford the repayments he had to make. 
Before each loan was approved Shelby also carried out a credit search and it has provided a 
summary of the results it received from the credit reference agency. It is worth saying here 
that although Shelby carried out credit searches there isnt a regulatory requirement to do 
one, let alone one to a specific standard. But what Shelby couldnt do is carry out a credit 
search and then not react to the information it received  if necessary.  Having reviewed the credit check results, there isnt anything which wouldve indicated that 
Mr M was having financial difficulties. For example, it knew there were no insolvency 
markers, defaults or debt management plans. There also wasnt anything within the results 
that indicated Mr M was reliant on these sorts of loans (or home credit loans). 
I do accept, that Mr M appears to have had an issue repaying loan 2  his first contractual 
direct debit was returned as unpaid. However, he then settled the loan early in 
May 2022 and received an interest rebate for doing so. But given the other information 
Shelby had about Mr M, the relativity small loan amount of £100 I still think it was reasonable 
for Shelby to have granted loan 3 without any further checks. 
Overall, there was also nothing else in the information that Ive seen that wouldve led 
Shelby to believe that it needed to go further with its checks  such as verifying the 
information Mr M had provided. So, while Mr Ms representative has provided his bank 
statements, in this case, it wouldve been disproportionate for Shelby to have considered 
them. 
Given the evidence provided, I think it was reasonable for Shelby to have relied on the 
information Mr M gave about his income and expenditure to show he had sufficient 
disposable income to afford the repayments. There also wasnt anything else to suggest that 
Mr M was having financial difficulties or that these loans would be unsustainable for him. 
Im therefore not upholding Mr Ms complaint. 
My final decision
So, for the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman