DRN-3177927
The complaint
Mr P complains that esure Insurance Limited declined a claim he made under his home 
insurance policy.
References to esure include its agents.
Mr P is represented by his wife in this complaint. For ease Ill refer to anything said by Mrs P 
as being said by Mr P.
What happened
In mid-2020, Mr P made a claim under his home insurance policy with esure after noticing 
water damage on his kitchen ceiling. Esure appointed loss adjusters who arranged for a leak 
detection company to visit the property to determine the cause. The inspector concluded that 
there were no leaks present on any of the internal plumbing and services within the property. 
They thought the water damage to the kitchen ceiling was likely to have occurred due to an 
ingress of rainwater from the pitched roof on the next storey. So, they recommended that an 
approved roofing contractor be appointed to inspect the roof and carry out any necessary 
repairs. 
Mr P complained to esure that when hed filed his claim, he had said that the damage was 
unlikely to have been caused by a leaking pipe as there was no pipe near the area in 
question. So, he was unhappy a leak detection specialist had been appointed, when he felt it 
was unnecessary. Mr P said this caused his claim to be delayed, and the damage at his 
property to get progressively worse.
Mr P was also unhappy that two months after raising the claim hed been told to obtain a 
report from a roofing contractor, confirming the cause of damage and point of entry. Mr P felt 
it was esures responsibility to obtain this report. He said he didnt know what he was 
supposed to be asking the contractor for and was concerned about cost implications and 
further damage to his property.
Esure responded to Mr Ps concerns and said it was satisfied that appointing a leak 
specialist was the correct course of action for it to take initially. Esure said it had needed to 
consider the cause of damage itself to be assured that an insured event had taken place. 
Esure also needed to be satisfied that what had happened was the direct result of a one-off 
event which was covered under the policy terms. So, after seeing that the damage wasnt 
caused by an escape of water, it needed to ask Mr P for more information so it could check 
whether another section of his policy would cover the loss. 
Esure said it was up to Mr P to demonstrate that the damage was caused by an insurable 
event, as it wasnt caused by an escape of water. After further contact from Mr P, esure paid 
him £50 to compensate him for difficulties hed had contacting the loss adjusters dealing with 
his claim.
Following this, Mr P arranged for a roofer to inspect his property and provided esure with a 
document to show that the damage to his roof had been caused by a storm. But the content 
of the report was disputed by esures loss adjusters, who thought the water ingress was 
more likely to have been a result of wear and tear. Mr P raised a further complaint but esure 
maintained its position to decline his claim. It paid him a further £150 for delays and poor 
communication.
 
Mr P didnt agree that the claim should be declined. Esure spoke to the roofer who had 
quoted Mr P for repairs to the roof. It attempted to arrange an interview with Mr P but he 
experienced some health issues, so this was delayed by a few months. Mr P made a further 
complaint to esure and asked our service to look into his concerns.
While his complaint was with our service, esure sent a letter to Mr P saying that some 
concerns about his claim had arisen following its interview with him and the documentation 
hed provided. It said that, based on the evidence it had gathered, it believed Mr P had 
attempted to exaggerate his claim and had provided fabricated documentation in an attempt 
to ensure the claim was paid. It said that it required his full written response to the issues it 
had detailed within 14 days. Esure says it didnt receive a response from Mr P, so it sent a 
further letter declining his claim. 
Our investigator looked into all of Mr Ps concerns and concluded that it was fair for esure to 
have declined his claim. She thought the compensation esure had paid Mr P for distress and 
inconvenience was reasonable and didnt recommend it take any further action.
Mr P disagreed with our investigators view. He felt esure had failed its obligation to establish 
the cause of the damage. He said he wasnt able to obtain advice or arrange repairs until 
authorisation was given by esure. 
Mr P didnt think esure had done enough to establish that hed breached the fraud condition 
of his policy, and he denied doing so. He said he hadnt received esures letter of July 2021, 
which said he hadnt provided the information requested. He was interviewed but he hadnt 
withheld information. 
Mr P disputed the accuracy of the information the roofer had provided to esure. Mr P 
suggested the roofer was potentially disgruntled and was worried about work hed previously 
carried out being linked to the damage. Mr P said that quotes from other roofers were 
significantly higher than the one hed passed on to esure.
Despite what it said in the letter of July 2021, Mr P said he hadnt had any contact from 
esure to cancel his policies and the police have said they hadnt been contacted by esure.
Mr P commented about the delay in him being notified that the external damage claim had 
been denied. He said he believed this had happened in November 2020, but he wasnt 
notified of this until our investigator sent him a copy of esures letter of July 2021 after her 
view. He said this meant that hed been unable to complete the repair work, there had been 
significantly further damage, as well as stress and a detrimental impact on his health.
As Mr P disagrees with our investigators view, the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ps complaint. Ill explain why.Id like to reassure Mr P that Ive considered all of his points even if Ive not addressed each 
of them individually. Ive concentrated on what I believe is most relevant to the outcome of 
this complaint.
Proof of claim
The relevant industry rules say that an insurer should handle claims promptly and fairly and 
it shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.
 
When a policyholder makes a claim, the onus is on them to show that an insured event most 
likely caused the damage.
After looking into the possibility of the leak being caused by an escape of water / burst 
pipes, esure told Mr P that it didnt think the cause of the water ingress was covered under 
the policy. It said that it was the leak detection specialists opinion that the issue may have 
been due to rainwater ingress from the pitched roof. So, it was up to Mr P to provide 
evidence to show that the damage was caused by an insured event. 
Esure says it would have been willing to consider the claim under the storm/flood section of 
the policy, if Mr P was able to show the damage to his roof was caused by a storm. 
However, Mr P failed to provide information to assist with the validation of his claim.
I understand Mr P feels that esure should have appointed an approved roofer to visit his 
property when he first notified it of his claim. But the policys terms and conditions say:
for small claims, it is sometimes possible to process these over the phone through Our 
approved suppliers. If We are unable to do this, We may ask for estimates or quotations 
from You to support Your claim.
And it isnt unusual for an insurer to ask a policyholder to provide evidence such as a report 
or quote from a contractor in respect of a loss. So, I dont think it was unreasonable for esure 
to have asked Mr P to provide evidence from a roofing contractor to support this claim.
Fraud condition
In declining Mr Ps claim, esure has also referred to the following condition of the policy:
Fraud
If You, or any member of Your Household, or anyone acting for You or them makes a claim 
in a fraudulent, false or exaggerated way, or where We are given any documents which are 
false or stolen, We:
Will not pay the claim;
Will recover any amounts We may already have paid for the claim;
may end Your Policy from the date on which fraud happened and not return any 
premium;
will tell the police if We suspect fraud;
will cancel all other policies and products You have with esure Insurance Limited.
Its important to explain that it isnt for me to decide whether Mr P acted fraudulently or 
exaggerated his claim. Instead, Ive needed to consider if esures decision to invoke the 
fraud condition in this case was reasonable, based on the information it had at the time.I can see that in September 2020, Mr P provided an estimate from a roofing contractor which 
says: The rear of the main roof has suffered from storm damage with several broken tiles 
causing water to saturate the felt underneath. The document includes a quote for repairs to 
the roof of £3,600 (including VAT). Mr P also provided a report from the roofing contractor 
dated October 2020 which says: in my professional opinion the cause of the damage to the 
roof is storm damage.
However, esure says that when it contacted the roofing contractor to discuss this 
information, the roofer said he had quoted Mr P only £970 for repairs. Esures claim notes 
show that the roofer confirmed that the costs and wording had been altered and the 
submissions from Mr P were not his. Esure obtained a copy of the original report and 
estimate directly from the roofer - which shows a quote for £970 (including VAT). So, I dont 
think esures concerns here were unreasonable. 
Esure has also provided us with a report to show that these discrepancies were discussed 
with Mr P when he was interviewed in March 2021. Its noted that Mr P was asked how the 
estimates were received from the contractor, but he could not recall this information. As 
there had been a change in the document, and this hadnt satisfactorily been answered, 
esure invoked the fraud condition. It felt the information it held showed Mr P had attempted 
to exaggerate his claim.
In order for an insurer to fairly invoke the fraud condition in an insurance policy, the insurer 
needs to show it is more likely than not that the condition was breached. Having reviewed 
the information provided in this case, Im satisfied esure conducted a fair and reasonable 
review of the claim and didnt act unreasonably in saying the fraud condition was breached  
in light of the above evidence it received. Ive seen the original invoice from the roofing 
contractor, and the one provided by Mr P, and there are differences in these. And, I cant see 
that Mr P adequately explained to esure why there was a difference in these two documents. 
So, Im satisfied that esure came to a reasonable conclusion to decline the claim, using the 
fraud condition.
Mr P has questioned why esure didnt cancel his insurance policies with it or contact the 
police about the matter, if its sure Mr P acted fraudulently. But its up to esure whether it 
does this or not. My role is to look at whether esure has acted fairly and in line with the 
insurance policy, based on the information it had. And, as above, I think it did.
Customer service and delays
Mr P has also raised concerns about the customer service provided by esure, including 
delays in progressing the claim. 
I understand he feels it was unnecessary for esure to have sent a leak specialist around 
because hed said there were no pipes in the vicinity of where the leak was coming from.
I dont think it was wrong for esure to have tried to establish if the water ingress was likely to 
have been covered by the policy. Appointing a leak detection specialist was a reasonable 
part of that process. But I would expect esure to communicate with Mr P clearly throughout 
the life of the claim, so that Mr P was aware of what was happening and why. Having 
reviewed the evidence provided to me, I think esures communication with Mr P could have 
been clearer. I havent seen anything to show that esure managed Mr Ps expectations 
about what would happen if the report from the leak specialist showed that the damage 
wasnt covered by the escape of water/burst pipes prior to their visit. So, I can appreciate 
why he was confused about the need to then go and seek further information himself. Esure has recognised some issues with the customer service Mr P received and has paid 
him £200 compensation for delays and poor communication prior to November 2020. I think 
this is fair and reasonable. I say this because I think the figure of £200 fairly recognises the 
confusion Mr P would have felt in this instance. So, I dont require esure to pay Mr P any 
more compensation.
I appreciate that Mr Ps claim was ongoing for quite some time and this was particularly 
difficult for Mr P who has experienced significant health issues. But, other than the above 
recognised issues, Ive needed to think about whether esure caused avoidable delays here. 
And I dont think it did. Esure says that it had difficulty arranging an appointment to discuss 
its concerns about the roofing report Mr P provided, and I can see this was the case. I can 
appreciate why esure needed to discuss this with Mr P. So, whilst it had to wait to talk to    
Mr P due to his health issues, I think it was reasonable for esure to await progression of the 
claim, until it had spoken to him.  
Esure says that, following the interview with Mr P in March 2021, it needed to review various 
pieces of information including a recording of the call before sending a challenge letter to   
Mr P in June 2021, about the validity of the document he had submitted. This was followed 
by esures letter of 7 July 2021, which informed him that the claim had been declined in full 
because it believed Mr P had breached the policys fraud condition. Im satisfied this was 
progressed in a timely manner. So, I dont think esure did anything wrong here.
I note that Mr P says he didnt receive these letters but esure has sent copies of internal 
emails to show that they were issued. So, I think they were likely to have been sent, even if 
Mr P didnt receive them. It wouldnt be reasonable for me to hold esure accountable for 
these letters not being received, when it sent them to Mr P, using his known contact details. 
Esure did what it needed to do to progress the claim, so it acted fairly and reasonably. 
While I understand Mr Ps frustration that his claim took a long time to reach a conclusion, I 
havent found that esure was responsible for unreasonable delays, other than in the initial 
stages, for which Im satisfied the £200 already paid to Mr P is fair.
I know my answer will be disappointing for Mr P, but having carefully considered his 
complaint, I dont require esure to do anything further.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2022.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman