DRN-2460253
The complaint
Miss H has complained about Newpoint Insurance Brokers Limiteds service in connection 
with a guaranteed asset protection (GAP) policy.
Reference to Newpoint includes its appointed representatives. 
What happened
Miss H bought a car on finance and Newpoint sold her a GAP policy at that time. Some 
years later she was considering selling her car and was told she still owed money for the 
premium for the GAP policy. She couldn't find her GAP policy documents. She asked 
Newpoint for these but its representative couldn't initially find her details on the system. 
Newpoint did later confirm Miss H had GAP cover in place but couldnt initially provide the 
appropriate documents. Newpoint did then give Miss H a customer schedule but this was 
dated three months after she bought her policy and contained an incorrect address. Miss H 
wasn't happy with the evidence that Newpoint provided and she suspected that it hadnt put 
the GAP policy in place. 
Miss H thought Newpoint should refund her full premium and she brought her complaint 
about that to us. One of our investigators looked into it. While doing so Newpoint offered to 
refund the unused portion of Miss Hs premium, which was £100.64. Our investigator didn't 
think that went far enough and said that, because of the mistakes in its paperwork, Newpoint 
should pay Miss H £75 to address her distress and inconvenience.
Miss H didn't agree that resolved her concerns so the complaints been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In bringing this complaint Miss H has made a number of detailed points. I've considered 
everything shes said carefully but in this decision I will focus on what I see as being the key 
outstanding issues following our investigators assessment of the complaint.
It seems to me that Miss H was concerned Newpoint had essentially taken money off her for 
a policy that it hadn't put in place. She said it hadn't given her any policy documents and 
then when she asked Newpoint for these it couldnt initially find any. And then when it did 
give her documents, they included an incorrect date and address. This appears to have 
caused Miss H to believe that Newpoint had simply made these documents up at that time.
While I can understand Miss Hs concerns I'm satisfied that Newpoint did appropriately set 
up the policy. When Newpoint sold her the policy Miss H signed a statement to say that 
Newpoint had given her the relevant documents. Miss H agrees she signed this statement, 
but says she was only 19 at the time. I'm not sure what relevance her age has and Miss H 
hasnt said she didn't want the policy or that it wasn't suitable for her. And I'm not sure why 
she would sign to say that shed received the documents if she hadn't. But I accept that, 
when she came to sell the car she couldnt find the relevant documents and couldn't 
remember being given them.
At that point she asked Newpoint for the appropriate paperwork. But it couldn't initially find it, 
which gave rise to Miss Hs concerns. It then produced a document that was apparently 
dated some three months after she actually bought the policy. Newpoint has explained that 
this was because of an administrative error at its end which caused it to delay putting the 
policy in place with the insurer (which is a different business to Newpoint). So the document 
it sent her was dated from when it registered the policy with the insurer, rather than the date 
the cover began. But Newport has confirmed that the cover began from the date Miss H 
bought the policy. And the insurer has confirmed that the policy was in place. So while I can 
understand Miss Hs concerns, I'm satisfied that, had she needed to, she could have claimed 
on her policy. It follows that I don't think the error relating to the date meant that the policy 
wasn't valid.
Similarly, the customer schedule that Newpoint sent to Miss H contained an incorrect 
address. Miss H changed address during the period the policy was in place. And it appears 
that the policy details were updated with that address, although one of the digits in the post 
code is wrong. And it seems that, when Miss H asked for copies of the policy documents 
Newpoint printed off a new document showing the updated (and partially incorrect) address. 
Miss H has alleged that this is evidence of fraud. While its not my role to decide if 
someones acted fraudulently or not - only a court can do that - I don't think the updated 
address is evidence of any form of deception.
Clearly, at some point Newpoint has updated its details with Miss Hs new address. And 
when she asked for copies of the policy documents, rather than printing off an exact copy of 
the schedule that would have been appropriate when she first took out the policy, its printed 
off an updated version with the details held on the system at that time. But as I've said 
before, the insurer had confirmed the policy was in place, so Miss H had the GAP cover that 
she wanted when she took out the policy. And I don't think the amended address in the 
schedule affected that. So I'm satisfied that Newpoint did put a valid policy in place and I 
don't think its tried to be deliberately dishonest. That said, I can understand that the 
anomalies with the information on the documents Newpoint provided have caused Miss H 
some concern. And, to address her distress and inconvenience because of that, I think it's 
fair for Newpoint to pay her £75 compensation.
Further, Newpoint had previously offered to pay Miss H a refund of unused premium, which 
was £100.64. And, as long as that premium hasn't already been refunded, I think it should 
pay her that refund now.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I partially uphold this complaint. I require Newpoint Insurance 
Brokers Limited to:
pay Miss H compensation of £75 for her distress and inconvenience; and
refund Miss H the unused portion of her premium ( £100.64), unless this has already 
been refunded.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 February 2021.
 Joe Scott
Ombudsman