DRN-3785057
The complaint
Mrs R complains, through a claims management company (CMC), that Lloyds Bank PLC 
failed to pay her fair redress after it agreed it had provided unsuitable investment advice in 
1998. 
What happened
In August 1998, acting on Lloyds advice, Mrs R invested £20,000 in total in a PEP (a form of 
tax efficient equity based investment) and Unit Trust plan invested in the UK Growth fund. 
Mrs R surrendered her investment in June 2002 for £16,559.55.
Mrs R was mainly unhappy that although Lloyds agreed it gave her incorrect investment 
advice, it compensated her on the basis that she should have been advised to take a lower 
level of risk with her investment. Mrs R felt her circumstances at the time of the sale meant 
that that she should have been advised not to expose any of her funds to investments that 
put her savings at risk.
After considering the complaint, based on all the information provided, the investigator 
didnt feel this was a complaint she could recommend upholding. She mainly thought that 
Mrs R had been willing and able to take some risk with her investment and the benchmarks 
Lloyds had relied on when working out how to compensate Mrs R had been fair. 
Mrs R didnt agree with the investigator and asked for an ombudsman to review her 
complaint. She mainly said her capital had mostly come from an inheritance and that she 
hadnt been in a position at the time to anticipate likely significant changes in her needs and 
circumstances. So it wasnt an appropriate time for her to invest, let alone invest £20,000, 
over 50% of her capital, and she should instead have been advised to retain her funds in a 
savings account where they would be accessible and not placed at risk.  
As the complaint hasn't been resolved, it comes to me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although the Financial Ombudsman Service doesnt always have power to investigate 
complaints about events that happened more than six years ago, Lloyds has said it consents 
to us looking at this complaint. So Ive looked at the complaint afresh and Ive independently 
reached the same conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain my reasons.
Ive looked carefully at the point of sale paperwork that Lloyds has provided, including the 
Fact Find carried out by Lloyds financial adviser at the time and the report he subsequently 
sent to Mrs R explaining why the investment recommendations made were suitable for her. 
Mrs R was bringing in a regular income and employed in a secure job with a good number of 
years ahead of her before she reached state pension age, which gave her the possibility of 
reasonable future earning potential. She had no dependents and around £39,000 savings in 
her bank account. Mrs R owned her own home with no outstanding mortgage or debts. 
Theres nothing to suggest she had any big spending plans in mind.
Its not clear how much disposable income Mrs R had each month. The CMC has said Mrs R 
had no disposable income as a result of her low income. In this situation, I need to make 
some reasonable assumptions. I've seen nothing to suggest Mrs R wasnt managing her 
normal monthly outgoings comfortably within her means. Her home was already paid for and 
theres nothing to make me think she was likely to have had any other significant monthly 
outgoings that left her financially stretched. The £19,000 remaining in her bank account as a 
cash reserve provided a substantial cushion in the event of emergency spending needs 
arising. Mrs R confirmed she was satisfied at the time this was enough for her short term 
needs.  
 
Overall, I am satisfied that Mrs R was in a strong enough financial situation to be able to 
invest £20,000 in 1998. 
Mrs R was assessed as Medium in her attitude to investment risk and she is recorded as 
having wanted capital growth. She didnt require any income from the investment and was 
prepared at the time to invest for a minimum of five years.
Mrs R needed to be comfortable that the level of risk associated with the recommended 
investment reflected her attitude to risk and Ive thought carefully about whether investment 
in the UK Growth fund fitted Mrs Rs risk approach. 
Being a first-time investor doesnt mean Mrs R wasnt in a position to take some risks. She 
already held all her capital in a deposit based account and she was looking to grow her 
money. This suggests to me she was interested in investing at least some of her money. But, whilst the recommendation to invest in this fund offered her the potential to achieve her 
objectives, I think Lloyds was right to acknowledge that it exposed her to more risk than was 
suitable for Mrs Rs needs and circumstances. I say this because I have no reason to think 
that Mrs R understood that investing in a fund that was substantially equity based meant she 
should be prepared to expect a degree of volatility or that she was comfortable risking her 
money this way. Lloyds hasnt shown me that it explained that lower risk investments could 
still have offered Mrs R potential for growth but at less risk to her capital. On balance, like 
Lloyds, I am not satisfied that the recommendation was suitable for her. I find that a more 
cautious investment strategy, which didnt tie up all of Mrs Rs investment in UK equities 
which could tend towards volatility, wouldve been suitable for Mrs R. 
I've taken into account what Mrs R feels would be an appropriate way to calculate redress to 
put things right, but this is based on her not taking any risk at all with her investment. I take 
the view that Mrs R should have been advised to invest differently. I have found that Mrs R 
wanted capital growth and her financial situation enabled her to take a small risk with the 
capital she invested in order to achieve her investment objectives.
So, the 50/50 approach which Lloyds applied when working out redress would reasonably put 
Mrs R into that position. It reflects the middle ground between what would be a fair measure 
for someone who wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to their capital and 
someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return. I consider Mrs R's risk 
profile was effectively in-between, in the sense that she was prepared to take a small level of 
risk to attain her investment objectives  as opposed to no risk at all.
I consider this a reasonable compromise that broadly reflects the sort of return Mrs R could 
have obtained from investments suited to her objective and risk attitude. So I think the way 
Lloyds assessed the redress it has paid Mrs R is a close enough fit to Mrs Rs aims and 
objectives for me to say it has provided fair compensation.
My final decision
For these reasons, I am not upholding this complaint and I dont require Lloyds Bank PLC to 
take any further action to put things right for Mrs R. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2023.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman