DRN-2506255
The complaint
Ms L is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, increased the credit 
limit on her credit account on several occasions and at times when she couldnt afford the 
additional credit that she was being given.  
What happened
In June 2010, Ms L applied and was approved for a credit account and was given an initial 
credit limit of £400. 
Between July 2012 and March 2016, the credit limit on the account was increased six times, 
up to a limit of £10,100 in March 2016. All but one of these increases was offered to Ms L by 
Barclays without Ms L requesting an increase.
Ms L felt that Barclays had authorised the credit limit increases on her account at times 
when these increases werent affordable for her, and that this would have been apparent to 
Barclays had they considered her financial circumstances at those times. So, she made a 
complaint.
Barclays looked at Ms Ls complaint, but they explained that they had undertaken checks 
into her financial circumstances at the times of the credit limit increases, and that these 
checks hadnt demonstrated that the credit limit increases would have been unaffordable for 
Ms L. So, they didnt uphold her complaint.
Ms L wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, so she referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They felt that Ms Ls financial situation had 
been such that the first four credit limit increases had been appropriate, but they felt that the 
credit limit increase in July 2015, from £5,600 to £8,600, hadnt been affordable for Ms L. 
And this meant that the final credit limit increase in March 2016 also hadnt been affordable 
for Ms L. So, they recommended that the complaint be upheld in Ms Ls favour on that basis.
Barclays didnt agree with the recommendation made by our investigator, so the matter was 
escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays explained to this service that when they consider a credit limit increase, the checks 
that they undertake are different depending on whether the increase was proactively offered 
to the customer by Barclays or whether the customer approached Barclays themselves to 
request an increase. However, its notable that in both cases Barclays confirm that they dont 
base their assessment on information gathered from the customer directly, but rather use 
information gathered from credit reference agencies and other third-party sources.
Barclays have maintained that they always had an accurate understanding of what Ms Ls 
income was because this was provided to them from a third-party source which had 
continuing access to that information.
But in her complaint to Barclays in September 2019, Ms L stated specifically that: My annual 
salary for the last four years has only come to just over £19,000, which was lower than when 
they initially provided me with the card, but Barclaycard never asked me for any new 
information before adding a new limit.
Its for a credit provider to decide whether they will offer credit to a customer, and if so, how 
much and on what terms. What this service would expect would be that before an increase 
in the credit amount being offered was authorised, the business would undertake reasonable 
and proportionate checks to ensure that the higher level of credit being offered was 
affordable for that customer at that time. And these checks should be borrower focussed.
Its not in doubt that Barclays did undertake checks into Ms Ls financial circumstances at the 
time that the credit limit increases were offered, and its evident from the fact that Barclays 
authorised the credit limit increases that they felt that these checks didnt suggest that Ms L 
couldnt afford the higher credit amounts being offered.
But by relying solely on information gathered from third-party sources, Im not convinced that 
these checks were reasonable and proportionate in all instances, and Im even less 
convinced that they could be considered as being borrower focussed.
While Barclays have stated that they had accurate information regarding Ms Ls income at all 
times, they havent provided this service with the amount of income they believed that Ms L 
was receiving. But Ms L has provided this service with payslips and bank statements which 
confirm that she was earning approximately £400 per week, after tax and deductions, 
reducing to approximately £375 per week as the time period over which the credit limit 
increases occurred progressed.
Its difficult then to reconcile this relatively low level of personal income with the increasing of 
Ms Ls credit limit from £400 to £10,1000 over the course of less than four years. Especially 
when its considered that Ms Ls income decreased slightly, as explained above, during this 
period.
However, it also must be considered that Ms L was managing the credit account reasonably 
well, and while there were instances where she took the account over the credit limit and 
incurred charges as a result, these instances were relatively few.
And, having reviewed the credit card account statements, theres nothing immediately 
obvious from those statements that would strongly suggest that Ms L was experiencing 
financial difficulty. And I say this because Ms L appears to have primarily used the account 
for retail spend, along with a number of balance transfers.
Ive also reviewed Ms Ls credit file, and theres also little there that would provide irrefutable 
evidence that Ms L was in financial difficulty, such that Barclays would have had an obvious 
cause to reconsider whether increasing Ms Ls credit limit at the various times was 
appropriate.
It must be recognised at this point that these are precisely the information sources that 
Barclays chose to use when conducting their credit affordability assessments  Ms Ls credit 
information, and the transaction history and balance management of the credit account.
So, I can understand how Barclays concluded that all of the credit limit increases in question 
would be affordable for Ms L at those times. And this was because there was little in the 
information that they used to conduct the affordability assessments that would suggest otherwise.
But it doesnt follow from this that all of the credit limit increases were affordable for Ms L, 
and I feel that had Barclays undertaken borrower focussed affordability checks, such as 
contacting Ms L and asking her personally about her financial circumstances at those times, 
then its likely that Barclays would have had cause to consider that Ms L was in financial 
difficulty and that some of the credit limit increases werent affordable or appropriate for her.
For instance, just four months after the credit limit was increased from £3,100 to £5,600, Ms 
L contacted Barclays and requested a further credit limit increase - and her credit limit was 
then increased to £8,600. Ms L used this additional credit to make some balance transfers 
from another credit card. 
While balance transfers showing on a credit card statement arent immediate indicators that 
a customer might be in financial difficulty, Ms L has explained to this service that the other 
credit card provider had also increased the limit on their credit card, and that the interest that 
she was incurring on that other card was considerable and unaffordable for her. So, she 
requested the increase on her Barclays credit account because if she transferred some of 
the balance from the other card to her Barclays account, she could benefit from a period of 
zero percent interest on balance transfers offered by the Barclays credit card.
Its hard not to conclude from this that Ms L was experiencing financial difficulty at that time, 
and had Barclays contacted Ms L as part of their credit affordability assessment, as I believe 
that they should have done to fulfil the criteria of conducting reasonable and proportionate 
borrower focussed checks, I feel that its likely that true nature of Ms Ls financial position 
would have been learned. 
I must also note that a customer on a relatively low income requesting a significant increase 
of their credit limit just a few months after receiving an earlier significant increase of their 
credit limit is an excellent example of the kind of request that I feel should prompt a business 
to expand the scope of their affordability checks to include actual customer contact. 
Its correct that Ms L was able to manage her ongoing financial situation such that she didnt 
exceed the credit limit on her account excessively, and ultimately she was able to regain 
control of her position and voluntarily reduce the credit limit on her Barclays account in 
stages and eventually clear the balance in full and close the account.
I can understand then how it would appear to Barclays because of this that Ms L hadnt 
experienced any financial difficulties and that the credit limit increases had all been 
affordable for her.
But it doesnt follow that because a person has responsibly and effectively managed the bad 
situation which they were in, that that situation shouldnt be considered as having been bad. 
And similarly, Im not convinced that because Ms L was able to negotiate her financial 
difficulties that its therefore the case that she was never in financial difficulty.
All of which means that, while I can accept that, on balance, its more likely than not that the 
credit limit increases on the account up to £5,600 were affordable for Ms L at those times, I 
feel that the combination of Ms Ls relatively low income, the short period of time between 
the last credit limit increase and Ms L requesting a further increase, and the absence of any 
information gathered directly from Ms L regarding her financial circumstances, is sufficient 
for me to conclude that Barclays didnt undertake reasonable and proportionate borrower 
checks, and that if they had, its likely that Barclays would have concluded that further credit 
limit increases wouldnt have been affordable for Ms L. And I will be upholding this complaint 
in Ms Ls favour on that basis.  Putting things right
Barclays must refund all interest, fees, and charges incurred on the account where the 
balance of the account was above £5,600 for the portion of the balance above £5,600, along 
with 8% simple interest on those amounts calculated from the date that the interest, fee, or 
charge was incurred.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as 
Barclaycard, on the basis explained above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman