DRN-4166961
The complaint
Mrs E is unhappy that a car supplied to her under a hire purchase agreement with Specialist 
Motor Finance Limited (SMF) was of an unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
On 27 March 2018, Mrs E was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase agreement 
with SMF. The agreement was for £5,989 over 60 months; with 59 monthly repayments of 
£194.84, and a final payment of £204.84. At the time the car was around seven years old 
and (according to the MOT record for 13 March 2018) had done 73,636 miles.
Mrs E says that she kept the car well maintained, regularly serviced, and repaired / replaced 
parts that had failed. However, the engine failed in December 2022 and will cost over £3,500 
to repair. Which she cant afford. She says this impacted her as she had to rely on a family 
member for transport before having to buy another car.
Mrs E complained to SMF, asking them to write off the £1,300 outstanding under the 
agreement, due to the inconvenience shed been caused. But SMF didnt uphold her 
complaint, so she brought it to the Financial Ombudsman Service for investigation.
Our investigator said there was a fault with the car. But the car had done over 73,000 miles 
at the point of supply, and Mrs E had been able to travel an additional 54,000 miles before 
the engine failed. Because of this, he thought the engine failure was because of wear and 
tear, and not because the car was of an unsatisfactory quality when supplied.
The investigator also said that Mrs E had provided invoices for work shed had done on the 
car. But the first of these was more than two years after the car had been supplied, and after 
Mrs E had travelled 32,000 miles. So, he didnt think this meant the car was of an 
unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied, and he didnt think SMF needed to do anything.
Mrs E disagreed with the investigator. She said that I have paid for the car twice over with 
the amount of interest that was added [and] even during furlough I kept up with payments 
even though I couldnt afford to with not being on a full wage. Because of this, and the 
wages I lost  due to the car being in the garage [that] as I [sic] good will gesture they 
could wipe the last 6 months.
Because Mrs E didnt agree with the investigator, this matter has been passed to me to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mrs E was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to investigate complaints about it. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve 
been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, SMF 
are responsible. Whats satisfactory is determined by things such as what a reasonable 
person would consider satisfactory given the price, description, and other relevant 
circumstances. In a case like this, this would include things like the age and mileage at the 
time of sale, and the vehicles history and its durability. Durability means that the 
components of the car must last a reasonable amount of time.
The CRA also implies that goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, 
where a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed the fault was present when 
the car was supplied, unless SMF can show otherwise. But, where a fault is identified after 
the first six months, the CRA implies that its for Mrs E to show it was present when the car 
was supplied. 
So, if I thought the car was faulty when Mrs E took possession of it, and this made the car 
not of a satisfactory quality, itd be fair and reasonable to ask SMF to put this right.
Ive seen an estimate dated 29 December 2022 for the car supplied to Mrs E. This is for the 
supply and fitting of a replacement engine at the cost of £3,540. The estimate also confirms 
the car had done 128,291 miles. 
The engine failed after Mrs E had had the car for four and a half years, and after the car had 
travelled 54,655 miles from the point of supply. Mrs E hasnt provided any evidence to show 
that the engine failure was caused by a fault that was present or developing at the point of 
supply. And, had there been an undiagnosed fault at the point of supply, Id expect this to 
have manifested itself sooner than four and a half years and 54,655 miles.
Whats more, engines have a limited lifespan and are affected by age and mileage. As such, 
as the engine failed after more than 128,000 miles, regardless of whether it was well 
maintained or not, Im not satisfied that the engine could be classed as insufficiently durable.
Because of the above, Im not satisfied the car was of an unsatisfactory quality when it was 
supplied to Mrs E. So, I wont be asking SMF to cover the costs of the engine repair, or to 
compensate her for the impact of the engine failure.
Ive seen that the terms and conditions Mrs E agreed to state:
3.6 Repair, Maintenance and Ongoings: You will keep the Vehicle in good repair 
and condition and regularly serviced to the manufacturers standards.
With regards to the invoices Mrs E has provided, these are for parts that would normally be 
considered wear and tear items that would usually require repair or replacement as part of 
routine maintenance. And none of the invoices indicate that the issues being covered were 
present or developing at the point of supply. As such, Im satisfied these invoices relate to 
Mrs Es obligation under the terms and conditions to keep the car in good repair.Ive seen a copy of the agreement Mrs E signed on 23 March 2018. This clearly details both 
the interest rate that was being charged (APR: 34.9%) and the amount of interest payable 
over the term of the agreement (Total Charge of Credit: £5,711.40). And Ive not seen 
anything to show me that SMF havent charged interest as agreed. As such, while the 
agreement requires Mrs E to pay almost as much in interest as she paid for the car, I dont 
agree that this should mean that any outstanding payments should now be waived.
Finally, Mrs E has referred to her difficulties in maintaining payments during the coronavirus 
(Covid-19) pandemic. While I appreciate this may have been a difficult time for her, the 
Financial Conduct Authority put measures in place to assist people whose income had been 
affected. And these measures were available to Mrs E. As such, I dont think this should 
mean that SMF should now waive the remaining payments. And I wont be asking them to do 
so.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mrs Es complaint about Specialist Motor Finance 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2023.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman