DRN-4108785
The complaint
Miss C complains about Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limiteds settlement of a 
claim made under her pet insurance policy.
What happened
The background to this complaint is very well known to both parties so Ill provide only a brief 
summary here.
Miss C has pet insurance underwritten by Red Sands to cover her cat. She made a claim 
after her cat was very unfortunately hit by a car. The cat needed surgery to his mouth.
The total claim came to over £300. Red Sands deducted the £99 excess and a further £60, 
which related specifically to the extraction of two teeth. 
Miss C complained to Red Sands and asked that they pay the claim in full. 
Red Sands maintained their position, pointing out that the policy terms were very clear that 
dental treatment wasnt covered. So, Miss C brought her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into it and thought the policy terms were ambiguous. It wasnt clear, 
in their view, that dental treatment or surgery after an accident wouldnt be covered. And so, 
they asked Red Sands to re-consider the claim.
Red Sands disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We take the view that where a policy term is ambiguous and could be read in different ways, 
the benefit of any doubt should be given to the policyholder. The insurer wrote the policy 
terms and is, after all, the expert in insurance in this scenario.
So, the question for me in making this decision is whether it would have been clear to Miss C 
when she bought the policy and read the terms that her cat would not be covered for dental 
extractions specifically  as part of wider surgery following an accident.
As Red Sands have pointed out, the policy terms say very clearly that dental treatment is not 
covered. I dont think theres any dispute about that, so I neednt quote at length the several 
places in the policy documentation where thats made clear.
However, I dont think its unreasonable to suggest that the reader of those policy documents 
might assume that meant Red Sands had no intention of paying for dental check-ups and/or 
treatment for bad teeth or gums. 
I dont think, in other words, that the average reader of the relevant policy terms would 
immediately and unequivocally recognise that dental extractions, carried out as a part of 
facial surgery following an accident, would be excluded from cover.
I note that all of the examples given in the policy documents of treatment not covered under 
this exclusion relate to things like root canal treatment or epulis (tumours in the mouth). 
Things that, in other words, most readers might consider to be tooth or gum conditions rather 
than the result of accidents.
Red Sands have also provided us with an extract from a Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) 
page on their website. This does make Red Sands intended position (that they wont cover 
dental treatment, including that resulting from accidents) clear. 
Thats primarily because it describes the differences between different levels of cover 
available to potential customers. And the more expensive types of cover specifically include 
dental treatment following accidents. So, by implication at least, the more basic cover  
which Miss C had  would not cover those things.
If I thought that document had clearly been brought to Miss Cs attention when she bought 
her policy, I might take a different view on this complaint. However, it appears it wasnt.
Weve asked Red Sands how and when Miss C would have been advised to access the 
FAQ during the process of buying the policy. Theyve been unable to give us an answer. So, 
I have to assume that Miss C would not have been required to access the FAQ  or advised 
to read it  before she bought her policy.
That being the case, Im brought back to the policy documents which were shared with 
Miss C when she bought the policy. And, as I say above, Im satisfied those are ambiguous 
when it comes to the question of whether dental treatment after accidents is covered.
I should be clear that I absolutely recognise what Red Sands say on this point  the relevant 
documents state clearly that dental treatment is not covered. But I think it would be unfair to 
rely on those terms to decline the relevant part of Miss Cs claim. 
And I say that because Im satisfied that one - perfectly legitimate and reasonable  reading 
of those terms would be that they refer only to assessment or treatment for tooth or gum 
conditions, not to treatment following accidents. 
If, in the policy terms - or at some point on the on-line journey prior to purchase  Miss C had 
been confronted with the wording and description used in the FAQ, I wouldnt be upholding 
this complaint. 
Its clear Red Sands did not intend to cover dental treatment following accidents, but they 
only made that absolutely clear in the FAQ document that potential customers werent 
required or advised to read before purchase.
Putting things right
I agree with our investigator that Red Sands should re-consider the claim on the basis that 
the exclusion for dental treatment does not apply. 
In the absence of any other reason for declining that part of Miss Cs complaint, Red Sands 
should pay Miss C the £60 which related specifically to the extraction of the cats teeth.
Miss C implied at least in her complaint to us that she wanted us to ask Red Sands to waive 
the £99 excess on the claim. I wont be doing that. Red Sands are entitled to charge an excess on each claim and that will have been agreed before Miss C purchased the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Miss Cs complaint.
Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited must re-consider Miss Cs claim on the 
basis that the exclusion for dental treatment does not apply.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 July 2023.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman