DRN-3813597
The complaint
Mr G and Mrs G complain about how QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) dealt with a claim under their 
home insurance policy for damage to their property caused by bad weather. 
QIC use agents to administer the policy and to assess claims. Reference to QIC includes 
these agents.
What happened
In February 2022, around the time of Storm Eunice, bad weather caused damage to Mr G 
and Mrs Gs property, affecting the verge and ridge tiles on their roof. There was also 
damage to a fence in their garden. They contacted QIC to tell them about the damage and 
lodge a claim. They also arranged for temporary repairs to be carried out while their claim 
was being assessed.
QIC arranged for a surveyor (L) to visit the property and assess the damage. Ls report set 
out the damage to the roof and the fence, but also noted separation and degradation of 
mortar underpinning the tiles, consistent with age/wear and tear (not as the result of storm 
damage). No allowance for repairing this element of the damage was included in Ls report. 
However, following the report, QIC initially offered to settle the claim either through a cash 
settlement, or (if Mr B and Mrs B preferred) for QIC contractors to carry out the repairs. 
 
However, the cash settlement offered was significantly less than estimates Mr G and Mrs G 
had obtained for repairing the damage, so they said they wanted QIC contractors to carry 
out the repairs. QIC instructed contractors to carry out the repair work, although in doing so 
they noted issues with the lead times for work to start given issues in the building industry 
with shortages and availability of materials (and the impact of the Covid Pandemic). 
Contractors visited the property to assess the repair work needed, but there were issues with 
the quote for scaffolding work. 
Unhappy at the time being taken for work to begin, Mr B and Mrs B raised a complaint with 
QIC. However, following a review by QICs in-house surveyor, who looked at Ls report and 
photographs of the damage, QIC declined the claim on the grounds the damage to the tiles 
was due to breakdown of the mortar bedding of the tiles, allowing them to lift. While they 
accepted there were storm conditions at the time of the incident, the damage caused was 
consistent with gradual deterioration, an exclusion from cover under the policy. As they had 
declined the claim for damage to the roof, QIC also said they wouldnt cover any damage to 
the fence. QIC confirmed their decision in their final response. 
However, their final response acknowledged Mr G and Mrs G had initially been told their 
claim would be covered under the policy. QIC also acknowledged it had taken longer to 
assess the claim than anticipated. QIC upheld these elements of the complaint and offered 
Mr G and Mrs G £200 in compensation. 
Mr G and Mrs G then complained to this service. They disagreed with QIC about the decline 
of the claim due to gradual deterioration. They said theyd paid for temporary repairs to their 
roof and fence, but without either a cash settlement; an offer to cover the cost theyd been 
quoted for repairs (£3,700); or QIC contractors to carry out the repairs, the property would be 
at risk of further damage from bad weather. They wanted QIC to either increase the cash 
settlement offered so they could use their own contractors or honour their initial acceptance 
of the claim and send their contractors to carry out the repairs.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, concluding QIC didnt need to take any action.  
She concluded there were storm conditions at the time of the incident and the damage to the 
roof tiles and the fence was typical of storm damage. But she also thought there were pre-
existing issues with the mortar that the storm had highlighted (so the storm wasnt the main 
cause of the damage). She also thought the compensation offered by QIC was reasonable, 
and QIC should make payment. 
Mr B and Mrs B disagreed with the investigators conclusions and asked that an ombudsman 
review the complaint. They didnt think it reasonable for QIC (based on the in-house 
surveyor review) to decline the claim, having initially accepted it, as the in-house surveyor 
hadnt visited the property or inspected the damage. They also said QIC hadnt justified 
declining the element of claim for damage to tiles in the centre of the roof (not those on the 
edge/verge of the roof). And they were concerned the claim was reviewed by the in-house 
surveyor only after they complained to QIC. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether QIC has acted fairly towards Mr G and Mrs G.
The main element of Mr G and Mrs Gs complaint is that QIC unfairly declined their claim, on 
the grounds that while there were storm conditions at the time of the incident, they werent 
the main cause of the damage. Rather, it was due to pre-existing issues with mortar 
deterioration that had led to the tiles being lifted.
In considering this issue, whether the damage resulted from a storm or from a pre-existing 
issue, there are three key issues we consider:
Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is 
said to have happened?
Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage that a storm typically causes?
Were the storm conditions the main (or dominant) cause of the damage?
On the first question, in their final response QIC said they were satisfied there were storm 
conditions around Mr G and Mrs Gs property at the time of the incident, noting a highest 
wind speed of 71 mph. This accords with the weather reports from the weather firm this 
service uses. For the weather station nearest to Mr G and Mrs Gs property, on the date of 
the incident the report also indicates a peak gust of 71 mph (and describes the conditions as 
a dry storm).  Based on this, Ive concluded there were storm conditions on the date of the 
incident. 
On the second question, Ive considered the description of the damage provided by Mr B 
and Mrs B (and in Ls report). Damage to roof tiles and to fences are types of damage wed 
expect to see in storm conditions, particularly those involving high winds.  
The third question is therefore key, given QIC declined the claim (for damage to the roof) on 
the grounds that the cause of the damage was breakdown of the mortar underpinning the 
tiles, causing them to lift. QIC say this was consistent with gradual deterioration over time. 
Ive considered this issue carefully, together with the report from L and the opinion of QICs in-house surveyor. Ive also looked at the photographs of the damaged roof, taken by L at 
the time of their visit. Taking all these things into account, Ive concluded QIC have acted 
fairly in declining Mr G and Mrs Gs claim (for damage to the roof). Ill set out why Ive come 
to this conclusion.
Firstly, as a general principle, where a policyholder makes a claim for damage or loss under 
a policy, the onus is on them to show there was an insured event that caused the damage or 
loss. In this case, given my conclusions there were storm conditions at the time of the 
incident, and the damage is consistent with that wed expect to see in a storm, I think its 
reasonable to conclude there was an insured event (storm) that caused damage. 
However, where an insurer relies on an exclusion in the policy to decline a claim (as QIC 
have done) then the onus is on them to show the exclusion applies. Looking at the available 
information and evidence, I think QIC have done so in the specific circumstances of this 
case, so Ill explain why Ive come to this view.
In their final response, QIC refer to the following policy exclusions, firstly in the General 
Exclusion section where theres the following exclusion:
12. Any gradual or maintenance-related loss or damage
Loss or damage as a result of gradual causes including:
wear and tear;
gradual deterioration (whether you were aware of it or not)
QIC also refer to a similar exclusion in the Storm section of the policy, where it states: [We 
dont cover] d. anything that happens gradually.
Ive also considered the report from L. In particular, the conclusion that:
The verge and some tiles adjacent have been dislodged and will need to be 
renewed for new and re-mortared back to the verge. The ridge was pointed out by 
the customer as was noted by his roofer but this shows no signs of a one off storm 
event of storm damage but has separation and degradation of the mortar consistent 
with age/wear and tear and has not been included in our costs.
QIC also refer to their in-house surveyors review, which states:
The mortar has broken down on the fillet which has allowed the tiles to be lifted. 
Claim declined for gradual deterioration. No cover for fence as excluded under Storm 
section of the policy if not the same cause of damage as the main property.
Ls observations were made at the time of the visit and are consistent with the subsequent 
review by the in-house surveyor. They also cover both the edge (verge) of the roof and 
adjacent tile. The reference to the ridge indicates a different part of the roof.  Mr B and Mrs 
B refer to the central part of the roof, but the photographs Ive seen dont show any other 
areas of damage. But Ive also looked at the photographs of the affected area of the roof and 
the tiles, and there are some indications of degradation of the mortar (allowing for what also 
look to the temporary repairs mentioned by Mr B and Mrs B). Taking these things together, 
Im persuaded on balance by QICs view. 
Ive also considered the points raised by Mr B and Mrs B about the view of the in-house 
surveyor, as well as what they see as the timing of their view (shortly after they complained 
to QIC). While its true the in-house surveyor didnt visit the property and inspect the 
damage, their views are consistent with those recorded by L from the visit they made. They 
arent contradictory. On the timing of the review, its not uncommon for insurers to deploy additional in-house surveyors and other experts to review the work and findings of field 
surveyors (who are often employed by separate firms, as in this case). Nor do I think its 
unreasonable for a review to take place as part of (or prompted by) a customer complaint, in 
order to fully consider the complaint.
Taking these points into account, then Ive concluded QIC have done enough (given the 
onus being on them to show the exclusion applies) to have applied the exclusion for gradual 
deterioration fairly and reasonably to decline the element of the claim for damage to the roof  
in the circumstances of this case.
Having reached this conclusion, Ive gone on to consider the damage to the fence. As QIC 
declined the claim for the damage to the roof, they also declined the element of the claim 
relating to the fence. In their final response, QIC referred to the following policy exclusion, 
under the Storm section where it states that it doesnt cover:
b. loss or damage to drives, patios, footpaths, terraces, gates, fences and hedges 
unless your home has been damaged at the same time and by the same cause
As Ive concluded QIC have fairly applied the exclusion for gradual deterioration to decline 
the element of claim for damage to the roof, then (as the above definition indicates) as the 
damage wasnt due to the storm conditions, it follows the above exclusion would apply to the 
fence damage. That is, the home wasnt damaged at the same time and by the same 
cause. So, Ive concluded QIC have fairly applied the exclusion to decline the element of 
claim for damage to the fence. 
While Ive reached these conclusions, I have thought about the issues QIC acknowledged in 
their final response concerning the time taken to assess the claim and Mr B and Mrs B 
having initially being told their claim was accepted. I think this would have caused them 
inconvenience and frustration, including a loss of expectation (that their claim would be 
accepted). Taking the circumstances of the case into account, I think QICs offer of 
compensation is fair and reasonable. So, I wont be asking them to increase the sum. But if 
they havent already paid the £200, Id expect them to now do so.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision not to uphold Mr G and Mrs Gs 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 January 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman