DRN-3593677
The complaint
Mr P complains that HSBC Bank Plc (HSBC) failed to give him sufficient notice in line with 
the account terms and conditions when closing his credit card account.
What happened
Mr P contacted HSBC in 2019 to tell them hed lost his job and was struggling financially. By 
a way of helping Mr P, HSBC offered to freeze the interest on his credit card. HSBC allowed 
Mr P to continue spending on the credit card, but Mr P was able to, and managed to keep up 
with the minimum monthly payments.
In April 2021 Mr Ps credit card was due to expire. As he hadnt received a replacement 
card, he contacted HSBC and they arranged for a replacement card to be sent to his home 
address. A few weeks later Mr P was still without a card as the replacement hadnt arrived in 
the post. He called HSBC again and was told that there must have been an error and that 
theyd reorder the card again. 
After a further week Mr P still hadnt received a card in the post  so he called HSBC again. 
This time he was told that the card wasnt reordered as the card had previously been 
reported lost/stolen, to which Mr P confirmed this wasnt true. 
HSBC looked into what had happened and said:
the interest free marker applied to your Credit Card resulted in a renewal card not being 
issued. After reviewing the agreement you had with our Financial Support Team (FST), it 
appears the team allowed you to continue using the card, which isn't something we usually 
do, as this will most likely result in the balance not being repaid in a reasonable time-frame.
Mr P was told that the card would not be renewed but the interest free marker would 
continue to stay on the account until the balance was repaid in full, but that no further 
spending on the card would be allowed. Mr P was advised that if he wanted to continue to 
have a credit card facility with HSBC, hed have to make an application for a new one  but 
they couldnt guarantee that a new application would be accepted.
Mr P raised a complaint with HSBC as he was unhappy that he wasnt given notice of the 
termination of the account in line with the account terms and conditions. The terms say, we 
can end the agreement by giving you two months notice in writing. In either case, you (and 
any additional cardholder) must stop using the account and if we provide any benefits with 
your card, they will also end. The agreement will continue until you have repaid everything 
you owe.
HSBC upheld Mr Ps complaint and apologised for the trouble and upset caused by not 
giving him notice. They paid £200 towards Mr Ps outstanding credit card balance as a way 
of compensating him for what had happened. Unhappy with the offer, Mr P contacted our 
service for help.
One of our investigators considered Mr Ps complaint and didnt think the £200 
compensation that HSBC had offered was enough. This was because he didnt think the 
compensation reflected the trouble and upset caused by not giving Mr P the two months 
notice of the closure of the account. Mr Ps monthly payments towards the credit card were 
£200  so by HSBC compensating Mr P with £200, which they paid towards his outstanding 
balance reflected one months minimum payment. The investigator said HSBC should pay 
an additional £200 to reflect the two months notice Mr P didnt receive  so £400 in total 
which was equivalent to two months minimum payments.
HSBC accepted the investigators assessment and agreed to pay an additional £200 towards 
Mr Ps outstanding credit card balance. But Mr P rejected the investigators findings as he 
didnt feel an additional £200 compensation was enough to reflect the trouble and upset 
caused after being a customer of HSBCs for over 15 years. As well as the fact that hes now 
in arrears of around £1,200 due to all of the errors made by HSBC. So, the case has been 
passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC have taken responsibility for the error  so its not in dispute whether HSBC have 
done anything wrong. So, what I need to decide is whats a fair and reasonable resolution.
The interest free marker was placed on Mr Ps credit card account in late 2019 after he 
contacted HSBC about his financial difficulties. HSBC dont have the recording of the 
telephone call they had with Mr P in 2019, and they cant provide copies of any follow-up 
correspondence with Mr P which set out the terms of the interest free arrangement. So, I 
cant say what Mr P was told in 2019 about the terms of the interest free marker and any 
possible implications this would have on how the account would operate in the future.
However, despite the interest free marker being placed on the account to help Mr P with his 
finances, HSBC still allowed Mr P to spend on the card. Therefore, Mr P had the benefit from 
the time the marker was added (2019) to when the card expired (2021) of being able to use 
the card for additional spending, interest free. So, while HSBC had made an error in 
continuing to allow Mr P  to use the credit card during this time, Mr P had the benefit of this, 
as such he was in an advantageous position as he wasnt paying interest on any of the 
transactions he made. 
HSBC didnt comply with the account terms and conditions when they closed Mr Ps account 
when the card expired. The terms say, You can end this agreement at any time and without
charge by giving us notice. We can end the agreement by giving you two months notice in 
writing. In either case, you (and any additional cardholder) must stop using the account and 
if we provide any benefits with your card, they will also end. The agreement will continue 
until you have repaid everything you owe.
Mr P was also left without any notice that he wouldnt be able to continue to use the credit 
facility going forward unless he was eligible and successful in a new credit card application. 
This did inconvenience Mr P as he says he had to make several phone calls as to find out 
why he didnt have a new card to use, only to discover that the account had been closed 
without any prior warning. Mr P was also due a refund to the card following a return of a 
retail purchase. He was concerned the refund wouldnt credit the account as it was now 
closed. Im persuaded by the events that occurred that HSBC havent been clear with Mr P about the 
arrangements for the interest free marker. They also failed to act on assurances they gave 
Mr P about reordering a replacement card. Mr P had to chase continually over many weeks 
to then be told the card wouldnt be replaced and that the account had been closed. So, I 
can understand how frustrating and distressing this must have been for him. 
Ive considered the distress and inconvenience Mr P has suffered as a result. Having done 
so, I agree with our investigators findings and that HSBC making an additional payment of 
£200 towards the outstanding account balance is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I 
know Mr P believes he should receive more compensation, but for the reasons Ive 
described, such as having continued use of the card interest free, I dont think any more 
compensation is warranted other than the £200 HSBC have already agreed to pay towards 
Mr Ps outstanding debt  making the total compensation paid £400.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im upholding Mr Ps complaint and I require HSBC Bank Plc 
to pay Mr P a further £200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2022.
 
Helen Giles
Ombudsman