DRN-1728001
 
complaint
 Miss H complains that AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
AXA, as the insurer, has taken responsibility for this sale, so Ill refer to them as the seller in 
this decision.
background
Miss H took out a store card in 1997. At the same time she was sold a PPI policy which 
wouldve helped cover her repayments on the card for up to 12 months at a time if she 
couldnt work. It also provided purchase protection insurance and life cover for the balance.
Miss H says that the PPI wasnt mentioned to her. She says she wasnt given a choice about 
having it and wouldnt have taken it if she had a choice.
The adjudicator thought that Miss Hs complaint shouldnt be upheld. Miss H disagrees, so 
her case has been passed to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken 
this into account when deciding this case. Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.
Miss H applied for the store card in an application completed in store. AXA has supplied a 
copy of the application form. Theres a separate section for the PPI which makes clear 
theres a choice about the cover. Theres a tick in the box to accept it and Miss H has signed 
the form. Miss H indicates that she just signed the form which a sale assistant completed for 
her. I cant know with any certainty what happened over 23 years ago, but if this was the 
case it was up to Miss H to read and check what she was signing. The application form was 
a single page and not complicated. There were other additional products on the form offered 
in a similar way which werent selected.
I also note that Miss H says she noticed the charges on her statements. She says she didnt 
query them because she presumed it was compulsory. But I havent seen any evidence to 
suggest it was anything AXA did to make her think that was the case.
So on balance, although Miss H doesnt remember it now, Im satisfied on the balance of 
probabilities that she bought the PPI knowing she had a choice about it.
AXA didnt make a personal recommendation to Miss H about the PPI so it didnt need to 
take reasonable steps to make sure it was suitable for her. But it did need to make sure it gave her all the information she needed to make her own decision. I dont think AXA did this 
well enough. For example, theres no mention of what the exact benefits were. 
But looking at Miss Hs circumstances I dont think more information wouldve changed her 
mind about buying it. I think its likely Miss H understood the policy would pay a benefit if she 
wasnt able to work. And as I think Miss H chose to take out the PPI, it seems she was 
interested in this type of cover. 
It doesnt look like Miss H was affected by any of the terms which mightve made it more 
difficult for her to make a successful claim, such as those related to existing medical 
conditions or self-employment  so it wouldve been useful for her if something went wrong. I 
havent seen anything to suggest the PPI was unaffordable for Miss H.
Miss H says she was entitled to some sick pay; she hasnt told us of any other means she 
had to meet her repayments if she wasnt working. As shed only worked for her employer for 
about a year I dont think shed have been entitled to much, if any, redundancy pay. But the 
policy wouldve paid out in addition to any sick pay and potentially for longer. So I think the 
policy offered Miss H a useful benefit.
So, on balance, I dont think Miss H lost out as a result of anything AXA did wrong.
 
my final decision
Im not upholding Miss Hs complaint, so it follows that AXA France IARD doesnt have to 
pay any compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 May 2020.
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman