DRN-3835341
The complaint
Mr T complains about the advice NTM Financial Services Ltd (NTM) gave to him to transfer 
the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a personal 
pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial 
loss.
A law firm responded to our Investigators assessment of the complaint on NTMs behalf. 
But, for ease of reading, I will refer to the law firms comments as being NTMs.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ts employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from the company. 
The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved 
benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)1, or 
a new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could 
transfer their benefits to a private pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the PPF made the announcement that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment 
Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said that, if risk-related 
qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new pension scheme 
sponsored by Mr Ts employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
In October 2017 the DB scheme administrators sent its members time to choose packs. I 
haven't been provided with a copy of the pack sent to Mr T. But I'm aware that those gave 
scheme members three options:
To stay in the BSPS and move with it to the PPF.
To opt to move their benefits to the BSPS2.
To transfer out of the scheme and into a private arrangement.
Mr T was concerned about what the scheme developments meant for the security of his 
pension. He contacted NTM for advice. He met with it in November 2017. The BSPS 
trustees had previously given him a quote for a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) for 
his BSPS pension of £51,997, which expired in January 2018. NTM obtained a transfer 
value analysis (TVAS) report. It also completed a fact-find with him and an assessment of 
his risk appetite. Amongst other things, it recorded that:
Mr T was 45 years old, married to Mrs T, they were both in good health. 
They had one child under five and another due the following year.
Mr T earned around £33,000 a year. 
Mrs T was also working and had her own DB pension.
1 The PPF acts as a lifeboat for insolvent DB pension schemes. It pays compensation to members of 
eligible schemes for their lifetime. The compensation levels are, generally, around 90% of the level of 
the original schemes benefits for deferred pensions. But the PPFs rules and benefits may differ from 
the original scheme.
Mr T said that he and his wife are largely financially independent from each other. 
They had two rental properties, at that time the rental income was being used to pay 
the mortgages. 
Their home was valued at £180,000 with £110,000 mortgage outstanding.
After meeting regular outgoings Mr T had around £300 a month in disposable 
income.
Mr T and his employer had recently begun contributing towards the employers 
defined contribution (DC) pension scheme. 
Mr T thought he would need a personal income of around £1,500 a month in 
retirement.
He wanted to retire at age 60.
At age 65 Mr Ts entitlement from the DB scheme was a full yearly pension of 
£4,235. Or, if he wanted to take tax free cash (TFC) it would pay him a lump sum of 
£18,712 and a reduced pension of £2,806 a year.
The growth rates required (the critical yields) to match the DB benefits at age 65  
from an alternative arrangement were 8.4% for a full pension and 7.25% for TFC and 
a reduced pension.
The PPF would pay Mr T a full pension at age 65 of £3,445 a year or TFC of £18,390 
and a reduced pension of £2,758. The applicable critical yields were 6.25% and 
5.94% respectively.
At age 60 the DB scheme would pay Mr T a full yearly pension of £3,069 or TFC of 
£14,049 and a reduced yearly pension of £2,107. The critical yields to match those 
benefits were 10.07% and 8.53% respectively.
The PPF would pay Mr T £2,789 a year at age 60 or TFC of £15,423 and a reduced 
yearly pension of £2,313. The critical yields to match those benefits were 7.76% and 
7.41% respectively.
NTM assessed Mr Ts attitude to risk as average.
On 17 November 2017 NTM sent Mr T its suitability report setting out its analysis, advice 
and recommendation. It recommended that Mr T should transfer his DB funds to a named 
personal pension. Amongst other things the key reasons for its recommendation were:
It would give Mr T control of his retirement affairs.
He could access his pension benefits flexibly with the ability to vary his income during 
the early years of retirement
The death benefits on offer from a personal pension gave a higher degree of 
protection for Mr Ts family.
Mr T met with NTM on 11 December 2017 to discuss its advice and recommendations. In 
brief NTM confirmed that transferring would allow Mr T to retire early, although it also 
pointed out that early retirement from the PPF was more generous than the BSPS. 
Mr T signed the relevant forms to go ahead with the transfer. NTM charged him £2,500 for 
its advice and arranging the transfer. It also charged him 0.65% of the fund value for ongoing 
advice. The named personal pension provider would also take 0.56% of the fund value for its 
service.
In 2019 Mr T ended NTMs advice service.
In 2021 Mr T complained, via our Service, that NTM might have misadvised him. He said 
NTM had told him it couldnt see the BSPS2 surviving and it would go into the PPF. He also 
said he was required to pay an ongoing fee. On 21 December 2021 NTM replied to Mr Ts complaint. It said it didnt believe it had 
mis-sold the personal pension. It added that it hadn't commented on the funding position of 
the BSPS2 and that Mr T had agreed to pay its fees. 
One of our Investigators looked into Mr Ts complaint. In June 2022 he recommended the 
complaint be upheld. In short he thought the opportunity to improve on the benefits available 
through the DB scheme was low and Mr T would need to take a more aggressive risk 
strategy than his own attitude to risk in order to achieve that. The Investigator said Mr T had 
no need to transfer when he did and could have deferred a decision to transfer until nearer 
to retirement. He said NTM should have advised Mr T to opt into the BSPS2 and 
recommended NTM should compensate Mr T for any losses he incurred by transferring his 
DB pension. The Investigator added that NTM should pay Mr T £200 to address his distress 
and inconvenience arising from the unsuitable advice.
NTM didnt agree with our Investigators assessment of the complaint. It asked for more time 
to respond to the assessment as it wished to seek legal advice. It then asked for additional 
time to respond. It said it had received its legal representatives draft response but it wanted 
time to approve it. Having done so, it sent its reply on 10 August 2022. Amongst other things 
it said:
Our Investigator hadnt addressed Mr Ts actual complaint.
The Investigator had misunderstood the pension benefits payable and Mr T could be 
better off by transferring out of the scheme.
As Mr T didnt want his DB funds to move to the PPF his only other option was to 
transfer to a personal pension.
The critical yields our Investigator referred to were only a useful comparator of 
pension benefits if Mr T had wanted to buy an annuity, which he didnt want to do.
The Investigator didnt give appropriate weight to Mr Ts objective, which NTMs 
advice allowed him to achieve.
As NTM didnt agree with our Investigators assessment of the complaint it was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In responding to this complaint NTMs made a number of detailed points. I've considered 
everything on file. But in this decision I dont intend to address each and every issue raised. 
Instead I will focus on what I see as being the key points at the heart of Mr Ts complaint and 
the reasons for my decision.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of NTMs actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, NTM should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Ts 
best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his 
best interests.
The essence of Mr Ts complaint 
In response to our Investigators assessment of the complaint, on 10 August 2022, NTM said 
the Investigator adjudicates on a complaint which has not been made. 
Our Investigators assessment focused on the suitability of NTMs advice for Mr T. That was 
because Mr Ts complaint to us was that NTM had misadvised him. In other words, Mr T said 
its advice was not appropriate for his situation. Put another way he complained that its 
advice was unsuitable. 
Further, NTMs response to Mr Ts complaint in December 2021 also focused on the 
suitability of its advice and whether that was appropriate for Mr Ts circumstances. So, at the 
time of its response, NTM was clearly aware that Mr Ts principal concern was that its advice 
was unsuitable for him. It follows that I'm satisfied its reasonable to examine the suitability of 
NTMs advice when considering Mr Ts complaint.
NTM also said, concerning the future of BSPS2, that Mr T:
did not appear to suggest that NTM made the alleged comments about the alleged failure of 
BSPS2, which is rejected by NTM if that had been his intention, but Mr [Ts] complaint 
appears to be that any fees for any advice would be unnecessary
NTMs argument is somewhat difficult. But it seems to be arguing that Mr T did not make any 
complaint about NTMs comments about the future of BSPS2, instead he focused his 
complaint on NTMs professional fees. However, the evidence plainly contradicts that. When 
Mr T put his complaint to our Service, under a heading of tell us about your complaint he 
said, in writing, that NTMs adviser:
said he couldnt see the BSPS2 surviving and it would ultimately go to a PPF.I note that when NTM replied to Mr Ts complaint in December 2021 it interpreted this point 
to be about whether it made comments on the funding position of the BSPS2 in so far as it 
would fail and fall into the PPF. So, it clearly accepted, at that time, that Mr T had 
complained about its opinion concerning the future of the BSPS2. Its not clear therefore why 
it felt, in response to our Investigators complaint assessment that Mr T did not appear to 
suggest that NTM made the alleged comments, when he clearly had. In any event I will deal 
with that complaint and Mr Ts concerns about charges below. 
Financial viability and the prospects of BSPS2
NTM carried out a transfer value analysis report (TVAS - as required by the regulator) 
showing how much Mr Ts pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide 
the same benefits as his DB scheme (the critical yield). NTMs TVAS showed two such 
comparisons, one was with Mr Ts benefits if he allowed his pension to move to the PPF, the 
other was with Mr Ts benefits from the BSPS. However, Mr T didnt have the option to 
remain in the BSPS  he either needed to opt into the BSPS2 or move his benefits with the 
scheme to the PPF.
NTM said in its suitability report that the BSPS2 still wasnt guaranteed. I agree thats the 
case, and there was still the possibility that his pension could move to the PPF. But I think 
NTM underestimated the chance of the BSPS2 coming into existence. Some months earlier, 
in May 2017, the PPF announced that the terms of the RAA had been agreed. Under the 
announced plans, Mr Ts employer agreed to set up and sponsor the BSPS2, subject to 
certain conditions relating to funding and size being satisfied. The Pensions Regulator 
approved the RAA on 11 August 2017.
Subsequently on 28 August 2017 the BSPS administrators provided scheme members, 
including Mr T, with an important update in respect of BSPS transfer values. The update said 
an expected payment into the BSPS of £550 million by Mr Ts employer, as part of its 
agreement with The Pension Regulator, was likely to result in an improvement to transfer 
values. The confirmation that Mr Ts employer had made the payment referred to was 
announced on 11 September 2017. 
I note Mr T sought advice after hed received his time to choose pack in October 2017 That 
pack would have set out what his entitlement under BSPS2 was and given a comparison 
against the benefits from the PPF. 
In those circumstances, while there was still a possibility the BSPS2 wouldn't have gone 
ahead, I think NTM should have explained to Mr T that the PPF was unlikely to be Mr Ts 
only option. So, while I think it was appropriate to caution that the BSP2 wasnt yet a done 
deal, in order to give Mr T complete advice, it should have included appropriate references 
to the benefits from the BSPS2 when it gave its advice. That would have enabled him to 
make a fully informed decision. NTMs told us that it couldnt have given an analysis of the 
BSPS2 benefits as the scheme didnt provide a breakdown of GMP2. But Mr Ts scheme 
membership only began in 2011 and as such he had no entitlement to GMP. So there was 
nothing to show a breakdown of. It follows that the absence of a GMP breakdown should not 
have prevented NTM from setting out his BSPS2 entitlements.
I've noted Mr T didnt give NTM his time to choose pack. Similarly NTM didnt ask him to 
produce it. But I'm aware the BSPS2 would have offered the same income benefits as the 
2 A Guaranteed Minimum Pension (GMP) is a minimum pension normally provided through a 
 DB scheme to people who contracted-out of the additional state pension between 6 April 1978 and 
5 April 1997BSPS. However, because of changes in indexation, the annual increases would have been 
lower. So we can assume the lower annual increases under the BSPS2 would have likely 
decreased the critical yields compared to the BSPS. And as the BSPS2 was thought to be of 
greater benefit than the funds going into the PPF then, in reality, the growth rates required to 
match the BSPS2 benefits were likely to be somewhere between those required for the PPF 
and those for the BSPS. So, while I think NTM shouldve tried to ensure its analysis was 
based on the benefits available through the BSPS2, given the higher growth rate of the 
BSPS, using the BSPS as a comparison was not unreasonable as that should have been 
more difficult to achieve.
NTM gave Mr T advice after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Ill explain that a discount rate is 
a measure of what an investment is likely to grow at in the future. We find it a useful tool to 
establish whether an investment is likely to match or exceed the required growth rates to 
make a DB transfer financially viable. 
Prior to October 2017 this Service published similar discount rates on our website. I 
acknowledge that NTM was under no obligation to refer to discount rates when giving 
advice. But it was free to do so. And under COBS 19.1.2 the regulator required businesses 
to compare the benefits likely to be paid under a DB scheme with those payable under a 
personal pension by using reasonable assumptions. I think the discount rates provide a 
useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable 
for a typical investor. So those would, in my view, be a reasonable assumption by which to 
compare the benefits likely to be paid under a personal pension with those payable under a 
DB scheme.
Mr T was 45 years old at the time of the advice and he told NTM that his preferred retirement 
age was 60, although the schemes normal retirement age was 65. I've set out the relevant 
critical yields in the table below:
Age 60 Age 65
Scheme Full pension TFC and 
reduced 
pensionFull pension TFC and 
reduced 
pension
BSPS 10.07% 8.53% 8.40% 7.25%
PPF 7.76% 7.41% 6.25% 4.94%
The relevant discount rates closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to were 
published by this Service for the period before 1 October 2017, and was 4.2% a year for 14 
full years to retirement at age 60 or 4.4% for 19 full years to retirement at age 65. Ive kept in 
mind that the regulator's projection rates had remained unchanged since 2014: the 
regulator's upper projection rate was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower 
projection rate 2%. 
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, which 
consider investments on a moderate risk level similar to Mr Ts average attitude to risk, and 
also the term to retirement. There would be little point in Mr T giving up the guarantees 
available to him through a DB scheme, only to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits 
outside the scheme. But here, given the lowest critical yield was 4.94% and climbed as high 
as 10.07% if retiring at age 60, I think Mr T was likely to receive benefits of a substantially 
lower overall value than the DB scheme at retirement, as a result of investing in line with his 
attitude to risk. Its notable that NTM recognised in its suitability report that Mr T was unlikely to match the 
critical yields in retirement by transferring. On two occasions it said that Mr T would need to 
take a more aggressive investment approach than his attitude to risk in order to achieve 
that. Put another way NTM knew that Mr T had little prospect of matching the critical yields 
by investing in line with his attitude to risk. His only prospect of doing so would be to invest 
at a level of risk he could not tolerate. So he would most likely have to take an approach he 
wasnt comfortable with in order to do so. 
In its letter of 10 August 2022 NTM seems to have changed its tune and argued that the 
cashflow models in its suitability report demonstrate that Mr T would be better off by 
transferring. But, unless theres another suitability report (and TVAS) that I haven't seen, its 
response doesn't appear to be based on any of the actual figures anywhere on file.
Ive demonstrated this in the table below comparing the figures NTMs given in its 
10 August 2022 letter for Mr Ts yearly pension entitlement at age 60  with those given in 
both the suitability report and TVAS (where the figures are the same).
Scheme NTMs
 10/08/22 
letterSuitability 
report and 
TVAS
BSPS £5,984 £3.069
PPF £5,290 £2,789
So NTMs figures in its August 2022 letter are almost double the figures it gave to Mr T when 
it advised him. Similarly, most of the other figures given in NTMs 10 August 2022 letter 
arent supported anywhere else on the file. For example it says that, if Mr T took his income 
by drawdown from a personal pension at age 60, based on a growth rate of 5%, by age 100, 
his fund would still have £147,807 left in it. Other than its August 2022 letter, I cant find 
those figures anywhere on file. They certainly dont appear in the suitability report or TVAS 
I've seen. So I can only assume NTM was looking at the wrong file or the wrong suitability 
report when it drafted its response. Accordingly, I dont intend to refer to those figures further 
in this decision as I don't think theyre reliable. Instead I will respond to NTMs points more 
generally. 
NTM said the critical yield is of limited relevance because its based on the growth required 
to produce a fund large enough to purchase an annuity on the same basis as the benefits 
provided by the DB scheme. NTM says Mr T didnt want an annuity, so the critical yields 
dont provide a comparison with the benefits Mr T was looking to secure based on his 
objectives. But the regulator required NTM to consider the rate of investment growth that 
would have to be achieved to replicate the benefits being given up. So, it needed to provide 
an analysis based on the critical yield and I do think it is a relevant consideration here, 
particularly as I dont think Mr T could realistically say with any certainty whether he would 
want to take a regular income at retirement or not. He wasnt expecting to retire for at least 
another 14 full years. So, its entirely possible he would want at least some guaranteed 
income in retirement (which he could achieve by taking benefits from the BSPS2 or PPF). 
But by transferring out Mr T lost all the guarantees that the DB environment would have 
given to him.
NTM also said that we needed to consider the hurdle rate. The hurdle rate is another 
measure of predicting future investment returns. But I don't find it an appropriate comparator. 
Thats because the hurdle rate is a particularly blunt tool when comparing benefits from an 
alternative investment arrangement against a DB scheme (or PPF). Thats because hurdle 
rates don't factor in spouses or dependents benefits, the effects of charges and dont allow for the guaranteed and escalating income from a DB scheme. So, they will usually be lower 
than critical yields and the regulator hasn't ever required advising firms to calculate them. 
Consequently, I don't find hurdle rates to be an appropriate comparator when considering 
what a scheme member would be giving up by transferring. 
NTM also suggested that critical yields aren't appropriate as they factor in NTMs ongoing 
charge for advice of 0.65% of the fund value each year. It said that was an optional service 
and is not something offered by DB schemes or the PPF. However, while NTMs ongoing 
advice service might have been optional, its suitability report said it was essential for Mr T 
to keep his circumstances under review, in order to ensure his investments met his needs. 
So it clearly sold that ongoing service as something that Mr T must do. 
Further, I find NTMs comment that a critical yield wasnt relevant because DB schemes 
dont offer an ongoing review service somewhat puzzling. As NTM is well aware the reason 
DB schemes dont offer an ongoing review service is because no such service is needed. In 
a DB environment the risk is borne entirely by the scheme sponsor and not by the individual 
member. So the member has no need for any ongoing advice as investment decisions are 
all taken by the scheme trustees. Nor do DB scheme members pay any other ongoing fees 
for the administration of the scheme. And the reason the critical yield might factor in 
professional charges from alternative schemes is because these are fees consumers will 
most likely have to pay once theyve transferred and those will affect the ability of an 
alternative arrangement to match the benefits from the DB scheme. So, I remain satisfied 
that comparison between critical yields and discount rates is appropriate.
But, critical yields are not the only measure we use to compare pension benefits. And, in this 
case I've also looked at the regulators projection rates and NTMs own expectation that 
Mr Ts fund would grow at a level of 5% a year. NTM has referred to figures within its TVAS 
report, which it says, show that Mr Ts funds could last beyond his life expectancy after 
transferring. For example it says that if Mr T transferred and took benefits equal to the BSPS 
and a reduced pension at age 60 by way of draw down, then, by age 99, Mr Ts fund would 
still have a surplus of £9,125. But I can't find these figures within its TVAS. As far as I can 
tell the TVAS doesn't show any of the calculations for its Cash Flow Modelling which 
appear in the suitability report. And the suitability report only shows the outcome of its 
cashflow models and not the inputs its used in the models. So its not clear exactly what its 
factored in or what its omitted, when making those calculations. 
For example, I don't know if its models have factored in the effects of product and adviser 
charges. So I can't tell if its calculations are likely to be accurate or if theyre based on 
relevant assumptions. 
Further, NTMs calculations are based on a return of 5% a year every year. This is in line 
with the regulators projected return for an investor with Mr Ts attitude to risk. But adviser 
and product charges would reduce that return to 3.79% a year. Also, NTMs projections and 
models are based on a steady return each and every year. However, given the volatility of 
the markets, consistent growth at that level seems unlikely over such a long period of time.
Also if there was a sustained period of poor performance then there was a very real chance 
that Mr Ts fund would grow at a much slower rate or could suffer losses. In those 
circumstances Mr Ts fund could be significantly less than NTMs models show. Similarly 
NTM said Mr T wanted to transfer his funds in order to be able to take higher sums at an 
early age. But taking higher sums sooner would have the effect of reducing the funds 
remaining, which would in turn lower the investment returns and which could see those 
funds being depleted sooner than expected. But NTMs models dont appear to reflect that. It's also notable that the personal pension provider produced an illustration of what it 
calculated Mr Ts pension might be worth at age 60. That is in stark contrast to NTMs 
figures. NTMs TVAS shows that, at age 60, Mr Ts fund could be around £88,800. But that 
would appear to be without factoring in the effects of inflation. In contrast the pension 
providers illustration showed what Mr Ts fund would likely be worth, after allowing for a 
growth rate of 5% and being reduced by inflation of 2.5% and product and adviser charges. 
That showed that, at age 60, the fund would be worth £54,400. That is significantly less than 
NTMs advice was based upon. 
It follows that I don't think NTMs cashflow models are likely to be representative of Mr Ts 
situation in retirement. And I dont agree that he would most likely be better off by 
transferring. 
In its August 2022 letter NTMs said that, since he invested in it, Mr Ts personal pension has 
performed higher than it had predicted. But, as NTM acknowledged in its suitability report, 
past performance is no guarantee for future performance. And given that Mr T had a 
minimum of 14 full years to retirement at the time of NTM's advice, the scope for a market 
crash or periods of poor performance increases. So I consider the discount rates to be more 
realistic in regard to the long-term likely growth, rather than projecting recent returns forward. 
In other words, the fact that the personal pension has performed well doesn't mean it will 
continue to do so in the future. 
Further, transferring meant putting all of Mr Ts funds at risk when it seemed very unlikely he 
would be better off by doing so. And, even if his funds did meet NTMs projected growth 
rates, he would likely be worse off in retirement. I dont think that clearly demonstrates, as 
the regulator required, that it was in his best interests to transfer. 
Of course financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice, as NTM 
has argued in this case. It said its recommendation allowed Mr T to achieve his other 
objectives. So I've gone on to consider whether NTM has clearly demonstrated that its 
advice was in Mr Ts best interests. When doing so I've been mindful that NTMs role was to 
find out what Mr Ts wants and needs were and why. Its role wasnt simply to do what Mr T 
wanted without appropriate analysis and challenge of his motives for doing so, in order to 
ensure its recommendation was in his best interests. 
Flexibility and income needs
It seems a principal reason NTM recommended Mr T transfer was for the opportunity to take 
his pension flexibly and the ability to retire early. Having considered the evidence, I dont 
think achieving these goals at the expense of the guaranteed benefits from a DB scheme, 
even one that could potentially go into the PPF, was in his best interests. 
Mr T told NTM that he wished to retire at 60. But at the time of the advice Mr T was still over 
14 years away from turning 60 and more than 19 years away from his DB schemes normal 
retirement age of 65. He wouldnt receive his state pension until 67. A lot could happen in 
the intervening period. And it's notable that his wife was pregnant with their second child, 
who will still only be 14 years old at Mr Ts preferred retirement age of 60. So Mr Ts plans to 
retire early, made when he was still only 45, could have changed significantly by the time he 
neared 60. 
I think, when asked, most people would say they would like to retire early. But, for the 
majority, early retirement means a significant drop in income. And that would dramatically 
reduce most individuals spending power and lifestyle choices. As a result, when faced with 
that prospect at an early retirement age, the majority choose not to retire. Instead they opt to 
continue working to support their current and future lifestyle options. That seems to be a more likely prospect for Mr T. But theres no evidence that NTM seriously challenged Mr Ts 
objective of retirement at age 60 and questioned how realistic that was for him. So I dont 
think it met its obligations to challenge his objectives in light of what he would be giving up.
Also, Mr T had options other than transferring to a personal pension in order to retire early. 
For example Mr T and his employer had recently started paying into his employers DC 
scheme. I haven't been given figures for how much Mr T was contributing, but I'm aware that 
many of his colleagues, along with their employer, were making contributions of around 16% 
of their salary each year. And, if that was the case for Mr T, then his DC scheme would, at 
the time of the advice, been accruing around £5,280 a year. He could have anticipated 
continuing to contribute to that policy (or a similar one if he were to change jobs in the future) 
for the remainder of his working life. 
So I think its reasonable to assume that, by the time he reached 60, his personal pension 
should have amassed a sizeable pot. Indeed without allowing for Mr T increasing his 
contributions, his salary growing, or any return on the investment, by 60 he could have a pot 
in the DC pension of around £76,500. And that sum would increase to around £103,000 by 
the time he reached 65. So Mr T could have accessed those funds in a flexible manner if he 
felt the need to do so. That would have allowed him to leave his safeguarded DB funds 
untouched until he turned 65. So he didnt need to transfer out of the DB scheme in order to 
have some flexible access to funds in retirement. 
Mr T also had income from rental properties. I note he said he felt his income from rent and 
his state pension (once he reached qualifying age), would be sufficient income to take care 
of his daily living costs. And that was a supporting reason for taking the risk of giving up his 
guaranteed income from his DB scheme. So an option for Mr T could have been to take 
early retirement and use the TFC and income from his DC pension, together with his rental 
income, to fund the early years of his retirement until age 65. Mr T could then have taken 
money from his DB scheme (including TFC) and that should have given him sufficient 
income to cover his outgoings until he could claim his state pension at age 67. But it doesn't 
appear that NTM put that option to Mr T.
NTMs said that rental income cant be guaranteed but can be considered reliable and likely 
to increase over time. I agree that is reasonable. Its suggested its cashflow models reflected 
this. But as I've said above, NTM hasnt shown the inputs from its cashflow models. And in 
its fact-find it simply says that rental income could be disregarded as the rent received was 
being offset against the properties mortgages. In my opinion the income and expenditure 
recorded in the fact-find can reasonably be described as sparse. Theres very little in the 
way of determining exactly how Mr T would achieve his desired income of £1,500 a month in 
retirement. Also, as I've said above, I'm not persuaded NTMs shown that Mr T would be 
better off in retirement by transferring. And its worth repeating that he had flexible access to 
income from his DC scheme. It follows that I don't think the only prospect of Mr T taking 
early retirement relied on him transferring his DB funds into a personal pension.
Also, at that time, apart from his state pension, Mr Ts DB scheme would be the only source 
of guaranteed and indexed income for him in retirement. The income from his DC scheme 
and from his rental properties, might have formed the majority of his income by retirement 
age. But those would be subject to investment risk and other market forces and couldnt be 
guaranteed. So, by transferring Mr T would be giving up a valuable guaranteed income for 
the prospect of some flexible access to funds, which he could achieve from other sources. 
That said, its true to say that Mr T couldnt have had the same level of flexible access to his 
DB funds as he could from a personal pension. While he could have chosen to take those 
early, if hed wanted to take TFC, then he would have had to take that at the same time as 
drawing a regular income from his pension. Whereas the personal pension would allow him to draw down funds as he saw fit. But while I can see why that might have been an attractive 
prospect to him, Im not persuaded that Mr T had any concrete need to take TFC at all or to 
vary his income throughout retirement. So while the option of drawing his income flexibly 
might seem like something that would be nice to have, I can't see that Mr T had any genuine 
need for that flexibility that would be worth giving up guaranteed benefits for.
In any event there would be little point in Mr T giving up the almost entirely risk-free benefits 
available to him through the DB scheme only to achieve a similar level of benefits outside 
the scheme. But unless Mr Ts personal pension performed consistently above the 
regulators mid-level projection, in real terms he was likely to be worse off by transferring. So 
I don't think it was in his best interests to do so. 
Im aware that many BSPS members like Mr T had serious concerns about their employers 
attitude towards their pension pots. The situation was evolving after the BSPS closed in 
March 2017. There was also some widespread trepidation about what moving pensions to 
the PPF meant for members. Its also well known that this was a period of uncertainty for 
people like Mr T. But this only serves to emphasise the need at that time for a balanced 
assessment of the options available and ultimately the requirement for suitable advice.
I understand that there will be instances where a client seeks financial advice with 
preconceived notions or concerns about the financial health of an employer or pension 
scheme. Its clear that Mr Ts concerns of that nature were a motivating factor in considering 
transferring his pension away from the influence of his employer. So he might well have 
been leaning towards transferring his pension when he sought advice. But NTM was tasked 
with rationally addressing those concerns and providing an appropriately balanced view of all 
the available options. So I think NTM should have reassured Mr T that, while not 
guaranteed, it was likely that the BSPS 2 would be going ahead and opting for that would be 
in his best interests. 
Further, even if Mr T remained concerned about the possibility, even if it was a slim one, of 
the BSPS2 not happening or itself moving into the PPF at a later date, I think NTM could 
have addressed that concern.
A move to the PPF would mean, on a general basis, a reduction of around 10% in retirement 
income and less generous yearly indexed pension increases. But the 10% reduction didnt 
apply across the board, and in some ways the PPF could actually be beneficial for scheme 
members. For example, NTM pointed out to Mr T that its TVAS showed that the PPF 
benefits could have been more beneficial if he took those benefits at age 60. Thats because 
at that age the PPF paid a larger TFC and pension than the BSPS. And the critical yields 
show that those benefits were unlikely to be matched by a transfer to a personal pension. 
So, had Mr T been serious about taking early retirement at 60 then this would most likely 
have been the best option for him. But I note that while NTM pointed this out it appears to 
have discarded the notion because Mr T had reservations about the PPF. It seems NTM 
accepted this without appropriate challenge.
Overall, Im satisfied Mr T could have met his income needs in retirement while remaining in 
the DB scheme, whilst also taking funds from his DC scheme, rental income and eventually 
his state pension. So, I dont think it was in Mr Ts best interests for him to transfer his 
pension just to have flexibility that he could have achieved while remaining in the DB 
environment.
Death benefits
Mr T told NTM he thought the potential for a lump sum for his wife, should he die before her, 
would be more beneficial than the spouses benefit from the DB scheme. Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like their loved ones to be 
taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer through a personal 
pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr T. Thats because whatever was left within it at 
the date of his death would be passed on to Mrs T. If that happened before his retirement or 
soon after, then that would likely be a significant sum. In contrast the BSPS2 or PPF would 
pay Mrs T half of Mr Ts yearly PPF pension entitlement after he died. But that pension 
would die with her. So Mrs T couldnt leave it as a legacy for their children after she died.
I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr T might have thought it was 
a good idea to transfer his DB funds to a personal pension because of this. But the primary 
purpose of a pension is to provide income for the member when they cease to receive 
earned income. So NTM should have considered Mr Ts own income requirements 
throughout retirement as an absolute priority, before it brought other objectives like death 
benefits into consideration. 
A pension is principally designed to provide income in retirement rather than for a legacy to 
family. But in transferring out of his DB scheme Mr T was essentially giving up a guaranteed, 
index linked, increasing income in retirement, for the potential for a lump sum for his family 
that they may not receive or need for many years to come. And by that time, the fund could 
have been depleted by Mr Ts withdrawals from it in the meantime. 
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Mr T 
was married. Both the BSPS2 and the PPF would have paid Mr T 50% of Mr Ts yearly 
pension on his death. Although the BSPS2 was more generous as it didnt make a spouses 
benefit deduction for any TFC taken. This was guaranteed and escalated it was not 
dependent on investment performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal 
pension was. And there may not have been a large sum left in the personal pension if Mr T 
lived a long life or if his investments suffered a prolonged period of poor performance. In any 
event, NTM should not have encouraged Mr T to prioritise the potential for higher death 
benefits through a personal pension over his security in retirement.
Further, I'm aware that Mr T had death in service cover from his employer. So that would 
have paid a considerable lump sum in the event he died while still working for his employer. 
But, if he wanted to leave a legacy for Mrs T, which didnt depend on his employment, 
investment returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his death, I think NTM 
should have fully explored life insurance. Ive noted that NTM did look into the cost of life 
insurance. Its suitability report said that would cost Mr T around £49 a month, so it didnt 
think that was viable on grounds of cost. But it's not clear how it arrived at that conclusion.
On NTMs file are quotes for 17 different life policies. The premiums are between £16.01 and 
£107 a month. So it's not clear how NTM concluded that it would cost Mr T £49 a month 
when there was a policy for over £33 a month less. But, in any event, even if it had only 
received one quote for £49 a month that wouldn't appear unaffordable. Mr T said he had 
disposable income of around £300 each month. Therefore, if he was serious about leaving 
an additional legacy for his family, he could have spared £49 of his disposable income in 
order to provide that legacy without giving up the guaranteed benefits from the DB scheme. 
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the possible decrease of retirement benefits for Mr T. 
Fees
When he complained Mr T said he had to pay ongoing fee for NTMs advice service. I've 
commented above on how fees could affect Mr Ts future fund performance. But Ive also 
seen that NTM was quite clear about its fees from the outset. And Mr T signed to say that he agreed to those. Its usual, and reasonable, for advising firms like NTM to charge for their 
services, and thats what it did in this case. Further, it only charged Mr T the fees he agreed 
to pay. Also the ongoing advice service was optional and Mr T disengaged with it in 2019. 
So in respect of its fees I don't think NTM did anything wrong. 
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility and potential for higher death benefits on offer through a 
personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr T. But NTM wasnt there 
to just transact what Mr T might have thought he wanted. The advisers role was to really 
understand what Mr T needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
NTM was in a good position to have analysed, tested, challenged and advised Mr T about 
what was in his best interests for retirement planning. It knows valuable pension pots like 
Mr Ts DB scheme were paid into with the intention of providing for retirement. So, I dont 
think it was in Mr Ts best interests for him to transfer his DB scheme funds to a personal 
pension. 
I appreciate the BSPS2 hadnt been established when NTM gave its advice. But I think it 
was clear to all parties that it was likely to be going ahead. I think it would have been in 
Mr Ts best interests to have opted into BSPS2 as that had more generous benefits than the 
PPF. By opting into the BSPS2, Mr T would have kept the option to transfer out of the 
scheme nearer to his retirement age if that was what he decided to do at that point. So, I 
think NTM should have advised Mr T to opt into the BSPS2. Ultimately, I dont think the 
advice NTM gave to Mr T was suitable. He was giving up a guaranteed, risk-free and 
increasing income within the BSPS2. By transferring to a personal pension Mr T was 
unnecessarily putting his pension funds at risk. And I dont think there were any other 
particular reasons which would justify the transfer and outweigh this. So, I dont think it was 
in Mr Ts best interests for him to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension when he had 
the opportunity of opting into the BSPS2.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr T would have gone ahead with the transfer anyway 
if it wasnt for NTMs advice. I accept that Mr T is an adult and plainly capable of making his 
own decisions. But, after thinking about this carefully, I'm not persuaded he would have 
transferred if it wasnt for NTMs recommendation that he should do so. Thats because, at 
the time of its advice, Mr Ts BSPS pension accounted for the only guaranteed income at 
retirement other than his state pension. Also he was an inexperienced investor who had no 
need to put his pension funds at risk and he was paying NTM for its expertise. So, if NTM 
had given clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in 
his best interests, I think he would have accepted the expert professional advice he was 
paying for.
It follows that I don't think NTMs advice to Mr T to transfer out of his DB scheme was 
suitable for him. Instead I think it should have advised him to opt into the BSPS2. So, I think 
it's fair for NTM to compensate Mr T for the unsuitable advice, in line with the regulators 
rules for calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice. And, as this matter 
has been a source of distress and inconvenience for Mr T, as hes been concerned that his 
security in retirement might have been compromised as a result of NTMs unsuitable advice, 
I think it should pay him £200 to address that.Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for NTM to put Mr T, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. As I've said above, I think Mr T 
would have remained in the DB scheme and opted into the BSPS2.
NTM must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
When making the calculation NTM (or providers acting for it) should use the FCAs BSPS-
specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A copy of the BSPS calculator output 
should be sent to Mr Ts representative and our Service upon completion of the calculation.
For clarity, Mr T has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age of 65, as per the 
usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with PS22/13 and DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should 
be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of 
notification of Mr Ts acceptance of my final decision. 
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, NTM should:
calculate and offer Mr T redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr T before starting the redress calculation that:
- his redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest his redress prudently is to use it to augment 
his personal pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr T receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr T accepts NTMs offer to calculate how much of his redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr T for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ts end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr T as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits that 
would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, NTM may 
make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to take account of tax that 
consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. Typically, 25% of the loss 
could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to Mr Ts 
likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction 
of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
NTM should also pay Mr T £200 compensation to address his distress and inconvenience 
arising from its unsuitable advice.
 Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require NTM Financial 
Services Ltd to pay Mr T the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
NTM Financial Services Ltd pays Mr T the balance.
If Mr T accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on NTM Financial Services 
Ltd.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr T can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr T may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 September 2023.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman