DRN-3778976
The complaint
Mrs T, through her representative, complains she took a credit facility from Gain Credit LLC, 
trading as Drafty, and that it lent to her when she could not afford it.
What happened
Drafty offered a credit facility which commenced with a limit being determined and then the
customer was able to draw down the amounts he or she required. The credit was unsecured
and had no fixed duration. The credit facility was not a loan.
Briefly, Mrs T applied for a loan of £3,000. But the credit facility of £650 was approved for
her in in March 2016. The credit limit was increased twice, the last time being in May 2018
when it was increased to £960. The facility was used by Mrs T and theres currently an
outstanding balance. In September 2022 that was £698.63.
The credit agreement set out the total cost of the credit based on some assumptions to
illustrate the likely cost to Mrs T. On the assumption that Mrs T drew down the full £650 on
the first day and then repaid it (plus interest and charges) over 12 months in equal
instalments then the total amount payable would have been just over £852. These worked
out to be about £71 per month (Clause 5 in the agreement).
The arrangement did include a Billing Cycle which meant that a statement was produced
ten days before Mrs Ts salary payment, and it gave the minimum payment required for that
cycle. It had to be the higher of certain calculations which are in the agreement at clause 6
which I have not set out here.
A Continuous Payment Authority was used to take the minimum payments on or near
Mrs Ts monthly salary date. Other ways of payment were made available.
Mrs T complained to Drafty in May 2022 and received a final response letter (FRL) in
May 2022 in which it said that it did not consider it had done anything wrong offering the
facility with a £650 limit. However, it had also come to the view that from 7 February 2017 it
ought to have stopped Mrs Ts continued use of the facility. And so, it said in the FRL that it 
would be content to put things right for Mrs T. But it was only offering to refund interest and 
charges applied to new drawdowns from 7 February 2017.
Mrs Ts representative referred her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
In September 2022, one of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and thought that Draftys
initial decision to approve the credit facility was right and overall, she did not think that there
was anything for Drafty to put right in relation to the initial approval decision in March 2016.
However, in relation to that part where Drafty had monitor the account during Mrs Ts use
of it, our adjudicator considered that Drafty ought to have ceased allowing her to use of the 
credit facility from 27 January 2017  a very similar date to that decided by Drafty in its FRL. 
Our adjudicators calculation of the redress differed to that set out by Drafty in the FRL.
Drafty agreed with our adjudicator in part in relation to the view and that the credit facility 
uphold date was 27 January 2017. But its suggested way to calculate how it puts things right 
for Mrs T was put to Mrs Ts representative and had been rejected.
The unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide. Drafty had not agreed with our 
adjudicators redress calculations and as neither party was content I considered it all. For 
completeness I reviewed the credit facility initial approval in 2016 as well as the outstanding 
issue on the unresolved detail surrounding the redress.
I issued a provisional decision on 12 May 2023 and for ease of reference that is duplicated 
here  in smaller type to differentiate it from this final decision. But it forms part of my final 
decision. 
What I decided in my provisional decision on12 May 2023. 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I have considered the law, any relevant
regulatory rules and good industry practice at the time the credit was offered.
Before lending money to a consumer or approving a credit limit a lender should take
proportionate steps to understand whether the consumer will be able to repay what they are
borrowing in a sustainable manner without it adversely impacting on their financial situation.
A lender should gather enough information for it to be able to make an informed decision on
the lending. Although the guidance and rules themselves did not set out compulsory checks,
they did list several things a lender could consider before agreeing to lend. The key element
was that any checks needed to be proportionate and had to consider several different things,
including how much was being lent and when the sum being borrowed was due to be repaid.
Initial approval of the credit facility.
From Mrs Ts application to Drafty I note she declared her monthly income as £1,300 and
her monthly expenditure as £725. The Drafty FRL said it had verified that income.
The brief credit search results I have been provided with, carried out by Drafty, shows that
Mrs T had little or no debt and showed nothing to give rise to any concerns Drafty may have
had about her financial situation.
Having looked at all that Mrs T has given me and Draftys information and submissions then
I think that the initial credit facility approval was carried out after checks I would have
considered proportionate. And the limit approved was likely to have appeared serviceable
and able to be repaid within a reasonable time.
And so, I agree with our adjudicator in relation to the initial approval of that credit facility 
I plan not to uphold that part of Mrs Ts complaint.
Monitoring of the account
After the initial approval of the credit limit at the start of the account facility, Drafty did have to
monitor Mrs Ts account and it has explained to us how it did that but very briefly. Also, it
said it had written to Mrs T and asked her to confirm her income and expenses.
I refer to the Financial Conduct Authority Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) chapter 6
which addresses the expected Business Practices in relation to the monitoring of an
account. One indication of a risk of a customer being in financial difficulties is where it seems
that the customer is borrowing to repay borrowing.
The rationale for our adjudicators upholding of this part of Mrs Ts complaint was that the
continual repayment of the minimum payments each month ought to have prompted Drafty
to have done something rather than allow that repayment pattern to continue.
And in its FRL Drafty had come to a similar view. There was a slight difference in date  our
adjudicator said the uphold date ought to have been 27 January 2017 whereas Draftyoriginally had said 7 February 2017. Drafty had altered its view to agree with the adjudicator
 27 January 2017. And as Drafty has agreed with that uphold date then I have provisionally
decided to do the same.
The issue surrounding the redress
To come to a fair and reasonable outcome on this part relating to how the redress is to be
calculated for Mrs T from 27 January 2017, then I would have needed to be satisfied that
had Drafty checked in detail Mrs Ts ability to repay the facility it would have found that it was
difficult for her. One way to have done this may have been to have reviewed her bank
account statements.
Id only direct Drafty to put things right in this way if I was satisfied that it ought to
have realised that Mrs Ts financial position was so difficult as of 27 January 2017 that she
couldnt afford any further borrowing. And that Mrs T couldnt repay what she already owed.
And so Drafty ought reasonably to have withdrawn the facility completely. I dont think Drafty
checked Mrs Ts financial situation on 27 January 2017.
We have asked Mrs T (through her representative), recently, to provide us with copies of her
bank statements from around that time  January to February 2017 - but we have not
received any copies.
Draftys proposed redress, as outlined in response to the adjudicator would lead to a refund
of interest on any new drawdowns from 27 January 2017. And bearing in mind the
circumstances here, I consider that refund to be reasonable.
So, I am intending to ask Drafty to pay that redress in resolution of the complaint. This differs
to our adjudicators view and hence the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has responded. And no additional evidence (such as Mrs Ts bank account 
statements) has been received by us. 
So, with nothing further to consider I see no reason to alter my findings set out in the 
provisional decision duplicated above Those findings are repeated here.
My decision is that the initial approval of the credit facility was satisfactory. That the date at 
which I think Drafty ought to have carried out further checks and suspended the account was 
27 January 2017. And the redress calculations should be as I have outlined in the next 
section.
I uphold the complaint in part.
Putting things right
My understanding is that Mrs T still owes Drafty money.
So, I think it ought to bring that debt back in-house (if needed) and remove any third party
charges (if there have been any) so these are not passed on to Mrs T.
And then Drafty ought to do the following which reflects what it offered to do in its email to us
dated 30 September 2022 but the calculations will have to be re-worked to reflect the
passage of time:re-work Mrs Ts credit facility balance so that all interest, fees and charges applied to 
new drawdowns from 27 January 2017 are removed and
if at any point Mrs T would have been in credit on her account after considering the 
above, Drafty will need to refund any overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on these payments, from the date they would have arisen, to the date the 
refund is made and
apply any refund due to Mrs T to reduce the overall balance still owing to Drafty; and
if there remains a balance after doing this then Drafty needs to arrange with Mrs T a 
suitably agreeable payment plan
if Drafty considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mrs Ts credit file, 
it should backdate this to 27 January 2017.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Drafty to take off tax from this interest. It must give Mrs T
a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Mrs Ts complaint in part and I direct that Gain Credit LLC, trading as Drafty, does 
as I have outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2023.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman