DRN-4140936
The complaint
Mr G complains that Sterling ISA Managers Limited trading as Advance by Embark made 
inaccurate presumptions in respect of his tax residency and reported incorrect information to 
HMRC.
What happened
Mr G has a retirement account with Sterling. He contacted it in January 2022 and informed it 
that he wanted his post to be sent to an address in a country outside the UK (country X).
Mr G says he received a letter from Sterling in May 2022 which informed him that he hadnt 
completed and returned a Taxation Self-Certification Declaration. As a result Sterling said it 
had updated its records to show him as reportable under the regulations for the USA and 
would have to pass his information to HMRC for International Tax Compliance purposes.
Mr G contacted Sterling. He told it he hadnt changed his tax residency from the UK. He said 
all he had done was to ask it to send his correspondence to an address in country X. 
Furthermore, country X was not the USA. He complained to Sterling.
Sterling investigated his complaint. It initially said it had made an error in the letter it sent to 
him in May. The reference to the USA was incorrect and instead should have been to 
country X. Sterling apologised for this error but it did not accept it had made any other errors. 
It said it was required by legislation to ask Mr G to confirm his tax residency after hed 
reported his change of address. It had sent him the relevant form in January and he hadnt 
returned it within 90 days of it being issued. As a result it had marked his account as 
reportable for country X.
Mr G did not agree. He said:
He didnt live in the USA or have any tax liability in the USA  the documents sent to 
him were incorrect.
He had not transferred his tax residency to country X and Sterling had provided false 
information to HMRC.
He did not currently have a permanent address in the UK. Sterling had requested him 
to make a false statement that he lived at an address in the UK and he was not 
willing to do that.
Sterling looked into his complaint again. It apologised for the poor service hed received and 
acknowledged it had made inaccurate assumptions in respect of his tax residency. It said it 
had updated its records to show his residential and postal address as country X but that he 
was still a UK tax resident. It said that based on the information he had now provided it did 
not need to provide any international tax information to HMRC. It paid him £250 for the 
trouble and upset it had caused.
Mr G did not agree. He said Sterling had made a complete U turn and this showed it had 
not properly reviewed his complaint. The payment of £250 was not acceptable. He also said 
that Sterling had contacted his adviser to confirm information about his tax residency and it 
had done so without his authority or consent. He referred his complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into Mr Gs complaint. She asked Sterling to provide further
information including recordings of the telephone calls with Mr G. Sterling did not provide 
these. Our investigator said that based on the information shed seen she found that:
Sterling had not provided a copy of the call where Mr G had informed it about his 
change of address. So there was no evidence it had acted appropriately by changing 
Mr Gs residency and tax status;
The document it sent in May 2022, which referred to the USA, was incorrect;
Sterling had not confirmed to Mr G what information it had provided to HMRC;
Sterling had not provided evidence regarding its authority to contact Mr Gs financial 
adviser  although she noted that often it was the case that where there was a 
financial adviser businesses did have authority to contact the adviser; and
She hadnt seen any evidence that Sterling advised Mr G to make a false statement 
about his address.
Our investigator said the matter had been extremely stressful and worrying for Mr G to have 
his tax status altered incorrectly and it could also have potentially significant implications for 
Mr G. In light of that she asked Sterling to confirm in writing to Mr G that HMRC had the 
correct tax status for him. If he had to pay any additional tax as a result of Sterlings error 
then Sterling should refund that to him together with 8% simple interest. She also thought 
Sterling should pay Mr G a further £150 (£400 in total) by way of compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience hed experienced.
Sterling did not respond to what our investigator said. But, after further correspondence from 
our service, it has now provided copies of the telephone recordings between it and Mr G and 
it has provided copies of further correspondence. It did not agree with what our investigator 
had said. So, the complaint was passed to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision in 
which I said:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Since the date when our investigator looked into this complaint Sterling has provided 
further information which Ive been able to consider. Having done so, Ive 
provisionally decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
The incorrect presumptions made
Sterling acknowledged in its final response letters to Mr G that it had made two 
incorrect presumptions in respect of Mr Gs tax residency.
First, in its letter dated 22 June 2022, Sterling acknowledged it had made an error in 
its letter dated 10 May 2022. In that letter it said it had updated its records to show 
him as reportable under the regulations for the USA and that it would have to pass 
his information to HMRC for international tax compliance purposes.
There was no basis at all for updating its records to show him as reportable under the 
regulations of the USA. Sterling accepted this was an error on its part. It apologised 
to Mr G after he telephoned it in May and subsequently repeated its apology for this 
error in its letter dated 22 June 2022.Secondly it told Mr G in May 2022, after he telephoned it, that it had amended its 
records to say that he was resident for tax purposes in country X (the second 
presumption). In its email dated 5 August 2022, Sterling accepted that this was also 
an inaccurate presumption. Sterling said it had amended its records to say that Mr G 
had his address in country X but was noted as UK tax resident. It confirmed it did not 
need to provide any international tax information to HMRC.
Ive thought about the basis on which Sterling made the second presumption about 
Mr Gs tax residency. Having done so, although this presumption was incorrect, I 
think it acted fairly and reasonably when it made this presumption. I say that for 
mainly the following reasons:
The initial call made by Mr G
Mr G telephoned Sterling on 24 January 2022. Ive listened carefully to that call. 
During the call he explained that he wanted to change his address to an address in 
country X. He said hed purchased the property in country X in December 2021 but 
he was not transferring residency until March. Sterling told him that if the address 
was updated on its system all post would be sent to the new address and Mr G 
confirmed this was acceptable to him.
During the call there was no reference to tax residency and Sterling did not tell Mr G 
that because hed recorded a change of address he would have to complete a tax 
declaration. Nevertheless, because the change of address (to a non UK country) was 
recorded on Sterlings systems it did send Mr G a self-certification form a few days 
later.
Sterling has explained that because of the change of address recorded on its 
systems, it was required under the relevant legislation to confirm his tax residency. 
Although I think it wouldve been better if it had told him when he telephoned it that 
he would have to confirm his tax residency, I dont think it did anything wrong when, 
in line with its procedures, it sent the self-certification form to him.
The Self-Certification form sent in January 2022
Sterling has provided a copy of the letter it sent to Mr G dated 26 January 2022. The 
letter was sent to the address which Mr G had recorded with Sterling.
At the top of the letter, in bold print, were the words:
Important information  action required
In the letter Sterling explained that because Mr G had recently changed his address it 
was required under UK legislation, to ask him to confirm his tax residency. Although 
Mr G said during the initial call that he wasnt transferring his residency to country X 
until March 2022, I can understand why Sterling, in line with its regulatory obligations, 
decided to send the self-certification form to him. The purpose of the letter was to ask 
him to confirm his tax residency. At that point Sterling had not marked his account 
as reportable to HMRC.
Sterling asked him to complete the self-certification form and return it within 30 days. 
If he didnt do that, the letter said:
If we have not received the self-certification form then we will have to report 
you to HMRC. HMRC will only disclose this information to the relevant tax 
authorities if and when they need to by law. We are using the approach 
recommended by the Association of British Insurers.The enclosed form included the following questions:
Are you resident for tax purposes in the UK? YES/NO
Are you resident for tax purposes anywhere other than the UK including the 
Channel Isles or Isle of Man? YES/NO
If the answer to the second question was YES then further details about tax 
reference numbers was required. If the answers to both questions was NO then Mr G 
was required to sign and return the form.
Having looked at the form and considered the information Mr G has provided to us 
about his tax status, I think it would have been relatively straightforward for him to 
have responded to the two questions and returned the form.
Mr G did not sign and return the form.
Hes told us he experienced a bereavement of a close family member at this time and 
as a result hed been involved in dealing with the deceaseds estate. I am sorry to 
read about Mr Gs sad loss.
Because of the circumstances, Mr G had to travel back and forth between the UK 
and country X. He also says that as a result he didnt change his residency to country 
X in March 2022  as had previously been planned. In these circumstances, I can 
understand why this would have been a difficult time for Mr G and why he may not 
have prioritised responding to the letter. But, I think he would have been aware it was 
important to take time to complete and return the form if he didnt want Sterling to 
report him to HMRC.
 
The form sent in May 2022
When Sterling hadnt received the completed form it proceeded to make certain 
presumptions about Mr Gs tax residency. It confirmed those presumptions to him in 
its letter dated 10 May 2022. In that letter Sterling said it had updated its records to 
show Mr G as reportable under the regulations for USA and would have to pass his 
information to HMRC for international tax compliance purposes. The letter enclosed a 
new form for Mr G to complete. I havent been provided with a copy of this form but it 
does appear to have asked for additional information to the previous form and Mr G 
was also asked to provide documentation as proof of his tax residency.
Mr G telephoned Sterling as soon as he received this letter. Ive listened to the call 
that he made and the return call from Sterling the following day. He confirmed that 
hed received another letter from Sterling and he found it very insulting. He said 
hed asked Sterling to change his correspondence address and it had no right to 
make assumptions about his tax residency or to report him to HMRC. Furthermore he 
had never told Sterling anything to suggest he was tax resident in the USA.
During the return call, Sterling acknowledged that the reference to the USA was an 
error. It apologised for this. But it told Mr G that unless he completed and returned 
the self-certification form it had sent to him, it would report him to HMRC as tax 
resident in country X. Mr G made clear he was not going to complete the form and he 
also queried the documentation he was being asked to provide.
Having listened to the calls it is clear that Mr G did confirm orally that he was tax 
resident in the UK and was not tax resident in any other country. But Sterling told him hed need to complete the form hed been sent. Ive thought about whether it 
wouldve been fair and reasonable to have expected Sterling to update its records 
based on the verbal information Mr G provided during the call. It is also the case that 
Mr G did not complete the form and ultimately Sterling relied on written information 
about his tax status which it requested from his financial adviser.
Having considered the circumstances here, and given that Mr G confirmed he no 
longer had a residential address in the UK, I think it was fair and reasonable for 
Sterling to ask Mr G to confirm this in writing by completing the self-certification form. 
Included with the form was a series of Questions and Answers which provided further 
explanations about why the form was being sent. It also stated that even where Mr G 
was a UK tax resident he was still required to complete the form and if he didnt do 
that Sterling would have to inform HMRC. So, I can understand why Sterling wanted 
confirmation in writing - which it ultimately obtained from his financial adviser.
Mr G says Sterling had no authority to ask his financial adviser for this information. 
Ive looked at the terms and conditions for Mr Gs account and these provide that 
where there was a change of name, country of residence or postal address, Mr G 
was required to inform his adviser and the adviser was responsible for providing 
instructions to Sterling. So, I dont think Sterling acted wrongly when, in order to try to 
resolve matters, it asked the adviser to confirm Mr Gs tax residency, in 
circumstances where Mr G had refused to complete the self-certificate.
Having considered the information given by Mr G during the initial telephone call in 
January 2022, the subsequent correspondence and the telephone calls when Mr G 
said he would not complete the self-certification form he was sent, Im satisfied, on 
balance, it was fair and reasonable for Sterling to have told Mr G, prior to getting the 
confirmation from his financial adviser, that it had recorded him as reportable to 
HMRC as tax resident in country X.
Ive noted that Mr G says Sterling requested him, during these telephone calls, to 
record with it a UK address that was not his residential address. He was asked about 
his residential address and where he was staying in the UK but, having listened to 
the calls, I havent found evidence to support what hes told us about being requested 
to record incorrect information.
During the calls on 25 and 26 May 2022, Mr G was asked repeatedly to complete 
and return the self-certification form and he reiterated that he would not do that. He 
mentioned some of the questions on the form and how it would not be possible for 
him to complete this information. I think part of the reason for this may have been 
that the form sent to him in May seems to have asked for more information than the 
form hed been sent in January. Having listened to the calls, I think Sterling could 
have done more to explain that it was the Self-Certificate declaration (the January 
form) it needed him to complete. Ill comment about that further below.
When Sterling investigated Mr Gs complaint it initially only accepted that it had made 
an error referencing the USA in its letter dated 10 May. But, after further 
investigation, including corresponding with his financial adviser, it wrote to Mr G to 
confirm as follows:
Thank you for confirming you are UK tax resident and are not a resident of 
any other country neither are you a US citizen or green cardholder. Based on 
the information you have provided we do not need to provide any international 
tax information to HMRC..Sterling has also confirmed to our service that Mr Gs details would not be reported to 
HMRC. It says the reason for that is because the reporting to HMRC only takes place 
once each year and it had already amended its records about Mr Gs tax residency 
prior to the date when the report was due to made to HMRC for the year 2022. So, it 
had not changed Mr Gs tax status with HMRC.
Sterling acknowledged it had caused distress and inconvenience and paid
Mr G £250 by way of compensation.
Sterling has acknowledged it made errors here. As Ive set out above, it wrongly told 
Mr G he was reportable as a US tax resident and Ive also commented above that it 
could have done more to explain to him it needed him to complete and return the 
Self-Certificate (the January form to it) and not the form it had sent in May. However, 
Im not persuaded that even if it had done that, it would have changed Mr Gs stance 
that he was not going to complete the form.
When a business makes errors, its not our role to fine or punish it. We look at what 
the business has done to try to put things right. In this case, Sterling has apologised 
for the error it made in its letter of 10 May 2022. It has also confirmed to Mr G, in 
writing, that it holds his tax residency as UK, and not for any other country, and does 
not need to provide any international tax information to HMRC. I think thats fair and 
reasonable. As mentioned above it has also confirmed to our service that no report 
would be made to HMRC about Mr G because his records were updated on its 
system before the report was due to be made.
Sterling has paid Mr G £250 by way of compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience it caused him. As our investigator said, it would have been stressful 
for Mr G when he received the letter in May which erroneously said he was 
reportable under USA regulations. But Sterling did acknowledge that error and 
apologised for it on 26 May  which was the day after Mr G told it this information 
was incorrect. It also told him what it needed him to do if he didnt want it to mark him 
as tax resident in country X.
Having considered everything, I think the £250 compensation which Sterling has paid 
for distress and inconvenience is in line with what I consider to be fair and 
reasonable for what happened here. So, Ive provisionally decided I dont require 
Sterling to have to do anything more to resolve this complaint.
My provisional decision
For the reasons given above my provisional decision is that I do not intend to uphold 
this complaint about Sterling ISA Managers Limited trading as Advance by Embark.
Sterling responded to my provisional decision. It said it had nothing further to add.
Mr G also responded to my provisional decision. By way of summary, he said he had no 
further representations to make but he thought the provisional decision had not addressed 
the real issues. He said:
The form which Sterling had sent him to complete was not required and he 
should not have been asked to complete it;
The investigation carried out by Sterling had been a sham  evidenced by 
the fact it had subsequently done a U turn;The stress caused by the threats from Sterling had not been acknowledged; 
and 
He had evidence Sterling had reported his tax status to HMRC.
Mr G subsequently provided a copy of a document Sterling had sent to HMRC which 
included his address in country X.
So, I now have to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the responses to my provisional decision. Mr G feels that the provisional 
decision did not address the real issues here. But, having reviewed everything again, Im 
satisfied that I did consider all of the issues raised before reaching my provisional decision.
In my provisional decision, by way of summary, I set out the reasons why, on balance, I 
thought it was fair and reasonable for Sterling to have asked Mr G to complete the self-
certification form after hed informed it he no longer had a residential address in the UK. I 
commented on the errors Sterling had made and the outcome of its investigations. I also 
considered the proposals it had made to resolve Mr Gs complaint. And, I explained why I 
thought the £250 compensation payment for distress and inconvenience was in line with 
what I considered to be fair and reasonable for what had happened here.
Mr G has now provided a copy of a form Sterling completed and sent to HMRC in December 
2022. He says this is evidence that Sterling has made a report to HMRC  which it said it 
would not do.
In its letter to Mr G Sterling had said:
.. Based on the information you have provided we do not need to provide any 
international tax information to HMRC..
Ive looked at the document provided by Mr G. It is an HMRC form. The purpose of the form 
was to provide details to HMRC of a payment(s) made by Sterling to Mr G. A copy of the 
form was also provided to Mr G. The form stated that he might need the information on the 
form to fill in a tax return if he was sent one.
The form required Sterling to detail Mr Gs private address. Sterling inserted Mr Gs 
address in country X. It is the case that the address recorded on the form is the only address 
Sterling holds for Mr G  so I dont think it has made an error when it recorded that address 
on the form. Although, I can understand why Mr G might think that providing this information 
was contrary to what Sterling had said it would do.
However, having considered the information on the form Im not persuaded that by 
completing this form Sterling was providing international tax information to HMRC. Rather, it 
was making a report about payment(s) made to Mr G. The form does not state that Mr G is 
tax resident in country X - as stated above, that was not the purpose of the form. 
So, having considered everything again, I havent received any new or further information 
that persuades me to change my view, as set out in my provisional decision, about how this 
complaint should be resolved.My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold this complaint about Sterling ISA Managers 
Limited trading as Advance by Embark.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2023.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman