DRN-2884935
The complaint
Mrs W is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC increased the credit limit on her credit 
account, which she feels was unaffordable for her at that time.  
What happened
Mrs W had a Barclays credit account with a credit limit of £5,670. In June 2015, Barclays 
increased the credit limit on the account to £9,670. In 2020, Mrs W raised a complaint with 
Barclays on the basis that she felt that the credit limit that Barclays had implemented in 2015 
had been unaffordable for her at that time.
Barclays looked at Mrs Ws complaint. But they felt that they had undertaken checks into Mrs 
Ws financial position at the time of the credit limit increase and that there had been nothing 
resulting from these checks that gave them cause to consider that the credit limit increase 
might not be affordable for Mrs W at that time. So, they didnt uphold Mrs Ws complaint.
Mrs W wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, so she referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They didnt feel that the checks that 
Barclays had undertaken into Mrs Ws financial position at the time that they increased the 
credit limit went far enough, given Mrs Ws circumstances at that time, such that Barclays 
had ensured that their assessment of whether Mrs W could afford the credit limit increase 
was based on an accurate understanding of Mrs Ws financial position.
Additionally, our investigator felt that if Barclays had undertaken the additional checks 
necessary for them to have obtained an accurate understanding of Mrs Ws financial 
position, then they would most likely have concluded that Mrs Ws financial position at that 
time was such that the credit limit increase being considered wouldnt have been affordable 
for her, and so wouldnt have been offered. Because of this, our investigator recommended 
that the complaint be upheld in Mrs Ws favour and that Barclays should undertake 
corrective action accordingly.
Barclays disagreed with the recommendations put forward by our investigator, so the matter 
was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Ws initial complaint submission to this service covered a broader scope than has been 
described above. However, in their review, our investigator correctly surmised that some of 
the aspects of Mrs Ws complaint fell outside the remit of what this service is permitted to 
look at  primarily based on the length of time that has elapsed since the other events being 
complained about. Mrs W accepted our investigators position regarding these other aspects 
of her original complaint and I also concur that our investigator arrived at the correct position 
here. As such, I will not refer to these other aspects of Mrs Ws initial complaint further.
Its for a business to decide whether it will offer credit to a customer, and if so, how much 
and on what terms. But a business does have certain responsibilities to the customer to 
whom it is considering offering credit. To meet those responsibilities, what this service would 
expect would be that the business would undertake reasonable and proportionate borrower 
focussed checks so as to be sure that any credit being offered to a customer  whether in 
the form of a new credit account or an increase in the credit limit of an already existing credit 
account  is affordable for that customer at that time. 
Barclays say that they did that here. Theyve explained that before implementing the credit 
limit increase in 2015, they reviewed the information provided by Mrs W previously regarding 
her income and expenditure, and they reviewed the recent usage of Mrs Ws account, which 
Barclays contend didnt provide any demonstration that Mrs W might be struggling financially 
at that time. Finally, Barclays confirmed that they also obtained information about Mrs W 
from a credit reference agency, in order to gain a better understanding of Mrs Ws financial 
position at that time, and that this also didnt give them any cause to consider that the credit 
limit being offered to Mrs W might be unaffordable for her.
There are, however, certain caveats to the information used by Barclays as described 
above. For instance, it appears that the income and expenditure information provided by Mrs 
W which Barclays refer to was information provided by Mrs W at the time that she first 
applied for the credit account, which was approximately three years before the credit limit 
increase in question. 
Mrs W has explained to this service that she had lost her job shortly after taking out the 
credit account with Barclays and had been in out of employment in the years leading up to 
the credit limit increase in 2015. Furthermore, Mrs W has stated that shed spoken to 
Barclays during that period such that Barclays were aware of her employment issues. 
Considering these points, its difficult not to conclude that the income and expenditure 
information that Barclays relied upon here wasnt sufficiently current so as to be fit for 
purpose. And I feel that this is the case in consideration of the first point only  the age of the 
information being considered  and therefore regardless of whether Barclays had been 
made aware by Mrs W of the change in her employment status that had taken place since 
the information had been initially gathered.
Barclays contend that the affordability of the credit limit increase indicated by the income and 
expenditure information they assessed was confirmed by the information that they gathered 
from the credit reference agency, which also suggested that the credit limit increase would 
be affordable for Mrs W at that time. 
However, there are concerns about the accuracy of this information, as well as Barclays 
understanding and application of it. For instance, the information forwarded to this service by 
Barclays shows that Mrs Ws monthly expenditure was listed as that time as being 
approximately £720. However, Mrs W has provided payslips that demonstrate that this 
assessed outgoing amount was higher than her monthly income at that time. And its notable 
that the information provided by Barclays doesnt include any reference to Mrs Ws monthly 
income - as considered by the credit reference agency as being at that time.
Barclays have suggested that they cant be held accountable for acting on information 
provided by a credit reference agency which might not be accurate. But it is the responsibility 
of a credit provider to ensure that they are gathering accurate information. And this 
responsibility doesnt dissolve because a provider chooses to use a third party, such as a 
credit reference agency, to gather such information. Rather, it remains the responsibility of 
the credit provider to ensure that the information it gathers, regardless of the source, is 
accurate and fit for purpose, such that it enables that credit provider to make lending decisions based on an accurate understanding of its customers present circumstances.
Finally, with regard how Mrs W had managed her account in the months leading to the credit 
limit increase, its notable from the statements of Mrs Ws credit account that, while Mrs W 
wasnt exceeding her credit limit at that time, the monthly payments that she was making to 
the account were all close to  and usually slightly lower than  the stated required minimum 
payment amount. Its also notable that Mrs W also incurred a late payment charge during 
this time.
All of this information needs to be considered holistically and in conjunction with the fact that 
Barclays were increasing the credit limit on the account from £5,670 to £9,670  an increase 
of £4,000. This is a significant increase and was one which Mrs W hadnt requested herself, 
but which was proposed to Mrs W by Barclays.
Barclays have asked what more they could have done, above and beyond the checks that 
they did undertake, as described above, to ensure that they made an assessment on the 
affordability of the proposed credit limit increase for Mrs W. As mentioned previously, what 
this service would expect would be that Barclays would undertake reasonable and 
proportionate borrower focussed checks so as to be certain that the credit limit increase 
under consideration was affordable for Mrs W at that time.
In the first instance it would be expected by this service that Barclays would have recognised 
that the credit limit increase they were proposing was a significant increase and would result 
in Mrs W having a credit limit approximately 70% higher than her previous credit limit. 
Additionally, it would be expected by this service that Barclays would have understood that 
the onus was on them to ensure that they had an accurate understanding of Mrs Ws current 
financial circumstances, and to have undertaken checks above and beyond those that they 
would undertake as standard if such an accurate understanding couldnt be confirmed.
And, in this instance, it seems apparent that the checks that Barclays undertook as standard 
didnt provide an accurate understanding of Mrs Ws financial position, and I say this 
because of the reasons already provided in this review, including the age of income and 
expenditure information, that Mrs W had previously explained to Barclays that her 
employment status had changed, the potential for the information gathered from the credit 
reference agency to be inaccurate, and Mrs Ws management of her credit account as 
demonstrated by the account statements.
As such, given everything Ive explained above, I can only conclude that Barclays should 
have undertaken additional checks into Mrs Ws financial position, such as contacting Mrs W 
directly to discuss her financial position at that time - and whether she wanted the credit limit 
increase being offered to her - as well as potentially seeking to assess Mrs Ws current 
account statements to further determine the nature of her financial position at that time.
Finally, had Barclays undertaken these additional, borrower focussed checks, Im satisfied 
that it would have been apparent to them that Mrs Ws financial position at that time wasnt 
as assured as their own initial checks had suggested, such that Barclays should have 
determined that the credit limit increase under consideration wasnt affordable for Mrs W at 
that time.
It follows then that Ill be upholding this complaint in Mrs Ws favour and instructing Barclays 
to take corrective action accordingly. I trust that Barclays will understand, given what Ive 
explained above, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
Putting things rightBarclays must reimburse to Mrs Ws account all interest, fees, and charges accrued or 
incurred on the account relating to any balance above £5,670 from June 2015 onwards.
If these reimbursements result in the account having a credit balance in Mrs Ws favour, 
Barclays must pay this amount to Mrs W along with 8% simple interest, calculated from the 
dates of any overpayments to the date that the payment is made to Mrs W.
Barclays must also remove all adverse reporting relating to this account from Mrs Ws credit 
file from June 2015 onwards.
Finally, Barclays must make a payment of £50 to Mrs W to compensate her for the trouble 
and upset this matter might have caused.  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC on the basis explained above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman