DRN-1942954
The complaint
Miss F is unhappy that British Gas Services Limited failed to remove a radiator from her 
property when it carried out some work under her home emergency policy.
What happened
Miss F contacted British Gas to replace a radiator in her home as part of her HomeCare 
insurance policy. British Gas left the old radiator in the garden and was meant to arrange for 
its collection. However, no-one came to collect the radiator. Miss F chased for the radiator to 
be removed but, over a year later, the radiator was still in her garden and it fell over and 
landed on her puppy, injuring it.
Miss F complained to British Gas. A British Gas manager went to Miss Fs home to discuss 
the incident with her and arranged for the radiator to be removed the next day. British Gas 
also offered her £20 as a gesture of goodwill.
Miss F complained to this service. Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said that British 
Gas should have arranged to take the radiator away much sooner. He said British Gas 
should pay £200 compensation.
British Gas increased its offer of a goodwill gesture while the complaint was being dealt with 
by this service. However, British Gas wouldnt agree to our investigators view that it should 
pay £200 compensation, as it wanted to see evidence of the cost of Miss Fs phone calls. As 
agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When British Gas replaced Miss Fs radiator, the engineer put the radiator in her garden and 
should have arranged for it to be removed. However, according to British Gas records, it 
didnt make any arrangements for this to happen. Miss F contacted British Gas to ask for the 
radiator to be removed and was given the details of a contractor that she then had to phone 
to make the arrangements. The contractor only kept its phone records for one month so it 
hasnt been possible to obtain these, however, Miss F says that she contacted the contractor 
on five or six occasions to ask it to remove the radiator. It was still not removed. It was only 
when Miss F contacted British Gas to say that the radiator had injured her puppy, over a 
year after the radiator was meant to have been collected, that British Gas arranged for its 
removal.
Ive limited my decision to focus only on aspects relating to British Gas failure to collect the 
radiator as part of the original call out to replace a radiator. British Gas doesnt dispute that it 
should have arranged for the radiator to be removed. Although records arent available to 
show how many times Miss F chased to have the radiator removed, I have no reason to 
doubt that she did so on a number of occasions, and that she wouldnt have had to do this at 
all if the radiator had been removed as part of the original job. On that basis, Im satisfied that British Gas failed to arrange for the radiator to be collected when it should have done so 
and that Miss F then had to deal with the consequences of this.
Putting things right
Ive thought about the above and what this means for an appropriate level of compensation. I 
think that British Gas should pay Miss F £200 compensation in recognition of the distress 
and inconvenience caused to her by having to store the radiator in her garden for over a 
year and having to chase on multiple occasions before it was finally removed. To be clear, 
this is £200 in total and includes any offers and payments that British Gas has already made 
to Miss F.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is upheld and that 
British Gas Services Limited is required to:
Pay Miss F £200 compensation. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2020.
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman