DRN-3767693
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Santander UK Plc unfairly recalculated their monthly mortgage 
payments. Mr B has dealt with the complaint. He says Santander breached their mortgage 
terms and conditions and caused them financial loss. Mr B asks for an admission of 
wrongdoing and compensation, and for Santander not to breach the mortgage terms and 
conditions.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B took out a flexible tracker mortgage in 2011. The repayment term was 19 
years, so the mortgage term is due to expire in late 2030. Mr and Mrs B make 
overpayments, as theyre entitled to do under the mortgage terms and conditions. 
Santander wrote to Mr and Mrs B in early 2020 saying it had re-calculated their monthly 
payments. As theyd been making over payments, the re-calculation resulted in lower 
monthly payments. Mr B complains that Santander:
had no right to reduce the minimum monthly payment. He says this will cause them loss
didnt provide calculations/projections to show the additional interest applied as a result 
removed information about the early repayment date and interest savings from 
statements
stopped corresponding with them after sending its final response
didnt respond to their subject access request
sent an unsolicited cheque for £50.
Our investigator said Santander explained why it recalculated the minimum monthly payment 
and hadnt acted unfairly. He said Mr and Mrs B can continue to make overpayments if they 
want to do so. Our investigator said Santander was entitled to change the information on 
statements (other than information required by regulations), and it had agreed to provide 
calculations related to additional interest to Mr B. 
Our investigator said this service cant look into Mr and Mrs Bs complaints about 
Santanders complaint handling and said their complaint about their subject access request 
is better dealt with by the ICO. 
Mr B didnt agree. He explained his reasons in detail. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B says Santander acted in breach of the terms and conditions of the mortgage, that the 
terms and conditions are vague, open to abuse and in breach of the laws protecting 
customers from unfair contract terms. I should explain that while we take law, regulation and 
good industry practice into account when considering complaints, only a court can determine 
whether a contract has been breached or a law broken. 
We offer an informal dispute resolution service. My role is to reach a decision about whats 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. Im required to explain why I 
reach my decision. But I dont have to respond to each point made by Mr B. Having said 
that, I do understand how important this complaint is to Mr and Mrs B. Ive commented 
briefly on Mr Bs concerns about whether Santanders actions are consistent with the 
mortgage terms and conditions, as well as whether its treated them fairly.
When a mortgage is to be repaid on a capital repayment basis, lenders calculate monthly 
payments to ensure the mortgage is repaid by the end of the term. Lenders review this 
during the life of the mortgage and adjust the monthly payment as required to ensure the 
mortgage is repaid by the end of the term. Changes in interest rates or overpayments could 
trigger a recalculation. Some lenders review and re-calculate payments after a period of 
time. Currently, Santanders policy is to re-calculate payments annually if there hasnt been 
an interest rate change during the year. And also to re-calculate payments if an overpayment 
is made of more than £500. 
Santander says its policy is intended to balance the best interests of its borrowers with its 
own interests. It says it allows borrowers to pay more than they need to, but it doesnt 
require this as it cant know the circumstances of each of its customers. Santander says its 
for an individual borrower to decide if they want to pay more than the minimum monthly 
payment.
Santander is entitled to make a commercial decision about its policies (and to change them 
from time to time), and I cant fairly interfere with its legitimate business decisions. What I 
can do is consider whether it has applied its policies fairly to Mr and Mrs Bs account. 
Recalculation of the monthly payment
Mr and Mrs B have a flexible tracker mortgage. The interest rate is variable and tracks the 
Bank of England base rate. Mr and Mrs B are entitled to make over payments or repay the 
mortgage without any early repayment charge. Theyve been making regular overpayments.
Santander wrote to Mr and Mrs B in early 2020 saying it had re-calculated their monthly 
payments. Mr B says this only happened previously when thered been a change in the Bank 
of England base rate. He says Santander has unfairly applied a new term to the mortgage  
that monthly payment will be recalculated on an annual basis. He says its not entitled to do 
this. 
Mr B says the mortgage terms and conditions say that Santander wont change the monthly 
payment so as to alter the repayment term without their agreement. Mr B says the reference 
to repayment term includes a projected early repayment date. I dont think thats 
reasonable or consistent with the definition in the mortgage terms and conditions which says 
the repayment term is as stated in the mortgage offer. The change to Mr and Mrs Bs 
monthly payment didnt change the repayment term of their mortgage.
While I agree with Mr B that the schedule to the mortgage terms and conditions says 
Santander will reduce their monthly payment after an overpayment if they ask it to, it doesnt 
say it cant do this without their consent. The definition of monthly payment in the schedule 
says Santander can change the monthly payment for any of the reasons set out in condition 
7. This includes the reason given by Santander  to ensure the mortgage is repaid by the 
end of the repayment term. 
Mr B says the mortgage allows them to make overpayments. He says while theres information about when overpayments of more or less than £500 are applied to reduce the 
balance these provisions dont say the overpayment will result in a re-calculation of the 
monthly payment. Thats true. But its not necessary for Santander to refer to re-calculation 
of the minimum payment in each provision. Thats dealt with in condition 7.
I dont think Santander acted unfairly when it re-calculated Mr and Mrs Bs monthly payment, 
or in a way that appears to me to be inconsistent with the mortgage terms and conditions. 
Mr and Mrs B make regular overpayments to their mortgage account. Their mortgage allows 
them to pay the minimum payment plus a fixed additional amount each month. They can 
continue to do this, although the overall amount paid each month would change when 
theres change to the minimum payment. Santander says they can fix monthly payments at a 
set amount for a period of time, so it doesnt change even if the minimum payment reduces. I 
appreciate that Mr B doesnt think they should have to do this. But I think this is a fair and 
straightforward way for Mr and Mrs B to continue to make the same payment each month, if 
thats what they want to do.
Mr B asks why it is that recent re-calculations have resulted in a lower monthly payment 
when interest rates have increased. Santander said this is because Mr and Mrs Bs 
overpayments have reduced the balance of their mortgage. This means the interest rate is 
applied to a lower balance, resulting in less interest being due each month. And as the 
capital balance is smaller the amount that needs to be paid in each month of the remaining 
term is also smaller. I think Santander gave a reasonable explanation for this.
I dont think Santander made an error or treated Mr and Mrs B unfairly when it re-calculated 
their monthly payments in accordance with its policy. It offered Mr and Mrs B a way to 
continue to make fixed monthly payments if they want to do so. I dont think Santander 
treated Mr and Mrs B unfairly. 
Mr B is right that theyll pay less interest over the life of the mortgage, and pay it off sooner, if 
they make higher monthly payments. Theres nothing preventing Mr and Mrs B from doing 
this regardless of whether or not, or how often, the minimum monthly payment is re-
calculated.
Information in monthly statements: projected end date and interest savings
Santander used to include the projected interest savings and early repayment date as a 
result of overpayments on monthly statements. It no longer includes this information. Its not 
required to do so by rules on mortgage regulation and I cant fairly require it to do so. I cant 
fairly interfere with Santanders legitimate business decision not to include this information 
on statements. 
Santander says Mr and Mrs B can ask for projections to be provided, and Ive seen copies of 
letters sent to Mr and Mrs B with these projections. I think thats fair. Mr B wanted Santander 
to provide calculations using the balance as at January 2020, to show the additional interest 
that will be applied due to the reduction in the minimum payment. I dont think its fair and 
reasonable to require Santander to do this: it didnt make an error when it re-calculated the 
minimum monthly payment. 
Data subject access request (DSAR)
Mr B says Santander took longer than the statutory time limit to respond to his DSAR. He 
says it didnt include all of his personal data. Santander said it had backlogs due to the 
Covid-19 pandemic. It said it couldnt locate all of the information Mr B asked for.I should say here that complaints related to data handling are better addressed to ICO. Im 
looking into whether Santander responded fairly to Mr and Mrs Bs concerns about their 
mortgage. Having considered the available evidence, I think Santander was fair when it 
provided information and explanations to Mr and Mrs B about their mortgage, and I dont 
think its fair and reasonable in the circumstances to require it to do more.
If Mr B remains concerned that Santander hasnt responded to his DSAR correctly, this is 
better raised with ICO.
Complaint handling
Complaint handling isnt itself a regulated activity. That means we cant usually look into 
complaints about how a complaint has been dealt with. While I can look into how a complaint 
has been dealt with if it prevented or delayed the subject matter of the complaint being 
resolved, I dont think that was the case here. Santander responded to Mr Bs questions and 
provided information over a number of months. It told Mr B what his options were to continue 
making overpayments, even if the minimum payment reduced. Ultimately if Mr B wasnt 
happy with Santanders response to his complaint, he could bring the complaint to us.
Santander sent a cheque for £50 to Mr and Mrs B, saying in its final response letter of 17 
August 2020 this was for delays in providing information. Mr B says this was an attempt to 
close the complaint down. However, Santanders final response letter said that Mr and Mrs B 
had the right to bring the complaint to us. And Santander continued to respond to Mr Bs 
concerns after this. It paid another £150 in late 2020 saying it should have called Mr B to 
discuss his concerns which might have prevented upset and him needing to send further 
letters. And it credited about £30 to Mr and Mrs Bs account for additional interest applied 
due to it not adjusting payments during 2016 to 2018. I dont think its fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances to require Santander to do more.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Thats because I think the steps taken and 
compensation paid by Santander UK Plc is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 January 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman