DRN-3592952
The complaint
Mr B complains that Aviva Insurance Limited has unfairly refused to pay two claims hes 
made. 
What happened
Mr B holds an accidental permanent injury policy with Aviva. Its designed to pay certain 
sums of money if a successful claim is made.
Mr B made two claims for permanent injury following accidents. One was for the aftereffects 
of an injury to his elbow in 2004 which Mr B says has led eventually to the partial loss of use 
of his hand. Aviva said it wouldnt meet this claim because there was no medical evidence to 
show that such an injury occurred  and even if it had been able to see some evidence, Mr 
Bs policy at the time required him to completely lose the function of his entire limb before 
payment was triggered  and Mr B hasnt done that.
Mr Bs second claim was for the aftereffects of a fall he had in 2017, which he says has 
meant hes lost much of the use of his leg and cant move around much. Aviva looked at the 
reports provided. It said Mr Bs GP couldnt say what percentage loss of use was from the 
fall and resulting fracture and what was related to his long term osteo arthritis. Avivas chief 
medical officer reviewed the evidence and assessed Mr Bs loss of use from both conditions 
at 15%. As this was below the minimum 20% loss before any payment was due, Aviva said it 
wouldnt pay Mr Bs claim.
Mr B asked us to review his complaint as he doesnt think hes been treated fairly by Aviva.
Our investigator agreed with Avivas approach. He said there was no reason to dispute the 
percentage loss of use for Mr Bs leg based on the reports available. He also couldnt see 
any reference to the accident to Mr Bs arm in 2004, but agreed that the long term effects, 
even if they were related to that accident didnt meet the threshold that triggered payment. 
Overall, he thought Aviva need do no more than it had.
Mr B doesnt agree. He says hes been poorly treated and Aviva should meet his claims.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I comment on the fairness of otherwise of the way Mr B has been treated by Aviva, I 
must point out that I can see Mr B believes hes been badly let down by a number of parties 
 including the NHS, which he believes has lost some of his medical history and refused him 
necessary treatment. Im afraid I cant comment on this, as this decision can only be about 
what Aviva has done when its assessed his claims.
Im not going to uphold this complaint, for much the same reasons as our investigator.
When an insurer decides whether to meet a claim it must do that fairly and reasonably. It 
must check that the claim is assessed using the relevant terms and conditions in the policy 
thats those in force at the time of any accident. Ive looked at the way Aviva dealt with the 
claim, which included talking to Mr Bs GP and reviewing all of the information he and Mr B 
provided. Im satisfied Aviva made all the enquiries it needed to when assessing the claim. I 
accept that Mr B thinks theres some missing information, but Aviva can only reach 
conclusions based on the information it receives.
Mr B has two claims so Ill comment on them separately.
Injury to Mr Bs arm
Mr B says he injured his arm in 2004. I dont think theres any reason to doubt that. The only 
reference I can see on his medical records that might apply to this is a note from August 
2004 which suggests Mr B was seen in the accident and emergency department of a 
hospital. The entry refers to a foreign body left elbow. Theres no mention of what 
treatment Mr B had or any aftereffects. I can see Mr B attended other medical appointments 
in the same year  but none of them mention his elbow, hand or arm. That suggests there 
were no immediate serious aftereffects. Aviva says that before 2010 all of its policies 
required Mr B had to lose the use of his entire arm before a payment would be made. Ive 
seen a sample of these terms and conditions and I think it fair to say similar terms and 
conditions were in play in 2004. From what Mr B tells us he hasnt lost the use of his entire 
arm even today  so I think Aviva had reasonably said it wont meet this claim.
Injury to Mr Bs leg
Mr Bs policy doesnt pay anything if impairment after an accident is less than 20%. Between 
20% and 70% impairment it pays a proportion of the amount insured, and over 70% it pays 
the full amount. In addition, the impairment must be confirmed within 2 years of the accident. 
Those terms are clearly laid out in the policy. They are also common in policies like this, so I 
cant say Mr B has been disadvantaged by the inclusion of these limits.
Mr B broke his leg in a fall in 2017  about 5 years ago. He does have some long term 
problems with his mobility, so its reasonable for Aviva to have this assessed by a medical 
professional to see if it should meet his claim. In summary, the reports Ive seen assess Mr 
Bs loss of use to be 15%. Thats mainly linked to how far he can bend his knee without pain. 
Aviva says the assessment was carried out using standard guidelines on how to assess any 
loss of use, and that seems reasonable to me. The  reports have been reviewed by Avivas 
chief medical officer, who has the relevant qualifications to interpret such reports and he 
agrees with the 15% assessment  although its also noted that some of the problem Mr B 
now is likely caused in part by osteo arthritis, which hes had for some time. So its possible 
Mr Bs loss of use percentage is actually lower than 15% if the impact of the accident alone 
can be isolated. Mr Bs GP cant do that, so I dont know the exact impairment the fracture 
has caused. However, even taking the effect of both the accident and the arthritis into 
account Mr Bs impairment doesnt reach the threshold for payment.
I am sorry that Mr B is struggling, and I hope he can make a full recovery in due course. But 
I cant see anything in the evidence provided that persuades me Aviva has been unfair in 
how its dealt with the claims.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2022.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman