DRN-3817951
The complaint
Mr Ms complained that First Complete Ltd (FCL) mis-sold him a life and critical illness 
policy, and a second critical illness policy  which resulted in the insurer declining a critical 
illness claim when he made one.
What happened
In 2018, following advice from FCL, Mr M bought a policy from an insurer Ill call A, providing 
£165,000 life and critical illness cover.  The following year, he consulted FCL again to review 
his cover when he bought a buy to let property and, following their advice, bought a further 
critical illness policy from A (providing £80,000 cover) in September 2019.   
In spring 2020, Mr M wanted to increase his critical illness cover again and consulted FCL.   
He told FCL he wanted to exercise the guaranteed insurability option  which allowed him to 
do this without providing any medical information  because hed recently been diagnosed 
with a heart condition.
Mr M underwent heart surgery in early 2022.  So he submitted a claim to A.  A settled the 
claim under the 2018 policy.  But they declined the claims made under the 2019 and 2020 
policies because they said hed misrepresented his health when hed bought those and 
hadnt told them he was undergoing investigation relating to his heart.
Mr M complained to FCL that the policies hed bought had been mis-sold because he made 
it clear he wanted the guaranteed insurability option included.  But that hadnt been available 
when hed bought the 2018 policy.   And Mr M said hed told FCL about his heart 
investigations, which theyd not included in the application.  
The complaint was investigated, but not upheld.  FCL confirmed that the 2018 policy had 
included the guaranteed insurability option.  But that couldnt be used in 2019, because the 
life change was that Mr M took out a buy to let mortgage.  Mr M borrowed £67,500 and 
wanted an additional £80,000 cover.  So this didnt meet the criteria, which said that the sum 
assured couldnt exceed the mortgage.
FCL said that Mr M hadnt provided details of his heart investigations  so they didnt know 
there was anything to disclose to A.  They said they had disclosed what theyd told him, 
which was that Mr M had attended his GP for a general health check.
Mr M wasnt satisfied with FCLs response and brought his complaint to our service.  Our 
investigator explained he couldnt look at whether Mr M had misrepresented his health to A  
only whether FCL had caused a misrepresentation to be made.  He was satisfied they hadnt 
because he didnt see any evidence which showed theyd been aware of Mr Ms heart issues 
before he applied for the 2020 policy.  Nor did he think that the policies hed been sold were 
unsuitable.
Mr M didnt agree with our investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.  The rules set out in the FCA 
Handbook require firms providing financial services to pay due regard to the interests of their 
customers and treat them fairly.  And they should communicate information to them in a way 
which is clear, fair and not misleading.  I think FCL did that in this case.   Ill explain why.
The mis-sale complaint
I can see from the information provided that Mr M wanted the option to make what the policy 
calls life changes.  And I can see that, when he asked FCL about A declining the claim, 
their email to A about the benefit may have led him to believe the policy didnt have that 
option.
But Im satisfied from reading the policy documents the option was included in the 2018 
policy.  So Mr M had the option he asked for.  It was also an option on the 2019 policy and 
was used to buy the 2020 policy.
But there are limits attached to this.  Mr M had level cover.  The limit that applied says:
For mortgage increases, the new cover amount cannot exceed the mortgage increase.
So Mr M couldnt have increased his cover by £80,000 because his mortgage increased by 
less than this.  Ive also seen FCLs advice which recorded that Mr M only wanted to 
increase his critical illness cover.  The 2018 policy gave life cover as well.  So increasing the 
cover on that policy would likely have been more expensive than buying a new policy.
Finally in relation to this, FCL completed a medical questionnaire for Mr M  which wouldnt 
have been needed if the guaranteed insurability option was used. So, overall, Im satisfied 
that these, rather than the policy not having the option, were the reasons a new policy wasnt 
put in place using the guaranteed insurability option and that FCL didnt mis-sell the 2018 
policy to Mr M.  And Im satisfied from the documents Ive read that FCL recommended the 
new policy based on the needs Mr M told them about at the time.
Disclosure of medical information
A declined the claims Mr M made on the 2019 and 2020 policies because they said there 
hadnt been full disclosure of his heart investigations.  Mr M says he was open with FCL and 
it was they who didnt include that in the application.  Ive thought about this.
FCL say they were told only about Mr Ms general check with his GP.  Neither party can 
provide any information to support what theyve said.  So I have to base my decision on what 
I think is most likely to have happened.
Ive looked at the recommendations FCL sent to Mr M in 2019.  I can see that there was 
discussion around the topic of health.  And I can see that FCL answered yes to the 
question:
[Have you ever] been under follow-up with your GP surgery, a specialist, hospital or clinic, 
including reviews or check ups you have been asked to attend even if you didn't?
And described the underlying condition as a general health check.I think its unlikely that, having made that disclosure, FCL wouldnt have made other 
disclosures about Mr Ms health if they had the information to do so.  Their correspondence 
with Mr M makes clear the importance of making full disclosure and the consequences of not 
doing so.  And I can see that, when they were made aware of Mr Ms heart issue in 2020, 
they advised to use the guaranteed insurability, because they thought  knowing that 
information - it would be difficult for Mr M to take a completely new policy.
Against that, Ive weighed Mr Ms assertion he told FCL about his heart issues in 2019.  And, 
while I have no doubt that Mr M believes he did tell FCL all the details about his medical 
situation, Im not persuaded FCL had that information in 2019.  In addition to what he told 
them during the application, Mr M would have been asked when he received the policy 
documents to check the information that had been provided to A was accurate.  Ive not seen 
any evidence he did that.  
I think that its most likely FCL disclosed what they knew to A on each occasion Mr M bought 
a new policy.  And so Im not upholding the complaint that they failed to disclose information 
to A in 2019.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint about First Complete Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2023.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman