DRN-4253071
The complaint
Mr R complains that Oakbrook Finance Limited trading as Likely Loans (Likely Loans) have 
held him liable for a loan he didnt apply for.
What happened
What Mr R says
Mr R explained that he first became aware of a £10,000 loan that had been applied for using 
his name when he saw a direct debit leave his account. This was the first repayment for the 
loan.
Mr R approached his own bank, who Ill refer to as V about the unrecognised transaction. It 
was at that point that he was told the payment was linked to the loan that had been received 
the previous month into his account.
Mr R denied knowing anything about the loan and a few days later contacted Likely Loans 
about the situation. He explained that he hadnt applied for any loan himself but believed 
hed been the victim of a crypto currency investment scam.
Mr R said that hed been in contact with a person who was helping him trade in crypto 
currency. Mr R said hed provided various personal and financial documents to this person 
via a social media platform that automatically deleted the messages. Mr R went on to say 
that hed also provided a code to this person for his bank account. It was explained to Mr R 
that this would enable the crypto trader to make trades on his behalf. Mr R also said that 
hed set up a number of accounts with different crypto currency firms to help with his trading. 
Mr R also gave this explanation to his bank (V), who looked into the situation and because 
the loan had been from another company, they werent taking the matter further. Mr R 
sought a refund from Likely Loans because he maintained that he hadnt applied for the loan 
himself. Likely Loans thought that Mr R was responsible and knew about the loan because 
his genuine email address was part of the application and theyd sent him emails and 
received responses from it. Mr R maintained that his email account had also been hacked 
and this explained why he knew nothing about the loan.
Likely Loans declined to refund Mr R and he went on to make a complaint about the 
situation. Likely Loans looked into what had happened and sent (in error) a response to his 
complaint that they didnt think he was responsible for the loan. This was later corrected in a 
further response from the business because they believed he was responsible. 
What Likely Loans say
Likely Loans said that they received an application for a loan from Mr R and conducted their 
usual checks prior to authorising the loan. These included affordability checks and Likely 
Loans assessment was, in part, based on a current wage receipt issued the previous month.
They maintained that Mr R knew about the loan because theyd asked him for documents at 
the time of the application. The requests had been made to Mr Rs genuine email address 
and Likely Loans had received responses to their requests, including the provision of specific 
documents supporting Mr Rs income/ identity and banking arrangements. 
Likely Loans also believed that if Mr R had given access to his own bank accounts to 
another person then this would be a breach of terms related to his bank account. Likely 
Loans said that the loan payment was paid into Mr Rs genuine bank account which also 
matched Mr Rs genuine address and personal details.
They maintained that the loan was properly applied for by Mr R and continued to try and 
recover the loan. Mr R didnt believe he was responsible for repaying it and Likely Loans 
applied some breathing space to the loan.
The investigation so far
Mr R was left unhappy with how Likely Loans had dealt with his situation and brought his 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service for an independent review.
An investigator was assigned to look into the situation and both parties were asked to 
provide details about the complaint. Information was also provided by V. 
Mr R explained how hed fallen victim to a scammer who he thought was going to provide 
him with crypto trading advice and support. Mr R said he had been told by the scammer to 
tell V that transactions that had been stopped (by V) were made by him (rather than the 
scammer) otherwise they wouldnt go through. Mr R denies making any of the transactions 
to crypto accounts. He confirmed he hadnt provided any of his passcodes or personal 
identification numbers (PINs) that would enable access to his mobile banking. Mr R did 
provide a code to the scammer to assist with the trading of crypto currency by enabling 
access to Mr Rs account with V.
He went on to say that he only found out about the situation once the direct debit for the first 
loan repayment was attempted from his account with V. Mr R believed that the scammer had 
used the details hed given to him to make payment to various crypto merchants and applied 
for the loan in his name without his knowledge. Mr R said that the scammers access to his 
account enabled them to make payments from it that he hadnt authorised.
Likely Loans provided details of the loan application and the checks they carried out. They 
continued to believe the loan application was genuine and were holding Mr R liable for it. 
Likely Loans said that if V could confirm the application was fraudulent, they would review 
their position. 
V were also asked to provide information about the payments into and out of Mr Rs account, 
including how the loan was used. They also provided details about how Mr Rs mobile 
banking had been used and copies of calls between themselves and Mr R. Vs position was 
that Mr R suffered no loss as a result of their actions and they wouldnt be taking the matter 
any further.
During one of the calls Mr R had with V, he said:
after giving them (scammer) the code (to access his bank account), he didnt hear 
back from them.
He confirmed hed received emails from Likely Loans (during the application phase) 
relating to uploading documents.Further information from V showed that several payments to crypto firms had been blocked 
and Mr R had been asked to attend a branch with his ID. Notes show a discussion 
concerning scams was held and that:
Mr R confirmed his identity.
He told V that he was starting trading in crypto currency.
It was also noted that Mr R was using two phones for his mobile banking.
In a later written response to our service, Mr R said  .It is evident that they did have 
access to my emails, as when speaking to my bank about the situation, my bank asked me 
to check my emails about a loan being taken out and there were no emails or documentation 
to show or prove that a loan had been applied for.
After reviewing all the evidence, the investigator concluded that it was likely Mr R knew 
about the loan, but Likely Loans shouldnt have provided it because it appeared 
unaffordable.
The investigator thought it was unusual that Mr Rs genuine email address would be used by 
the scammer. Also, that when he visited V, he was likely aware of the loan.
She also thought that Likely Loans had made an error when they sent the wrong final 
outcome to Mr R, which would have given him a false picture that he wouldnt be liable to 
repay the loan. It was recommended that Likely Loans pay Mr R £200 for the incorrect 
outcome letter they sent him and because the loan was considered unaffordable, they 
should remove any interest or charges related to the loan. It was also recommended that Mr 
R repay the principal loan amount because hed had use of it.
Likely Loans agreed with the investigators outcome, but Mr R did not. He maintained that he 
wasnt responsible for the loan and in summary said:
He gave the scammer his email address, which was why it was used on the loan 
application. He also argued that it was the only one available for the scammer to use.
When he went into the bank, the loan hadnt yet been paid into it.
He was visiting the bank due to suspicious transactions between his account and a 
crypto merchants account.
He did authorise payments to the crypto merchants (but not the loan).
He did not know how he could repay the loan because he did not work and was on 
full disability allowance.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has now been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Rs complaint is that he wasnt aware of a loan that was paid into his account and then 
used to purchase crypto currency. Likely Loans believe theres sufficient evidence to show that he knew about the loan and should repay it.
Mr Rs version of events is that it all started when he was in contact with a crypto trader who 
was going to help him invest. Hes said he provided numerous details about himself and 
obtained an access code from his bank (V) which then allowed the scammer to gain 
access to his bank account and apply for a loan in his name.
Mr R, in his response to the investigators outcome argued that he didnt know about the 
loan when he visited the bank. The loan itself wasnt paid until the day after he went into the 
branch, so couldnt have seen it or discussed it with the bank at that point. But there are 
other factors that I need to consider if Mr R was aware of the loan. 
There are several aspects to Mr Rs version of events that give me pause to consider which 
is the accurate version. Hes said, in a call with V, that he had at least one email from Likely 
Loans asking him to upload documents, later in a written response to our service he claimed 
he did not have any documents at the time and was unaware of the loan. Both versions cant 
be true and given that Likely Loans showed theyd sent various emails (including a request 
for further information from Mr R that was responded to), Im inclined to think that Mr R was 
aware that a loan was being applied for at the time.
Mr R has also said that after the scammer was given his details, he heard nothing from 
them. But, hes also said he was given instruction about how to cover up the fact that the 
scammer was making payments using his own bank account and to tell V that it was Mr R 
who had made the payments. Again, both versions are at odds with each other. Im inclined 
to think that Mr R was in touch with another party concerning investing in crypto and that he 
was aware this person had access to his own bank account. 
Mr R denied anything to do with the loan application or its use. When Ive examined the 
outgoing payments from the loan, theyre carried out though mobile banking with a different 
device to that usually used by Mr R. He told the bank that he was using two devices at the 
time to carry out his mobile banking.
One particular device is used to arrange the outgoing payments from the account related to 
the loan. That same device is also used to make a payment to a regular payee (not related 
to any scam). I doubt a scammer would be arranging payments not connected with the 
scam, so here, although there is a different device registered with his mobile banking, I think 
the evidence indicates it was linked to Mr R because of the payment to a regular payee. 
I did note that Mr R has said he doesnt work but theres a payslip included with the financial 
information sent to Likely Loans. Whilst I cant be sure if the payslip is genuine, I do think, on 
balance, the evidence shows that Mr R knew about the loan. Whilst he may not have been 
solely responsible for the loan application, the picture presented overall shows actions taken 
by Mr R that indicate he was involved in obtaining the loan for use in crypto trading.
Mr R may well have been scammed as well here, although theres little in the way of 
evidence to support that. Here, I think theres sufficient evidence to show he was involved in 
the application for the loan to purchase crypto currency and did nothing to alert Likely Loans 
about it at the time. I think its both fair and reasonable for Mr R to repay the principal, 
although Likely Loans are required to agree a suitable repayment plan based on Mr Rs 
personal circumstances.
Likely Loans accepted that they should remove the charges and interest associated with the 
loan and pay Mr R £200 for the error they caused by sending out an incorrect final outcome. 
I think thats fair considering the overall situation here.Putting things right
Likely Loans to pay Mr R £200 for the incorrect final response and remove charges and 
interest resulting from the original loan, but Mr R is required to repay the principal loan 
amount with a suitable repayment agreement that takes his personal circumstances into 
account.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold, in part, the complaint against Oakbrook Finance Limited 
trading as Likely Loans and theyre instructed to settle the complaint as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2023.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman