DRN-2117141
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy with Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) who didnt offer 
alternative accommodation with his home insurance claim. 
Reference to Lloyds also includes its agents where applicable.
What happened
In October 2017, Mr G had a leak at his home. Whilst that leak was being repaired another 
leak happened. This new leak caused damage to some areas in his home. Whilst the repairs 
were being carried out Mr G lived at his home. Mr G complained that the repairs caused a lot 
of dust and he felt that his home was uninhabitable. There was also a period when Mr G 
says he had no heating. 
Mr G asked Lloyds to provide alternative accommodation. Lloyds declined this saying that 
Mr Gs home was habitable as he had cooking, toilet and bathroom facilities available to him. 
Mr G was unhappy and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator said that it was reasonable for Lloyds to decline the alternative 
accommodation request. She recommended that Lloyds pay compensation of £100 for the 
loss of heating, which was upheld in part, due to the compensation 
Mr G didnt agree with our investigator as he said his home wasnt habitable due to the dust 
caused by the builders and not by the original escape of water. So, Mr G asked for a 
decision from an ombudsman.  Lloyds said that it would accept our investigators view 
provided Mr G produced evidence in support of his energy use.
My provisional decision
I considered the complaint and I thought the complaint shouldnt be upheld. I issued a 
provisional decision on 3 July 2020 and asked both parties to send me anything else by 2 
August 2020. In my provisional decision I said:
Alternative accommodation
I have read the terms and conditions of Mr Gs policy and what Lloyds will consider when 
offering alternative accommodation. From the policy, Lloyds will only offer alternative 
accommodation when the home is deemed to be uninhabitable. 
Unfortunately, there is no definition of what uninhabitable means in the policy, but generally 
we would look at whether there were kitchen, bathroom or toilet facilities available. Or the 
home had become uninhabitable due to health and safety concerns for the occupants.
Mr G said that he couldnt use the cooking facilities as his hob had been disconnected. He 
makes no mention of being without the use of bathroom or toilet facilities. I have seen 
photographs that Mr G has provided that shows the cooker was disconnected and covered 
in plastic. Mr G says that he was without this facility for at least a week. 
Lloyds have said that at no time was Mr G without cooking facilities and the reason for the 
cooker being covered in plastic was to provide it with protection during the repairs. It also 
says that each evening the plastic was removed, and the cooker worked perfectly well. 
Additionally, Mr G has confirmed that the cooker and hob were electric. So, I think it is 
plausible that the cooker was able to be plugged in and was operational so that Mr G could 
prepare a meal. 
Mr G has also raised the issue of dust and has said that a few his belongings required extra 
cleaning either via the dry cleaners or because he booked and paid for extra cleaning at his 
home. 
Lloyds have said that given the nature of the repairs dust would be inevitable and I am 
inclined to agree. Mr G has provided photos of dust on his clothing. But he hasnt provided 
other supporting evidence, such as receipts, that could show the additional expenses he 
said he incurred. 
Whilst I sympathise and can appreciate that the dust was difficult to live with, Im not 
satisfied that it was so significant that it would have made his home inhabitable. Also, I 
havent been provided with evidence that shows that the dust wouldve affected Mr Gs 
health.  And I can see from the evidence, that Lloyds did attempt to protect surfaces as best 
as possible. 
So, I think that Lloyds did act reasonably in concluding that Mr Gs home was habitable and 
were fair when it declined to offer alternative accommodation. 
Heating 
Mr G said that he was without heating for a few days when the temperature was cold.  Our 
investigator recommended that Lloyds pay Mr G £100 for the trouble and inconvenience 
caused. 
Lloyds said that there was heating at Mr Gs home in the form of a wood burning stove. 
Although, Mr G hasnt confirmed whether he has a wood burning stove or not he has 
confirmed that he has an oil filled boiler system. Lloyds confirmed that it didnt touch the hot 
water either as this wasnt part of the repairs. 
As to the heating, Lloyds admit to removing one radiator and replacing it the same day. It 
also admitted to removing the thermostat to plaster but denied touching the boiler at all. Mr 
G was asked to provide evidence from the boiler repair man as to why the boiler had 
stopped working. Unfortunately, Mr G couldnt provide this. 
But what he did mention in his email to Lloyds in April 2019 was that: the boiler had 
somehow been turned off completely and not at the switch in the kitchen. So, I think it is 
reasonable that the boiler was still working and just required turning back on. 
Mr G also said that the thermostat wasnt working, and this controlled the heating. I have 
researched that thermostats control the temperature and allow the boiler to come on and off 
automatically. If a boiler doesnt have a thermostat this doesnt prevent the boiler working 
and producing heat. In the absence of expert evidence (for example from the boiler repair man who attended) that could show otherwise, I am not satisfied that there wasnt any 
heating. 
Lloyds has confirmed that had Mr G provided evidence of extra energy use it wouldve 
accepted the £100 compensation recommendation. But Mr G hasnt provided that evidence 
and Lloyds are entitled to rely upon its policy. So, I think, Lloyds acted reasonably when it 
declined to offer alternative accommodation and in the absence of additional supporting 
evidence, I dont think the £100 compensation should be offered. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision
As neither party has commented, my final decision is the same as my provisional decision 
and for the same reasons. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint, for the reasons given above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2020.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman