DRN-4038432
The complaint
Mr C complains that TSB Bank plc trading as Whistletree hasnt charged a fair rate of 
interest on his mortgage.
What happened
Mr C took out a mortgage with the former Northern Rock bank  it was a Together mortgage, 
meaning it consisted of a main mortgage and linked unsecured loan. Following the collapse 
of Northern Rock, Mr Cs mortgage was transferred to the nationalised successor lender, 
and then on to Whistletree in 2016.
Mr C borrowed around £120,000 on the main mortgage. The interest rate was fixed for five 
years at 5.99%. From January 2012, it reverted to a rate guaranteed to be below the lenders 
standard variable rate (SVR). In practice, this means that Mr C has been charged 0.01% 
less than the SVR since 2012. The mortgage offer said the SVR was variable, but that it was 
7.34% when Mr C took the mortgage out in April 2007. 
In 2021, Mr C took legal advice from a firm which provided him with a mortgage assessment 
report. The report said that it expected the SVR to be charged at a fixed margin over the 
Bank of England base rate  which it said was the difference between the SVR and the then 
base rate at the time the mortgage was taken out in 2007. Based on this, the report 
assumed that Mr C ought to have been charged 2.09% above base rate following reversion 
to the SVR in 2012  and on that basis, said that he had been overcharged interest ever 
since then.
Having received this report, Mr C complained to us, and we referred his complaint to 
Whistletree. It said the complaint was out of time because Mr C had complained about the 
same issues in 2020. 
Our investigator agreed that a complaint about matters before 2020 was out of time, but she 
said we could consider the fairness of interest charged since then. She didnt think 
Whistletree had acted unfairly. Mr C didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review his 
complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr C has complained to Whistletree before. It sent him a final response on 
17 March 2020, dealing with a complaint that Mr C felt the mortgage had been mis-sold and 
that he had been trapped in it ever since, and that it hadnt varied in line with the Bank of 
England base rate. Whistletree didnt uphold his complaint. It said that it had acted fairly in 
charging interest over the years. 
The rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service require a complaint to be referred to us 
within six months of the date the firm complained about responds to a complaint, unless 
there are exceptional circumstances. Mr C didnt refer his complaint to us within six months 
of Whistletrees final response. He says that was because his solicitors were dealing with 
matters at the time, so he left things to them. 
But I dont think that amounts to exceptional circumstances which prevented Mr C referring 
his complaint to us; rather, he decided not to because of the involvement of his solicitors. 
Separately Mr C has also said he didnt receive the 17 March 2020 letter. But Im not 
persuaded of that; it was correctly addressed, and Mr C himself sent it to us with his initial 
complaint in April 2022. 
I therefore agree with our investigator that we can only consider the fairness of interest 
charged since 17 March 2020  but that in doing so, its necessary to look at all the 
circumstances of the complaint, including things that happened before that date but which 
potentially influenced the fairness of the interest charged after that date.
Mr C primarily relies on the mortgage assessment report prepared for his solicitors. He 
says this shows that he was overcharged interest. And so it does  if the assumption in the 
report that the SVR will always be 2.09% above base rate is correct.
But I dont think that assumption is correct. The mortgage offer says
This secured mortgage is based on the following interest rate periods:
A fixed rate of 5.99% until 1 January 2012
Followed by
A variable rate which is guaranteed to be below Northern Rock Standard 
Variable Rate, which is currently 7.34%, for the remainder of the term of the 
mortgage. 
If Northern Rocks standard variable rate changes, we will review the interest 
rate applicable to your mortgage on the first day of the following month. We 
will then notify you in writing of your new interest rate and payment, which will 
take effect from the first day of the month following the review. We will follow 
this procedure whether Northern Rocks standard variable rate rises or falls. 
I think thats clear. There is no linkage between the SVR and Bank of England base rate, 
and the SVR does not track base rate  whether by a margin of 2.09% or otherwise.
The assessment report says the calculated rate is compared to the expected rate which is 
based on the mortgage offer letter  Where it is used, the lender SVR will be calculated as 
a margin over the Bank of England base rate on the day of the offer letter. The report says 
Mr C was overcharged simply because its disregarded the actual interest rate he was 
charged, and replaced it with a rate 2.09% above base rate. 
It's not clear to me why the assessment report took that approach. It doesnt explain why it 
does so, or why the report author thought the SVR should be 2.09% above base rate. Nor 
does it explain any other reason why the interest actually charged to Mr C might have been 
wrong.
As Ive quoted above, the offer letter does not mention the Bank of England base rate at all, 
let alone say that the SVR is set at a margin of 2.09% above base rate (or any other margin). 
It simply says the SVR is variable. On the day the mortgage was taken out, the SVR was 7.34%, but was subject to change in the future. 
I cant therefore see any basis on which the assessment report could conclude that the 
interest rate on Mr Cs mortgage should have been no more than 2.09% above base rate 
after 2012. Thats not what the mortgage offer says. 
I appreciate Mr C is very invested in the assessment report and what it says, but Im afraid 
its simply not correct. There is no basis on which I can safely conclude that the SVR should 
have been no more than 2.09% above base rate from 17 March 2020, or that Mr C was 
overcharged because that didnt happen.
But as well as considering the assessment report, Ive also thought more broadly about 
whether the interest rate was fair. Ive considered relevant information provided to us by 
Whistletree and the predecessor lender explaining changes to the SVR over time. The 
mortgage terms and conditions say that the SVR can be changed, but only in certain 
circumstances  for example, where the lenders costs change. Im satisfied that the 
changes made to the SVR over the years were made in line with the terms and conditions. 
Im therefore not persuaded that Whistletree has treated Mr C unfairly. Hes been charged 
interest as the mortgage offer says  at a fixed rate until 2012, and 0.01% below the SVR 
since then. The SVR is variable, isnt linked to the Bank of England base rate, and was 
varied by the successive lenders when permitted by the terms and conditions. I dont think 
that resulted in unfairness in the interest rate charged since 17 March 2020, and so I dont 
uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2023.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman