DRN-2183044
The complaint
T, a limited company, complains that The Co-operative Bank Plc did not change the signing 
mandate for its account resulting in inconvenience and financial disruption.
What happened
T asked The Co-op to change the signing mandate on its bank account in May 2019. One of 
the existing signatories had passed away. And the other was not running the business. T 
had thought that the director who wanted to be a signatory should have been added 
following requests made in prior years but discovered this had not happened. The directors 
of T signed the forms provided and these were checked in branch. No errors were identified 
but in June 2019 it was discovered that a page had not been signed. This was then done by 
T. In July 2019 T received a letter from The Co-op expressing concerns about its account 
performance and the overdraft. The director running the business had still not been made a 
signatory, so she wrote on behalf of T explaining the position. But The Co-op would not 
speak to her about the account and she only managed to operate it through online banking 
with the other directors key card and could not deal with some important payments. She 
wrote again. In November 2019 a demand for payment of the overdraft was made and Ts 
account was blocked. The director contacted The Co-op and was finally added to the 
account on 8 November 2019 and the account was unblocked.
The Co-op in its final response said that it took longer than expected to deal with processing 
the request. Its bereavement and business departments had made administrative errors. It 
was then unable to process the form as it was not completed correctly although it had been 
checked in branch. And this meant that the director was not in a position to manage the 
account and ensure payments were made. It agreed that it had failed to respond to letters 
and that it could have helped more. It had sent a bouquet of flowers to the other signatory 
and paid T £250.
Our investigator recommended that it pay a further £100 to reflect what happened and The 
Co-op agreed. T had not provided evidence of financial or reputational damage and was a 
separate legal entity to the directors and could not suffer distress. So, he thought that an 
overall payment of £350 was reasonable.
T did not agree. It said it wanted £5,000 compensation for the existing signatory who was 
distressed by correspondence from The Co-op and not in a position to deal with this. It 
wanted £5,600 to reflect the time of the other director estimated at 140 hours. And a similar 
amount of compensation to reflect what it said was the loss of two weeks trading of £5,500. 
So, a total of £16,100.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is not in dispute here that a series of mistakes was made by The Co-op. And it had not 
acted on the instructions of T to add the other director to the mandate for some six months in 
2019. The other signatory was the wife of the deceased director and was not running the 
business. She was distressed to receive information from The Co-op despite telling it this 
was to go to the business address. The other director is her daughter and was trying to 
make arrangements to have access to the bank account. 
Im afraid as our investigator has said the complainant here is T, a separate legal entity 
which cannot suffer distress. And so, I cannot take into account the personal position of the 
directors even though I fully understand that they have been distressed by what happened at 
a time of bereavement.
I have to agree with T though that the administration of its request has been poor and Im 
struggling to understand why this was not dealt with sooner. The Co-op indicates that the 
second form was just not processed even though T has shown it was sent by recorded post. 
It does also seem that letters from a director of T, who should have been a signatory, and 
which were pertinent to the concerns about its account were overlooked until it got to the 
point of a demand being made and the account restricted.
Putting things right
Ive looked at the statements of the bank account for T which was trading at least for part of 
2019 based on the transactions shown. In my view is not possible to determine that any 
specific financial losses were down to the mistakes referred to here. And T hasnt provided 
more evidence to support its assessment or for the reduction in turnover it refers to. So, I 
wont be making an award for that.
But clearly T was inconvenienced over an extended period and received poor service as Ive 
set out above. The appropriate way to deal with that in my view is in overall compensation, 
not for specific units of time. We dont make punitive awards and Im afraid that my 
assessment of what is fair is going to be far from what the directors of T have asked for.
I consider I have all the information and submissions I need from The Co-op too to reach a 
conclusion about this now narrow issue. And I am applying my own judgement having taken 
into account our published guidance about compensation. Having done so, I have decided to 
increase the award and in my view the appropriate total amount for T is £450.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and require The Co-operative Bank Plc to pay T a 
total of £450 of which I understand it has already paid £250.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or reject my decision before 26 October 2020.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman