DRN-2332393
The complaint
Miss K is complaining that Contis Financial Services Limited wont refund transactions she 
didnt authorise.
The full details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again
here. Instead Ill recap the key points and focus on giving the reasons for my decision:
On 7 November 2019, Miss K couldnt access her PayPal account. After 
spending time on hold, she googled PayPal to find a different number.  
When she got through, they asked for her card details to verify her, as well as 
one-time-passcodes sent to her by text  which they said would allow Miss K to 
access her PayPal account again. 
That day, three payments were made using Miss Ks debit card details, totaling 
£3,590.82, which Miss K said she didnt make. Contis declined to refund these  
it said they were authorised using 3D Secure, and that Miss K failed with gross 
negligence and intent to keep her security details safe.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
In line with the Payment Service Regulations 2017, the starting position is that Miss K 
isnt liable for payments she didnt authorise.
Ive considered whether Miss K authorised these transactions. So, as per section 67 
of the PSRs, whether she gave her consent to make them, and whether that consent 
was given in the form, and in accordance with the procedure, agreed between Contis 
and Miss K. 
Ive reviewed the accounts terms and conditions to see how it was agreed for 
payments to be made by debit card. Under section 8, How do transactions work?, it 
says that a transaction is authorised when Miss K provides card details and/or any 
other details requested. It adds that she may be required to enter a one-time 
passcode to authorise a transaction. 
Here, its accepted Miss K shared this information with the fraudster (under the guise 
of verification and accessing her PayPal account). But Ive not seen anything to 
suggest she provided her card details to the merchant or actually entered the one-
time passcode. Instead, the fraudster did this. So I dont think she completed all the 
steps, as per the agreed form and procedure, to authorise these transactions. 
Ive also considered whether Miss K gave the fraudster permission to make the 
payments on her behalf. Im not persuaded that, having been coaxed into sharing 
information on the basis of passing security and accessing her account, Miss K 
represented that the fraudster had permission to use this form and procedure to 
make payments. Afterall, its clear Miss K had no knowledge payments would be 
made. 
It follows that Im not persuaded she completed the steps for these payments to be 
made or gave someone else permission to make the payments on her behalf. The 
payments were, therefore, unauthorised. 
Ive gone on to consider section 77(4)(d) of the PSRs, which explains that, except 
where a payer has acted fraudulently, Miss K isnt liable for unauthorised 
transactions where the payment instrument has been used in connection with a 
distance contract (other than an excepted contract). 
A distance contract is defined as per the Consumer Contracts (Information, 
Cancellation and Additional Charges) Regulations 2013. In summary, it means a 
transaction that is completed without the merchant or consumer being physically 
present. 
Here, the transactions made on Miss Ks account was to an overseas online 
business. So Im persuaded that her payment instrument was used in connection 
with a distance contract  and Ive not seen anything to suggest that its an excepted 
contract. 
Contis hasnt sought to dispute this. But it has said that its not liable for distance 
contracts. And that the Consumer Credit Act 1974 doesnt apply to it. But its not 
clear how either of those things would affect its obligations under the PSRs. 
Contis also pointed to section 77(3) of the PSRs, which says Miss K is liable for 
unauthorised transactions where she acted with gross negligence or intent. But as 
Ive explained section 77(4) establishes that shes only liable for transactions in 
connection with a distance contract where shes acted fraudulently. That means I 
dont need to consider gross negligence or intent here. And I note theres no 
persuasive evidence, nor has Contis sought to argue, that Miss K acted fraudulently.   
So, in all, Im satisfied these were unauthorised transactions, where Miss Ks 
payment instrument was used in connection with a distance contract (that wasnt an 
excepted contract). It follows that shes not liable and Contis need to put things right 
 by refunding Miss Ks losses from these transactions alongside interest to 
compensate her for the time shes been out of pocket.
Contis shouldve refunded these sooner, as per section 76 of the PSRs. Because it 
didnt, Miss J suffered added stress and worry, including having to borrow money for 
her familys rent over the Christmas period. So I also award £150 to reflect Miss Ks 
non-financial losses.
My final decisionFor these reasons, my decision is to uphold Miss Ks complaint and I order Contis Financial 
Services Limited, within 28 days of receiving notification from us of Miss Ks acceptance of 
this decision, to:
Pay Miss K the total of the unauthorised transactions (£3,590.82), less any amount 
already returned.
Pay 8% simple interest per year on this amount, from the date of the unauthorized 
transactions to the date of settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible).
Pay £150 for Miss Ks distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 August 2021.
 
Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman