DRN-2249111
The complaint
Mr R complains that IG Markets Limited (IG) sold shares in his share dealing account, 
without his permission, to cover account fees.
In order to resolve this matter Mr R says he wants IG to repay the money it took from his 
account.
What happened
Mr R held a share dealing account with IG. He only held shares in one company in his 
account and did not actively use the account to trade. Mr R says he opened the account with 
IG because it did not charge a regular account fee.
In January 2018, IG emailed Mr R. In the email it set out that from 1 April 2018, it would be 
introducing a quarterly custody fee of £24.00. The email also set out that the fee would not 
be charged if certain conditions were met. The conditions broadly meant that the quarterly 
fee would not be applied if the account was being actively used.
Follow up emails were sent to Mr R in 2018 and early 2019 reminding him about the custody 
fee and the conditions that needed to be met in order to avoid incurring it. The emails also 
made clear that accounts with assets would be allowed to go into deficit as a result of the 
charge and that stocks could be sold to cover the account deficit.
IG provided this service with copies of the statements it sent to Mr R between July 2018 and 
April 2019. I understand that our investigator has provided Mr R with a copy of these. The 
statements show that the quarterly custody fee was applied to Mr Rs account. As there was 
insufficient cash in the account to cover the fees, IG sold shares held in Mr Rs account to 
cover the fees due. 
Mr R says that in late 2019 IG emailed him to say his account statement was due. Having 
reviewed the statement he noticed that shares had been sold without his permission.
Mr R contacted IG. He asked it to close his account and reimburse the money it had taken.
IG closed Mr Rs account but did not agree that it should refund the custody fees it had 
applied. It said it had notified Mr R about the introduction of the fee and it was entitled to 
apply it.
Mr R wasnt satisfied with IGs response and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Rs complaint should be upheld. She noted that 
IG had told Mr R about the custody fee ahead of its introduction. She also noted that the 
terms and conditions Mr R accepted when he opened his account with IG set out that fees 
due could, where appropriate, be deducted from a customers account.
She said she didnt think IG was responsible for Mr R not noticing the fee was being applied 
to his account until late 2019 as she felt IG had taken reasonable steps to notify him about 
the fee and what he could do to avoid incurring it. 
Mr R wasnt satisfied with our investigators view. He said he had opened an account with IG 
because it didnt apply ongoing fees. He said he felt it was unfair that:
At some subsequent point they decided to reverse this and give themselves the right to help 
themselves to my assets. I had not given my agreement for this change in terms & 
conditions and since it is so fundamental, they should not have made it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sympathetic to Mr Rs position, but I dont think his complaint should be upheld. Ill 
explain why.
The terms and conditions Mr R accepted when he opened his account with IG set out:
We may amend this Agreement and any arrangements made hereunder at any time by 
written notice to you. You will be deemed to accept and agree to the amendment unless you 
notify us to the contrary within 10 business days of the date of our amendment notice. If you 
do object to the amendment, the amendment will not be binding on you, but your account will 
be suspended, and you will be required to close your account as soon as is reasonably 
practicable.
Any amendment to this Agreement will come into effect on the date specified by us which 
will, in most cases, be at least 10 business days after you are deemed to have received 
notice of the amendment in accordance with Term 15(11) (unless it is impractical in the 
circumstances to give 10 business days notice).
I appreciate that Mr R feels IG should have been required to seek his consent before it was 
permitted to apply a quarterly custody fee. But I cant reasonably find that it was required to 
do so. Based on the information I have seen I am satisfied that IG gave Mr R adequate 
notice before it introduced the custody fee. In particular I note that it wrote to him in January 
2018 about the change and the fee was introduced in April 2018.
Likewise, I note that the terms and conditions set out:
In addition to Commission, other applicable Charges and Taxes may exist in relation to 
Buying, Selling or holding an Instrument using our service depending on the Underlying 
Market and the Instrument being bought, sold or held. Additional charges may also be 
incurred by you in the case of delayed or failed settlement of a Transaction. Any such 
amounts will be your responsibility and where appropriate will be deducted from your 
account.
(bold is my emphasis)
It is very unfortunate that, for whatever reason, Mr R did not realise that he would incur a 
quarterly custody fee on his share dealing account from April 2018. But I cant reasonably 
say that IG didnt take adequate steps to tell Mr R about the introduction of the fee. 
I note that Mr R says he feels IG have relied on the small print to apply the custody fee to 
his account and that it should have been required to seek his permission. I dont agree that 
this was the case. I think that the emails IG sent Mr R about the introduction of the custody fee were clear and unambiguous. For example, I note that a reminder email sent in June 
2018 set out:
We recently sent you an email informing you about our custody fee, which well charge if you 
hold shares or ETFs in a share dealing account or ISA at the end of each quarter. You could 
be subject to a £24 fee in July, unless you qualify for an exemption
Please note your account will be allowed to go into a deficit as a result of this charge. If you 
want to avoid selling stock to pay the fee, or if you want to pay it outside of your ISA account, 
please ensure that you have a minimum of £24 in the appropriate account to avoid a 
negative balance.
If Mr R didnt understand what the introduction of the custody fee would mean for him or 
wanted to clarify anything in the emails he was sent, he was free to have contacted IG at the 
time.
Having carefully considered this complaint I dont think IG has treated Mr R unfairly or acted 
incorrected. As this is the case, I cant reasonably uphold Mr Rs complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that, for the reasons I have set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2020.
 
Suzannah Stuart
Ombudsman