DRN-1486282
The complaint
Mr C complained that a member of staff at Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, stole 
£300 from him when he went to a branch to pay in cash.
What happened
 
On Saturday 8 June 2019 Mr C went to a Halifax branch to pay in cash. Mr C has rental 
properties, one of which pays him £1,000 a month and the other £1,300 a month. Mr C said 
he took £2,000 to pay in, having counted the cash several times at home, and stored it away 
carefully on the journey so it couldnt have fallen out. Mr C had the money in two bundles.
 
When Mr C arrived at the branch, there was one till open, but another customer was already 
being served there. So Mr C went to a machine. Mr C told us hes not good with machines, 
and a Halifax cashier asked if she could help him. Mr C agreed. The first £1,000 bundle, 
which was in £20 notes, went through, and she gave Mr C the machines receipt.
When it came to the second bundle, which was in £10 notes, the cashier said the machines 
paper had run out, so he wouldnt get a receipt. She asked Mr C if he minded, and he said 
no, as long as the money went in.
When Mr C handed over the second bundle, the cashier said this feels a bit light for 
£1,000. Mr C said he told her it couldnt be. She turned away from Mr C slightly and 
counted the notes as £700, not £1,000.
Theres a disagreement about the cashier turning away from Mr C:
- The cashier told Halifax that it was so she didnt count it in view of other customers;
- Mr C said that when she turned her back on him, she was facing the back wall of the 
branch, with the tills on the left and the customer queuing across the back wall. So 
shed actually be more visible to other people. Mr C believes the cashier turned away 
so he couldnt see what she was doing with the money. 
Mr C was shocked to be told it was only £700 not £1,000, and didnt know what to say. He 
was sure hed counted the money correctly, and believed the cashier had stolen the money. 
But he was afraid of being sued if he accused her of this. So he went home and talked to his 
wife about what had happened, and on the Monday morning he contacted Halifax.
The branch manager tried to obtain CCTV but was told by Halifaxs security team that Mr C 
would have to contact the police first, and the police could then request this from Halifax. 
CCTV is only kept for 30 days.
In its reply on 24 June, Halifax didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. It told Mr C that to obtain the 
CCTV he should contact the police, and they could request the CCTV.
Mr C contacted the police on 11 July. They later told him theyd contacted the branch, but 
the tapes had already been reused.
Mr C wasnt satisfied with Halifaxs reply, and contacted this service.
The investigator didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. She noted that Mr C had initially told her the 
money could have fallen on the floor, though he thought hed have seen it, or that the 
cashier could have stolen it. And hed initially told Halifax that the money might have been 
incorrectly counted by the machine, or the cashier had stolen it. The investigator thought this 
meant Mr C hadnt been sure the cashier had stolen it.
The investigator thought it was most likely that Mr C had genuinely counted £2,000 cash 
before setting out for Halifax. But she also thought there was no evidence the cashier had 
stolen £300, and she thought Mr C had probably given the cashier £1,700 to pay in.
Mr C didnt agree. He made a number of points, including:
-he asked why had the cashier turned away from him to count the money, when it would be 
counted by the machine;
-he believed that Halifax staff should have asked for the CCTV to be kept, once they knew the 
branch manager had asked for it, in order to deal with Mr Cs complaint.  Mr C said that the 
CCTV would have shown whether the cashier was guilty or innocent;
-although the police had told him CCTV would be kept for a month, branch staff had told him 
it would be around 6 months;
-The investigators view had mentioned that Halifax had said it hadnt been contacted by the 
police, but the police had told Mr C that they had done.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I recognise that Mr C feels very strongly about this. And I consider that Mr C genuinely 
believes that he paid in £2,000 and lost £300. 
Its a pity that Mr C didnt ask for the branch manager straightaway on 8 June. It would have 
been easier to find out whether or not the cashier had stolen the money if it had been dealt 
with on the spot. But I recognise that its not always easy to think quickly, or to challenge 
someone about their honesty. So while it would have been easier to sort out if Mr C had 
complained at once, I dont consider the failure to report it promptly means that Mr C was 
making it up later. I dont believe hes making this up to try to obtain an extra £300 
fraudulently.
But that doesnt necessarily mean that Halifaxs employee stole the money. Where evidence 
conflicts, or is inconclusive, I make my decision on the basis of what I consider is more likely 
to have happened in the light of what evidence I do have.
Its understandable that Mr C is frustrated that CCTV was no longer available when he 
contacted the police on 11 July. I accept that the police later told him they had asked Halifax 
for the CCTV but it was too late by that point. I cant know for sure what branch staff told Mr 
C, but a normal time for CCTV to be kept is 30 days or a month, so I find that what the police 
told Mr C was the correct information.
I can understand why Mr C feels that Halifax staff should have asked for the CCTV to be 
kept, once they knew the branch manager had asked for it on 20 June. Certainly this would have been precautionary and helpful. But the process was that CCTV could only be 
accessed following a police request, and Mr C didnt contact the police, as Halifaxs 24 June 
letter advised, until 11 July. So both sides were involved in the tape no longer being 
available when the police asked for it. 
And in any case, theres no guarantee that CCTV would have shown, as Mr C believes, 
whether the cashier had or hadnt stolen £300 of his money. I think its extremely unlikely it 
would have shown this clearly, because the cashier knew the branch and wouldnt have 
stolen cash under the eye of wherever the camera was.
Ive also considered Mr Cs question about why the cashier turned away from him to count 
the money, when it would have been counted in the machine.  A bundle of £1000 in £10 
notes would have had 100 notes, whereas a bundle of £700 in £10 notes would have had 70 
notes. Thats quite a difference. So its plausible that the cashier would, as she said, have 
realised that the bundle didnt feel as if it contained the right number of notes. I also think its 
reasonable that she then counted it rather than just put it into a machine, because any 
disagreement might then be more easily sorted out in person.
Ive considered carefully what Mr C, and Halifax, have said about the cashier turning away 
from him to count the money after shed said it seemed light for £1,000. I dont know the 
branch layout, but I accept what Mr C has said, that in turning away from him, the cashier 
was turning towards the queue of people waiting for the till. But this makes it unlikely that 
shed have been turning in order to disguise stealing £300.  This dispute is about 30 notes. I 
think its likely that someone in the queue which Mr C mentioned would have seen her if 
shed attempted to pocket 30 notes while counting. It would have been so risky that I cant 
imagine anyone would have tried this. If the cashier had indeed been a thief  and Halifax 
has said they have no suspicion of her  this wouldnt have been a sensible way to do it.
Ive also looked at the cash machine records, and the machine did balance that day. But as 
Mr C has pointed out, the machine would have recorded whatever the cashier put into it. So 
the machine record wouldnt have shown whether the money Mr C handed over was £700, 
or whether the cashier had, as Mr C believes, stolen £300 of his £1,000.
Taking all these factors into account, I consider that its unlikely that the cashier who counted 
Mr Cs money stole £300 of it. So I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2020. 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman