DRN-4148161
The complaint
Mr M complains that Admiral Financial Services Ltd trading as Admiral Money lent to him 
irresponsibly.
What happened
In July 2022 Mr M applied for a loan from Admiral. Admiral approved the application and 
gave Mr M a loan for £9000 repayable by 36 monthly repayments of £296.11.
Mr M complained that Admiral lent to him irresponsibly. He said he was already over-
extended when he applied for the loan and the loan made his situation worse.
Admiral didnt uphold the complaint. It said it had carried out proportionate checks before 
lending to Mr M.
Mr M wasnt happy with the response and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said that Admiral hadnt carried out reasonable 
and proportionate checks and that it shouldve obtained more information about Mr Ms 
income and expenditure.
Admiral didnt agree. It said it had verified Mr Ms income, and that it couldnt have known 
about Mr Ms child maintenance payments because he declared that he had no dependants 
in his application.
Mr M didnt agree either. He didnt think it was fair that he should have to repay any pf the 
money hed borrowed. He said the money shouldnt have been loaned to him in the first 
place.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on 
our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering Mr Ms complaint.
Before agreeing to lend, the rules say that Admiral must complete reasonable and 
proportionate checks to ensure that Mr M could afford to repay the loan. These checks could 
involve consideration of a number of factors such as the amount of the loan, the total amount 
repayable, the monthly repayments and the consumers financial circumstances. 
Theres no set list of checks a lender has to complete. But lenders are required to have 
regard to the factors Ive mentioned above when deciding whats reasonable and 
proportionate.
Mr M declared income of £55,000 when he applied for the loan. Admiral used an industry 
data tool to verify this income and said it found the figure of £55,000 to be accurate. It 
calculated Mr Ms monthly income as around £3,339.
Admiral carried out an affordability check having assessed Mr Ms living expenses and 
housing costs at around £1500 per month and his existing debt repayments at around £635 
per month. Admiral calculated that Mr M had average monthly disposable income of around 
£1003 (before repayment of the loan).
Admiral carried out a credit search and obtained a copy of Mr Ms credit report. This showed 
that Mr M had an existing loan of around £7500 which he was repaying at £476 per month, a 
credit card with a balance of around £5000 and an overdraft. In total, Mr M had unsecured 
debt of around £13,000.
Based on what Ive seen, I dont think Admiral carried out reasonable and proportionate 
checks. I say this because the size of the loan is significant, and Mr Ms existing unsecured 
debt was already high. Mr Ms monthly debt repayments were already using up more than 
25% of his monthly income, and we know that consumers who use more than 25% of their 
income to repay debt are more likely to struggle to repay debt in the future. Because of this, I 
think it wouldve been proportionate for Admiral to carry out further checks to verify Mr Ms 
income and expenditure.
Ive looked at Mr Ms bank statements from May 2022 to August 2022 to see what 
reasonable and proportionate checks wouldve shown. The statements show that Mr Ms 
average monthly income was around £2707, which comprised his salary of £2,620 and child 
benefit of £87. This is significantly lower than the income of £3,339 which Admiral said it had 
verified.
The statements also show that Mr M had regular average expenditure of around £1,282 
each month. This is slightly less than the figure of £1500 used by Admiral in its affordability 
assessment.
I can see from the statements that Mr M was paying £20 per week to a third party, which 
appears to correlate to the child benefit he was receiving. He was also paying £75 per week 
to a third party which hes told this service was child maintenance for his daughter.
Having reviewed the bank statements, its clear that Mr Ms regular expenditure was more 
than Admiral calculated when it carried out its affordability assessment. I appreciate that Mr 
M didnt declare his child maintenance payments in his application, but if Admiral had carried 
out reasonable and proportionate checks, it wouldve discovered the extent of Mr Ms 
expenditure. And it wouldve seen that Mr M didnt have sufficient monthly disposable 
income to make the loan repayments. If Admiral had carried out reasonable and 
proportionate checks I think it wouldve seen that the loan wasnt affordable for Mr M.
Therefore, I dont think Admiral made a fair lending decision when it lent to Mr M. 
Putting things right
To put things right, Admiral should:
Add up the total amount of money Mr M received as a result of having been given the loan. 
The repayments made by Mr M should be deducted from this amount.
Based on the information I have, there will still be an outstanding balance. Admiral should 
agree an affordable payment plan with Mr M to repay the outstanding balance.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Admiral Financial Services Ltd must take the 
steps Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman