DRN-3401163
Complaint
Mr H complains about Options UK Personal Pensions LLP (trading as Carey Pensions UK 
LLP (Carey) at the time of the relevant events) accepting an application for a Self-Invested 
Personal Pension (SIPP), and an investment in Store First, from an unregulated  business  
called  Commercial Land and Property Brokers  (CL&P).   Mr H says he has suffered a loss 
from the Store First investment and that Carey should compensate him for this loss. Mr H is 
represented by a Claims Management Company (CMC). In brief, the CMC says Carey had 
a duty to carry out due diligence on CL&P before accepting business from it and, had it done 
so, it ought to have been aware of various reasons not to deal with CL&P. 
Background
We issued a final decision on another complaint involving Careys acceptance of a SIPP 
application and Store First investment application from CL&P in February 2021. That final 
decision has been published on our website under DRN5472159, and a copy can be found 
in the decisions database on our website. I have reached my decision in this case 
independently. The published decision however sets out the general detail of Careys 
relationship with, and due diligence on, CL&P and the general detail of Store First and 
Careys due diligence on that investment, across pages 2 to 11 (up to Mr Ss dealings with 
CL&P and Carey).  So I will rely on that detail set out in the published decision here, rather 
than repeat it  I will only include the key factual background of this particular complaint 
here. 
Mr Hs dealings with CL&P and Carey
Mr H says he was advised by CL&P to switch his pension arrangements to a Self-Invested 
Personal Pension (SIPP) with Carey and invest in Store First following the switch. He also 
says CL&P arranged the switch to the SIPP and the Store First investment for him. 
Before being contacted by CL&P Mr H had a personal pension. Following the contact by 
CL&P the cash value of this was switched into a SIPP with Carey, and invested in Store 
First. The key events which took place during Mr Hs dealings with Carey were as follows: 
Mr H signs a Carey SIPP application form - 14 March 2012.
Carey sends its welcome letter, confirming the establishment date of the SIPP - 16 
March 2012.
Mr H signs Careys member declaration and indemnity (referred to as the indemnity 
in the published decision, using the wording quoted in full there)  2 August 2012. 
Carey sends cash from Mr Hs SIPP to Store First (£35,836) - 21 August 2012.  
There is also a copy of a letter of authority signed by Mr H, authorising Carey to deal with 
CL&P. This is undated, but presumedly pre-dates the SIPP application
Mr H has confirmed he was paid cashback by CL&P, after the Store First investment was 
made. 
CL&P and Carey 
The below is a chronological summary (set out in greater detail in the published decision) of 
the key events during the relationship between CL&P and Carey. 
15 August 2011 - Carey begins to accept introductions from CL&P.
20 September 2011 - Carey conducted a World Check (a risk intelligence tool which allows 
subscribers to conduct background checks on businesses and individuals) on a Zoe Adams 
and a Mark Lloyd. Ms Adams and Mr Lloyd were two of the people at CL&P Carey initially 
had contact with. This check did not reveal any issues. 
27 September 2011 - Carey asked CL&P to complete a non-regulated introducer profile. 
29 September 2011 - The non-regulated introducer profile was completed by CL&P. It was 
completed and signed by Terence Wright. 
9 December 2011- Carey had a conference call with representatives of CL&P. During that 
call the issue was raised of consumers being offered cash incentives by CL&P to transfer or 
switch to a SIPP and make investments. The note of the call included the following: 
[Carey staff member] also raised a concern that a potential member had asked when they 
would receive their money from their Store First Investment, [CL&P representatives] 
confirmed that no clients or connected parties referred by CL&P receive any form of 
inducement for either establishing the SIPP or making the Store First Investment and that 
CL&P policy does not include offering inducements.
[Carey staff member] emphasised that it is completely against all rules that clients or 
connected parties receive any form of inducement for making particular investments.
13 March 2012 - Careys Head of Service and Operation, said in an email to CL&P: 
On another matter, we need our Terms of Business for Non Regulated introducers in place 
between our two companies. So that our records are all straight from a Compliance aspect I 
attach the Terms of Business and have entered a commencement date of 15 August 2011 
which is the date of your first case with us and would be grateful if you could agree and 
complete the terms and return.
The agreement was signed by CL&P on 20 March 2012. It was signed by Ms Adams. 
23 March 2012 - Careys compliance support said in an email to CL&P: 
To comply with our in house compliance procedures could you please supply the following 
information relating to CLP Brokers:
A copy of the latest set of accounts
A certified copy passport for each of the main directors/principals/partners of the company
29 March 2012 - a Team Leader at Carey sent an email to Ms Hallett, Careys Chief 
Executive, with the subject  03-29-2012 - Storefirst Investment Query re Cash Back 
[reference removed]. That email forwarded an email sent by the Team Leader to a 
consumer, which included the following:you mentioned in our conversation a cash back amount you are expecting in the sum of 
£1,800 from CL&P following completion of the Storefirst investment 
And the text addressed to Ms Hallett by the Team Leader said this is the second member 
this week to ask when are they getting their money. 
3 April 2012 - Careys compliance support followed up on its 23 March 2012 email: 
It is now becoming urgent that we receive the outstanding documentation. You very kindly 
passed this on to your colleague and I would be very grateful if we could receive the 
documentation as a matter of urgency Thank you in anticipation of your assistance.
When asked, Carey said it has no record of receiving the information from CL&P.
15 May 2012 - Carey conducted a World Check on Terence Wright. The report highlighted 
that he appeared on the FSA list of unauthorised firms and individuals.
25 May 2012 - Carey terminated its agreement with CL&P.  Careys Head of Service and 
Operation told CL&P of Careys decision in an email to CL&P of that date: 
Despite your assurances that no clients have been or will be offered inducements 
(monetary or otherwise) for making investments through their SIPPs with us, we have 
received enquiries as to when client can expect to receive their money and have today been 
informed by a new client that they are expecting circa £2,000 on completion of the Storefirst 
investment purchase, which they confirmed was offered by a member of your staff. 
We have advised this client that we will not proceed with this case. 
In light of this, it is with regret that I have to notify you that we are terminating our Introducer 
Agreement with you, with immediate effect, and can no longer accept business from you.
In reply to this email CL&P asked Regarding business which you have already accepted 
from us, will you still be processing this as the client's SIPPs have already been 
established? 
28 May 2012 - Careys Ms Hallett sent the following reply to CL&P:
We will process them where we have already established the schemes, we will be writing to 
all clients informing them if they have received any monies then they must declare this to 
HMRC and their fund would also be vulnerable to a tax charge as well.
HMRC have already asked a number of SIPP providers for lists of clients who are investing 
in alternatives, they will I am sure be doing some random checks and will charge people for 
unauthorised transactions if they have received cash sums for transferring their pension and 
making investments.
I would urge you and your agents to review your position if you are continuing this as part of 
your sales process, ultimately no SIPP providers will be taking the business, it is not 
allowable as we have explained to you previously.
Submissions made by Mr H
We asked Mr H for some further detail of his recollections. We asked the following 
questions, and received the replies quoted in italics: 
 Were you interested in changing your pension at the time of being contacted by CL&P? Why? What attracted you to CL&P? What attracted you to the Store Pod 
investment? 
Yes thats why they contacted me  I was searching online and they mustve got my details 
and cold called me out of the blue. I was looking for ways to make my pension work harder. 
It wasnt CL&P themselves that attracted me, it was the positives of the investment into 
storage pods which they told me about which on paper seemed like a good investment with 
decent returns. I didnt know anything about investments. CL&P told me about store fist and 
told me the investment gives you the first years investment returns up front and the returns 
were really good. But at the time I wasnt aware that this was only when your pods were 
rented out. 
 What role did you think CL&P had in this transaction? 
I just thought they were a broker or a middle man to the investment. 
 Did CL&P recommend any products to you? Can you recall what it said to you? 
They told me about Store First and said it was a really good investment regarding renting 
storage space for people. I thought it sounded feasible. They told me it was really high 
returns and the returns had 2 options  Id have the investments and also a SIPP bank 
account.
 You have previously told us you received £2,500 from CL&P. Your representative 
says you were told the investment was that good it could afford to pay him a cash 
bonus for transferring his pension. Can you please provide some more detail about 
this? Can you recall what CL&P said? What was your understanding of the £2,500? 
Why did you think CL&P was paying you this amount? What did you think of this? 
I was confused about this question previously. It wasnt £2,500  this was the figure 
originally quoted by CL&P but the actual amount was no more than £1,500. I remember the 
guy from CL&P telling me Id get a cash bonus from the investment and get the first years 
profits because they were so confident my pension was going to make so much money and 
thats why they were paying me up front. The actual payment I received was no more than 
£1,500. I believed the money was up-front monies I was receiving from the first years return 
on the investment like CL&P told me. The reason they paid me that was because they told 
me the investment was so good that they could guarantee the profits.
 If you had been aware that the £2,500 payment might have tax consequences, what 
would you have done? 
I would have said I dont need the payment then and to leave it in my SIPP bank account.
 If Carey had told you that Mr Terence Wright, a director of CL&P, was the subject of 
an FSA alert, what would you have done? 
I wouldnt have gone through with the transfer. 
 Carey ended its relationship with CL&P in May 2012. If you had been made aware of 
this what would you have done? 
I wouldnt have thought anything because the investment wasnt with CL&P, it was with 
Careys. I wouldve thought they had ended business with them. Careys werent saying the 
investment wasnt any good.  What is your understanding of how the Store First investment works? 
People rent the storage pods that I invested in / owned and the profits / a share of profits of 
that would come back to me.
 Did you understand the risks associated with a high risk, speculative investment? 
What are they in your own words? 
I didnt understand it. It wasnt sold to me as high risk so why would I have even known 
what that meant then? It didnt sound like there was any risk involved. 
 What was your understanding of the risks associated with the Store First investment? 
Please explain your answer fully. 
It wasnt sold to me as high risk. It didnt sound like there was any risk involved. 
 What did you think Careys role was at the time? 
No response
 Your SIPP was set up in March 2012 and your investment in Store First was made 
on 21 August 2012. Were you aware that you were still free to choose whether or not 
to invest in Store First after the SIPP had been set up? 
No. This is all new to me.
 On 2 August 2012, you signed a Members Declaration & Indemnity (the indemnity) 
which included the following statement I am fully aware that this investment is an 
Alternative Investment and as such is High Risk and / or Speculative. Did you read 
the indemnity before signing it? What does this indemnity mean to you in your own 
words? 
I dont remember reading that anywhere. I dont know what this means either. 
In my provisional decision on this complaint I noted Mr H had given inconsistent recollections 
about the amount of the cash he was paid by CL&P, and I invited him to provide further 
evidence on this. He has not however been able to do so. 
Submissions made by Carey 
The submissions made by Carey in this complaint are essentially the same as those 
summarised in the published decision. That summary also includes general submissions 
about Careys relationship with CL&P. So I will rely here on the summary given in the 
published decision under Careys submissions rather than repeat the detail. 
The investigators view 
The investigators view, in short, was that acting fairly and reasonably to meet its regulatory 
obligations Carey should not have accepted Mr Hs application from CL&P. The basis of the 
view was what Carey knew, or ought to have known, about CL&P at the time. 
Careys response to the investigators view 
Carey did not accept the investigators view. It said, in summary: 
In assessing the complaint, we must take into account the overarching context of the relationship that Carey has with its customers, including Mr H, being one of a self 
invested personal pension scheme in which Carey acts on a strictly execution 
only/non-advised basis and is member-directed throughout. Carey is not permitted to, 
and does not, provide advice or otherwise comment on the suitability of investments 
or any other aspect of a customers SIPP. Carey expressly states that all customers 
should seek independent financial advice from an adviser who is regulated by the 
Financial Conduct Authority.
The fundamental consideration that underpins the view is the contention that had 
Carey identified that Mr Terence Wright was on the FSAs warning list and informed 
Mr H of this, then it should not have accepted business from CL&P, or Mr H would 
not have proceeded with the investment.
There is a material difference between a warning detailing that you should not deal 
with a particular individual and a notice informing you that an individual is not a 
regulated individual and that the ombudsman service and FSCS would not be 
available to you if you chose to deal with such individual. The wording in the FCAs 
notice published on 15 October 2010, which was available to Carey at the time it 
undertook its due diligence on CL&P, does not include any such warning stating that 
Terence (Terry) Wright is an individual to avoid or be wary of; the notice amounts 
simply to a notification that Mr Wright is not authorised to carry on regulated 
activities, a fact of which Carey was well aware and upon which basis it accepted 
referrals from CL&P. Carey reasonably considered at all times that CL&P was an 
unregulated introducer which was not providing advice. So it is not fair or reasonable 
to state that Carey should not have accepted this business.
The fact that the FCA updated their notice in 2013 to a clear warning including an 
express comment that Mr Wright was an individual to avoid, a warning that would 
have put Carey on notice to stop accepting business from Mr Wright, is irrelevant in 
this case because Carey had already severed its Terms of Business some 18 
months before the warning in 2013 regarding Mr Wright was published.
The fact that the FSA later made express comment as to Mr Wright's conduct, but did 
not make any comment of a similar nature in the earlier wording plainly indicates that 
at the time that Carey accepted business from CL&P, the FSA did not believe Mr 
Wright to have been providing financial services or products without authorisation at 
that time, nor consider it necessary to express any concerns in this regard.
If the FSA did not consider there to be any cause for concern at the relevant time and 
there was no way through reasonable due diligence checks for Carey to establish 
any cause for concern, then plainly it is not fair or reasonable to have expected 
Carey to have rejected business from CL&P on this basis.
COBS 11.2.19R, which deals with execution only business and was in force at the 
relevant time, stated as follows: "Whenever there is a specific instruction from the 
client, the firm must execute the order following the specific instruction.
A firm satisfies its obligation under this section to take all reasonable steps to obtain 
the best possible result for a client to the extent that it executes an order, or a 
specific aspect of an order, following specific instructions from the client relating to 
the order or the specific aspect of the order.
The significance of this rule to an execution only business, such as Carey, cannot be 
overstated. Carey would have been in breach of COBS if it had not executed Mr H's 
specific instructions to make the investment.There is no rule, guidance, or requirement that a regulated business is prohibited or 
encouraged not to do business with an entity which is the subject of an FSA/FCA 
warning, solely by virtue of the fact that it is subject to that warning.
The investigators view amounts to a requirement for Carey to have refused business 
from a business associated with an individual on the basis that it should have been 
"wary of conducting regulated business with" him, despite the FSA/FCA not having 
made such a comment, prohibiting businesses from dealing with Mr Wright, or having 
taken any action against him.
After the published decision was issued, Carey was asked to take it into consideration, as an 
important representative decision, in accordance with the relevant Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) DISP Rules and Guidance (particularly DISP 1.4.1, 1.4.2 and 1.3.2A), which 
should be taken into account when assessing other similar complaints. 
On this basis, Carey was asked to review each outstanding complaints involving CL&P and 
Store First  including Mr Hs - and if it was not prepared to make a settlement offer taking 
account of the detailed reasons set out in the published decision, to explain why it was 
distinguishing it from the published decision. To date Carey has not carried out such a 
review. Mr Hs complaint has therefore been passed to me for review and Im satisfied that 
there is no need to wait any further before progressing this complaint. 
We shared a copy of the questions asked of Mr H, and the answers he provided to those 
questions, with Carey and invited it to make any comments on these it wanted us to take into 
account. No response was received from Carey before I issued my provisional decision in 
this case. 
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision I concluded Mr Hs complaint should be upheld. As I revisit (and, 
where appropriate, repeat) my provisional findings below I will not include any more than a 
brief summary here. In short, I concluded:
If Carey had carried out sufficient due diligence on CL&P, or acted on the information 
it subsequently received in a timely manner, it should not have accepted Mr Hs 
application from CL&P
The fair and reasonable conclusion, based on what Carey knew or ought to have 
known at the time, is that it should also not have accepted Mr Hs application to 
invest in Store First. 
It was not fair and reasonable in all the circumstances for Carey to proceed with Mr 
Hs instructions. 
It is fair and reasonable to conclude that Carey should compensate Mr H for the loss 
he has suffered to his pension. 
Mr H accepted my provisional decision, and made no further comments. Carey did not 
accept my provisional decision. It said, in summary:
General points:
Carey is not permitted to, and does not, provide advice or otherwise comment on the suitability of investments. 
No breach can arise on Careys part simply by virtue of its dealing with unregulated 
introducers. The regulatory regime has never prohibited unregulated introducers from 
connecting clients with SIPP providers, and neither the FSA nor the FCA have ever 
sought to prohibit SIPP providers from accepting business by this route.
My decision seeks to impose new and unexpected duties of due diligence on 
introducers and investments. These duties are inconsistent with both the contract into 
which Mr H entered and with the general scheme of the COBS rules at the relevant 
time (which imposed no duty on Carey to assess introducers or investments).
Given the proper scope of Careys regulatory duties, as established in Adams, there 
can be no breach of those duties on Careys part as a result of its decision to accept 
customers introduced by CL&P in the circumstances relevant to this case. 
On the due diligence on CL&P: 
The FSA Notice was not entered onto World Check until 24 October 2011, i.e. after 
Carey had carried out its checks on CL&P, after it had started accepting business 
from CL&P. Even if Carey had run a World Check search in respect of Mr Wright 
when its relationship with CL&P began, it would not have identified the notice in 
question. 
Carey did not routinely check the FSAs list of unauthorised firms and individuals, nor 
was it under any obligation to do so. Careys use of World Check  an independent 
professional third party verification system  was reasonable and appropriate.
The FSA Notice, in the form in which it had been published in 2010 and which would 
have existed as at the inception of Careys relationship with CL&P, stated only that 
Mr Wright was not regulated by the FSA and referred only to a business named Cash 
In Your Pension targeting UK investors. There was nothing in the FSA Notice which 
described any criminal or civil wrongdoing and there was no contradiction between 
the FSA Notice and any statement provided by Mr Wright that he was not subject to 
any FSA action or censure. 
Had the FSA had significant concerns about Mr Wright, or had there been any 
reasonable basis for expecting regulated firms not to deal with Mr Wright/CL&P then 
the FSA Notice should and would have explicitly said so. It did not. If the FSA did not 
hold such significant concerns about Mr Wright (or was not prepared to publish 
them), then it cannot be fair and reasonable to find that Carey should have held any 
such concern, or refused point blank to have any dealings with CL&P. 
On the due diligence on Store First: 
My findings amount to imposing an obligation on Carey to undertake a qualitative 
assessment of the Store First investment (based on limited material), and then an 
obligation to pass on that assessment and those findings with what effectively 
amounts to a recommendation to Mr H not to proceed. That significantly overreaches 
the actual legal obligations on Carey at the time, as found by the Court in Adams. It 
also goes significantly further than any published regulatory material. My findings 
amount to a requirement for Carey to have provided advice to Mr H. 
On Mr Hs actions: Mr H comments that it was the positives of the investment into storage pods that 
attracted him, it seemed like a good investment with decent returns and it wasnt 
CL&P themselves that attracted me. So Mr H plainly wished to proceed with the 
investment, and based on his responses any issues regarding CL&P would not have 
had any bearing on his pursuit of that investment. 
If the clear risk warnings given to Mr H were insufficient for Mr H to decide not to 
proceed with his investment, then it does not understand on what basis I can 
reasonably conclude that further information would have changed Mr Hs decision to 
invest. 
Mr H claimed that he didnt understand [the risk]it didnt sound like there was risk 
involved and it wasnt sold to me as high risk. This is despite the fact that he 
signed the member declaration that stated that the investment was High Risk and/or 
Speculative. Mr Hs statements, set out above, are either contrived to be self-serving 
years after the facts or indicate that either Mr H did not read the clear and simple 
paperwork he signed, or paid no attention to it. Whichever it is, the consequences 
cannot reasonably nor fairly be held against Options.
Mr Hs answers to the questions put to him suggest that, if Options had informed Mr 
H that its relationship with CL&P had ended in May 2021, he would still have 
proceeded with the investment  he says he wouldnt have thought anything of it. 
That I have not addressed, queried or even commented on the unreliability and self-
serving nature of Mr Hs statements speaks volumes as to my clear failings to 
approach this matter in an impartial manner and in adopting a fair procedure. 
On causation: 
Carey did not cause Mr Hs loss. It is very likely that he was extremely keen to 
proceed with the investment. He would have found a way to invest even if Options 
had not been dealing with CL&P or if it had not been accepting Store First 
investments.
My decision asserts that Options cannot argue that another SIPP provider might 
legitimately have accepted Mr Hs investment instruction. This implies that a SIPP 
provider could not properly have accepted an instruction by a customer to place 
funds in this perfectly legal investment, even if the customer had been sophisticated 
and fully informed (and indeed even if the customer had been wealthy and with a 
high risk appetite). This reasoning must be flawed.
Mr H claims that he was cold called out of the blue. However, he also admits that, 
at the time, he was interested in changing his pension. Mr H claims that CL&P must 
have got my details from his online searching. It is implausible that CL&P would 
have obtained Mr Hs telephone number had he not provided it at some point during 
his internet searches and enquiries into transferring his pension. Mr H was therefore 
not cold called. Rather, it seems highly likely that CL&P called Mr H in response to 
him providing his contact details with the express purpose of being contacted by 
firms such as CL&P. 
The fact that Mr H was searching online for ways to make [his] pension work 
harder, as Mr H put it, is a key factor in understanding Mr Hs mindset in dealing with 
his pension and in determining the actions he was likely to take had Options acted as 
I suggest it should have.Crucially, Mr H does not say that he would not have proceeded if he had been made 
aware of the tax consequences of the incentive payment. On the contrary, Mr H 
said that he would simply have said I dont need the payment then and leave it in my 
SIPP bank account. It seems that Mr H would have proceeded with the investment 
with or without the incentive payment. In any event, Mr H ought reasonably to have 
questioned the legitimacy of the incentive payment as any reasonable member of 
the public would in those circumstances.
While Mr H states that he would not have agreed to the pension transfer if he had 
been told that Mr Terence Wright, a director of CL&P, was the subject of an FSA 
alert, his answer is open to question. He was not, for example, told that the FSA 
alert alleged no actual wrongdoing and only indicated that Mr Wright had no FSA 
authorisation. Further, and crucially, Mr H states that I wouldnt have gone through 
with the transfer. He makes no comment about the investment, and whether he 
would have proceeded with a different transfer, to a different SIPP provider, without 
the involvement of CL&P, and then proceeded to invest in Store First.
Indeed, the evidence provided suggests that, on balance, that is exactly how Mr H 
would have proceeded, and that he would have suffered the same loss. Given Mr Hs 
clear desire to make his pension work harder, it must, at the least, be questionable 
whether he would really have given up that opportunity because of the FSA Notice 
(particularly if full detail of the FSA Notice was provided), or to have otherwise 
invested in a separate high risk asset.
Even if another provider might have reached the same conclusions as I find Options 
should have, the evidence suggests that Mr H was determined to proceed with the 
Store First investment and another SIPP provider could properly have accepted that 
investment. In those circumstances, the outcome would have been the same as it 
was.
On fair compensation:
On its proper application, the contract between Mr H and Carey was effective to 
relieve Carey of any liability it might otherwise bear. To conclude otherwise would be 
to render void and unenforceable a validly concluded contract. 
Further or alternatively, at acknowledging the criterion of what is fair and 
reasonable, Mr H must bear a measure of responsibility for his own actions.
My decision amounts to a finding that there was no possibility that Mr H would have 
proceeded with an investment in Store First, via another SIPP provider, and without 
the involvement of CL&P. That is not a reasonable conclusion to reach in the 
circumstances. 
Carey does not know how much Mr H received by way of incentive payment. Carey 
agrees with the Ombudsman that Mr H must take further steps to investigate the 
amount he received. 
From a representative sample of other cases where Options is aware that a member 
has received a similar payment from CL&P, Options understands that investors 
received payments averaging c. 8% of the value of their investment in Store First. Mr 
Adams received c.7.17% of his investment in Store First as an incentive payment.
In the light of Mr Hs confirmation that he was actively looking for ways to make his 
pension work harder it is fair and reasonable to conclude that, had he not invested in Store First, he would nonetheless have transferred his pension to a different 
investment which was higher risk than his pre-existing personal pension. So in order 
to calculate Mr Hs losses the investment in Store First should be compared against a 
high risk investment, not his personal pension. 
Carey agrees that, in keeping with the Court of Appeal decision in Adams, Mr H 
should assist Carey in it taking ownership of the storage pods. However, the 
Provisional Decision suggests that, if the storage pods cannot be returned to Carey 
then they should remain in the SIPP or otherwise with Mr H and there should be no 
adjustment in the compensation award. To allow Mr H to retain the storage pods, 
whether within the SIPP or otherwise, in circumstances where the compensation 
awarded to him has been calculated upon the assumption that they would be 
returned to Carey, would give Mr H a windfall. Plainly this is not fair and reasonable. 
Carey also requested an oral hearing, to test Mr Hs understanding of and approach to this 
investment. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Oral hearing request 
Carey has requested an oral hearing. It says this is necessary because Mr Hs 
understanding of and approach to the Store First investment should be investigated and 
tested. 
The Ombudsman Service provides a scheme under which certain disputes may be resolved 
quickly and with minimum formality (section 225 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 
2000 (FSMA)). DISP 3.5.5R of the FCA Dispute Resolution rules provides the following:
If the Ombudsman considers that the complaint can be fairly determined without convening 
a hearing, he will determine the complaint. If not, he will invite the parties to take part in a 
hearing. A hearing may be held by any means which the Ombudsman considers appropriate 
in the circumstances, including by telephone. No hearing will be held after the Ombudsman 
has determined the complaint.
Given my statutory duty under FSMA to resolve complaints quickly and with minimum 
formality, I am satisfied that it would normally not be necessary for me to hold a hearing in 
most cases (see the Court of Appeals decision in R (Heather Moor & Edgecomb Ltd) v 
Financial Ombudsman Service [2008] EWCA Civ 642).
The key question for me to consider when deciding whether a hearing should be held is 
whether or not the complaint can be fairly determined without convening a hearing.
We do not operate in the same way as the Courts. Unlike a Court, we have the power to 
carry out our own investigation. And the rules (DISP 3.5.8R) mean I, as the ombudsman 
determining this complaint, am able to decide the issues on which evidence is required and 
how that evidence should be presented. I am not restricted to oral cross-examination to 
further explore or test points.
If I decide particular information is required to decide a complaint fairly, in most 
circumstances we are able to request this information from either party to the complaint, or 
even from a third party. In this case, we have put the questions to Mr H, as set out above. And Mr H has provided the answers to the questions we put to him. Carey has had the 
opportunity to consider, and comment, on these. 
I have carefully considered the submissions Carey has made. However, I think I am able to 
fairly determine this complaint without convening a hearing. In this case, I am satisfied I have 
sufficient information to make a fair and reasonable decision. So I do not consider a hearing 
 or any further investigation by other means  is required. A key point here is my provisional 
finding (which I maintain and emphasise as being the primary point in my below findings) 
that Carey should not have accepted Mr Hs application at all.  Mr Hs understanding of and 
approach to the Store First investment is secondary to this. And I am, in any event, able to 
test this to the extent I think necessary  which I have done - by asking questions of Mr H in 
writing.     
In any event  and I make this point only for completeness - even if I were to invite the 
parties to participate in a hearing, that would not be an opportunity for Carey to cross-
examine Mr H as a witness. Our hearings do not follow the same format as a Court. We are 
inquisitorial in nature and not adversarial. And, the purpose of any hearing would be solely 
for the ombudsman to obtain further information from the parties that they require in order to 
fairly determine the complaint. The parties would not usually be allowed direct questioning or 
cross-examination of the other party to the complaint. 
As I am satisfied it is not necessary for me to hold an oral hearing, I will now turn to 
reconsidering the merits of Mr Hs complaint. 
The merits of Mr Hs complaint 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have not been 
persuaded to depart from my provisional decision. 
In reconsidering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, I have 
taken into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the relevant time. Having done so, for similar reasons as set out in the published 
decision I have reached the view that this complaint should be upheld.
I remain of the view the relevant considerations in this complaint set out in the published 
decision apply here  so I will refer to the published decision rather than repeat those 
considerations here. 
I confirm I have taken account of the judgment of the High Court in the case of Adams v 
Options SIPP [2020] EWHC 1229 (Ch) and the Court of Appeal judgment in Adams v 
Options UK Personal Pensions LLP [2021] EWCA Civ 474. 
I remain of the view that neither of the judgments say anything about how the Principles 
apply to an ombudsmans consideration of a complaint. But, to be clear, I do not say this 
means Adams is not a relevant consideration at all. As noted above, I have taken account of 
both judgments when making this decision on Mr Hs case.
I acknowledge that COBS2.1.1R (A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in 
accordance with the best interests of its client) was considered by HHJ Dight in the High 
Court case. Mr Adams pleaded that Options SIPP owed him a duty to comply with COBS 
2.1.1R, a breach of which, he argued, was actionable pursuant to section 138(D) of FSMA 
(the COBS claim). HHJ Dight rejected this claim and found that Options SIPP had complied 
with the best interests rule on the facts of Mr Adams case. The Court of Appeal rejected Mr Adams appeal against HHJ Dights dismissal of the COBS 
claim on the basis that Mr Adams was seeking to advance a case that was radically different 
to that found in his initial pleadings. The Court found that this part of Mr Adams appeal did 
not so much represent a challenge to the grounds on which HHJ Dight had dismissed the 
COBS claim, but rather was an attempt to put forward an entirely new case. 
I note that there are significant differences between the breaches of COBS 2.1.1R alleged by 
Mr Adams and the issues in Mr Hs complaint.  The breaches were summarised in 
paragraph 120 of the Court of Appeal judgment. In particular, as HHJ Dight noted, he was 
not asked to consider the question of due diligence before Options SIPP agreed to accept 
the store pods investment into its SIPP. The facts of the case were also different.  
I think it is also important to again emphasise that I must determine this complaint by 
reference to what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. 
And, in doing that, I am required to take into account relevant considerations which include: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. 
This is a clear and relevant point of difference between this complaint and the judgments in 
Adams v Options SIPP. That was a legal claim which was defined by the formal pleadings in 
Mr Adams statement of case.  
To be clear, I have proceeded on the understanding Carey was not obliged  and not able  
to give advice to Mr H on the suitability of its SIPP or the Store First investment for him 
personally. But I am satisfied Careys obligations included deciding whether to accept 
particular investments into its SIPP and/or whether to accept introductions of business from 
particular businesses. As the published decision sets out, this is consistent with Careys own 
understanding of its obligations at the relevant time. 
I acknowledge Carey has applied to the Supreme Court for permission to appeal the Court of 
Appeal judgment and the outcome of that application is awaited. However, the grounds of 
appeal are in respect of issues not directly relevant to my determination of this case and 
therefore it is unnecessary to await either the consideration of the application or, if 
permission is granted, the Supreme Court judgment. I am satisfied it is appropriate to 
determine this complaint now. 
Having carefully considered the relevant considerations I am satisfied that, in order to meet 
the appropriate standards of good industry practice and the obligations set by the regulators  
rules and regulations, Carey should have carried out due diligence on CL&P to the sort of 
standard which was consistent with good industry practice and its regulatory obligations at 
the time and carried out due diligence on the Store First investment which was consistent 
with good industry practice and its regulatory obligations at the time. And Carey should have 
used the knowledge it gained from that due diligence to decide whether to accept or reject a 
referral of business or a particular investment. 
I am also satisfied that, as in the complaint subject to the published decision, the contract 
between Carey and Mr H does not mean that Carey should not be held responsible for 
failing to comply with its regulatory obligations to carry out adequate due diligence on CL&P 
and the Store First investment which ultimately led to Mr H losing a significant part of his 
pension. 
In this complaint, like the complaint subject to the published decision, Carey had obtained 
information many months before it facilitated Mr Hs investment which led it to reject any 
further referrals from CL&P and had concerns about the Store First investment before it 
facilitated Mr Hs investment. So in this complaint, like the complaint subject to the published 
decision, it would not be fair and reasonable to say the contract meant Carey could ignore all red flags and proceed with Mr Hs business regardless.  
In my view, like the complaint subject to the published decision, had Carey done what it 
ought to have done here, and drawn reasonable conclusions from what it knew or ought to 
have known, it should not have accepted either the application for Mr Hs SIPP from CL&P 
or the Store First investment. 
Due diligence on CL&P
The published decision sets out what information Carey was privy to  or ought to have been 
privy to, had it carried out sufficient due diligence on CL&P. 
I note Carey says it did not routinely check the FSAs Firms and individuals to avoid list. 
However, I remain of the view that checking the warnings posted on the FSAs website is 
something that Carey should have done as a matter of course before it began accepting any 
business from CL&P. This is consistent with good industry practice as highlighted in the 
2009 thematic review report and later documents. And, I find it would have been fair and 
reasonable, and in accordance with its regulatory obligations, for such a check to take place 
before it entered into a relationship with CL&P. 
Mr Hs application was accepted on 28 February 2012. As the published decision sets out it 
is fair and reasonable to say by that time Carey ought to have known that CL&Ps director 
was Mr Terence Wright, and that he was on the FSAs Firms and individuals to avoid list, 
which was described on the website as a warning list of some unauthorised firms and 
individuals that we believe you should not deal with.
I note Carey says Mr Wrights entry on the list, in the form in which it had been published in 
2010 and which would have existed as at the inception of Options relationship with CL&P, 
stated only that Mr Wright was not regulated by the FSA and referred only to a business 
named Cash In Your Pension targeting UK investors. There was nothing in the FSA Notice 
which described any criminal or civil wrongdoing and there was no contradiction between the 
FSA Notice and any statement provided by Mr Wright that he was not subject to any FSA 
action or censure. 
I think at this point it is worth highlighting that Careys Chief Executive, Ms Hallett, gave 
evidence to the court during the Adams v Carey hearing (at Paragraph 60) which HHJ Dight 
summarised as follows:
It was also brought to my attention that from October 2010 the FCA had published warnings 
about dealing with another director, Mr Terence Wright, who was not authorised under 
FSMA to carry out regulated activity. Ms Hallett accepted in cross examination that no check 
was made to see whether his name appeared on a regulatory warning notice on the FCAs 
website until May 2012. The relationship between the defendant and CLP was severed on 
25 May 2012. She accepted that had she been aware of such a warning in 2010 the 
defendant would not have dealt with CLP.
Careys response to the provisional decision appears to be completely at odds with this 
testimony of its Chief Executive. 
In any event, I do not accept Careys argument that the 2010 version of the FSA alert would 
not necessarily have led it to conclude that it should not enter into business with CL&P.  For 
all the reasons given in the published decision, I am of the view that the October 2010 alert 
was a clear indication that the regulator had serious concerns about the way Mr Terence 
Wright conducted his business and therefore should have put Carey on notice that it should 
not accept business from Mr Terence Wright. The National Archive of the FSA website shows the description of the list on the FSAs 
website in August 2011 (when Careys relationship with CL&P began) was as follows:
Firms and individuals to avoid
We have a warning list of some unauthorised firms and individuals that we believe you 
should not deal with.
The regulator therefore described those featuring on the list as firms and individuals that we 
believe you should not deal with. I consider that this supports my view that Carey should 
have been particularly circumspect before it agreed to do business operated by an individual 
who featured on that list. 
The money was invested in Store First on 15 June 2012. As the published decision sets out 
it is fair and reasonable to say by that time Carey knew, or ought to have known:
That what CL&P had told it in December 2011 about cash incentives not being 
offered was not correct. So CL&P was acting in a way which was, to use its own 
words, completely against all rules. And CL&P was acting without integrity as it had 
not told it the truth when asked about cash incentives.
Multiple requests had been made for copies of CL&Ps accounts, but CL&P was 
unwilling to provide this information. 
So for the same reasons set out in the published decision, it is my finding that if Carey had 
carried out sufficient due diligence on CL&P, or acted on the information it subsequently 
received in a timely manner, it should not have accepted Mr Hs application from CL&P  or, 
at the very least, not continued to process it. 
I am satisfied this is not imposing new and unexpected duties. On this point, Careys 
response to my provisional decision appears to be at odds with Careys own understanding 
of its obligations and good practice at the time, and some of its previous submissions to us. 
Long before the time of Mr Hs application, Carey understood and accepted its obligations 
meant that it had a responsibility to carry out due diligence on CL&P. It had set a standard 
for its introducer due diligence which it thought was consistent with good (or best) practice 
at the relevant time and that, in turn, was consistent with its regulatory obligations.
Investment due diligence
The published decision sets out what information Carey was privy to  or ought to have been 
privy to, had it carried out sufficient due diligence on Store First. 
I remain of the view that, as the published decision sets out, at the time Mr Hs application 
was accepted, Carey knew or ought to have known:
There were factors in the report Carey obtained on Harley Scott Holdings Ltd (the 
promoter of Store First) which ought to have been of concern  namely the adverse 
comments for the previous three years, the CCJs, and the fact the business had 
recently changed its name. 
Dylan Harvey (one of three previous names of Harley Scott Holdings Ltd, which at 
the time had the web address dylanharvey.com) and one of its directors, Toby 
Whittaker, were the subject of a number of national press reports, online petitions 
and proposed legal action, as a result of a failed property investment. Harley Scott Holdings Ltd had recently been involved in a property investment 
scheme which had failed. It had also recently changed its name, and had been 
subject to a number of adverse comments in succession, following audit.  
Store Firsts marketing material set out high fixed returns, and said these were 
guaranteed. The material did not contain any type of risk warning, or illustrations of 
any other returns. No explanation of the guarantees was offered, or the basis of the 
projected returns  other than Store Firsts own confidence in its business model and 
the self-storage marketplace. 
The conclusion of the Enhanced Support Solutions report Carey had obtained was 
inconsistent with the result of Careys own company searches. The report also 
makes no comment on the obvious issues with the marketing material. 
The marketing material showed there was a significant risk that potential investors 
were being misled. 
Store First appeared to be presenting the investment as one that was assured to 
provide high and rising returns, was underwritten by guarantees, and offered a high 
level of liquidity together with a strong prospect of a capital return - despite the fact 
that there was no investor protection associated with the investment and that, in 
Careys own words, there is no apparent established market for the investment and 
the investment is potentially illiquid
Store First had no proven track record for investors and so Carey couldnt be certain 
that the investment operated as claimed. 
Consumers may have been misled or did not properly understand the investment 
they intended to make. 
And I remain of the view, by the time the money was sent to Store First, as the published 
decision sets out, Carey knew, or ought to have known:
Store First was paying commission of 12% to CL&P. Payment of such a high level of 
commission to an unregulated business was very serious cause for concern, given 
how the investment was being marketed. How Store First was funding such levels of 
commission alongside guaranteed income payments and guaranteed buy backs 
called the nature of the Store First investment into serious question. 
Of at least some of the issues with Store First which were of sufficient concern for it 
to suspend acceptance of the investment in August. 
On the latter point, Carey suspended acceptance of new investments in Store First in August 
2012. It has still not confirmed the date at which this suspension was placed. But it has 
provided details of an internal meeting, which took place on 15 August 2012, at which 
concerns about Store First were discussed. And it has provided a copy of an internal email 
dated 17 August 2012 which says new investments in Store First had been suspended. So it 
seems likely the decision to suspend new investments in Store First was taken during or 
shortly after the 15 August 2012 meeting, and that Mr Hs investment therefore post-dates 
the suspension. If that is the case it is not clear why Carey went ahead and sent the money 
to Store First from Mr Hs SIPP.
In any event, it is clear from the available evidence that by the date on which Carey sent 
cash from Mr Hs SIPP to Store First Carey had the concerns that led to the suspension of 
the acceptance of new investments in Store First. As set out in the published decision these related to Rental Income Process/Delays, Sale Process/Delays, a tax investigation and 
that the marketing material provided for . a guaranteed rental income but only a small 
proportion of Store First investors were receiving the rental income as expected. 
As in the complaint subject to the published decision, I think all of the points listed above 
should have been considered alongside the fact the investment was being sold by an 
unregulated business, which was clearly targeting pension investors. I think it is fair and 
reasonable to find that Carey ought to have concluded there was an obvious risk of 
consumer detriment here.
So, given the circumstances at the time of Mr Hs application, I think the fair and reasonable 
conclusion, based on what Carey knew or ought to have known at the time, is that Carey 
should not have accepted Mr Hs application to invest in Store First. In my opinion, it ought to 
have concluded that it would not be consistent with its regulatory obligations, or best 
practice, to do so. Indeed, it seems to have reached the conclusion, before it sent Mr Hs 
money for investment in Store First, that it should not accept any further investments in Store 
First. I note that in its response to my provisional decision Carey has made to attempt to 
explain why it went ahead with Mr Hs investment in these circumstances. 
To confirm, I am satisfied the finding Carey should not have accepted Mr Hs application to 
invest in Store First does not amount to a requirement for Carey to give advice on the 
suitability of the investment in Store First for Mr H. On this point, I note Careys response to 
my provisional decision appears to be at odds with its own understanding of its obligations 
and/or good practice at the time. It was clearly of the view it had to undertake some due 
diligence into the Store First investment, and to make a decision on whether or not to allow 
the investment in its SIPP. As the published decision highlights, Careys own Terms and 
Conditions explained that investments would be made at its discretion and gave several 
examples of where it might conclude it should not proceed with an investment. 
As mentioned, Carey had in fact made the decision not to allow the investment and to not 
accept applications like Mr Hs  but in the case of Mr H it decided to nonetheless proceed, 
for reasons it has not explained. 
Was it fair and reasonable in all the circumstances for Carey to proceed with Mr Hs 
instructions?
I remain of the overall view I reached in my provisional decision, which is largely the same 
as the view set out in the published decision. However, I should emphasise that the primary 
points are: 
It was not fair and reasonable for Carey to have accepted Mr Hs application from 
CL&P in the first place. So, Mr Hs SIPP should not have been established and the 
opportunity to execute investment instructions or proceed in reliance on an indemnity 
should not have arisen at all. This, in my view, is the primary point. 
The Principles exist to ensure regulated firms treat their clients fairly. I consider there 
is a significant imbalance of knowledge between the parties which creates unfairness 
in the circumstances of this case. At the time of receiving Mr Hs application and 
executing his investment instructions, Carey knew things that Mr H did not. 
Carey was required by its regulatory obligations to ensure that it treated its 
customers fairly. In the circumstances, I am satisfied that this would have required 
Carey to have stopped Mr H from proceeding with his application to invest in Store 
First. In short, the application should simply have been rejected by Carey  and there should 
therefore have been no option for Mr H to proceed insistently. He should simply not have 
been able to proceed. 
For completeness, I confirm my view remains that if Carey had explained the situation to    
Mr H and let him have the opportunity of making an informed decision whether or not to 
proceed it is unlikely Mr H would have proceeded with the investment in Store First. But, as 
mentioned, my primary point is Mr H should simply not have been able to proceed. 
Is it fair to ask Carey to compensate Mr H? 
My view on this point, in relation to this complaint, is also largely the same as the view set 
out in the published decision. 
I note Carey says that, on its proper application, the contract between Mr H and Carey was 
effective to relieve Carey of any liability it might otherwise bear. But, in my view, the contract 
between Carey and Mr H does not mean that Carey should not be held responsible for 
failing to comply with its regulatory obligations to carry out adequate due diligence on CL&P 
and the Store First investment which ultimately led to Mr H losing a significant part of his 
pension. This is especially true when Carey had obtained information many months before it 
facilitated Mr Hs investment which led it to reject any further referrals from CL&P and had, it 
seems, stopped accepting Store First before it facilitated Mr Hs investment. 
Again, there is a primary point, which is that had Carey acted in accordance with its 
regulatory obligations and best practice, it should not have accepted Mr Hs application to 
open a SIPP introduced from CL&P at all. That should have been the end of the matter  it 
should have told Mr H that it could not accept the business.  So if that had happened, the 
arrangement for Mr H would not have come about in the first place, and the loss he suffered 
could have been avoided. 
For completeness, I confirm my view also remains: 
I do not consider the fact that Mr H signed the indemnity means that he shouldnt be 
compensated if it is fair to do so.
Had Carey explained to Mr H why it would not accept the application from CL&P or 
was terminating the transaction, I find it unlikely that Mr H would have tried to find 
another SIPP operator to accept the business. 
In any event, it is not fair and reasonable to say that Carey should not compensate 
Mr H for his loss on the basis of speculation that another SIPP operator would have 
made the same mistakes as Ive found it did. 
I am satisfied that it would not be fair to say Mr Hs actions mean he should bear the 
loss arising as a result of Careys failings. I acknowledge Mr H was warned of the 
high-risk nature of Store First and declared he understood that warning. I also 
acknowledge Mr H recalls CL&P saying he should not tell Carey about the cash 
incentive. But Carey failed to act on significant warning signs. Carey should simply 
not have accepted Mr Hs application at all. In these circumstances, I am satisfied 
that Carey should not have asked him to sign the indemnity at all. In these 
circumstances, although it may have been unwise of Mr H to sign the indemnity and 
to deal with CL&P when it had told him not to tell Carey about the cash incentive, I do 
not think it would be fair to make any reduction to the compensation because of Mr 
Hs actions. The starting point has to be that if Carey had acted fairly and reasonably 
the application simply would not have been accepted. With all this in mind, I remain of the opinion that it is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of this case to find that Carey is unable to rely on the indemnity that Mr H 
signed in order to avoid liability for the regulatory failings it has made in this case. So I am 
satisfied that it is fair and reasonable to conclude that Carey should compensate Mr H for the 
loss he has suffered to his pension.
Putting things right
I am satisfied that Careys failure to comply with its regulatory obligations and industry best 
practice at the relevant time have led to Mr H suffering a significant loss to his pension. And 
my aim is therefore to return Mr H to the pension position he would now be in but for Careys 
failings. When considering this I have taken into account the Court of Appeals 
supplementary judgement ([2021] EWCA Civ 1188), insofar as that judgement deals with 
restitution/compensation.
In light of the above, Carey should calculate fair compensation by comparing the current 
position to the position Mr H would be in if he had not transferred from his existing pensions. 
In summary, Carey should:
1. Calculate the loss Mr H has suffered as a result of making the transfer.
2. Take ownership of the Store First investment if possible.
3. Pay compensation for the loss into Mr Hs pension.  If that is not possible pay 
compensation for the loss to Mr H direct. In either case the payment should take into 
account necessary adjustments set out below.
4. Pay £500 for the trouble and upset caused.
Ill explain how Carey should carry out the calculation set out at 1-3 above in further detail 
below:
1. Calculate the loss Mr H has suffered as a result of making the transfer
To do this, Carey should work out the likely value of Mr Hs pensions as at the date of this 
decision, had he left them where they were instead of switching to the SIPP. 
I note Careys point made in its response that a high risk benchmark should be used to 
complete this calculation. However, I have seen no evidence to show Mr H was seeking a 
high risk investment. He may have been looking for alternative investments, but it does not 
follow he would certainly have moved away from his existing pensions, had Carey rejected 
his application. And, in any event, I think it likely if he Carey had rejected the application Mr 
H would have sought advice from a regulated advisor and, if that did result in him moving to 
a new pension, that pension would likely have had an existing risk profile to his existing 
pensions. And so I remain satisfied that comparison to Mr Hs previous pensions offer a fair 
approximation of the loss he has suffered. 
Carey should ask Mr H's former pension providers to calculate the current notional transfer 
value had he not switched his pensions. If there are any difficulties in obtaining a notional 
valuation then the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index should be used to 
calculate the value. That is likely to be a reasonable proxy for the type of return that could 
have been achieved if suitable funds had been chosen.
The total notional transfer value should be compared to the transfer value of the SIPP at the 
date of this decision and this will show the loss Mr H has suffered. The Store First investment should be assumed to have no value. Account should however be taken of the 
cash back payment paid out to Mr H. This can be taken into account in the calculation on the 
basis of it having been paid at the outset i.e. the same approach can be taken as was taken 
by the Court of Appeal in its supplementary judgement. 
On this latter point, Mr H has not been able to provide evidence of how much cash he 
received in his response to the provisional decision. So I think a fair assumption should be 
made and a fair assumption is the sum Mr H initially recalled receiving - £2,500. That is not 
inconsistent with the amounts we have seen on other cases (as Carey notes in its response 
to my provisional decision). 
2. Take ownership of the Store First investment
I understand Carey has been able to take ownership of the Store First investment, for a nil 
consideration, in other cases. It should do that here, if possible.  
If Carey is unable to take ownership of the Store First investment it should remain in the 
SIPP. I remain of the view that is fair because first of all I understand Carey can take 
ownership of the investment, if it wishes to. And in any event because I think it is unlikely it 
will have any significant realisable value in the future. I also understand Mr H has the option 
of returning his Store First investment to the freeholder for nil consideration, and I think Mr H 
should be free to take that option, if Carey does not want to take ownership of the 
investment. That should enable Mr H to close his SIPP, if Carey does not take ownership of 
the Store First investment. 
In the event the Store First investment remains in the SIPP and Mr H decides not to transfer 
it to the freeholder he should be aware that he will be liable for all future costs associated 
with the investment such as the ongoing SIPP fees, business rates, ground rent and any 
other charges. He should also be aware it is unlikely he will be able to make a further 
complaint about these costs. 
3. Pay compensation to Mr H for loss he has suffered calculated in (1). 
Since the loss Mr H has suffered is within his pension it is right that I try to restore the value 
of his pension provision if that is possible. So if possible the compensation for the loss 
should be paid into the pension.  The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension if it 
would conflict with any existing protection or allowance. Payment into the pension should 
allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief.  This may mean the compensation 
should be increased to cover the charges and reduced to notionally allow for the income tax 
relief Mr H could claim. The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr Hs marginal 
rate of tax.
On the other hand, Mr H may not be able to pay the compensation into a pension. If so 
compensation for the loss should be paid to Mr H direct.  But had it been possible to pay the 
compensation into the pension, it would have provided a taxable income. Therefore, the 
compensation for the loss paid to Mr H should be reduced to notionally allow for any income 
tax that would otherwise have been paid. The notional allowance should be calculated using 
Mr Hs marginal rate of tax in retirement. For example, if Mr H is likely to be a basic rate 
taxpayer in retirement, the notional allowance would equate to a reduction in the total 
amount equivalent to the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr H would have been able to 
take a tax free lump sum, the notional allowance should be applied to 75% of the total 
amount.
4. Pay £500 for the trouble and upset caused.Mr H has been caused some distress and inconvenience by the loss of his pension benefits. 
This is money Mr H cannot afford to lose and its loss has undoubtedly caused him upset.  I 
note the Court of Appeal did not find compensation should be paid for non financial loss. But 
my role here is to determine what, in my view, is fair compensation in the particular 
circumstances of this case. And I consider that a payment of £500 is fair to compensate for 
the upset Mr H has suffered.
interest
The compensation must be paid as set out above within 28 days of the date Carey receives 
notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Interest must be added to the 
compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to 
the date of settlement if the compensation is not paid within 28 days.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my decision is that I uphold Mr Hs complaint. Options UK Personal 
Pensions LLP should calculate and pay compensation as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
John Pattinson
Ombudsman