DRN-4414589
The complaint
Mr R complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited hasnt settled a clam on his 
motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr Rs car was damaged in an accident so he made a claim on his insurance policy. 
Advantage accepted the claim and arranged an assessment of the repairs needed by an 
independent engineer (which Ill call H). H provided an estimate for repair costs of around 
£6,200.
Mr R said he didnt want to use the repairer on Advantages network and would prefer to 
have the car repaired by a dealer that carried out repairs for that type of car. 
When he found out there would be a wait of around three months, Mr R took his car to 
another garage to do the repairs. He then asked Advantage to reimburse him for the cost, 
which was around £7,200.
Mr R provided a copy of an invoice and the payment made, but Advantage asked him to 
provide a more detailed invoice with a breakdown of the amounts charged for parts. Mr R 
said he wasnt able to provide that, so Advantage didnt make any payment.
When Mr R complained, Advantage said in view of the high charges it needed an itemised 
bill. 
Mr R remains unhappy. He says he provided a quote before the work was done and only 
went ahead on the basis this would be paid, but hes now out of pocket. He doesnt think its 
fair for Advantage to refuse to make any payment at all. 
Our investigator didnt think Advantages request for an itemised list was unreasonable. As 
Mr R disagrees, hes requested an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant industry rules and guidance say insurers must deal with claims promptly and 
fairly; provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate 
information on its progress; and not unreasonably reject a claim. They should settle claims 
promptly once settlement terms are agreed. 
The policy terms say:
if the car is repairable, Advantage may choose to have it repaired using its nominated 
repairer;
the policyholder can take the car to a repairer of their choice but if they do, they wont 
be entitled to benefits available under the nominated repairer scheme, and they will 
need to submit a repair estimate for approval before the work can start;
when making any claim, the policyholder must co-operate fully and provide 
information needed for investigating and settling the claim.
I appreciate Mr R provided an estimate before the work was done, showing the estimated 
cost of the repairs. But I cant see that Advantage confirmed it would pay this amount. And it 
would still be reasonable to request proof of the costs incurred once the work has been 
done.
Advantage instructed H to agree the costs on its behalf and awaited the invoice for the 
completed repairs. The policy terms require Mr R to provide information requested for 
settling the claim. Thats not unusual and most policies have similar requirements. So it was 
reasonable for Advantage to wait for evidence of the costs actually incurred, so H could 
assess this and confirm payment.
The repairs were done at a garage owned by a member of Mr Rs family and the cost was 
quite a bit higher than the estimate from a specialist dealer that deals with this particular type 
of car. In these circumstances, and bearing in mind the need for Mr R to provide information 
needed for settling the claim, I think it was reasonable for Advantage to ask Mr R for more 
information to prove his claim. If Mr R provides further evidence Advantage will be able to 
continue assessing the claim and if hes unhappy with any decision Advantage then makes, 
he is free to make another complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2023.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman