DRN-3485593
The complaint
Mr F complains that Capital One (Europe) plc unfairly turned down his claim under the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
What happened
Mr and Mrs F bought a timeshare product from Business A in September 2012. The cost 
was £17,950 and the transaction was part funded by a Capital One credit card held by 
Mr F1.   
In July 2019, a representative on behalf of Mr and Mrs F contacted Capital One to make a  
claim under Section 75 (s.75) of the Consumer Credit Act (CCA). Mr and Mrs F raised a 
number of issues about how Business A had misrepresented the product. They said, in 
summary, that they were told it was a guaranteed investment and that the product would 
enable them to book worldwide holidays at five-star accommodation. They say, however, 
that these things turned out not to be true and that had they known what Business A said 
wasnt right, they would not have taken out the membership in the first place.
Capital One turned down the claim. Mr and Mr F complained about the decision but 
Capital One maintained that it had reached the correct outcome. Unhappy, Mr and Mrs F 
asked us to look into things.
Capital One told us that it thought the complaint had been brought too late, because it had 
been raised more than six years after Mr and Mrs F had brought the product.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. They said the complaint was one that 
we could consider, because the event complained of was Capital One turning down the 
s.75 claim  not the sale of the timeshare product. However, they didnt think Capital One 
needed to do anything further, because they thought that the claim under s.75 CCA had 
been brought too late by reference to the Limitation Act 1980 (LA). So, they didnt think 
Capital One needed to consider the substance of the claim.
Mr and Mrs Fs representative responded asking for the case to be referred to an 
ombudsman and saying that a full response would follow in due course. The investigator 
gave both parties until 22 April 2022 to provide any further representations. Capital One 
confirmed it had nothing further to add. Mr and Mrs Fs representative didnt provide 
anything further.  
So the complaint was passed to me to decide. As the deadline for further representations 
has passed, Ive gone on to decide the case based on the information already on file. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
1 1 Both Mr and Mrs F are mentioned on the Timeshare application form. But, only Mr F is an eligible complainant as the credit 
card used was his. As Mr and Mrs F went through the purchase process together, I have referred to both of them in the 
decision, but it would be for Mr F to accept or reject this final decision.
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same outcome as the investigator for broadly the same 
reasons. I appreciate that Mr and Mrs F may find this disappointing, but I hope that my 
explanation helps them to understand why Ive reached this conclusion. 
Mr and Mrs F say that Business A misrepresented to them the nature and benefits of the 
timeshare agreement, so they say Capital One is jointly liable under s.75 CCA and as 
such they have brought a like claim. But if Capital One could show the claim was 
brought outside of the time limits set out in the LA, it would be entitled to rely on the LA 
as a defence to answering the claim. I should make it clear however that Im not 
deciding if any right that Mr and Mrs F may have to bring these claims has expired 
under the LA - thats a matter for the courts. In this decision Im considering if 
Capital One acted fairly and reasonably in turning down Mr and Mrs Fs claims.
A claim for misrepresentation against the supplier would be ordinarily brought under s.2(1) 
of the Misrepresentation Act 1967. And it was held in Laws v. The Society of Lloyds [2003] 
EWCA 1887 that this type of claim is an action founded in tort covered by s.2 LA or an 
action brought for a sum recoverable by statute within s.9 LA. Under both of those 
provisions, a claimant has a period of six years to bring a claim from the date on which the 
cause of action accrued.
The date on which a cause of action accrued is the point in time that everything needed to 
make a legal claim occurred. So, in Mr and Mrs Fs case, thats when they could have 
brought a claim for misrepresentation against Business A or a like claim against 
Capital One. I think that was the date they entered into the agreement to buy the timeshare 
product  which was in in September 2012. It was at that time that they entered into an 
agreement based, they say, on the misrepresentations of Business A. And they say, had 
the misrepresentations not been made, they wouldnt have bought the timeshare. So, it was 
on that day that they suffered a loss, as they made part payment using Mr Fs credit card. 
It follows, therefore, that I think the cause of action accrued in September 2012. 
Mr and Mrs F had six years from then to make a claim. But they didnt try to contact 
Capital One about their claim until July 2019, which was outside of the time limits set out 
in the LA. So, I think Capital One acted fairly in turning down this misrepresentation claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint against Capital One (Europe) plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2022.
 
Ben Brewer
Ombudsman