DRN-2654415
The complaint
Mr R complains U K Insurance Limited (UKI), trading as Green Flag, failed to correctly 
identify a fault when attending his car under his roadside assistance policy.
What happened
On 17 September 2019 Mr Rs car broke down. He called UKI who came out to him, 
although after some delay. The mechanic diagnosed a battery problem and sold Mr R a new 
battery. The mechanic also said Mr Rs coolant was quite low, and Mr R says he was told to 
go to a garage and ask them to top it up, which he did.
After this Mr R carried on his journey, but then broke down a second time around half an 
hour later. Mr R had noticed the temperature gauge was rising, and when he opened the 
bonnet of his car hot water was coming out of the cap on the coolant tank. So, Mr R called 
UKI again.
Mr R says the second mechanic was able to restart the car and having done so said, since 
the first mechanic did as well, it was unlikely there was an issue with the battery. Mr R says 
the second mechanic said it probably never needed to be replaced  and had noticed a big 
problem with the coolant system. The second mechanic poured a lot of water into the 
coolant tank. He couldnt see this leaking anywhere, so thought there might be a problem 
with the water pump or there was a blockage somewhere. 
The second mechanic told Mr R his car had suffered catastrophic damage and towed him to 
a garage. The garage said the engine was so badly damaged the cost of replacing it would 
exceed the value of Mr Rs car  so it was written off. Mr R said the second mechanic, the 
garage Mr R was originally towed to, and his regular garage, all said the initial problem 
wasnt the battery. Mr R complained to UKI, saying although the first mechanic noticed the 
coolant issue, it needed more attention than the mechanic gave it. 
UKI replied to Mr Rs complaint. They said there was no mention of the car overheating  so 
there was no reason for the first mechanic to think there was a problem with a head gasket. 
It was reported to them the car cut out wont start. UKI said the actions of testing the 
alternator and battery were correct. UKI said the first mechanic noticed the coolant levels 
were low and had advised Mr R to go to a garage  and said once the car is in a garage then 
any issues regarding the fluid leaking would be identified there. So, they didnt uphold this 
element of Mr Rs complaint. But they said the battery was recorded as weak rather than 
not working, so felt Mr R could have been given more information to make a more informed 
choice about whether to replace the battery. And they said there was a delay in attending to 
Mr R when he called. So, they refunded the cost of the battery at £47.99, and paid Mr R 
£100 compensation.
Mr R didnt accept this in resolution of his complaint and asked us to look into things. When 
contacting us he said he felt the first mechanic didnt properly recognise the issue  which 
was overheating due to a failure in the coolant system. He said the first mechanics 
enthusiasm for selling a new battery perhaps stopped him from correctly diagnosing the 
vehicle. Mr R also disagreed with UKI saying as he was in a garage to get the coolant 
topped up that it was their responsibility to diagnose the issue. He said he was following the 
first mechanics advice to go to a garage to get the coolant topped up  which is what he did. 
So, he felt UKI were responsible for his car subsequently being written off.  
One of our investigators looked into things. Overall, he didnt think UKI had done anything 
wrong, and felt the issue should have been addressed by the garage after the first call out. 
But he did think the refund of the battery and compensation for the delay in attending Mr Rs 
car were fair.  
Mr R didnt agree with our investigator that UKI hadnt done anything wrong and it was for 
the garage to resolve any coolant issues. Ive summarised his concerns, most relevant to 
deciding the outcome of this case, in my own words:
The first mechanic only told him to get the levels topped up  they should have 
realised there was a bigger problem with the coolant and advised the garage to look 
into things.
He didnt mention anything about overheating in the first call, because there was no 
indication the car was overheating  only that itd cut out.
The purpose of the battery is to provide power to the car  once the engine has fired, 
then theres no need for a battery until the car needs to be started again. So, 
because the car was running before the breakdown meant it wasnt the battery  
meaning the first fault couldnt have been because of the battery. 
The first mechanic noticed the low coolant but didnt make the connection between 
the breakdown and the low coolant. 
Mr R didnt think it was OK for UKI to say hes not properly identified the cause  he 
said its for him to describe issues, and for their mechanic to make the diagnosis.
The battery had been fine before as hed started the car twice before the breakdown 
 and it started fine for the mechanic  so it seems to be being overlooked that a 
weak battery wouldnt cause the breakdown. 
Mr R now understood a battery problem wouldnt cause a car to cut out when it was 
in motion  so, with the mechanic identifying the coolant issue Mr R felt the 
mechanic didnt diagnose the issue properly. 
Mr R did also agree the £100 compensation, and refund for the battery, were fair.
Because of this, the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
Before doing so, I had some further questions for UKI to understand whatd happened. We 
shared those questions, and answers, with Mr R.We asked Mr R for his comments on what UKI had provided to us, and he said:
When he left for his journey, and after filling up with petrol, the car started fine both 
times  so he felt the faulty battery was a bit of a red herring. He said it sounded 
healthy enough and although the engine turned over it wouldnt fire. He said when 
the technician arrived it started immediately.
He didnt question the expert technicians suggestion to replace the battery as he 
thought he was competent. But, on reflection, starting the car twice on his journey 
and when the technician arrived suggests there was no problem with the battery. He 
said not being able to restart his car may have been due to overheating.
The comments made by UKI that their technician acted on the information given 
suggests he somehow diagnosed the cause of the breakdown. He said he had no 
idea what caused the breakdown  and all he could say was the engine had cut out 
and wouldnt restart. He said he had no recollections of seeing any red lights. 
He said the technician noticed the low level of coolant and would have thought it was 
their responsibility to consider the reason for that. Instead, the technician advised him 
to go to the nearest garage and get the coolant topped up. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
UKI have said they didnt give Mr R all of the information they should have so he could 
decide whether he needed a new battery or not. For this, theyve refunded the cost of the 
battery and offered Mr R £100 compensation to take this and a delay in attending his car into 
account. Mr R accepted this. Ive seen no reason to disagree this is appropriate, so instead 
Ill focus on the remaining key issue in this case.
To summarise Mr Rs points, its that the first mechanic didnt do their job properly and thats 
what led to his car subsequently overheating and being written off. 
I think its important to explain I can only require UKI to reimburse Mr R for his car being 
written off if Im satisfied the first mechanic did something wrong. 
Based on all the information given I agree the battery is probably not the cause of what 
happened to Mr Rs car. Instead, it seems the issue was related to the coolant levels. So, the 
key question is whether UKIs technician should have done more when he noticed this  
taking into account hed identified a faulty battery during the process of assessing Mr Rs 
car.  
Ive noted Mr Rs concerns about what I think he sees as UKI saying he didnt tell them there 
was an issue with the coolant levels / overheating, so how could their technician have 
known. Im not sure that is what theyre saying. I think theyre saying theyd investigate what 
theyre told by their customers when a breakdown happens, as well as using their diagnostic 
tools to understand the problem. I dont think this is an unreasonable approach as Id expect 
someone to describe whats happened when theyve reported it. This can be useful 
information to determine the issues  and combined with their diagnostic tools Id expect that 
in most cases to be sufficient to identify any issues. Coming back to UKIs comments about the battery, although I dont think it was responsible 
for the breakdown  they have said it could have caused the car to cut out under certain 
circumstances. Ive not seen anything to dispute this. And the first technician diagnosed a 
weak battery  which based on what had been reported by Mr R, combined with the 
diagnostic tests, could have been a reasonable explanation for the breakdown at the time.
Mr R has said there were no warning lights to suggest there was anything else going on 
initially  so having found a potential cause for the breakdown in the form of the battery  I 
cant reasonably say the technician has acted incorrectly. Hes potentially identified a fault, 
replaced the relevant part, and during this process noticed the coolant levels are low.
I take Mr Rs point  he could have investigated the low coolant level further. But UKIs 
explanations for reasons why a low coolant could be in place all sound quite plausible to me. 
And the purpose of roadside assistance is to get someone back on the road  or point them 
in the direction of mechanical assistance which is what happened here. Based on all the 
information Ive been given I cant see there were any obvious signs that suggested further 
investigation needed to take place on the coolant levels  as it was reasonable for the 
technician to think hed solved the problem by replacing the battery. 
And, crucially, he gave Mr R the right advice to take his car to the garage. Ive noted Mr Rs 
comments that he was only told to top up the coolant which is information hes passed on to 
the garage. But when a car is taken to the garage effectively UKIs responsibility to identify 
the issues has ended. At this point, its for the garage to check things over to ensure there 
are no other issues  and Id expect a garage to identify the root cause of the problem as 
opposed to just topping up the coolant levels.
That doesnt mean UKIs technician can just do whatever they want and pass on 
responsibility to a garage. But, in this case I cant agree the technician has clearly failed in 
their duty of care when attending Mr Rs car. Because of that, I wont be telling UKI to pay 
Mr R for the cost of his car. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman