DRN-3087723
The complaint
Mr Ws complaint is about the amount of premium charged at renewal by Admiral Insurance 
(Gibraltar) Limited for his home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr W holds a home insurance policy with Admiral. In October 2020 he made a claim for 
subsidence under the policy which Admiral accepted. The claim was ongoing when the 
policy came up for renewal in February 2021.
Mr W received his renewal quote and was unhappy at the increased premium, which was 
nearly three times what hed paid the year before. Mr W says that he tried to get a better 
deal, and asked for a quote without subsidence cover, but was told this wasnt possible.
Mr W complained to Admiral. He said the premium had been unfairly calculated because the 
cause of a recent subsidence claim (a neighbouring tree) had now been removed and was 
no longer a risk, and that as a result of the claim he was unable to get quotes from other 
insurers.
Admiral said it had reviewed the policy and confirmed the price offered was correct. It said it 
included the subsidence claim as in its experience, policyholders who had claimed before 
were more likely to do so in the future. And it said it wasnt responsible for the risks other 
insurers were willing to take on.
Mr W didnt agree with Admirals response and referred the complaint to our service. He said 
he had been left with no option but to pay the increased premium to be covered. And he was 
unhappy that he was being charged an extra premium as a direct result of the claim.
Our investigator looked at everything and concluded the complaint shouldnt be upheld. They 
concluded Admiral had calculated the premium fairly and acted reasonably by continuing to 
offer cover at renewal. And they were satisfied that the underwriting evidence showed the 
premium reflected the risk presented by Mr W.
Mr W doesnt agree, he says hes been unable to find another insurer whilst the current 
subsidence claim is ongoing, and that the increased premium is disproportionately high 
compared to other consumers hes spoken to. And he remains unhappy that Admiral couldnt 
offer him a product without subsidence cover to mitigate his risk.
The complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the way Admiral has priced Mr Ws policy renewal. Ive then considered 
whether it has treated Mr W fairly, and in the same way it would have done any other 
customer in the same circumstances in line with our services general approach.
Insurers can choose what information to consider when setting the price of a policy. Insurers 
then look at these factors and decide what weight to place upon them. The resulting 
premium is based on what risk the insurer wants to take. Our service therefore generally 
doesnt interfere by telling insurers which factors to take into account or the weight they 
place on them, unless it can be shown the insurer has acted unfairly.
However, to show Admiral has acted unfairly, I would need to be persuaded that it did 
something wrong in reviewing the risks posed by Mr Ws property.
Admiral checked its calculations of Mr Ws premium and has provided our service with some 
underwriting data. Admiral has mentioned that the change in Mr Ws circumstances resulted 
in some of the rating factors changing on the policy. 
I can see from the evidence provided that the open subsidence claim had a negative impact 
on the price of the insurance. This wasnt previously rated for as the property had no history 
of subsidence. But having considered the information, Im satisfied that Admiral has treated 
Mr W as it would any other customer in the same circumstances.
Under the Association of British Insurers (ABI) guidance, the current insurer dealing with a 
subsidence claim should commit to working with policyholders to manage ongoing 
subsidence risk and maintain cover. 
Mr Ws provided his own interpretation of the ABI guidance, and asked if he could contact 
ABI to further clarify this before I decide the complaint. But my role here is to determine the 
complaint against Admiral, not the wording of the ABI guidance, so as Admiral has continued 
to offer insurance to Mr W  albeit at a much higher premium  I cant say that it has failed to 
follow the guidance of the ABI as Mr W was able to maintain cover.
I appreciate Mr W asked for a product from Admiral which didnt include subsidence cover to 
try and reduce his costs. But it is not our role to tell insurers what products to offer to a 
customer. They can decide what risks they are prepared to take on and set a price to reflect 
the cost of that risk to them. So, I am unable to find that Admiral has acted unreasonably by 
not offering a bespoke insurance product to Mr W. And for the same reasons, whilst I 
understand Mr Ws concern about not being able to find a different policy, Im unable to 
consider the actions of other insurers in not offering cover here.
Ive considered Mr Ws comments about the neighbouring tree being the cause of the 
damage. But ultimately the subsidence claim was made against the insured property. And 
Admiral has shown that it is the claim itself, not the cause, which has added to the rated risk 
and therefore led to a higher premium. The evidence shows the method Admiral used to 
calculate the premium it charged was the same for any other customer in the same position. 
So, I cant say that it has acted unfairly.
I appreciate Mr W will be very disappointed with my decision. But for the reasons given 
above, I do not uphold this complaint.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2021.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman