DRN-3997474
The complaint
Mr K complains that Citibank UK Limited reviewed and blocked his account and asked for 
additional information relating to an incoming transaction.
What happened
In March 2022, Mr Ks partner transferred money into Mr Ks Citibank account from another 
bank. Citibank blocked the transaction to carry out a further review but didnt tell Mr K a 
reason for their decision or how long the review would take. Mr K complained. Citibank 
responded and explained their compliance team were experiencing backlogs and they didnt 
have a timescale to give Mr K  they offered him £50 compensation to recognise the delays 
caused.
In April 2022, Citibank asked Mr K for some information relating to the transfer. Specifically, 
they asked for personal details such as name and place of birth. Mr K felt Citibanks 
questions were discriminatory  although he did provide the relevant details. The payment 
was released to Mr Ks account around 19 April 2022.
Our investigator reviewed things and thought Citibank were entitled to review the transaction 
but thought the time it took was excessive. She asked Citibank to pay 8% simple interest on 
the transaction and a further £50 compensation to Mr K. Mr K accepted. Citibank didnt. In 
summary, they said they were carrying out relevant reviews and didnt cause any delays.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The problem here is Citibank havent shared information relating to why this particular 
transaction was flagged or what their procedures are when a transaction is flagged for 
review. I respect that Citibank has internal policies and processes to follow along with legal 
and regulatory obligations. But they are also aware of our rules.
DISP 3.5.2 states, amongst other things, that an Ombudsman can reach a decision on the 
basis of what has been supplied and take account of the failure by a complainant or a firm to 
provide information that an Ombudsman has requested; . Therefore, Ive based my 
decision on the information I have available.
Im aware that Citibank are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet 
their legal and regulatory obligations. Citibank are required to regularly review the 
relationships they hold with their customers. While Im unaware of the reasons why this 
particular transaction flagged for review, it is often appropriate for banks to review 
transactions and accounts, so I do consider the review itself was more than likely 
reasonable. 
While Citibank are usually entitled to carry out a review, wed expect them to do so in a 
timely manner and without undue delays. Citibank have shared limited information with our 
service in regard to the actions they took during the review, and they have provided 
contradictory information with regard to the time it took. Citibank confirmed in the final 
response letter to Mr K that their compliance team were experiencing backlogs and therefore 
upheld his complaint for delays. However, in response to our investigators view they have 
said they didnt cause delays as the review was necessary. 
Im aware the payment in question was sent to Mr Ks account around 25 March 2022 but 
wasnt credited until around 19 April 2022. When financial institutions carry out reviews, its 
common practice across the banking industry that the review will require additional 
information from the account holder. Often, the information required is related to identity, 
proof of entitlement to recent payments or more details such as what the account is used for. 
Based on the evidence Ive seen, Im aware Citibank asked Mr K questions relating to the 
identity of the sender and what the payment was for. I do think asking for this information 
was likely appropriate in the full circumstances, but I dont agree this type of review should 
have taken nearly a month. And therefore, I do consider Citibank caused delays and the 
payment likely could have been released to Mr K sooner than it was.
I recognise Mr K feels very strongly about this, and in particular he feels Citibank may have 
made a discriminatory decision based on his and his partners surname. I appreciate why 
Mr K feels this way  and while Citibank have strongly denied this claim, they havent 
provided sufficient details to explain why the transaction flagged for review. Having said that, 
Ive reviewed Mr Ks account activity and can see hes been a customer of Citibank for a 
number of years and his partner has made transfers into his account before which havent 
flagged for review. Therefore, I dont consider this particular transaction was flagged due to a 
discriminatory reason  if it was and for the reasons why Mr K suspects, Id expect all 
transactions to and from his partner to be flagged and they havent been. So, I cant fairly 
uphold Mr Ks complaint on this point.
Putting things right
Overall, I consider Citibank were entitled to review the payment which was transferred into 
Mr Ks account  but I dont think it should have taken as long as it did. I appreciate Citibank 
may have been experiencing backlogs  but thats not Mr Ks fault. And I dont think its 
reasonable he was without this money for the time he was. 
In order to recognise the loss of use of funds to Mr K, I consider 8% simple interest should 
be paid. 8% simple is the current statutory interest rate on judgment debts and therefore, I 
consider it to be the fairest in the circumstances. 
I feel £100 compensation in total fairly reflects the distress and inconvenience this overall 
situation has caused Mr K. It no doubt would have been distressing to continuously ask 
Citibank for updates and not be given a timeframe. Im aware Mr K has already received £50 
compensation from Citibank, so I only require them to pay an additional £50.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I uphold this complaint.
In order to put things right, Citibank UK Limited should do the following:
Pay interest at 8% simple per year on the amount they withheld from Mr K. They 
should calculate this from 1 April 2022 (around a week after the payment was 
transferred which should have been sufficient time to carry out their review) up to the date the money was released back to Mr K.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Citibank UK Limited to withhold income tax from 
the above-mentioned interest. Citibank should give Mr K a certificate showing how 
much is taken off if Mr K asks for one.
Pay a further £50 compensation for the inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2023.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman