DRN-2335511
The complaint
Mr S complains that Santander UK Plc unfairly registered a default on his credit file without 
telling him and has refused to agree a payment plan.
What happened
Mr S says Santander kept threatening him with defaulting his account despite him paying 
£20 a month to it. He says a default was registered without him being told and Santander 
has now passed the debt to a debt collector without telling him. He also says Santanders 
actions have caused him stress and would like it to agree to a repayment plan and remove 
the default and stop sending him the default letters.
Santander says its obliged to send the default letters and so hasnt made a mistake. It says 
it couldnt agree a repayment plan with Mr S as he didnt have enough money but says it 
would accept any repayments towards the debt. Santander says it correctly registered a 
default and is obliged to accurately report the position of its customers accounts to the 
Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs). It says it told Mr S his account would default.
Mr S brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Santander had followed Information Commissioner Officer (ICO) guidance on the 
registering of a default and thought Santander was obliged to send Mr S the default notices. 
The investigator didnt think Santander was obliged to accept Mr Ss offer of token payments 
and Mr S was told that a repayment plan hadnt been agreed.
Mr S doesnt accept that view and in summary says he was not told the account would 
default and says there must have been a repayment plan agreement as he was given the 
account details to make the payments. He says he didnt receive the default letters and 
wasnt told the debt had been given to a debt collector. He also says he didnt receive any 
support.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that Santander has dealt fairly with this 
complaint and hasnt made a mistake. I appreciate Mr S will be disappointed by my decision.
I have looked carefully at what Mr S told us this complaint was about and have looked at 
Santanders records to be sure what Mr S told it about his complaint. I can see Mr S told us 
and Santander that he was being threatened by defaults and, was not happy receiving 
default letters. So, whilst I appreciate Mr S has also told us he didnt receive those default 
letters and was unaware the account may default, Im satisfied he must have known about 
that possibility and I think on balance, based on what he told us and Santander, that he must 
have received those default letters. I also think that Mr S told us that for resolution of this 
case he wanted those default letters to be stopped. I find Mr S was told that his account 
would default, and I think on balance he would have received a number of letters from 
Santander telling him that both before and after the account was defaulted. 
I have listened to the call between Mr S and Santander in March 2020 and Im satisfied Mr S 
was told that a payment plan arrangement had not been set up. Im also satisfied Mr S told 
Santander at one point that you didnt want to set up an arrangement. I think on balance 
that Mr S must have been aware that there wasnt a plan in place, and I cant think why else 
he would have said that if that wasnt the position. During that call I find that Santander gave 
Mr S account details that he could make payments into, but it was made clear there was no 
formal plan in place. And Im satisfied that was due to Mr S not having enough money after a 
calculation took place to afford such a repayment plan.
I have also listened to another call between Mr S and Santander and Im satisfied Mr S was 
given a number of options by Santander. And he was clearly told that his credit file would be 
affected, a default applied and that the amount owed could be passed to a third party for 
collection. During that call I find that Mr S was directed to a debt assistance company and 
told Santander how does this help me. So, Im satisfied that Mr S was told about the default 
and was also told his debt could be passed to a third party company for collection. 
I have looked at the account terms and conditions and Im satisfied they make clear that 
Santander is entitled to pass a debt to a third-party company and can see it wrote to Mr S on 
15 July 2020 to tell him that. It follows I dont think Santander made a mistake by doing so 
and fairly told Mr S what it was doing.
Banks and building societies should treat customers in financial difficulties positively and 
sympathetically. Im satisfied that Santander did try and help Mr S by looking at his income 
and expenditure but was entitled to reasonably conclude that it couldnt agree a repayment 
plan in these circumstances. I have also made clear that during one of the calls I have 
listened to that Mr S was directed to an organisation that could help him.
Im satisfied that Santander has a duty to accurately report the position of its customers 
accounts to the CRAs and I have not seen any evidence that it made a mistake here by 
doing so or that it reported inaccurate information. 
Overall, I find Santander was entitled in line with ICO guidance to register a default on Mr Ss 
credit file when it was clear the relationship between them had broken down and that Mr S 
was unable to repay his debt. I also find Santander must have sent Mr S the default notices 
as he himself has told us he received them, and Santander that. And I have not seen 
evidence that Santander made a mistake by passing the debt to a third -party debt company. 
I also find there wasnt a payment plan in place and again Mr S must have known that as he 
told us that and has said that he wanted Santander to agree one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman