DRN-1959010
The complaint
Mr G complains about investment advice he was given by Nationwide Building Society in 
2002, to invest in an Individual Savings Account (ISA).
What happened
In March 2002 Mr G received attended a financial review with Nationwide, to consider 
possible investment options. Nationwide advised Mr G to open a stocks and shares ISA and 
invest £14,000 in a high income fund. 
As Mr G hadnt utilised his tax-free ISA allowance for 2001/2002, Nationwide advised him to 
invest over two tax years: £7,000 for the 2001/2002 tax year and a further £7,000 for the 
2002/2003 tax year. There was no fixed term for the investment, but Mr G was advised to 
invest for at least five years.
In August 2019, Mr G complained to Nationwide through a representative. His representative 
said Mr G was unhappy with the advice he'd been given in 2002 as it didnt match his 
attitude to risk (ATR). Mr G also said he felt he was exposed to unnecessary costs due to 
the funds high management costs. 
Nationwide looked into Mr Gs complaint but it felt the advice it had given was suitable. Mr G 
remained unhappy so his representative referred his complaint to our service.
Nationwide consented to this service looking into the complaint despite the amount of time 
that had passed.
Our investigator looked into Mr Gs complaint, in summary he said that he didnt think 
Nationwide had provided unsuitable advice. He also said the 1% annual management fee 
was a fairly standard fee at this time. And Mr G was made aware of this and continued to 
accept the recommendation. 
Mr G and his representative didnt agree with the investigators findings. They said it didnt 
matter what Mr Gs ATR was, Nationwide shouldnt have recommended that Mr G invest all 
of his money into a single fund in a single asset class as it incurred excessive and 
unnecessary risk compared to diversification between different funds and asset classes. 
Therefore, the complaint was passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators findings for broadly the same reasons. I will 
explain why. 
Advice 
The key issue for me to decide is whether the advice to invest in the in the high-income fund 
within a stocks and shares ISA was suitable for Mr G based on his circumstances at the 
time. I will be focusing on the investment which was recommended and how it compared to 
Mr Gs overall financial circumstances, objectives, investment experience and ATR.
Having reviewed the fact find/sales documents from point of sale, I can see that at the time 
Mr G was retired and had an annual income of £4,500, and a second pension of £34 per 
month. He was a joint home owner with his wife and had no outstanding mortgage. In terms 
of cash and assets Mr G residence had a value of £85,000, a joint account with his wife with 
a balance of £58,000, a PEP with a balance of £12,000, and two other accounts with 
balances of £700 and £53.
Mr Gs main investment objective was to receive a regular tax-free income. The main driver 
for this was the fact his outgoings exceeded his income. The sales documentation also 
outlines that Mr G was categorised as having a balanced ATR and some experience in 
investing in the stock market.
In my view the high-income fund was in line with Mr Gs ATR and overall investment 
objectives. I say this because the fund invested in corporate bonds and fixed interest 
securities, achieving long term preservation of funds whilst providing a regular tax-free 
income.
I dont agree that Mr G was advised to invest in one asset class  while he was only advised 
to invest in one fund, that fund invested in a wide range of different corporate bonds and 
other interest-based securities. Given Mr Gs circumstances, and in particular given the sum 
invested, Im satisfied this provided sufficient diversification.
Im also not persuaded by Mr Gs submissions that the fund carried too much risk for his 
circumstances. The fund itself appeared to invest predominantly in assets which were likely 
to retain their capital value (such as corporate bonds) and designed to provide a regular 
income, which is what Mr G was after  at the same time, given that Mr G was prepared to 
take some risk with this investment, Im persuaded the small equity content within the fund 
didnt make it unsuitable for him. 
I appreciate Mr Gs representatives that Nationwide shouldnt have recommended that Mr G 
invest all of his money into a single fund in a single asset class. But I dont agree that this is 
the case. Mr G invested £14,000, roughly 20% of his total savings into the fund  so he 
didnt invest all his money in one investment, and in fact had ample liquid assets which he 
could rely on. And its clear that generating an income with this money was key because he 
says himself:
We are prepared to tie up a large proportion of money for five years, the longer that it is in 
the better it is. If we want money we can draw off other investments. We want an income to 
cover the outgoings a bit better, an income of £150 per month should be enough
He went on to say:
We are not too worried about taking an element of risk with the money, we will take a 
medium risk and dont mind a bit of a gamble.
Therefore, for the reasons I have explained above, I feel the high-income fund matched     
Mr Gs ATR and investment objectives. 
Ive considered carefully the fact that Mr Gs expenses exceeded his income. I should say 
this doesnt in itself indicate that Mr G should not have invested. And in fact one of the reasons he wanted to invest was precisely to try and use his cash savings (which is what 
this capital was before he invested it) to generate more income. As, Ive mentioned, the 
investment didnt have a minimum term, so, Mr G wouldve been able to cash all or some of 
this investment if he ever needed the cash. Although I also note that Mr G had other liquid 
assets which he had access to if necessary. 
Therefore, as there wasnt a need for Mr G to take an income immediately, he was happy for 
a large proportion of his funds being tied up for five years and the high-income fund was 
suitable for those who wanted to invest over a period of five or more years.
For all these reasons, and in particular given Mr Gs individual circumstances and objectives, 
Im satisfied Nationwides advice was suitable for him.
Associated costs
 
I appreciate that Mr Gs representative has said Mr G was exposed to unnecessary costs. 
However, having looked at the key features documentations and the sales documents, I can 
see Mr G was made aware of the 1% annual management fees, which were fairly standard 
at the time. So, I dont agree that Mr G was exposed to unnecessary costs, he was made 
aware of them and chose to proceed. 
So, with this in mind, I wont be asking Nationwide to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2020.
 
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman