DRN-2397560
The complaint
Miss L and Mr T complain that Countrywide Principal Services Limited mis-sold them a rent 
and legal protection policy.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. In summary, Miss L and Mr T are landlords who rent out their property to paying 
tenants. They acquired the services of a property management company (Bairstow Eves, 
which is a trading name of Countrywide) and paid for their full property management 
package that includes cover under a rent and legal protection insurance policy (underwritten 
by DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited), as well as various other estate 
agency related services such as obtaining tenant references and the collection of rent. 
 
Miss L and Mr T have put forwards a substantial number of submissions regarding their 
complaint about Countrywide which, for the sake of brevity, I will not list in their entirety. 
However, their points include, but are not limited to:
Countrywide failed to obtain proper references for their tenants; 
The rent and legal protection policy was mis-sold as they could never have claimed 
or benefited under the policy without having had proper references in place;
The insurance premium has increased by 409% in seven years, and they had not 
been notified about the increase in price.
They were tied into their agreement with Countrywide as they could not take out 
another rent and legal protection policy without proper references being in place. 
They have not been treated fairly by Countrywide.
Countrywide acknowledged that it had made a mistake with regards to the referencing of 
Miss Ls and Mr Ts tenant in 2013 and said it could no longer locate any records of the 
references. It acknowledged that this may have impacted Miss L and Mr Ts ability to claim 
under the policy but said that it would have honoured any claim that couldnt be covered as a 
result of its error. Miss L and Mr T cancelled the policy in January 2020, and Countrywide 
offered £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said we couldnt look into whether proper 
tenant references had been obtained by Countrywide as this didnt constitute a regulated 
activity that our service could consider. In terms of the policy, the investigator didnt think it 
had been mis-sold as Countrywide said it was prepared to step in and cover any claim. He 
also didnt think the broker could be held responsible for the increase in premiums over the 
years, as this was set by DAS as the insurer. Miss L and Mr T disagreed, so the matter has 
been escalated to me to determine.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
not to uphold it. 
In considering what is fair and reasonable in this case, I have taken into account the relevant 
law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, as well as 
what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
I would also like to assure Miss L and Mr T that I have considered all of their submissions 
regarding their complaint about Countrywide. They have sent a significant amount of 
correspondence in this regard, and I have addressed what I consider to be the crux of their 
complaint. 
There are several parties involved in this matter, and various different services and activities 
have been carried out by each one. So, its important to establish which party is responsible 
for which act or omission, and whether it is something that can be considered within the 
remit of this decision about Countrywide (or at all by this service).
Miss L and Mr T have been dealing primarily with Bairstow Eves as their property 
management company, who are a trading name of Countrywide Estate Agents, trading as 
Countrywide Residential Lettings. Countrywide Residential Lettings are an appointed 
representative of Countrywide Principal Services Limited (CPSL), who are authorised and 
regulated by the FCA and, as such, fall within out jurisdiction. Therefore, while I understand 
Miss L and Mr T may have only corresponded with Countrywide Residential Lettings, they 
would have been acting as agents on behalf of CPSL with regards to any FCA regulated 
activities, such as the selling of insurance. 
Therefore, this complaint has been directed towards CPSL who, for ease of reference, I will 
refer to as Countrywide. However, it should be noted that this will only be in reference to 
the regulated activities carried out by the firm (e.g. selling insurance in its capacity as a 
broker) and not in relation to its estate agency and/or property management services, which 
do not fall within the scope of regulation by the FCA. 
I appreciate that Miss L and Mr T feel strongly that this service should be able to consider 
Countrywides failure to obtain (and retain) proper references for their tenants. However, 
based on what Ive seen, this activity is inextricably linked to the estate agency/property 
management part of the business. The obtaining of references did not form part of the sale 
of the insurance policy. Indeed, Miss L and Mr T already had tenants living in their property 
when they first took out the policy who wouldve seemingly already had references in place. 
Ive considered all the relevant regulated activities listed under DISP 2.3  but the obtaining 
of tenant references is not one of them. I also do not consider it to be ancillary to the sale of 
insurance either, for the reasons I have already outlined. 
In its brochure, Bairstow Eves also sets out that it (as the estate agency part of the business) 
is responsible for ensuring all essential checks and paperwork are in place before a new 
tenant moves into the property, which further demonstrates that this is a service provided by 
the estate agent. Ive also considered whether there is any other provision within DISP that 
would render this an FCA regulated activity. But there isnt. So this isnt something I can 
consider as part of this complaint, as it falls outside the jurisdiction of this service. Therefore, 
I will not be commenting on the failure of the estate agency to obtain proper references 
within this decision. In the same vein, I also cannot comment on any other estate 
agency/property management related services that Miss L and Mr T are unhappy with, such as the change in management fee.
I can, however, consider the activities carried out by Countrywide in its capacity as a broker 
of insurance that constitute a regulated activity under DISP 2.3  such as the carrying out of, 
or assisting in the administration and performance of, a contract of insurance.
Mis-selling
Miss L and Mr T say their rent protection policy was mis-sold because they would never 
have been able to claim on it given that the proper referencing of their tenants had not been 
undertaken. 
The policy was originally taken out by Miss L and Mr T in November 2012 with another 
property management company called Churchill lettings, which was subsequently acquired 
by Countrywide soon after. The policies were then transferred over to Countrywides rent 
protection product in June 2012. However, due to the length of time that has passed, there is 
very little information or documentation available from the point of sale, or from the point the 
policy was changed over to Countrywides rent and legal protection policy. But this isnt 
surprising given the time thats passed. The only policy documentation Ive been provided 
with is the most up to date wording that was issued in 2019. 
Countrywide has explained that the ability to claim on the policy was not contingent or 
conditional on satisfactory references being provided to the insurer. And Ive not been 
provided with any policy documentation from either party that would suggest this was a 
condition of the policy. Indeed, the 2019 policy documentation contains no such condition or 
requirement. So, if its not present within the policy wording, its not something I consider 
Countrywide would have been obliged to highlight as a significant limitation of the policy. 
Countrywide has further explained that the provision of tenant references is only a 
requirement within the contract it has with the underwriters to enable it to recover its costs. 
So it says it wouldnt have prevented Miss L and Mr T from making a claim under the policy, 
which it says it wouldve always honoured. This is further supported by the policy wording I 
have seen from the 2019 terms and conditions that state that it is Countrywide that will pay 
the rent arrears claims:
Payment of claims
The payment of rent arrears will be made to the insured person monthly in arrears by 
CountrywideAll claims will be submitted by Countrywide on behalf of the 
policyholder.
I understand this is from the 2019 policy document and that the wording may not have been 
exactly the same in policy documents from previous years. But Countrywide has said that 
this has always been the case.
Therefore, I do not accept that Miss L and Mr T would not have been able to benefit or claim 
under the policy. They are in the fortunate position that they have not had to make a claim 
throughout the duration of the policy, so have not found themselves in the position of 
potentially being unable to claim. So much of what theyve suggested is seemingly based on 
speculation and conjecture. But in the event that they did have to claim, Im not persuaded 
that Countrywide would have refused to comply with its contractual obligations under the 
policy to pay the claim as a result of its own error. It seems this wouldve only precluded the 
broker from reclaiming its costs from DAS as the underwriter, and I dont consider that 
Miss L and Mr T wouldve been put to any detriment in this scenario, as Countrywide has 
said it wouldve covered the claim in these circumstances. Indeed, if it didnt, its likely this service would have considered this to be unfair, if the only reason was because it couldnt 
reclaim its costs from the underwriter due to inadequate references. So, Im not persuaded it 
was the case that Miss L and Mr T have been paying for a policy under which they could 
never have received any benefit, and I do not consider it was unfair or unreasonable for 
Countrywide to continue to collect the premiums due in such circumstances. 
Miss L and Mr T have said they are also unhappy because they have never received any 
policy documentation, either when it was first sold or upon any subsequent renewal. Due to 
the length of time that has passed since the policy was sold, theres little evidence available 
to demonstrate what documentation (if any) was sent by Countrywide (such as a policy 
document and/or demands and needs statement). Countrywide no longer holds any specific 
records to confirm this, and I dont consider it would be fair and reasonable to uphold this 
element of Miss L and Mr Ts complaint on this basis, given that it is only required to hold 
records for six years. 
Countrywide has, however, confirmed that its policy wording was supplied to all its 
customers that were transferred over to its own rent and legal protection product when it was 
changed over in June 2012. It said that its policy wording was then not changed until June 
2019, and theyve shown evidence to demonstrate that the latest copy of this policy 
documentation, along with an IPID and notice of change, was sent to Miss L and Mr T (and 
opened) by email. 
I appreciate that they do not recall ever having received any documentation, including the 
email sent in 2019. But I can see that the documentation was sent to them in 2019, so Ive 
got little reason to doubt that it wouldnt have been sent in 2012. Ive also got to take into 
consideration that its possible they simply may not remember receiving any documentation 
in 2012, as memories can understandably fade over time. But this doesnt mean that it 
wasnt sent, so Im not persuaded there has been any breach of Countrywides regulatory 
requirements here. 
Miss L and Mr T say they also didnt receive any renewal documentation. But Countrywide 
has explained that the policy didnt renew each year, and that the terms stayed the same 
until June 2019. As Ive already outlined, we dont have the policy documentation available 
from earlier years to confirm the basis on which the insurance contract was issued. But I can 
see in the 2019 documentation that it sets out:
When does the cover start and end?
This cover will last for the duration of the tenancy or until cover is cancelled by 
yourself.
The policy terms go on to explain that the period of insurance is the start date of the policy 
until the end date which is defined as either the end of the tenancy, or when either party 
gives 30 days notice to cancel. So the policy did not renew each year, and instead stayed in 
place until either party gave notice. Countrywide has said that this has always been the case 
for its policy, which was why no renewal documentation was sent to Miss L and Mr T each 
year. And given that this is clearly set out in the 2019 documentation, I have little reason to 
doubt this.  
Having said that, Countrywide was still under an obligation to highlight any changes each 
year to Miss L and Mr T (if there were any)  particularly with regards to any price increases.
Pricing
Miss L and Mr T say that their insurance premium has increased by 409% in seven years and say they had not been notified about the increase in price. I cannot hold Countrywide 
responsible for the premium increase itself, as this is set by DAS as the underwriter. So, any 
complaint about the increase in premiums over the years would need to be directed to the 
insurer. But Countrywide, as the broker, was under an obligation to ensure that its customers 
were notified of any price increases.
Countrywide says that in 2012, it sent its terms of business to all landlords along with a data 
sheet, which they were asked to complete and return. I can see that the terms of business 
set out the price of the policy at that time as being 2.12%. I can also see that the terms were 
addressed to Miss L and Mr Ts property, and that they also completed the data sheet in 
2012. So, I consider it more likely than not that they did receive the terms of business and 
were made aware of the price of the policy in 2012.
In terms of any subsequent increases, Countrywide has explained that between 2012 and 
2019, customers were notified of any price increases via a notice that featured in their 
monthly landlord statements, which advised them several months in advance of any price 
change. The broker hasnt been able to provide copies of these statements as their systems 
no longer hold them. But it has provided evidence of an email chain where the statement 
notification was referred to by Countrywide and acknowledged by Miss L.
Miss L emailed Countrywide on 14 March 2019 asking why the rent guarantee policy had 
increased from 3.03% to 3.23%. Countrywide responded saying:
As for the rent and legal insurance, unfortunately due to an increase in Insurance 
Premium Tax that we have no control over, the premium for this has had to increase 
in line with these changes. Your statements over the last 6 months or so would have 
confirmed the imminent changes (at the bottom of the statement). They read the 
following: 
Effective February 1st 2019 the cost of rent and legal protection insurance will be 
increasing from 2.77% (3.03% inc. Insurance Premium Tax) of the monthly rent to 
2.88% (3.23% inc. Insurance Premium Tax). This reflects a general increase from the 
underwriter for their product and a previously unapplied increase in IPT. Whilst no 
action is required by you, please call your local branch on the number above if you 
have any questions.
I cant see that Miss L or Mr T have denied that any such notification was featured on their 
statements in their correspondence with Countrywide. So, I have little reason to doubt that 
they werent notified through this medium. Therefore, on balance, I think its more likely than 
not that Miss L and Mr T were likely notified of any price increases through their monthly 
landlord statements. I can also see that landlords were informed of subsequent price 
changes by email, and Countrywide has provided a copy of an email it sent to all landlords in 
2019 explaining that the premium rate was decreasing to 2.69%.
I understand that Miss L and Mr T do not consider the policy to have been good value for 
money. But they could have always cancelled the product in line with the 30-day notice 
period set out in the terms and conditions if they were unhappy with the price they were 
paying. 
Miss L and Mr T say that Countrywides failure to obtain proper references had left them in a 
position where they were financially exposed, and that they also felt tied in to the policy and 
have been unable to move to a cheaper one as a result of the references not being properly 
obtained from the outset. I appreciate they felt they could not move to another insurer 
without providing the original references. But this forms part of the failure of the estate 
agency to obtain proper references, which I cannot consider as part of this complaint for the reasons already outlined earlier. In terms of the insurance contract, as Ive already 
explained, Miss L and Mr T were able to cancel the policy by giving 30 days notice if they 
were unhappy with the price they were paying, so I do not accept that they were tied in to the 
contract. 
Service failings
Finally, Miss L and Mr T have raised several other service failings of Countrywide, such as 
delays in responding to them, as well as general poor customer service.
Ive considered Miss L and Mr Ts comments in this regard, and its clear theyve been left 
frustrated by the service theyve received from Countrywide. I acknowledge that they may 
not have always received an exemplary level of service from the broker. But it has already 
offered £250 compensation in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused as a 
result of the service it has provided. 
I appreciate that Miss L and Mr T do not consider this amount to be commensurate to the 
experience they have had with Countrywide. But in order to award further compensation, I 
would have to be satisfied that the poor service has had a greater impact than just moderate 
inconvenience or upset, which Im not persuaded it has in these circumstances. Therefore, I 
consider Countrywides offer of £250 to be fair compensation in the circumstances, and I will 
not be asking it to make any further award.
I ought to clarify that this of course is only in relation to Countrywides service as an 
insurance broker/intermediary, not as an estate agent or property manager. Miss L and Mr T 
have raised several complaint points about Countrywides property management services, 
which they may want to direct to the appropriate alternative dispute resolution body that can 
consider them, such as the Property Ombudsman.
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Miss L and Mr T, who understandably feel 
very strongly about their complaint. But in the circumstances, I do not consider that 
Countrywide needs to take any further action.
My final decision
Countrywide Principal Services Limited has made an offer to pay a total of £250.
I conclude that such an offer is fair compensation in the circumstances. My decision is that 
Countrywide should pay Miss L and Mr T (if it has not done so already) within 28 days of 
receiving their acceptance of this decision.
Miss L and Mr T should note that if they accept my decision, it will be legally binding on all 
parties, and they probably then wouldnt be able to take legal action over this matter for 
additional compensation. If, however, they reject the decision, although their legal rights will 
remain intact, itll purely be a matter between them and Countrywide as to whether the £250 
offer still remains open for acceptance. Strictly speaking, an offer is not binding on the 
offeror after rejection of it has been communicated. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 June 2021.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman