DRN-2042376
The complaint
Ms E complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Ms E took out a credit card with Barclays in 1986. In 2005, she was sold PPI during a phone 
call to protect her card repayments if she was unable to work. 
Barclays says the PPI was not mis-sold. But it refunded some of the commission and profit 
share it received, as this was more than 50% of the total PPI premium.
Our adjudicator said the complaint should be upheld, because Ms E had a medical condition 
which made the PPI unsuitable. 
Barclays disagreed, so Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Es case. 
Ive decided to uphold Ms Es complaint because Barclays recommended the policy to Ms E 
but I dont think it was right for her. This is because Ms E had a medical condition when she 
bought the policy which wouldnt have been covered. 
I dont think Ms E wouldve bought the policy if Barclays had made clear it wasnt right for 
her. So, I think Ms E has lost out because of what Barclays did wrong. 
Ive taken into account Barclayss comments, including that it thinks Ms Es medical 
condition wouldve been discussed at the time of sale  and that the condition was likely 
stable. But I still think I should uphold the complaint. 
Barclays records show that Ms E told it that she had a medical condition. But, despite this, 
its records show that Barclays recommended the policy to her as being suitable. 
This is despite the fact that Barclayss records, limited as they are, allowed for it to be 
recorded that the policy was recommended with caution. I would expect that to have 
happened very rarely, where a policy was mostly right for Ms E but that some aspects of it 
were not. The onus would then have been on Barclays to show that it had explained to Ms E 
what aspects of the policy were not right for her (in this case the exclusion of cover for her 
existing medical condition) and that, despite knowing this, Ms E had decided to take the 
policy anyway. 
However, in this case, the records suggest Barclays told Ms E the PPI was right for her 
without any reservations or caveats. And, in my opinion, that was incorrect. Barclays has not 
provided any evidence that shows Ms E was told that her medical condition would be 
excluded from cover, nor that she agreed to take the policy despite knowing this. So, I think 
the PPI was mis-sold to her. 
Putting things right
Barclays should put Ms E in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out 
PPI. The policy should be cancelled if it hasnt been cancelled already and:
A. Barclays should find out how much Ms E would owe on her credit card if the policy hadnt 
been added to it.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges.
Barclays should then refund the difference between what Ms E owes and what she 
would have owed.
If Ms E made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Barclays can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her. It can also deduct the refund it made in 
respect of the commission and profit share it received. 
B. If  when Barclays works out what Ms E would have owed each month without PPI  
Ms E paid more than enough to clear her balance, Barclays should also pay simple 
interest on the extra Ms E paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point 
when Ms E wouldve owed Barclays something on her credit card. The interest rate 
should be 8% a year. 
C. Barclays should tell Ms E what its done to work out A and B.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclays to take off tax from this interest. Barclays must 
give Ms E a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint. Barclays Bank UK PLC should put 
things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2020.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman