DRN-1735541
 
The complaint
Mr O complains that Madison CF UK Limited (Madison), trading as 118 118 Money, mis-
sold him a loan in April 2019. He says they approved him for a loan at a lower interest 
rate but when the loan arrived it was at a much higher interest rate.
What happened
Mr O applied for a loan with Madison for the amount of £2000 online in April 2019. The loan 
was for a period of 24 months with a monthly payment of £192.
Mr O says he had been approved for a loan with an Annual Percentage Rate (APR) of 
39.90%. But when the loan arrived the interest rate was in fact 169.9% APR. 
Mr O made one payment of £192 towards the loan and then repaid the loan in full the 
following month (May 2019). The total amount he repaid was £2281.61. He then made a 
complaint to Madison about, amongst other things, the interest rate applied to his account. 
Although Madison did not accept they made an error regarding the interest rates, as a 
gesture of good will, Madison refunded Mr O everything he paid over and above the £2000 
he borrowed.  This was his repayment of £192 plus £281.61 in settlement fees/interest. The 
total refund was therefore £473.61. 
However, Mr O did not think this was a satisfactory outcome to his complaint and brought his 
complaint to us. He says he incurred substantial financial losses as a result of Madisons 
actions and wants substantial financial compensation from them. 
One of our adjudicators looked into the complaint and they concluded that Madisons offer 
was a fair way to resolve this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold Mr Os complaint and dont require Madison to pay Mr O any 
compensation. I appreciate Mr O will be disappointed by this outcome but I will go on to 
explain why Ive reached this decision. 
In respect of how the interest rate was presented, it does appear that during the application 
process the interest rate was set out as 39.90%. Madison say this was all the way up to the 
point at which the loan documentation was issued. But its also right that the loan 
documentation (including the actual loan agreement signed by Mr O) clearly set out that the 
interest rate was in fact 169.9%. So Mr O would have had the opportunity to turn the loan 
down when he became aware that the interest rate he had been given was so much higher. 
Instead he signed the loan agreement. 
I understand that by this time Mr O felt that he had to take the loan out at this rate as he 
urgently needed the funds and he settled the loan around a month after taking it out. 
Madison say they did not make an error in the interest rates and that the interest rate can 
change between application and the loan being granted due to factors that come to light 
during the application process. However, they acknowledge that it is unusual for the interest 
rate to differ to this extent and they understand why Mr O would have thought initially that he 
was being granted a loan with an APR of 39.90%. Therefore Madison have refunded Mr O 
everything over and above the £2000 that he had borrowed. I appreciate Mr O was 
concerned about the calculation of the settlement figure, however, I have not seen any 
evidence to suggest that the refund has been calculated incorrectly. 
Given the high interest rate that was charged for this loan, I would have expected Madison to 
conduct reasonable and proportionate checks to ascertain whether the loan was affordable 
and sustainable for Mr O. If I had found that the checks Madison conducted were not 
sufficient and that the loan was not affordable or sustainable for Mr O then I would have 
expected Madison to put things right by refunding Mr O everything he paid over and above 
the loan amount in interest and charges. However, Madison have already done this.
So having taken everything into account, I agree that the refund paid by Madison is a fair 
way to resolve this complaint. By refunding Mr O everything he paid on top of the loan and 
bearing in mind that Mr O repaid the loan, Madison have effectively placed him in the same 
position as he would have been in had he not taken out the loan in the first place. This is in 
line with what I would have expected them to do to put things right for Mr O if I had 
concluded that they made an error in the interest rates or that they had acted irresponsibly 
for lending Mr O a loan at a high interest rate.
Although Mr O has mentioned that he has suffered substantial financial losses as a direct 
result of Madisons actions, he has not provided any evidence of what these losses are or 
what they might be. So I see no grounds for awarding Mr O any compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I dont uphold Mr Os complaint against Madison CF UK Limited, 
trading as 118 118 Money.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2020.
 
Navneet Sher
Ombudsman