DRN-4415717
The complaint
Mrs B complains that British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) hasnt fully reimbursed the 
costs she incurred from a third party for restoring her heating and hot water.
What happened
Mrs B had her boiler replaced by British Gas. Mrs B was provided with a five-year warranty 
and she also already had a HomeCare insurance policy in place, which covered things such 
as repairs to the central heating system, plumbing and drainage.
Shortly after the boiler installation, Mrs B contacted British Gas to say she had no heating or 
hot water. 
Different agents from British Gas attended. When British Gas boiler agents attended they 
thought there could be a leak under the floor and directed Mrs B to her HomeCare cover. 
When they then attended, they said it wasnt a leak and was the boiler instead, referring 
Mrs B back to the previous area at British Gas. 
Mrs B was passed between each area of British Gas several times. As the next available 
appointment for an in-depth leak detection was around a month later, Mrs B arranged for her 
own leak detection and consequent pipe repair, which restored her heating and hot water. 
Mrs B asked British Gas to reimburse the £2,404.20 costs she incurred.
British Gas didnt agree to reimburse the full costs as they said this wasnt covered by her 
policies. However, they did agree to reimburse £1,218.60 as a gesture of goodwill. They also 
offered £80 compensation. Mrs B was unhappy with this and approached this service.
One of our investigators looked into things. Initially she upheld the complaint and said 
British Gas should reimburse the full costs incurred by Mrs B. She also said Mrs B should be 
given a further £200 compensation.
British Gas didnt agree and referred to the policy terms and said that the cause of the leak 
wasnt covered. They said theyd already paid more than what was covered by the policy.
The investigator revisited things and her view of the complaint changed in part. She said that 
the policy terms didnt cover the repairs, so she didnt think British Gas needed to provide 
any further reimbursement. But she said that due to the lack of appointments and Mrs B 
being without hot water for an extended period, she was still recommending British Gas pay 
an additional £200 compensation.
British Gas agreed but Mrs B didnt. As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case was 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst I appreciate it will come as a disappointment to Mrs B, Ive reached the same 
outcome as our investigator later reached. I wont be directing British Gas to provide any 
further reimbursement, but I will be directing them to pay compensation. Ill explain why.
Mrs B had her boiler replaced. She already had a HomeCare policy which provided cover for 
things such as repairs to the central heating system, plumbing and drainage. Alongside the 
boiler replacement, Mrs B was also provided with a five-year warranty.
When Mrs Bs boiler stopped working, she contacted British Gas for assistance. I can see 
that there was some disagreement between different areas of British Gas whether the issue 
was being caused as a result of the boiler, or a leak in the pipes below the floor. Each area 
referred Mrs B to the other for further investigation.
Ultimately British Gas said their agent would need to return to determine whether there was 
a leak via an in-depth leak detection investigation, but the next available appointment was 
over a month away. Due to Mrs B being without heating and hot water (and she already had 
been for a month), she arranged her own leak investigation shortly after. A leak was found 
and repaired, restoring hot water.
I can see why Mrs B arranged for her own investigations to be carried out, given the time it 
had already taken as a result of British Gas internal dispute, and the time to the next 
available appointment.
Our investigator suggested British Gas should compensate Mrs B an additional £200 for this 
(and British Gas agreed), and I think thats fair and reasonable for this. So, Ill be directing 
British Gas to pay a further £200 compensation. 
Mrs B paid £2,404.20 for leak detection and repairs. British Gas has reimbursed £1,218.60 
of this as a gesture of goodwill. Mrs B says they should reimburse the remainder too.
When deciding whether British Gas should provide further reimbursement, I need to consider 
whether Mrs B incurred costs for works which otherwise should have been covered by 
British Gas under her policies. However, Ive not concluded this should have been.
Mrs Bs own leak detection report concluded:
The engineer was able to visibly locate the source of the leak. Chrome pipes were 
used in conjunction with chrome pipe, plastic push fittings cannot grip pipe as it is to 
(sic) hard and they tend to slip of(sic)
And they went on to do the following works:
Beading removed, laminate lifted, flooring cut and lifted. Chrome pipe replaced with 
copper pipe, where chrome pipe runs up to radiator compression fittings used, 
flooring screwed down, laminate refitted, floor beading refitted and door rehanged.
So, this determined that the leak was as a result of plastic push fittings being incorrectly 
used on that type of pipe. This was under the flooring, which meant it needed to be 
accessed and the pipes replaced before having the flooring reinstated.
Both Mrs Bs Homecare agreement and warranty explain:Access and making good  getting to your boiler or central heating system to fix or 
service it, and then repairing any damage we may cause in getting access to it by 
replacing items such as cabinets or cupboards that weve removed and by filling in 
holes we have made and leaving a level surface  but we wont replace or restore the 
original surface or coverings, for example; tiles, floor coverings, decoration, grass or 
plants.
And:
Getting access and making good
In addition to the costs of parts and labour, our insurance products and our non-
insurance service and repair warranty products cover up to £1,000 including VAT for 
getting access and making good but this does not apply to the boiler which should be 
readily accessible for inspection and maintenance in accordance with the boilers 
manufacturing guidelines.
We wont be responsible for repairing any pre-existing damage, nor will we replace or 
restore the original surface or coverings, for example, tiles, floor coverings, 
decoration, grass or plants.
Therefore, as the leak was under the flooring, putting the flooring right after repairs wouldnt 
have been covered, so Mrs B would always have been responsible for that cost. And the 
gaining access is only covered where the actual leak is covered by the policy too, but Im 
persuaded it was excluded. Ill explain why.
When Mrs B had her boiler replaced, she was provided information which outlined that when 
changing to a pressurised heating system it can cause leaks on existing pipework. This also 
said that if pipes were accessible, theyd be sealed. But the pipe which did leak wasnt 
accessible as it was under the bathroom floor.
And in Mrs Bs warranty and Home Care policy, it says:
Pre-existing faults
Your warranty doesnt include the cost of repairing or replacing parts of your existing 
system that later develops faults, or compensating you for such faults that:
were already there when your boiler or system was installed, or were caused 
by anyone other than us when any change or additions were made to your 
boiler or system
weve told you about before and you havent fixed
we couldnt reasonably have been expected to know about before, for 
example, faulty pipes that dont have the correct protection, or which are 
buried under concrete floors;
prevent access because a part of your system has been permanently built 
overAnd:
Pre-existing faults
Your products dont include cover for any faults or design faults that:
were already there when your boiler or appliance or system was installed;
existed when you first took out the product
weve told you about before and you havent fixed, or, if the work had been 
completed by a third party, where work, in our opinion, has not been 
completed to a satisfactory standard;
we couldnt reasonably have been expected to know about before, for 
example, faulty pipes that dont have the correct protection, or which are 
buried under concrete floors
So, as the incorrect pipework connectors was a pre-existing fault with the original installation 
and fitting of the pipes, then this is excluded under both policies. So even if British Gas had 
been able to attend sooner (putting aside they werent responsible for reinstating the flooring 
or making access), repairing the leak still wouldnt have been something which was covered 
either. Therefore, it would always have been Mrs Bs responsibility for fixing this too.
British Gas has paid £1,218.60 towards the costs as a gesture of goodwill. And as Im 
satisfied that this is beyond what the policy terms covered, Im not going to direct British Gas 
to provide any further reimbursement of the remaining costs Mrs B incurred. 
Mrs B also said she isnt sure why this wouldnt be covered under the plumbing section of 
her HomeCare agreement. However, the above pre-existing exclusion applies to all sections 
of the policy.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint in part and direct British Gas Insurance 
Limited to:
Pay Mrs B an additional £200 compensation
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman