DRN-3826203
The complaint
Mrs C has complained that Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) unfairly declined a storm claim 
under a home insurance policy.
Im aware Mrs C has a representative on this case, but I will only refer to Mrs C.
What happened
Mrs C contacted Ageas to make a storm claim when she found water entering her home 
through a ceiling. Ageas sent a surveyor to assess the damage and, after a delay, declined 
the claim.
When Mrs C complained, Ageas replied and said although it agreed there was a storm, the 
surveyor found the damage was due to wear and tear, which wasnt covered by the policy. 
However, Ageas agreed there had been delays in dealing with the claim, so it offered £150 
compensation.
So, Mrs C complained to this service. Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said there 
was evidence of a storm and the surveyor hadnt shown there was evidence of wear and 
tear. He said Ageas should settle the claim and pay a total of £400 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused to Mrs C.
As Ageas didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 27 October 2022. In my provisional decision I explained 
the reasons why I wasnt planning to uphold the complaint. I said:
When we look at a storm claim complaint, there are three main issues we consider:
1.    do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to 
have happened?
2.    is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Were only likely to uphold a complaint where the answer to all three questions is yes.
For the first question, Mrs C found water entering her home. Due to her mobility, Mrs C didnt 
enter some of the rooms in her home very often. However, she thought the damage was the 
result of a storm about a month earlier. Ageas seems to have accepted the date on which 
Mrs C thought the damage had happened, which I think is fair, and that there were storm 
conditions. Looking at the weather on that date, there were windspeeds of up to 74mph and 
up to 31mm of rain. These would be considered storm conditions. So, I think the answer to 
the first question is yes.
So, Ive thought about the second question. Looking at the claim notes, these said Mrs C 
had arranged for someone to carry out a temporary repair, which involved folding the felt 
back down. When the surveyor visited, he didnt find any evidence of storm damage but 
found ponding on the roof. He said water ponding was normally caused by insufficient slope, 
blocked drains or scuppers, inadequate drainage system, dips or depression in the roofing 
material or a sagging roof deck. He said he didnt believe that storm damage had caused the 
ponding. The surveyor also tried to contact Mrs Cs roofer by phone and email, without 
success. So, he was unable to confirm what the roofer had found.
Its for a policyholder to show a claim has been caused by an insured event. But insurers 
usually investigate this on a policyholders behalf. In this instance, the surveyor didnt find 
any storm damage but found evidence of wear and tear. The report also noted the surveyor 
was told the roof was four years old, but he thought it was older than this. Mrs C has since 
confirmed to this service that the roof was 14 years old. I note that felt roofs normally have a 
lifespan of about 10 years. I think it was reasonable that the surveyor tried to contact Mrs Cs 
roofer to get further information, but he was unable to get a reply. The main issue found with 
the roof was ponding. As the surveyor said, this wasnt damage that a storm would normally 
cause. Mrs C also hasnt provided any evidence, such as from her own expert, to show the 
damage was more likely caused by a storm. So, I think the answer to the second question is 
no. It also follows that I think the answer to the third question is no. On that basis, I think it 
was reasonable for Ageas to decline the claim. To be clear, this doesnt mean I think the 
storm played no part in water entering Mrs Cs home, but from what Ive seen the weather 
conditions highlighted an existing issue rather than causing it.
There was also internal damage to Mrs Cs home. Im mindful that Mrs C didnt find the 
damage until about a month after she thought it might have happened. The policy covers 
one-off insured events, rather than damage that happens over time. I havent seen evidence 
the external damage was the result of a storm and I also dont think the internal damage can 
be covered under that part of the policy. Mrs C didnt have accidental damage cover, so it 
couldnt be considered under that part of the policy either. 
Mrs C also said the surveyor didnt carry out an adequate survey. The surveyor took images 
of the roof using a selfie-stick. This isnt unusual and a surveyor isnt required to go on to a 
roof in order to assess the damage. Ive seen images of the roof and these show the 
condition of the roof, including the ponding. The surveyor also tried to contact Mrs Cs roofer, 
without success, to discuss the work carried out. I think that was reasonable and I remain of 
the view that it was fair for Ageas to decline the claim based on the findings of its surveyor.
Im aware that Mrs C was also concerned the damage got worse while Ageas was making its 
claim decision. From what I can see, Ageas advised Mrs C she could carry out a temporary 
repair. Mrs C arranged for a roofer to visit who told her a partial fix would cause more long-
term problems and only folded the felt back down. Mrs C said she accepted the builders 
professional opinion, which I can understand. But I dont think that makes Ageas responsible 
for steps not being taken to carry out a temporary repair or to put other measures in place to 
try and limit the damage.
Ive also thought about compensation. Ageas offered Mrs C £150 because of the delays in 
dealing with the claim. Im aware this claim caused Mrs C a lot of concern, including because 
it took considerable chasing to find out whether the claim would be dealt with. Having 
thought about this carefully, I think the compensation Ageas offered was reasonable in the 
circumstances and I dont intend to require it to pay anything further.
Im aware Mrs C was also unhappy her contents claim was declined. Ageas wasnt the 
insurer for the contents part of the policy, so it cant be considered as part of this complaint.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 24 November 2022.Ageas said it had nothing further to add.
Mrs Cs representative replied and didnt agree with my decision. She also said the surveyor 
told Mrs C it was storm damage. She said she would discuss my provisional decision with 
Mrs C. Nothing further was received.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and for the reasons given in my 
provisional decision. As part of that, Ive taken into account the comments from Mrs Cs 
representative, including about what the surveyor told Mrs C. I dont know what was 
discussed during the visit, but looking at the surveyors report these explain the findings and 
the reasons for them. I remain of the view that it was reasonable for Ageas to decline the 
claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that this 
complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman