DRN-3554731
The complaint
The estate of Mrs N complains that PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA failed to close the
account when first notified about the passing of Mrs N and refused to refund transactions
that werent recognised.
What happened
Mrs Ns estate is represented by Mr N who Ill mainly refer to throughout this provisional
decision.
Mrs N had a long-standing account with PayPal that was linked to a joint bank account held
with Mr N. Mr N believed hed notified PayPal about the passing of his wife in late 2017 and
her account had been closed. Mr N has explained that in January 2020, after receiving a
bank statement, he became aware of approximately 350 transactions involving his late wifes
PayPal account.
Mr N, through his daughter, contacted PayPal about the account and PayPal closed it after
they received the appropriate paperwork from Mr N. Mr N wanted PayPal to refund the
transactions that had occurred after his wife had passed. PayPal declined to make any
refund and Mr N brought a complaint on behalf of the estate to the Financial Ombudsman for
an independent review.
Both parties were asked for information about the complaint and Mr N explained that he
believed he and his family were the subject of identity theft. PayPal explained that they never
received notice to close the account in 2017 and it wasnt until early 2020 that they first
became aware of Mrs Ns passing. They went on to explain that the disputed transactions
were linked to a family member and numerous payments from the account had gone to Mr
Ns joint account.
PayPal provided evidence of the addresses, email addresses and bank accounts associated
with the account. They believed that a family member had access to the account and there
was no evidence of any unauthorised access by an unknown third party (linked to any
identity theft). It was PayPals case that because a family member had access to the
account, the terms had been breached because the security information needed to access it
had been provided to another member of the family.
Our investigator thought that because the dates of the disputed transactions were after Mrs
Ns passing, they were unauthorised and recommended PayPal refund the estate.
PayPal disagreed with the outcome and asked for a further review of the complaint which
has now been passed to me for a decision. I issued a provisional decision where I said:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Id like to deal with the notification to PayPal about Mrs Ns passing. I appreciate that
it must have been a difficult time for Mr N, and he believed PayPal had been notified in late
2017. PayPal stated that they first knew about it was in early 2020. Having looked at the
available evidence, theres no indication that PayPal were contacted about the account
before early 2020 when the death certificate was sent to PayPal. At that point they closed
the account. Without the appropriate procedure being followed, PayPal couldnt close the
account before the receipt of the certificate and the account would appear that it was
operating normally because of the way it was being used between 2017 and 2020.
Whilst its not in doubt that Mrs N couldnt have authorised the disputed transactions, that
isnt the only consideration relating to whether itd be fair and reasonable for PayPal to
refund them here.
PayPal believed that the terms of the account were breached because someone was able to
login to it with the private security details issued to Mrs N. The terms and conditions of the
account include a provision that the security details must be kept private, specifically
PayPals terms state (in relation to reasons not to make a refund):
 that the payment was made because you did not keep your account safe either
intentionally or with gross negligence (for instance, you very carelessly chose to share your
PayPal ID and/or password/PIN with someone else); 
Its PayPals case that a family member was able to access the account with Mrs Ns
security information and make the disputed transactions. Mr N on the other hand believes
that identity theft is responsible for these disputed transactions.
Ive closely examined the evidence provided in this case and its apparent that Mrs Ns
PayPal account was accessed using her login credentials and it doesnt appear to be
through the actions of an unknown third party.
Mr N wasnt able to show any evidence of identity theft and PayPals audit information also
support the use of the account was through Mrs Ns usual login details. The pattern of the
disputed transactions indicated they were connected to a family member. Some of the
transactions were sent to another PayPal account in that family members name. Some of
those payments were then sent on to a separate bank account, again in the name of that
family member. Other payments were sent to Mr Ns joint account and purchases were
made with the delivery address being the same one that we hold for Mr N , but in the family
members name. That delivery address was updated several times between 2017 and 2020.
So, it appears that whoever had access to the account was able to login to it with Mrs Ns
credentials and use it to send money to accounts linked to another family member. The
contact details provided for the family members account were lodged with Mrs Ns account
several years before her passing, so I think they were legitimate details and not linked to
some form of identity theft. I think the evidence currently shows that a family member had
access to the account and was using it to make purchases that were delivered to Mr Ns
address (but in the name of the family member), send money to another account in their own
name and also to send large sums back to Mr Ns joint account.
I cant think why someone other than a family member with agreed access to the account
would send funds to Mr Ns account. It doesnt appear that Mr N himself was aware of the
very large number of transactions happening on his account for over two years or aware that
he was in receipt of thousands of pounds from the PayPal account.
As Ive already explained, Mrs N couldnt have authorised these transactions, but I have to
consider if it would be fair and reasonable to require PayPal to refund them when taking thewider circumstances into account.
I think its reasonable for PayPal to rely on their terms that the security credentials were
provided to the family member. Its not apparent that it was due to gross negligence by Mrs
N  and thats not something that I nor anyone else can know in the circumstances here.
But, as the evidence currently shows the family member had access to the account and was
making regular transactions to themselves and back to Mr Ns account, it appears that they
had some form of authority to use the account.
Because theres no evidence that the account was closed in late 2017, or that they received
notification of Mrs Ns passing, I can see why PayPal processed the instructions they
received through the use of the account because the appropriate login credentials were used
to make the various transactions.
Mr N later amended the range of disputed transactions he was challenging, which seems to
me to indicate he accepted some of them. What that means here is that Mr N hasnt
disputed all the activity on the account after his wifes passing  which indicates someone
had access to those undisputed transactions. PayPals evidence is that there were no
unauthorised attempts to gain access to the account, so that would mean that it was either
the same person throughout who accessed Mrs Ns account (the family member) or both
someone with permission to access the account and an unauthorised third party who
managed to acquire Mrs Ns login details. It seems unlikely that two different people were
logging into the account  its far more plausible that it was the same person who was using
the account.
PayPal also noted that the account in the name of the family member was carrying a
substantial debt. PayPal retrieved some of the funds and wrote off the remaining (nearly
£1,000) debt. Coincidentally, that account was closed shortly before PayPal received notice
to close Mrs Ns account in early 2020.
Taking all the evidence into account, I think its more likely than not that the family member
had been given authority to use the account and had used it extensively after Mrs N had
passed. But ultimately, the fact that the payments in dispute appear to have been made to
Mrs Ns family members means that I think this a matter that would need to be discussed
between the family members themselves  rather than something that itd be fair for me to
tell PayPal to refund to Mrs Ns estate. 
I invited Mr N and PayPal to give me any more evidence and information they wanted me to
consider before issuing my final decision. PayPal accepted my provisional decision and Mr N 
disagreed with it but didnt have anything further to add about his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and as neither party had anything further to add, I see no reason to reach a
different conclusion. So, this final decision confirms the findings set out in my provisional
decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs N 
to accept or reject my decision before 22 July 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman