DRN-2370257
The complaint
Mrs D complains that she was mis-sold an Ultimate Reward Current Account (URCA) in 
2009 by Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (BOS).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by our adjudicators for these reasons.
The URCA benefits included worldwide family travel insurance, car breakdown service, 
mobile phone insurance, home emergency cover, and a fee free overdraft of up to £300; and 
it cost £12.50 a month.
Mrs D had a fee free account with BOS for several months before taking out the URCA, so 
she knew these were available. She says she saw that she was paying a monthly fee for the 
URCA within two months of opening it, so she knew she was paying for it. And even if she 
was pressurised into taking it out, she could have closed it at any time, but she didnt and 
kept it for many years. The benefits of the URCA were substantial and even though Mrs D 
was young at the time of sale, I dont think shed have expected to get those benefits for 
free. So, I think its more likely than not that Mrs D knew she had a choice and chose to take 
out the URCA.
From what this service knows of BOSs sales practices, I think its likely that this was a non-
advised sale, so BOS wasnt required to check if the URCA was suitable for Mrs D. But even 
if BOS did provide advice, I think its more likely than not that the URCA was suitable for Mrs 
D. I say this because BOS has provided evidence that she used the mobile phone insurance 
immediately and the home cover shortly after. The car breakdown service covered her 
whether she was the driver or owner of the car or not. And BOS says Mrs D told it that she 
went on holidays over the years and I think its likely that she did.
I think its more likely than not that BOS provided enough information to Mrs D as it was 
trying to sell the URCA to her; she immediately registered a mobile phone for cover, so she 
must have had the written guidance on that which was in the documentation BOS says it 
gave her. And BOS has provided evidence that it sent a welcome pack to Mrs D.
So, although I know Mrs D will be disappointed and I dont doubt her honest recollections, I 
think she chose to take out the URCA based on the information BOS provided. I think the 
URCA was suitable for her and I dont think BOS did anything wrong.
For completeness Mrs D raised some issues about what happened in later years with her 
account, but these have not been investigated by the business and so are not the subject of 
this decision. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2021.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman