DRN-1427541
 
Complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2005. Miss R says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold her the PPI.
What Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Miss Rs credit agreement had a section for PPI, which described the policy as optional. 
There was a box that could be ticked and a place to sign if Miss R wanted PPI, which could 
be left blank if she didnt want it. The box for PPI was ticked, and Miss R signed specifically 
for the policy, separately to signing for the credit card as a whole. So I think that Capital One 
made it clear Miss R didnt have to take out PPI and that she chose to take it  though I can 
certainly understand why she might not remember this after so long.
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Miss R, so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
her. It did have to make sure Miss R got the information she needed to decide if it was right 
for her. 
Its possible the information Capital One gave Miss R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have 
changed her mind. Here, it looks like Miss R chose to take out the policy, which indicates 
she wanted this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, it 
doesnt look like she was affected by any of the PPIs main exclusions or limitations, and it 
covered her more comprehensively than her existing benefits. So the policy could have been 
useful for Miss R if something went wrong. And the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly basis, 
so Miss R could cancel it at any time without a penalty. Overall, I dont think better 
information about the PPI was likely to have put her off taking it out. 
This means Capital One doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss R.
But Capital One has offered to pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss R because: 
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Miss R about that. Because Capital One didnt 
tell her, that was unfair. 
 To put that right, Capital One has basically offered to pay back the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think 
that offer is fair in this case.
 
What the business needs to do
Capital One has to pay back to Miss R any commission and profit share it got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premium. Capital One should also pay back to Miss R any extra interest 
she paid because of that.
That means Capital One should re-work the credit card account and pay back to Miss R the 
difference between what she owes and what she wouldve owed if the commission and profit 
share it got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Capital One should also pay Miss R 
8%* simple interest if she paid off the credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Miss R can claim back the tax if she 
doesnt pay tax.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc doesnt have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Miss R.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have to pay back to Miss R any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. If it has already done this, then 
I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 March 2020.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman