DRN-1360149
 
The complaint
Mrs R complains that Ageas Insurance Limited unfairly declined a claim under her Furniture 
Guard policy.
All references to Mrs R include Mr R and all references to Ageas include its representatives 
on the claim. 
What happened 
Mrs R purchased a mattress in September 2016. Alongside this, she took out a five-year 
furniture protection policy.
In May 2019 Mrs R made a claim. She told Ageas there was excessive and permanent 
sagging. She said the mattress could only be slept on where the indents were on either side 
and not in the middle.
Ageas arranged for a furniture technician to inspect the mattress. Following the inspection 
and based on the resulting report, Ageas declined the claim. Ageas said the terms of the 
policy covering loss of resilience, hadnt been met. Mrs R disagreed and thought the claim 
should be covered.
Our investigator didn't uphold this complaint. She didn't think it had been shown that the 
mattress had suffered a loss of resilience sufficient to meet the requirements for cover and 
so Ageas had acted fairly in declining the claim.
Because Mrs R didnt agree with our investigator, this case has been passed to me for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive reached the same conclusions on this 
complaint as our investigator, and for broadly the same reasons.
The starting point for my consideration of what Ageas is obliged to pay is determined by the 
terms of the policy. The terms say the policy will cover structural defects to the mattress 
caused by a loss of resilience, but not if the loss of resilience is under 30%.
What is meant by resilience isnt defined under the policy terms, so Ive considered the 
normal everyday meaning of this word. I consider resilience here to mean the mattress 
capacity to recover its shape, or spring back into shape after it has changed shape due to 
pressure or weight (after it has been slept on). Importantly, this is different to resistance, 
which better describes an object's ability to resist, oppose or withstand the effects of 
pressure or weight.With the above in mind, I consider the technician's 'dip test' without weight applied to the 
mattress to be a more reasonable test of resilience. I appreciate that Mrs R has gone to the 
trouble of conducting tests with weight added to the mattress, but I consider this to be testing 
resistance as opposed to resilience. And resilience is whats relevant to cover under the 
policy.
The' dip test' without weight applied to the mattress provided a reading of approximately 
1.5cm. Given the total mattress depth of 25cm, Im not satisfied that there has been a loss of 
resilience of 30% or more. 
Mrs R says the information on the report is not in line with what was discussed with the 
technician on site. There is insufficient evidence to support this, but in any case, I find the 
clear images sent sufficiently persuasive.
Mrs R has also said the mattress is not comfortable and the integrity of the sleeping area 
has now diminished. She feels a spring mattress may have some give but not a memory 
foam mattress and the structure of the mattress is not acceptable.
Whilst I dont dispute that the mattress may not be as it was when purchased new, the 
requirements for cover to apply are clear. There needs to be a loss of resilience of 30% or 
more, so its not enough that Mrs R considers the mattress uncomfortable or has 
unreasonable give. 
Based on the evidence Ive seen, I consider the issues with the mattress are due to the 
normal loss of resilience a king-size bed (thats designed to sleep one person on each side 
as opposed to the middle) will experience over time. Importantly, the loss of resilience 
doesn't satisfy the 30% requirement under the terms of the policy.
Mrs R says the matter should be referred to the retailer if not resolved by Ageas (the 
insurer). I cant comment on what the retailer should or shouldn't do about Mrs Rs concerns 
with the mattress. My remit here is limited to Ageas actions as the insurer of the furniture 
protection policy.  
Overall, based on everything Ive seen on this complaint, Im satisfied Ageas has acted fairly 
in declining the claim, as it hasnt been demonstrated that the loss of resilience meets the 
policy terms. It's inevitable that a mattress will lose some resilience through normal usage. I 
don't think it's unfair that Ageas places a limit on the degree of loss that's applicable to its 
policy coverage.
My final decision
I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 June 2020.
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman