DRN-2288452
The complaint
Miss E complains that Nationwide Building Society prevented her from accessing information 
she needed about her accounts.
What happened
In May 2020 Miss E visited her local branch of Nationwide to get her passbook updated. 
Nationwide didnt allow her into the branch as it didnt consider her transaction to be 
essential. Following this Miss E called Nationwide and was unhappy with the call wait times. 
She complained to Nationwide.
Nationwide responded to the complaint to say due to the Covid-19 pandemic it was running 
a reduced service which meant it was only serving customers whose transactions it deemed 
essential. Nationwide acknowledged call wait times were longer than usual and apologised 
for this. It also encouraged Miss E to do her banking online. 
Unhappy with Nationwides response, Miss E brought her complaint to our service for an 
independent review. Since then shes closed one of her accounts as she felt she had to. She 
says shell lose out on interest as a result.  
An investigator considered Miss Es complaint. He concluded, in summary, that Nationwide 
had treated Miss E fairly given the challenges brought about by the pandemic. And he didnt 
think it was necessary for Miss E to close her account. So he didnt recommend Nationwide 
do anything more to resolve the complaint.
Miss E remained of the opinion Nationwide had prevented her from accessing information 
she needed. As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nationwide has explained that because of the pandemic, only essential transactions were 
able to be undertaken in branch at the time Miss E visited. Essential transactions are those 
that need to be made and cant be made in another way. For example, a cash withdrawal of 
more than £500 can only be made in a branch because this is above most ATM limits. 
Nationwides actions here were in line with guidance issued by the regulator and were 
common across the industry. 
Miss E says she needed her passbook updating so she could inform HMRC how much 
interest shed earned. She says when she visited the branch she queued for some time and 
was then denied access because her reason for visiting wasnt considered an essential 
transaction. I can understand Miss Es frustration. But because of what Ive set out above, I 
think it was reasonable for Nationwide to refer her to other facilities.
Miss E says she then tried calling Nationwide. After waiting for 35 minutes she says she 
ended the call. Following this she complained. Its unfortunate Miss E couldnt get through to 
Nationwide more quickly. But in light of the pandemic I dont think a lengthy wait was 
unusual. And I think if Miss E was eager for the interest information  as she says she was  
she ought reasonably to have held on for longer. She could also have tried at other times or 
on other days. She could have written to Nationwide asking for the information. And she 
could have sought an appointment at the branch. 
Miss E could also have accessed the information she needed online. She says her savings 
accounts couldnt be accessed online. But they could. This was set out in Miss Es 2019 
annual savings statement and in Nationwides final response letter. Miss E has access to 
email, so I think its fair to conclude she has access to the internet. I therefore think she 
could, if shed wanted to, set up internet or mobile banking to access account information. 
Overall, Nationwide made enough options available to Miss E to access the information she 
needed and it appears she chose not to explore them. She later updated her passbooks in a 
branch and closed her account. She says shes lost interest as a result. But I dont think 
Nationwide put Miss E in a position where closing the account was her only option. It follows 
that Im not persuaded Nationwide is responsible for her alleged loss of interest. 
During the course of this complaint Miss E has said she wouldnt have needed to ask for 
information about interest earned, if Nationwide had sent her an annual savings statement 
as it had in previous years. I think shes probably right. But Nationwide phased out annual 
paper statements. This was set out in her 2019 annual savings statement, which provided 
alternative ways of accessing account information. Nationwide was entitled to make this 
change. 
While Miss E didnt sign up to online banking, she did sign up to a service called Savings 
Watch. However, this service provides information for account comparison purposes rather 
than information about interest earned. I accept that Miss E would prefer an annual 
statement. But as Nationwide provides the information through other means, I dont think its 
treated her unfairly by not providing one. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Miss Es complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 December 2020. 
Brad McIlquham
Ombudsman