DRN-2839950
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) didnt refund him a payment he made 
using his credit card.
What happened
At the beginning of May 2020, Mr S took his car to a repair shop to which I will refer to as R. 
This was because his cars Engine Management Light was illuminated, and his car was in 
limp mode. Mr S said that R diagnosed the car as having a faulty Diesel Particulate Filter 
(DPF), and he said that R advised him that replacing this faulty part would return the car to 
its full working order. But after replacing the DPF, Mr S said that the car was still in limp 
mode. Mr S said that R did further diagnostic testing and he said they advised him that the 
thermostat was faulty too. Mr S said the total cost of the repairs was approximately £1,672 
and the repairs didnt resolve the faults with the car. 
Following this, Mr S said that R advised him to take the car to a main dealer. So, he said that 
R misdiagnosed the cars faults and subsequently charged him for replacement parts that 
were not required. R didnt agree with him, but Mr S said he paid for the repairs in order to 
be able to collect his car. Following this Mr S said that he took the car to the main dealer and 
it transpired that the fault was not DPF related. Mr S said that the fault was actually with a 
defective wiring located within a fuse box. 
Mr S was unhappy with the payment he made to R, so on 12 May 2020 he raised a claim for 
a refund with HSBC. 
In August 2020, HSBC wrote to Mr S and apologised for the time it had taken them to look 
into his concerns. They explained that their dispute team is working in unprecedented times 
and dealing with exceptionally high volumes of cases received  this was due to the Covid-
19 pandemic. For the delay and inconvenience caused they paid Mr S £30 compensation. 
HSBC wrote again to Mr S in September 2020, and apologised for the time it has taken them 
to deal with his disputed transaction claim and paid him £100 compensation for the delays 
caused. In this correspondence, they also said that they needed a detailed description of 
what service was not received and proof of any ongoing communication Mr S had with R.
When HSBC processed a refund request through their chargeback process, the merchant 
(R) defended the request. R said that when Mr S brought in his car for them to investigate, 
they scanned the car for fault codes. They said that in the engine ECU there was a fault 
stored for DPF showing efficiency below threshold, which they said meant that the DPF was 
blocked. Within their response they provided a copy of the fault log that was taken from Mr 
Ss car when it was in for the repairs. They said this could cause the car to go into limp 
mode. So, they said, Mr S was made aware of the faults stored in the ECU, and he was 
made aware that they couldnt regenerate the DPF. So, they said he agreed to have the DPF 
replaced. They said that after they replaced the DPF the engine management light and the 
DPF light were not illuminated, but the car was still in limp mode. They said that they 
explained to Mr S that until the DPF was working there was no way to tell if there would be 
another fault with the car. R explained that they have carried out further diagnostics but were 
unable to find the fault, and so they advised Mr S to take the car to the dealership 
responsible for that make of the car. R also wrote that they did not misdiagnose the fault, as 
they went by what was stored in the engine ECU, and that this was the correct way to 
proceed. 
HSBC said that to consider Mr Ss claim under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(Section 75) they would need an independent report to verify that the work carried out by R 
was not required, as they feel that it may be that the overall work resolved the matter. They 
said the invoice Mr S provided for the extra repairs completed at the main dealer doesnt 
stipulate to the fact that the previous work completed by R was not necessary. 
Mr S was not happy that HSBC would not refund him the money he paid to R and referred 
his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator was of the opinion that the complaint shouldnt be upheld. She thought that 
the chargeback was successfully defended by the merchant and that there was no clear 
evidence on which HSBC cold appeal that decision. She also didnt think there was a 
successful Section 75 claim to be made as R didnt breach their contract with Mr S, and she 
didnt think there was evidence that the contract was misrepresented either.  
Mr S disagreed with the investigator. 
So, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is unclear or in dispute, I reach my findings on the balance of probabilities  
which is to say, what I consider most likely to have happened based on the evidence 
available and the surrounding circumstances.
I also want to acknowledge that Ive summarised the events of the complaint. But I want to
assure both parties that Ive reviewed everything on file. And if I dont comment
on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive concentrated on
what I think are the key issues. Our powers allow me to do this. This simply reflects the 
informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts.
I know Mr S feels strongly that he has been wronged by R. But in this decision, I have to 
consider what is HSBCs liability to him in this specific complaint when deciding if it shouldve 
done more to help him. Their liability is grounded in either the chargeback process or in 
Section 75. In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to take into account the 
relevant law and related rules of these processes into account. 
Chargeback
In some cases, a bank may be able to request a refund from the supplier through the 
chargeback scheme. The chargeback is a voluntary scheme which looks to resolve payment 
disputes between cardholders and suppliers/merchants. These disputes are dealt with under 
the relevant card scheme rules. There is no obligation for a card issuer to raise a 
chargeback when a consumer asks for one, but I would consider it good practice for HSBC 
to pursue a chargeback, as long as it was possible to do so (within the limitations of the 
scheme rules and criteria), and provided there is a reasonable prospect of success. A chargeback doesnt guarantee a refund as the supplier/merchant can put forward a 
defence to the chargeback claim. If the chargeback is defended, HSBC could pursue the 
chargeback further and ultimately ask the card scheme provider to arbitrate on the outcome. 
My role in such cases is not to second-guess the card schemes arbitration decision or 
scheme rules, but to determine whether the card issuer (in this case, HSBC) acted fairly and 
reasonably when presenting, or choosing not to present, and when choosing whether to 
continue with the chargeback process on behalf of its cardholder (in this case, Mr S).
HSBC raised the chargeback, under the Not as Described or Defective 
Merchandise/Services dispute code, and it was defended by R. So, Ive taken this into 
consideration when looking at whether HSBC acted fairly by not pursuing the chargeback in 
full further. Ive also taken a note of what both parties have told us. 
Mr S said that R told him that fitting the new parts would return the car to full working order. 
But HSBC, in turn, have told us that Mr S was unable to provide them with evidence of his 
discussions with R to support his claim. Ive also considered that R, as part of their defence 
to the chargeback being raised, said that Mr Ss car was scanned for fault codes, and that 
they provided a copy of the fault log from the day in question. They said the scan of the fault 
codes showed that the DPF efficiency was below the threshold, meaning that the DPF was 
blocked. They said this can cause the car to go into limp mode. So, they said Mr S was 
made aware of the faults stored in the ECU, and he was made aware that they couldnt 
regenerate the DPF. So, they said that he agreed to have the DPF replaced. They said that 
they explained to Mr S that until the DPF was working there was no way to tell if there would 
be another fault with the car. R also wrote that they did not misdiagnose the fault as they 
went by what was stored in the engine ECU, and that this was the correct way to proceed. 
So, it seems they have provided a strong defence, and based on the limited evidence HSBC 
had from Mr S at the time, I think most likely the chargeback wouldnt have succeeded even 
if HSBC had continued to pursue it more robustly.
Section 75 claim 
Section 75 sets out that, in certain circumstances, Mr S can bring a claim against HSBC for 
any breach of contract or misrepresentation by R, provided that certain conditions are met. 
Im satisfied those conditions are met in this case. So, I have to decide whether I think that 
HSBC have acted fairly and reasonably when dealing with Mr Ss Section 75 claim. In 
deciding that, Ive taken into account the law, including Section 75, any rules and 
regulations, and what I consider to be good industry practice at that time. 
A breach of contract would occur if R failed to provide Mr S with a product or service agreed 
in contract with them. And, to make a finding of misrepresentation, I would need to be 
satisfied that Mr S was told a false statement of fact that caused him to enter a contract he 
would not have entered into otherwise.
Mr S has said that he was advised by R that fitting the new parts would return the car to full 
working order. He has told us that at no stage was he advised that after fitting the new parts 
the car would remain in disorder. He feels that this is a breach of contract. 
In thinking about whether theres been a breach of contract, Ive considered what was being 
agreed between R and Mr S. Mr S told HSBC that R assured him that the new parts would 
return the car to full working order, while R has said that Mr S was made aware of the faults 
stored in the ECU, and that he was made aware that they couldnt regenerate the DPF. So, 
R said that Mr S agreed to have the DPF replaced. R wrote that they explained to Mr S that 
until the DPF was working there was no way to tell if there would be another fault with the 
car. HSBC told us that Mr S was unable to provide them with evidence of his discussions with R to support his claim. Based on this, it seems that there are two versions of what was 
discussed between Mr S and R at the time. 
Ive considered both versions, and Ive also considered other points raised by both parties. In 
summary, HSBC said that there was nothing on the documents for the additional work Mr S 
had done at the main dealer which shows that the previous work by R was not necessary as 
part of the overall resolution of fixing the problem with Mr Ss car. And Mr S has told us, and 
provided evidence, that since bringing the complaint to our service he has had the original 
DPF tested and cleaned. So, he said that the DPF was never faulty and a forced 
regeneration of it was not successful purely due to work that was completed by the main 
dealer.   
Besides considering both parties versions of events and their evidence, Ive also considered 
any implied terms for services set out in the Consumer Rights Act 2015. These say that 
services need to be carried out with reasonable skill and care. 
Even though Mr S managed to get the DPF cleaned afterwards, that doesnt mean that R 
didnt act with reasonable skill and care when arriving at the suggestion that the DPF should 
be replaced. When they diagnosed Mr Ss car, they considered the faults that were stored in 
the engine ECU. The ECU alerted them to the issues with the DPF, and as they couldnt 
regenerate the DPF, it seemed reasonable that it may have needed replacing. So, it seems 
they considered other options available to them before just proceeding and replacing the 
DPF. Overall, I cant say that most likely R didnt carry out the service with reasonable skill 
and care, as they were relying on the codes in the engine ECU, and they were relying on 
other diagnostics when deciding which parts needed replacing. So, while I appreciate Mr Ss 
strength of feeling regarding these aspects, I dont think Ive seen enough to make a finding 
of misrepresentation, or to say that the quality of service fell below that of a reasonable 
service provider. Ultimately, I dont think there is enough evidence for me to say that R 
breached their contract with him by not providing the service they were contractually 
required to provide.
Ive also considered that Mr S was unhappy with the delays caused by HSBC when dealing 
with his claim. But I can see the they have apologised and paid him £130. Considering the 
circumstances, and the fact that some of these delays were during the Covid-19 pandemic, 
when businesses were dealing with a lot of queries, I think this is fair and reasonable. 
Overall, I sympathise with Mr S for the difficulties that he is experiencing but, taking all of the 
circumstances of the complaint into account, I think that HSBC has acted fairly and 
reasonably when dealing with his chargeback and his Section 75 claim. So, it is not fair or 
reasonable for me to require HSBC to take any action in response to Mr Ss complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2022.
 
Mike Kozbial
Ombudsman