DRN-4360999
The complaint
Mr D complains about the price quoted by AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) to renew his motor 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr D says he received a quote to renew his policy which was significantly higher than what 
hed paid the previous year.
He complained to AXA about this. AXA responded and said their underwriters review several 
factors when considering the risks associated with insuring a vehicle. They said that if 
average costs increase then this will be reflected in their premiums. While they couldnt 
provide further details, they said Mr Ds policy had been priced correctly.
AXA did offer a discount to Mr D, but he went on to renew the policy online at the quoted 
renewal price. Unhappy with AXAs response, Mr D referred the matter to the Financial 
Ombudsman.
Our investigator looked into things for Mr D. He thought AXA hadnt treated Mr D unfairly in 
relation to the pricing. Mr D disagreed, so the matter has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr D will be 
disappointed by this, but Ill explain why Ive made this decision.
The role of this service when looking at complaints about insurance pricing isnt to tell an 
insurer what they should charge or to determine the right price for insurance policies they 
offer. This is a commercial decision that insurers are allowed to make. But we can look to 
see whether we think a consumer has been treated fairly, or whether theres anything to 
show theyve been treated differently or less favourably. If we think someone has been 
treated unfairly, we can set out what we think needs to happen to put things right.
I can see Mr D paid a premium of £260.67 in 2022 and received a quote for £347.58 in 2023. 
This is around 33% more than what he paid the year before. So, I understand why Mr D is 
concerned about the increase. 
AXA have provided me with confidential, business-sensitive information to explain how Mr 
Ds price increase was calculated. Im afraid I cant share this with him because its 
commercially sensitive, but Ive checked it carefully. And Im satisfied the price hes been 
charged has been calculated correctly and fairly. Ive seen no evidence to suggest that Mr D 
has been treated differently to other AXA customers in the same circumstances.
I cant provide specific detail about AXAs risk model. But, AXA have demonstrated that an 
important factor was the rising price of claims due to inflation in the market. Mr D may feel 
this is unfair, but AXA, like all insurers, will review their approach to risks at different points 
and this will result in changes to the premium. The rising costs in the insurance market are 
also well publicised. I havent seen any evidence to suggest Mr D has been singled out by 
the increase.
When Mr D complained, I can see AXA offered a discount of £17.38. AXA have said this was 
a loyalty discount. So, Im satisfied this wasnt to correct a mistake AXA had made with Mr 
Ds original quote and was rather a discretionary discount they offered.
As I've said, I cannot share the information Mr D would likely want to see to understand why 
his premium increased for his renewal. I understand Mr D feels its unfair that the information 
AXA have used to price his policy cant be disclosed to him. But this information is 
commercially sensitive, as it relates to the way AXA competes with other insurers in the 
market. I hope Mr D feels reassured that Ive checked the pricing information from AXA. But I 
cant say theyve made a mistake or treated Mr D unfairly in relation to pricing his renewal.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2023.
 
Chris Woolaway
Ombudsman