DRN-4102035
The complaint
Mr S complains that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) wouldnt refund money paid on direct debits.
What happened
Mr S has a current account with BoS. The account was debited with direct debit payments 
for £79.45 for 12 months between June 2021 and June 2022. The beneficiary was an energy 
company  which I shall call E. Mr S said he didnt recognise the payments and asked for a 
refund under the direct debit indemnity scheme. BoS declined his claim.
Mr S complained. He said he didnt recognise the payments, nor did he have an energy 
contract with the beneficiary (E). He said he paid for his energy by cash. He said BoS 
should refund the amounts paid.
BoS said they had made the decision not to refund the amounts and suggested that Mr S 
speak to E directly. BoS said Mr S was previously paying an energy company (NE) £79.45 
each month up until April 2021. Both E and NE appeared to be part of BG group, and this 
would explain why the payment amount continued at £79.45, despite the energy provider 
changing. BoS apologised for some of the service Mr S received and paid compensation of 
£150.
Mr S brought his complaint to us. Our investigator didnt uphold it. Looking at the direct debit 
indemnity claim, he could see that the same amount had been paid for 12 months, and there 
was an obligation on Mr S to notice the money being paid out. His account went into 
overdraft when the direct debit was paid out, and he then transferred money in to repay the 
overdraft  so this suggested Mr S was aware of the direct debit. So  he could see why BoS 
declined the refund.
Mr S didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman look at his complaint, and so it has come to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For reasons of confidentiality, I cant name the energy companies involved.
When dealing with direct debit refund claims, we expect firms such as BoS to take a 
practical view on whether a refund should be made or not. Direct debits are originated by the 
beneficiary (not the banks), and the onus is on the beneficiary to claim money from 
customers bank accounts  in an accurate way. The bank (BoS in this instance)  has no 
knowledge of the contract that Mr S (or any other customer) may have with the beneficiary  
the energy supplier in this case.
I can only look at whether BoS acted reasonably in responding to Mr S request for a refund 
 and I think they did. They told us that E had claimed the same amount from Mr S account 
for 12 months  between June 2021 and June 2022. And  Mr S shouldve reasonably have 
noticed that earlier and advised BoS. But he didnt. But also  prior to that, he paid the same 
amount to BG under his energy contract with BG. So  it appeared that the payments related 
to the continuation of Mr S energy contract. I think that was a reasonable conclusion for BoS 
to come to. 
To be clear  our service has no involvement with, or responsibility for, energy providers - 
we only look at complaints about financial services firms. But to try to be helpful, I looked at 
matters further. We asked BoS to ask the beneficiary more questions  to be certain of what 
had happened. BoS did that  and showed us the reply which came from BG. This confirmed 
that BG acquired NE in April 2021. And the payments being made by direct debit by 
customers of NE were transferred to BG. I can also see that the reference number on the 
direct debits claimed between June 2021 and June 2022 was the same as that used before 
that time. So  the amounts and reference numbers didnt change. 
I cant explain why the payments were made to a beneficiary named E. I looked at the notes 
of the calls between Mr S and BoS  and Mr S said his previous energy provider was NE.  
So  its reasonable to conclude that the payments were for Mr S energy contract, both 
before June 2021 and thereafter firstly with NE, and then to BG when NE was acquired. 
Mr S says that as BoS paid compensation of £150, that means theyve admitted they were 
wrong to decline the refunds  but thats not the case. The payment was for some service 
failings in dealing with Mr Ss complaint  and for the long calls he had to make. BoSs final 
response didnt say they were wrong to not refund the direct debit amounts.
In summary, having reviewed what happened here, Im satisfied that BoS acted reasonably. 
I know Mr S will be disappointed by my decision, but Im not asking BoS to do anymore here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman