DRN-4407983
The complaint
Mr G complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC caused him worry when it sent him several 
notifications about changes made to his account that he says he didnt make.
What happened
On 17 December 2022, Mr G says he received several messages from Barclays in the early 
hours of the morning notifying him that the address on his account had been changed 
multiple times. Mr G says the messages told him to contact Barclays if the requests werent 
made by him. However, he says there was no way to contact Barclays at that time. Mr G 
says he corrected his address details shortly afterwards using his computer, and then did the 
same using his mobile banking app. However, he said he was up all night worrying about his 
account.
Mr G says he spoke with an adviser some hours later, but the adviser wasnt helpful. So, he 
wrote a letter of complaint instead. Barclays reviewed matters and acknowledged Mr Gs 
concerns, but it couldnt find any evidence to suggest that any fraudulent activity had taken 
place on the account. It noted that an address change was made on 17 December 2022, but 
this was done using Mr Gs own touch ID. Barclays apologised for the service received when 
Mr G tried to contact it and offered £25 compensation for the inconvenience.
Mr G remained unhappy about this and brought his complaint to this service. One of our 
investigators reviewed matters and, in summary, didnt think there was any evidence to show 
that any fraudulent activity had taken place. He acknowledged that the notifications were 
received at an inconvenient time, however he thought Barclays offer to put matters right was 
fair.
Barclays didnt dispute our investigators opinion but Mr G did and mostly repeated his 
earlier points. This service asked Barclays whether it was willing to increase its offer of 
compensation, considering the impact Mr G says the matter had on him. Barclays agreed to 
increase the offer of compensation to £100, however Mr G didnt think this was enough. So, 
the case was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision where I said I thought that the offer Barclays had recently put 
forward was fair in the circumstances. I then said the following:
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to the crux of the complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made to date.
As I understand it, Mr G wants to know exactly what happened with his account and would 
like assurances that the matter has been fixed. In its correspondence with this service, 
Barclays hasnt been able to explain exactly why multiple notifications were sent to Mr G 
and, as I understand it, has provided some contradictory information about this. When this 
service asked for clarity on its position, following further investigation, Barclays has said its 
unable to explain exactly why the notifications were sent and that its probable this might 
have been due to a technology glitch.
Having reviewed the system notes Barclays provided, there are instances of notifications 
being sent to Mr G in the early hours of the morning on the day in question. However, 
Barclays notes suggest this was about a change to a phone number rather than an address. 
Additionally, these seem to have been sent slightly earlier in the morning compared with the 
time stamps on the screenshots Mr G provided. So, I can understand why Barclays has said 
matters are unclear here and why it thinks the error may have been a technology glitch. And 
Im satisfied it investigated matters sufficiently before reaching this conclusion.
I acknowledge that Mr G wants certainty about what happened and confirmation that the 
matter has been fixed. He says hes constantly worried that someone may access his 
account again. However, as outlined, Barclays cant be sure of exactly what took place, nor 
can it offer Mr G a guarantee that something like this wont happen again in the future. 
Barclays has said that on this occasion nothing fraudulent has taken place on the account, 
and Mr G hasnt provided evidence to the contrary. So, Im satisfied that Mr G hasnt lost out 
in this regard. 
However, I appreciate that Mr G will be disappointed that there isnt a more definitive 
explanation of what has happened. Im also satisfied that the matter clearly caused Mr G 
some worry. I say this with the volume of notifications in mind, and because they were 
received in the early hours of the morning, and Mr G says he was unable to speak with an 
adviser until some hours later. So, the matter would have clearly caused him some worry.
Mr G has also said hes unhappy with the customer service he received when he first raised 
the matter with Barclays. And, having reviewed matters it seems Barclays could have been 
more sympathetic to the concerns Mr G had about the security on his account and why he 
wanted to know what had gone wrong.
Im glad to see Barclays apologised for the overall customer service Mr G received, and I 
note it offered him £25 compensation. However, having considered the overall customer 
service provided here, Im currently minded to direct Barclays to pay Mr G some more 
compensation. And, having thought carefully about the impact matters have had, I think 
increasing the compensation to £100 in total is a fair way to put matters right in the 
circumstances.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G accepted the provisional decision, to bring the matter to a close given how long the 
situation had been going on. Barclays didnt dispute the provisional decision. Therefore, I 
see no reason to depart from the findings that I reached in my provisional decision. It follows 
that I uphold this complaint for the reasons outlined above.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint, and direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay 
Mr G £100 compensation in total for the impact matters have had on him. It should also 
deduct any compensation it has already paid Mr G in relation to this issue from this amount.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 November 2023.
 
Hana Yousef
Ombudsman