DRN-3937062
The complaint
Mrs L complains about her mortgage with Bank of Scotland plc. She is in arrears, and 
complains it hasnt treated her fairly. She also complains about the interest rate applied to 
her mortgage.
What happened
Mrs L has a mortgage with Bank of Scotland (BoS). The mortgage was taken out originally in 
2001, with a further advance in 2008. This took the total borrowing to just over £1.3million on 
an interest only basis, with a term of eighteen years ending in 2026. Mrs L had a fixed rate of 
5.69% which ended in 2010, at which point she went onto the BoS standard variable rate 
(SVR). 
Around the same time, Mrs L began to fall into financial difficulty. The mortgage went into 
arrears, and in 2013 BoS took legal action. Mrs L began to receive support for mortgage 
interest benefit in 2014, but the mortgage continued to be in arrears. Mrs L has told us about 
the difficulties she faced around this time.
Mrs L says she has repeatedly asked BoS for new interest rates to reduce her monthly 
payments, and so the arrears. But it refused  until 2017, when it offered Mrs L a two year 
fixed rate. It says it did so as an exception, despite the arrears, because Mrs L showed that 
she could afford to keep up with the payments and reduce the arrears. When that rate 
expired in 2019, BoS refused to offer Mrs L a further new rate saying she had not kept to the 
agreement made in 2017 and that the mortgage was no longer affordable even on a lower 
rate.
Mrs L first complained to BoS in 2016. She has made a number of complaints over the years 
since, and received several responses from BoS. BoS said that part of her complaint was 
out of time because it had previously responded and those complaints hadnt then been 
brought to us. Our investigator agreed, and so Mrs L asked for an ombudsman to decide 
what we could consider.
I issued a decision setting out our jurisdiction to consider this complaint. I said we could 
consider:
Whether BoS should, acting fairly, have offered Mrs L a new fixed interest rate since 
1 April 2017;
Whether BoSs SVR was fair  but only since 30 September 2016;
Whether BoS has treated Mrs L fairly in her financial difficulty (other than through 
offering a new fixed interest rate)  but only since 30 September 2016.
Our investigator then gave Mrs L his answer on the merits of those parts of her complaint. 
He didnt uphold it, so Mrs L has asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
Our investigator said that because her mortgage was in arrears, Mrs L wasnt eligible for a 
new fixed rate under BoSs criteria. Despite that, it had offered her a rate in 2017 to try and 
help her reduce her payments and get the mortgage back on track  but that hadnt been 
successful and in those circumstances it wasnt unreasonable that BoS didnt offer a new 
rate when that one expired. He said that it had tried other options to assist her, but there was 
a limit to what could be done when the mortgage simply wasnt affordable for Mrs L. He also 
concluded that BoSs SVR had operated fairly and in line with the terms and conditions. He 
recognised that Mrs L was in a difficult situation, but he didnt think BoS was responsible for 
that or that there was more it could reasonably have been expected to do to help.  
Mrs L said that BoS had given her a reasonable expectation that it would make new interest 
rates available to her. It didnt make clear that rates were only available where customers 
were not in arrears. She said the term in the mortgage conditions allowing BoS to vary the 
SVR wasnt fair and that BoS should have reduced the SVR. She said that when she took 
the mortgage out the SVR was around 2% above Bank of England base rate  it then 
increased substantially relative to base rate, which doesnt reflect its costs. Had the margin 
over base rate stayed below 3%, shed have saved over £300,000 over the years.
Mrs L said that if BoS had treated her fairly and given her a fair rate, the arrears would have 
been much lower  or potentially she wouldnt have been in arrears at all. But BoS has set 
her interest rate at a level which makes her monthly payments unaffordable. She said that as 
a result of the arrears she couldnt move to another lender  meaning she was trapped with 
BoS and being taken advantage of in an unfair way. She also says the bank has treated her 
unfairly, including its advisers behaving in an aggressive and threatening way to her.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reminded myself of what I said about our jurisdiction to consider this complaint in my 
earlier decision. I havent changed my mind about that, and so in what follows Ill concentrate 
on the merits of those parts of the complaint I said we could consider. 
Im sorry to hear of all the health and other issues Mrs L has had over the years. Im sure 
things have been very difficult for her  and her worries about her mortgage and the 
possibility of losing her home wont have made things easier for her. Ive taken all that into 
account  and Ive also taken into account the regulators guidance on the fair treatment of 
vulnerable customers.
Ill deal first with the level of BoSs SVR, and then Ill move on to considering whether BoS 
treated Mrs L fairly  including whether it should have offered her new fixed interest rates, 
either before or after the rate that was in place from 2017 to 2019.
The fairness of the SVR
Prior to 2017, Mrs L last took a fixed rate in 2008. The offer at that time said that at the end 
of the fixed rate period, her mortgage would revert to the SVR  as indeed it did.
The SVR is a variable rate. The 2008 mortgage offer says:
Your loan reverts to Bank of Scotland Home Loan Rate (our standard variable rate) 
currently 7.600% after 30/04/2010.
Bank of Scotland Home Loan Rate (our standard variable rate) is the base rate which 
applies to this mortgage. 
The interest rate applicable to this mortgage account can go up or down. 
There is no suggestion in the mortgage offer that the SVR is linked to, or tracks, the Bank of 
England base rate. The offer merely says that the rate can go up or down. 
The mortgage terms and conditions give more information about how the SVR is managed. 
Condition 6 of the terms and conditions says:
6.1 We will charge interest at the base rate plus any added rate on those parts of 
the capital which are not special rate loans
Words in bold type have a specific definition  special rate loans means loans with an 
interest rate product, such as a fixed or tracker rate. 
Base rate means the base rate of interest set out in the offer or in any extra agreement 
or any flexible options agreement We may change this rate of interest under condition 
6. Ive quoted above the relevant section of Mrs Ls 2008 offer, which says the Bank of 
Scotland Home Loan Rate (our standard variable rate) is the base rate which applies to this 
mortgage  thats the rate that for ease Im calling the SVR. 
What that means is that for any period Mrs Ls mortgage is not on a special rate (such as a 
fixed rate), it is on the base rate, and the base rate is the SVR. The base rate for these 
purposes is not to be confused with the Bank of England base rate. 
And it also means that the SVR can change in accordance with condition 6. The relevant 
part of condition 6 governing this is condition 6.10. Condition 6.10 says:
We can change the interest rate on any part of the capital at any time, unless the 
offer, any extra agreement or any flexible options agreement says we cannot. We 
can change the interest rate for any of the following reasons.
(a) To reflect changes in the cost to us of raising the money we lend to our 
customers with mortgages of residential property.
(b) To reflect changes in rates of interest charged by other major lenders (including 
the terms on which mortgages are offered by them).
(c) To reflect changes to the law or codes of practice, a decision or recommendation 
made by, or a requirement of, a court, ombudsman, regulator or similar body or 
an undertaking given to the Financial Services Authority.
(d) To reflect changes to the costs we incur in looking after the mortgage account 
because of:
The steps we have taken to modernise or improve our systems for 
managing mortgage accounts generally;
Reasons outside our control.
(e) To reflect changes to the accounting period.
(f) BecauseWe are going to take over, take control of or acquire the business of 
another bank or organisation offering similar services;
We are going to be taken over or our business is acquired by another 
bank or organisation offering similar services; or
Any of these things has happened,
and the change will make sure that our customers and the customers of the 
other bank or organisation are treated in a similar way if they are in similar 
categories.
(g) Because you have changed the way you use the property (for example from 
residential to commercial use) and we need to change the interest rate to bring 
it into line with the rate we would charge
On any money lent to a new borrower on the security of a property used 
in that way; or
As a condition of giving our permission under an existing mortgage for a 
property to be used in that way.
Where we refer to changes in the above list, we mean changes we know will 
happen or we reasonably believer will happen, or changes which have already taken 
place.
In this case, I said in my jurisdiction decision that we could only look at the fairness of the 
SVR charged since 30 September 2016. But I also said that in considering the fairness of 
the SVR charged since that date, we would need to take into account not only changes 
made since then but also potentially changes made before then  where they impact the rate 
charged after that date  as part of all the circumstances of the complaint. For example, if 
the SVR was increased before 2016, and then continued to be charged at the increased 
level after 30 September 2016, then that increase might be relevant to the fairness of the 
rate charged after 30 September 2016.
Applying that to this case, Ive looked at the history of the SVR to consider whether it was 
charged at a fair level from September 2016 onwards.
Mrs L says that the term allowing BoS to change the SVR is itself an unfair contract term, 
and that it resulted in the SVR being set at an unfair level. So Ive considered both those 
arguments.
As this is a consumer contract, its covered by the Unfair Terms in Consumer Contract 
Regulations (UTCCR)  which is relevant law that Ive taken into account. 
Having considered the relevant regulations and caselaw, I think its likely that a court would 
conclude that variation term is not a core term of the contract, since it doesnt set the price  
it sets a mechanism for amending the price. Nor do I think it creates a significant imbalance 
between the parties. SVR rates, and terms allowing them to be varied, are a standard 
feature of the UK mortgage lending market. An SVR reversion rate allows a lender to attract 
new customers with a preferential initial rate, while building in the flexibility a variable rate 
allows to manage its longer term costs after the initial product term. Many borrowers treat 
the reversion point as an opportunity to shop around for another preferential rate  either 
with their existing lender or moving to another lender. And I think that a consumer in a 
hypothetical negotiation - understanding that over the course of an agreement as long as a mortgage a lenders costs might change - would have agreed to a term such as this one, 
allowing the SVR to be varied in limited circumstances to take account of changing 
circumstances. I also note that this term sets out and limits when the SVR can be changed, 
not just when it can be reduced. So it potentially operates to reduce as well as increase the 
rate charged to Mrs L. Finally, I dont think there was a significant barrier to exit foreseeable 
at the time the loan was taken out  Mrs L would only become subject to the SVR (and any 
variations) once she reverted, at which point there was no longer an early repayment 
charge. 
All those matters are relevant to whether, as a matter of law, the term is a fair term. Although 
I accept theres a possibility a court might not find this to be a fair term, Im satisfied on 
balance that its not unfair. But in any case I think the central issue in this case is whether 
Mrs L has been treated fairly and reasonably  which means I also need to think about 
whether BoS used the term in a way which has, since September 2016, resulted in 
unfairness to Mrs L.
In that context, I note the existence of the variation term allowed BoS to reduce the SVR as 
well as increase it  which has meant that throughout the period since she reverted to the 
SVR in 2010, Mrs L has in fact been charged a lower rate than the 7.6% the SVR was set at 
when she first took the mortgage out.
In practice, BoS relied on condition 6.10 (a) each time it varied the SVR  to make changes 
to the SVR to reflect changes in the cost of its mortgage business. 
Between 2008 and 2010, Mrs L was on a fixed rate and therefore was not being charged the 
SVR. However, during this period, BoS reduced the SVR so that, by the time she reverted to 
the SVR in 2010 the SVR was lower than the illustrative rate quoted in the 2008 mortgage 
offer. 
Mrs L says that this wasnt fair, because the SVR reduced by a lesser amount than 
reductions in the Bank of England base rate over this period. This meant that the difference 
between the Bank of England base rate and the SVR increased over time  from around 2% 
to around 4%. 
However, as Ive set out above, theres nothing in either the mortgage offer or the terms and 
conditions which implies a link between the SVR and base rate. And I dont think theres 
anything in either document  or anything else Ive seen  which could reasonably be said to 
have given Mrs L a legitimate expectation that the SVR would always track base rate by the 
same or a substantially similar margin.
This was the time of the global financial crisis. The crisis had a significant impact on the UK 
mortgage business  including impacting lenders cost of funds. And at the same time, 
regulatory and prudential requirements changed. These changes were not directly linked to 
changes in base rate. As well as the evidence BoS has provided, theres substantial 
independent evidence that at this time the cost of funds in the mortgage market was 
increasingly divorced from base rate.1 
The terms of the mortgage contract do not oblige BoS to change the SVR at any time. But 
they enable it to do so  if any of the circumstances set out in the conditions apply. At this 
time, BoS reduced the SVR relying on condition 6.10 (a) because its funding costs reduced. 
BoS has limited evidence available from this time  it was many years ago  but has shown 
1 For example - Quarterly Bulletin, Q4 2014, Bank of England - https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/-
/media/boe/files/quarterly-bulletin/2014/bank-funding-costs-what-are-they-what-determines-them-and-why-do-
they-matter.pdfus that there was considerable pressure on its funding at that time. Ive not seen any 
evidence that suggests the reduction in SVR was not proportionate to changes in costs of 
funding. As Ive said, base rate was not the same as, and not directly linked to, funding 
costs. There was no obligation for the SVR to track base rate. And Ive not seen any 
evidence that persuades me that in reducing the SVR to the extent that it did BoS was acting 
outside the terms of the mortgage agreement.
In 2011, BoS increased the SVR. There were no changes to base rate at this time. But, as 
Ive said, there is no direct linkage between the two. BoS has shown us that at this time it 
faced increased costs due to changes in the wider regulatory environment, but its overall 
margins were reducing. It therefore increased the SVR, relying on condition 6.10(a), in 
response to the increased funding costs it faced. Again, Ive not seen any evidence that this 
was outside what was permitted under the terms and conditions. 
In August 2016 the Bank of England base rate fell by 0.25%. BoS did not change its SVR at 
this time. It was not obliged to do so, as the SVR is not linked to base rate (and its worth 
noting that it did not increase the SVR when base rate increased in 2017 either).
Taking all of that into account, Im not persuaded that during the period I can consider  from 
September 2016  the level of the SVR was unfair as a result of changes which took place 
before that period. While I cant consider a complaint about those changes, they are relevant 
context for the complaint I can look at as part of all the circumstance. For the reasons Ive 
explained, Ive seen nothing to suggest that BoS wasnt permitted to vary (or not vary) the 
SVR in the way it did. And therefore I cant say it acted unfairly in relying on those decisions 
as one of the factors contributing to the level of the SVR from September 2016 onwards.
Ive also considered the fairness of changes BoS made to the SVR during the period I can 
consider. Ive explained that it made no change to the SVR when base rate increased in 
2017. But it did increase the SVR by 0.25% in 2018, around the same time as base rate 
increased by the same amount. Although Mrs L wasnt subject to the SVR at this time, Ive 
still considered the fairness of this change as it affected the rate she would revert to at the 
end of the fixed rate she took in 2017. Having done so, Im satisfied this was a fair change. 
While the SVR isnt linked to base rate (as shown in 2016 and 2017), changes to base rate 
were reflective of broader changes to BoSs costs of funds at this time, and so the change to 
the SVR was permitted by the terms and conditions, and was fair in all the circumstances.
I dont therefore uphold this part of Mrs Ls complaint.
Whether BoS has treated Mrs L fairly in her financial difficulty  including the interest rate
Ive carefully considered all the circumstances of this case and the issues Mrs L has faced. 
Its clear things have been very difficult for her for a long time  the mortgage first fell into 
arrears as long ago as 2009, and the arrears have mounted since then. I cant consider the 
fairness of what happened before 2016, but its clear that Mrs Ls problems have been 
longstanding and the impact on her mortgage has been significant. 
By September 2016, the mortgage was over £100,000 in arrears. Mrs L was making 
occasional payments, but not paying consistently. Following a complaint made around this 
time (and which is out of time so I cant consider it), BoS offered Mrs L a new fixed interest 
rate from April 2017 onwards.
This reduced the interest rate from the SVR to a fixed rate of 2.74% - which in turn had the 
effect of reducing the monthly payment from over £5,800 to under £3,600. Mrs L missed the 
first two payments due under this rate, in April and May 2017. From June, she made the 
contractual monthly payments (but didnt contribute significantly to reducing the arrears) until October. She then missed Novembers payment and paid Decembers. In 2018, she did not 
make any payments at all other than in June, August and November. Then she resumed 
making payments in March 2019, missing July. The fixed rate expired in August 2019.
When Mrs L went onto the fixed rate in April 2017, the arrears balance was around 
£120,000. By the end of the fixed rate in August 2019, it was almost £150,000  despite 
some adjustments BoS had made for other reasons in the meantime.
In general, BoSs criteria are that a borrower in arrears isnt eligible for a new fixed rate. And 
there are good reasons for that  a borrower in arrears is more likely to end up selling the 
property or even have it repossessed, which would add an early repayment charge (ERC). In 
Mrs Ls case, a 5% ERC would be around £75,000  a very significant sum. 
However, notwithstanding the eligibility criteria, there are circumstances in which it might be 
fair to expect a lender to offer a new fixed rate. For example, where the borrowers 
circumstances are such that a reduction in the interest rate is enough to make the mortgage 
affordable and bring it back on track.
However, thats not the case here. BoS had already tried offering a fixed rate as a means of 
forbearance, in 2017. But during the next two years, while she was on the fixed rate, Mrs L 
missed as many payments as she made. Despite the fixed rate, the arrears increased by 
£30,000. And after the fixed rate expired in August 2019, she only made four of the next 
twelve payments  and in each case only paid what the monthly payment would have been 
had the rate continued, not what it actually was on the SVR the mortgage had reverted to.
I think this shows that offering Mrs L a further new interest rate from August 2019 wouldnt 
have resolved the underlying issue. It didnt make the mortgage affordable for her between 
2017 and 2019, and wouldnt have done so thereafter. At best, a new fixed rate would have 
slowed down the increase in arrears  but would not have allowed Mrs L to get the mortgage 
back on track. And while she hasnt sold the property (and it hasnt been repossessed) 
between then and now, that couldnt have been known in 2019  and it was reasonable for 
BoS to take that risk into account, even if it hasnt since come to pass.
Im therefore satisfied that in refusing Mrs L a new interest rate in 2019 and thereafter, BoS 
has not treated her unfairly in all the circumstances. 
I also dont think there were other measures BoS could have offered to help her get the 
mortgage back on track. It wouldnt have been appropriate to capitalise the arrears, since 
while the mortgage wasnt affordable and the arrears were rising, increasing the monthly 
payment through the addition of the arrears would have made the situation worse. The 
mortgage was already on interest only, so a term extension would make no difference. And a 
reduced payment arrangement wouldnt change the amount due. 
However, I do think BoS showed reasonable forbearance in that throughout this time it took 
account of Mrs Ls wider circumstances and did not repossess the property. Im not 
persuaded that its attempts to understand Mrs Ls circumstances and to warn her (as it is 
required to do) were inappropriate or threatening  though, given her circumstances and the 
worry of losing her home, I understand why Mrs L might have perceived them to be.
Ive taken into account everything Mrs L has said and I do understand the difficulties shes 
faced and the stresses shes been under. But the reality is that for many years her mortgage 
was unaffordable for her. BoS charged her a fair rate of interest, and offering her a new fixed 
rate from 2019 in place of the SVR wouldnt have changed things or solved the underlying 
problem. In all the circumstances, I dont think I can fairly uphold this complaint.However, Im pleased to note that more recently, while the complaint has been with us, Mrs 
Ls situation has begun to improve. I understand shes been in dialogue with BoS and I hope 
that shes able to get things back on track in the future. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2023.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman