DRN-3288585
The complaint
Mrs T complains that Honeycomb Financial Limited declined her claim that a product it 
financed was mis-sold to her.
What happened
In 2019, Mrs T purchased a trial membership timeshare product after attending a 
presentation. She paid using a point of sale loan with Honeycomb for £4,395  this 
agreement was interest free and for 12 months.
As part of the agreement, Mrs T booked a Prelude week. Mrs T says that on the day of 
arrival she realised the accommodation wasnt of the luxury standard expected and during 
the trip she raised her concerns. She then explored booking holidays through the exchange 
network and found that the cost and availability wasnt what she expected.
Mrs T wasnt happy with her membership and complained that this product had been mis 
sold  in summary she says:
The accommodation wasnt of a luxury standard as shed been led to believe, and it 
didnt come with a daily cleaning service or daily fresh linen and towels as promised.
The accommodation wasnt of signature style.
The cost of booking accommodation that would meet with her needs through the 
exchange network was higher than she was led to believe.
Holidays were available in live system during sale but not in reality. So, shes been 
unable to book what she wants.
Honeycomb didnt uphold Mrs Ts complaint. It said the documents Mrs T signed explain 
clearly how the product works. The supplier disagreed that Mrs T was promised daily 
cleaning with fresh linen and towels and says the cost of accommodation through the 
exchange network is set by the individual resorts and not the company that runs the 
membership.
When Mrs T complained to our service, the investigator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs T 
didnt accept this, she said she wouldnt have gone ahead with the purchase if she hadnt 
been given incorrect information. She emphasised the importance to her of having daily 
cleaning, fresh linen, and towels when on holiday, and the high cost of booking the sort of 
holiday she would like through the exchange network.
So, the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint  Ill explain why.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision about the 
merits of this complaint on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is 
most likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
Mrs T has complained that she was mis-sold this product by the supplier because the 
accommodation standard, costs and availability were misrepresented at the time of sale. 
Where a customer has a claim for misrepresentation, in certain circumstances, they can 
make a like claim against their lender under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). The 
relevant provision is s.75 of CCA, and whilst it hasnt been specifically referenced by the 
parties here, it does appear to be basis on which this claim has been considered by 
Honeycomb.
Ive considered this as part of reaching my finding on whether Honeycomb has acted fairly in 
the circumstances. Having done so, I dont think Honeycomb has acted unfairly in declining 
Mrs Ts claim for the following reasons:
What was said at the time of sale is disputed and the documentation doesnt support 
what Mrs T says she was told about the product.
The documentation provided to Mrs T at the point of sale explains that bookings are 
subject to availability.
Theres no specific level of luxury described in the documentation, and the supplier 
has explained that Mrs T wouldnt have been promised signature style as these 
apartments were not featured in the trial membership resort portfolio given on the day 
of her purchase.
Theres no reference to daily cleaning, fresh linen, or towels in the documentation. 
The supplier has confirmed this wasnt available for self-catering accommodation and 
so it doesnt agree this was promised. 
Terms like luxury are subjective and so while its possible these properties were 
described in a positive light, this wouldnt amount to a misrepresentation. Mrs T 
hasnt provided photos to demonstrate any specific issues, but she has described 
details like the sea view being poor because it was a very distant view  while this 
might well be disappointing, this also wouldnt amount to a misrepresentation as it 
wasnt untrue.
In relation to the exchange network, Mrs T hasnt said she was promised a specific 
price but rather that the range discussed was different which gave the impression it 
would be cheaper than it was when she tried to book. The supplier has said any 
prices indicated for holidays through the exchange network would have been 
accurate at the time, but that prices are set by individual resorts and may change. 
The documentation explains it wont necessarily be cheaper to book through this 
network than with other providers. So I dont think what Mrs T has described is 
sufficient for me to conclude there has been a misrepresentation here.
Mrs T has been provided with assistance to book accommodation and was given 
different options showing that holidays were available for her to book. There was no 
guarantee that every resort would be available at their preferred dates. Mrs T has let us know shes now taken two weeks holiday and booked a further two week holiday.
I appreciate that its difficult for Mrs T to provide evidence beyond her recollections and that 
shes been disappointed by the holidays shes booked through this product. But s.75 CCA 
doesnt necessarily provide protection for all scenarios that might lead a customer to be 
unsatisfied with a product or service. On balance, I dont think Mrs T has shown that there 
was a misrepresentation here that would mean Honeycomb had acted unfairly in declining 
her claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2022.
 
Stephanie Mitchell
Ombudsman