DRN-4061967
The complaint
Mr B complains that The Co-operative Bank p.l.c. (Co-op) gave him incorrect information 
about the terms of his account.
What happened
Mr B says that when he opened his bank account with the Co-op he was told hed have to 
credit a minimum amount each month. He said that he has sometimes struggled to achieve 
this but has recently been informed that minimum monthly credits have bever been a 
requirement of any Co-op accounts.
The Co-op originally said, both in-branch and by letter, that there had been no minimum 
credit deposit required since Mr B opened his account in 2008. However, it subsequently 
explained that it had made a mistake, and, in fact, there was a minimum monthly credit 
required into Mr Bs account until July 2016 when this condition was dropped. The Co-op 
offered Mr B £100 for this communication error.
Our investigator considered that the Co-ops offer was fair in the circumstances of the 
complaint.
Mr B responded to say, in summary, that he felt the compensation offered was inadequate. 
He said he was not aware of ever receiving notification of the change in terms and 
conditions with regard to the minimum monthly payments. He said he set up two accounts 
with another bank in 2014 purely to fulfil his obligations for minimum credits which allowed 
him to focus on matters of probate following the passing of his father in 2018. Mr B said 
these two accounts were only closed following advice given in branch in August 2022 that 
minimum monthly payments were not required.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Following Mr Bs initial complaint to the Co-op, the investigation has clarified that:
Mr B was correct when he said he believed that a minimum monthly credit was a 
condition of his account when it was opened in 2008;
The Co-op was correct when it told Mr B in 2022 that a minimum monthly credit was 
not a condition of the account;
The Co-op was not correct when it told Mr B, twice, that no minimum monthly credit 
had ever been a condition of the account;
The condition was in place in 2008, but was dropped in 2016;
I have no reason to doubt Mr B when he says he doesnt think he was made aware of the 
change in that specific condition in 2016. So, I have considered what, if anything, Mr B would 
have done differently had he known about the change at the time.
Given Mr B closed the two accounts at the other bank when he was told there was no longer 
a monthly credit requirement, I find it likely he would have done the same in 2016. However, 
based on what Mr B has said about how he used the accounts, I cant see there was any 
financial detriment by not doing so earlier.
I do understand, though, that adhering to conditions that no longer applied, especially 
following the demise of his father in 2018 and the loss of his business during the covid years, 
caused Mr B unnecessary stress when experiencing financial pressure. For that, and the 
incorrect information he was initially given, I find it fair that Mr B should be compensated by 
the Co-op, and that its offer of £100 is in line with recommendations this service would 
usually make in similar circumstances.
My final decision
My decision is that I find the offer from The Co-Operative Bank p.l.c. to be fair and 
reasonable. The Co-Operative Bank p.l.c. should pay Mr B £100, as it has agreed to do.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2023.
 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman