The complaint
Mr W complains that Stagemount Limited trading as Quidmarket lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in May 2020 that I summarise below.
Mr W was given 3 loans by Quidmarket between October 2014 and November 2014. Loans 
1 and 2 were payday loans. Loan 3 was a short-term instalment loan, to be repaid over 6 
months. Mr W has repaid loans 1-2 but loan 3 is still outstanding.
A summary of Mr W's borrowing is as follows:
Loan 
NoDate of 
Borrowing Loan 
amount Date closedNo of 
instalmentsRepayment 
amount
124/10/2014 £225 30/10/2014 1 £289.13
230/10/2014 £300 26/11/2014 1 £390.12
327/11/2014 £750 open 6 £1,716
Quidmarket had offered a 50% reduced settlement figure to enable Mr W to clear loan 3, 
which he declined. Quidmarket later offered to waive all interest on loan 3, leaving only the 
remaining principal sum of £370.01 to pay. And to remove any adverse information related to 
this loan from Mr Ws credit file. Mr W had rejected this offer and brought his complaint to 
this service.
In my provisional decision I explained why I thought the complaint should be partly upheld. 
I explained the basis on which I would decide the complaint, in particular the checks that 
Quidmarket needed to do such as the amount being lent, and the consumers income and 
expenditure. With this in mind, I thought less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate in the early stages of the lending relationship.
DRN-1933880As Quidmarket had accepted there were indicators why it might not have been appropriate 
to have approved loan 3, and had agreed to remove all the interest on that loan, I didn't need 
to consider this loan any further except for what needs to happen next.
 
I thought that the checks that Quidmarket carried out for loans 1 and 2 were proportionate, 
given the amount it was lending to Mr W each time, in comparison with his income, and the 
number of loans agreed. So I didnt think there was any reason why the lender should have 
declined these applications.  
Mr W told us he was heavily in debt when he took the loans and that his other borrowing 
would have shown up in the lenders credit search. I said I appreciated that Mr W might have 
had difficulties repaying his loans from Quidmarket. But Id not seen anything to suggest that 
he told Quidmarket about the full extent of his debt or other borrowing. And I didnt think it 
was something that proportionate checks would have uncovered at the time.
 
Mr W thought that because he took out a new loan on the same day as he repaid the 
previous loan, this should have been enough to increase the checks required. But I didnt 
agree. Mr W was still in an early stage of his lending relationship with Quidmarket and there 
wasn't an established pattern of repeated borrowing at that point. Given the repayment 
amounts, what Mr W had told Quidmarket about his circumstances and his borrowing history 
with this lender, I didnt think it would have been proportionate for Quidmarket to carry out 
the kind of checks on Mr Ws financial situation that would have been needed in order to 
show that the lending was unsustainable - before either loans were agreed. I didnt think 
greater checks were appropriate at the time, so Quidmarket would not have been aware that 
Mr W might have difficulty in repaying his loans in a sustainable manner.
I invited both parties to send me any further comments or evidence. I have not seen any 
response from Mr W and the deadline for a response to my provisional decision has now 
passed. 
Quidmarket has queried why the decision is being upheld in part. But as I explained in my 
provisional decision, there were indicators why it might not have been appropriate for 
Quidmarket to have approved loan 3. So I am directing Quidmarket to remove all interest 
from that loan. I appreciate that this reflects what the lender had previously offered to Mr W, 
but my decision confirms that Quidmarket should now put things right in relation to loan 3. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive once more considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that Ive not received any further evidence or comment from either Mr W or from 
Quidmarket that changes my mind about this complaint, I confirm the conclusions I reached 
in my provisional decision.
 
Putting things rightMr W didnt think its fair that Quidmarket is asking him to repay the reduced capital sum 
remaining on loan 3. But it is entirely reasonable Mr W should repay the principal sum he 
borrowed. As only £379.99 of the £750 borrowed has been repaid to date, Quidmarket's 
offer to reduce the outstanding balance to £370.01 is fair and reasonable, and any adverse 
information should also be removed from the credit file. Quidmarket should also try to agree 
an affordable repayment arrangement with Mr W, bearing in mind the need to treat him 
positively and sympathetically in those discussions.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ws complaint in part and direct Stagemount Limited 
trading as Quidmarket to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2020.
Sharon Parr
Ombudsman