DRN-3087124
The complaint
Mr Ms complained about the way Metro Bank PLC (Metro) dealt with his request to 
recover his money via a chargeback.
What happened
Mr M travelled abroad during summer 2021.  Because of the restrictions in place at the time, 
he was required to take a PCR test on his return.  Mr M arranged for the test kit to be sent to 
his home.  He paid £340 for the test, using the Mastercard attached to his Metro account.
The testing kit Mr M received was damaged.  So he returned it to the provider and requested 
a refund.  The provider offered to send a replacement kit.  But this was no use to Mr M, as 
he had to take tests on specific days following his return to the UK.  
The provider didnt send a replacement or give Mr M a refund.  So Mr M contacted Metro 
and asked them to raise a chargeback for the £340 hed paid.
Metro said that, to do this, theyd need information from Mr M about the dispute, details of 
the goods and evidence theyd been returned to the provider.  Mr M forwarded this about 10 
days later.  The day after receiving the information, Metro wrote to Mr M again, this time 
asking him to send the providers terms and conditions, as well as repeating their request for 
an account of the dispute.
Mr M complained to Metro about the process he had to go through to recover the payment.  
Metro investigated and rejected his complaint.  They wrote to Mr M and explained theyd 
followed the correct process.  And they said that, once they had what they needed from     
Mr M, theyd review all the information and  if it was sufficient  raise a chargeback.
Once hed received Metros response, Mr M provided the outstanding information.  The 
following day, Metro raised the chargeback and credited his account with £340.  But Mr M 
wasnt satisfied with Metros response to his complaint, so he brought it to us.
Our investigator considered the matter and concluded Metro didnt need to take any action.  
He explained that the chargeback rules are set by the card provider  in this case, 
Mastercard.  He looked at Mastercards rules and noted they require documentation to 
support a chargeback request. 
Our investigator noted Metros role is to facilitate the chargeback request.  And he thought 
what theyd asked of Mr M supported that.  He explained that its the cardholders 
responsibility to provide the information.  So he didnt agree with Mr Ms view that Metro 
could have found the providers terms and conditions.  He did say Metro could have asked 
for those earlier.  But he was satisfied the chargeback request wasnt prejudiced by this, as it 
was made within Mastercards deadline.
Mr M didnt agree with the investigators view.  He thought he should be compensated for the 
trouble and upset hed suffered.  So Ive been asked to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.  Ill explain why.
Chargeback schemes are voluntary. The card issuers (in this case, Mastercard) set the rules 
and apply them strictly. So, when Metro decided they would make a chargeback request, 
they had to make sure they followed Mastercards rules.  Those rules set out not only the 
circumstances in which a bank can make a request, but also what supporting information 
should be provided.
The relevant section under Mastercards rules is headed Goods or Services Were Either 
Not as Described or Defective.  The conditions attached to this section require that: 
the cardholder (in this case, Mr M) had tried to contact the provider to resolve the 
dispute;
the provider refused; 
the goods were returned; and 
they were delivered broken or could not be used.
So Im satisfied it was reasonable for Metro to ask for documents and information that would 
demonstrate this to Mastercard.  Without them, Metro wouldnt have been able to raise the 
chargeback for Mr M.
Metro also asked for the providers terms and conditions.  Although these arent specified 
above, Mastercard sets out optional information which can also submitted to support a 
request.  Metro made the decision the request should be supported with terms and 
conditions.  Ive heard a telephone call where they explained to Mr M they could only make 
one request for the chargeback.  And they thought the terms and conditions would support 
the case.  Im satisfied that was reasonable and that Metro explained their view to Mr M.  
Mr Ms complained that Metro delayed the request by not asking for the terms and conditions 
sooner.  Ive thought about this.  I can see they werent requested when Mr M first contacted 
Metro.  That wasnt ideal.  But I can see that, when the terms and conditions were 
requested, Mr M hadnt provided everything Metro had originally asked him for.  So Im 
satisfied this didnt delay the chargeback request.
And I can see that Metro made the chargeback request the day after they received all the 
supporting information they wanted.  So Im satisfied they dealt with the request promptly 
and within Mastercards time limits.
I understand Mr M found the chargeback a frustrating experience.  He believes he should be 
compensated for that.  But I can only say Metro should pay him compensation if Im satisfied 
they made a mistake which impacted on him.  As Ive explained, I dont think Metro did 
anything wrong here.  So it wouldnt be fair for me to say they should pay Mr M 
compensation. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint about Metro Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 November 2021.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman