DRN-2157692
The complaint
Mr S complains that AXA Insurance UK plc declined his claim for the theft of and damage 
caused to his car.
What happened
The background to what happened is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
of the key events here.
Mr S car was stolen on 7 April 2020 and found to be severely damaged upon its recovery. 
Mr S made a claim under his insurance policy with AXA. He explained his car engine 
wouldnt start on the day of the theft and so he moved it onto the pavement. This allowed 
him to move his work van, which was parked nearby, next his to car so that he could jump 
start the battery. After the car engine started, another vehicle approached and so Mr S had 
to move his van as it was blocking the road. While Mr S moved the van, he left his car 
engine running with the door shut but unlocked. During this time, a passer-by jumped into his 
car and drove away.
AXA declined the claim. They said Mr S wasnt covered under the terms of the policy as hed 
left the keys in the ignition at the time of the incident while the car was unlocked and 
unattended. 
Mr S complained about this and referred the matter to our service. One of our investigators 
looked in to it and thought AXA had unfairly declined the claim. He felt it was reasonable for 
Mr S to leave the engine running at the time, while the car was unlocked, as if he hadnt 
there was a very good chance the battery wouldnt have had enough charge to start the 
engine again. And that he didnt think it was unreasonable for Mr S to leave the car briefly 
unattended/unoccupied as his van was blocking the road  so, although the car always 
remained in sight, he had to leave it to be able to move the van. Our investigator 
recommended AXA reconsider the claim in line with the remaining terms of the policy and 
pay £250 to Mr S for the trouble and upset this had caused.
AXA disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms of Mr S policy say:
We do not cover the following

Loss or damage caused by theft or attempted theft if:

The keys and/or any other device(s) that unlock and/or start your vehicle 
are in, on or next to your vehicle while it is left unattended and/or 
unoccupied;
I dont think this is an inherently unfair term. This is because a car is of greater risk of theft if 
it remains unattended and/or unoccupied with the keys remaining inside. 
In Mr S case, he left the keys to his car inside the ignition when he moved his van to allow 
the other vehicle to pass. While he did this the car remained in his sight and close by as 
Mr S has explained he only had to move his van about four to five metres. And so, given he 
remained near his car I dont think he left it unattended. But, given he wasnt in the car, I 
think its reasonable to conclude that it wasnt occupied at the time. That said, Ive 
considered whether it would be fair to apply this term in these circumstances. And, for the 
reasons Ill explain I dont think it is. 
Mr S left the car engine running, with the door unlocked, while he moved his van as hed 
only just jump started the battery. And so, I think it was reasonable for him to keep the 
engine running  rather than turning it off and locking the car  as otherwise it may not have 
started again. I think this is a reasonable (and practical) action to take when experiencing car 
battery problems. Further to this, and in reference to the issue of the car being unoccupied, I 
think its important to take into consideration that it wouldnt be possible to remain in the car 
while trying to jump start its battery. The driver would have to exit the car to attach and 
remove the jump leads accordingly. So, in these particular circumstances I dont think it 
would be fair to apply this part of the term stringently here. 
I also think it is relevant to note that Mr S property appears to be down a relatively quiet cul-
de-sac, and not on a busy road. And that the theft also happening during daylight. So, while 
this doesnt remove all risk of theft  evidenced by the theft itself  I think it would ordinarily 
be considered less likely to occur. I understand the car was also only left unoccupied for a 
brief moment while the van was moved only a matter of a few metres away. This meant Mr S 
remained close to the car, keeping it in his line of sight  as he saw the passer-by jump in 
the car and drive away. I think this presence wouldve normally acted as a deterrent to most 
thieves.
I understand AXA consider they correctly declined this claim in line with the terms of the 
policy. But, while Ive taking this into consideration, I dont think it would be fair to the apply 
this policy exclusion here. Because of this, it follows that I think AXA unfairly declined Mr S 
claim. 
Ive considered the impact of this on Mr S. Having done so, I think its reasonable to expect 
Mr S found the declined claim for the loss/damage of his car very troubling. And so, I think 
the £250 recommended by our investigator is a fair amount to recognise this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
I direct AXA Insurance UK plc to reconsider Mr S claim subject to the remaining terms and 
conditions of the insurance policy. AXA Insurance UK plc should also pay Mr S £250 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2020.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman