DRN-3831459
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy with the way QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) have dealt with an escape of water 
claim under his home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr C purchased a home insurance policy with QIC. In August 2021 Mr C reported a leak 
from his water tank in the loft. QIC instructed a field surveyor to attend and produce a report 
on the damage. 
QIC accepted the claim under the escape of water section of the policy. The surveyors 
report said that the leak caused water damage to the plasterboard ceiling, wall dcor and 
laminate flooring in an upstairs bedroom and cosmetic staining to the airing cupboard. The 
water had gone through the upstairs floor causing cosmetic damage to the plasterboard 
ceiling in the downstairs lounge and damage to the laminate flooring in both the lounge and 
dining areas.
Mr C says he was informed by the QICs building contractors that the claim would not cover 
the engineered wood flooring he had chosen as QIC said he had laminate flooring. Mr C 
says that his existing flooring is engineered wood flooring.
Mr C complained to QIC. He said he no longer wanted QICs building contractors to deal 
with the repairs and would arrange for the work himself. He wanted an increased cash 
settlement to cover the wood flooring and loft insulation and a refund of the £750 excess he 
says he paid the building contractor. He also thought the settlement should cover any 
additional damage that might be uncovered when the repairs were done. 
Mr C complained to QIC but brought his complaint to this service before they responded. 
QIC then offered a cash settlement of £3,788.90 less the £750 excess. They also offered to 
pay VAT up to £757.77 subject to production of a VAT receipt. They said their inhouse 
surveyors agreed with the field surveyor that the flooring was laminate so would not increase 
the cost for the flooring. QIC say that there is no evidence of damage to the loft insulation. 
Our investigator didnt think QIC had acted unfairly. She said that the policy contained an 
excess and that this would be deducted from any settlement. She relied on the evidence of 
QICs surveyors that the flooring was laminate and suggested that Mr C could still obtain his 
own evidence and send this to QIC if he wished. She thought there was no evidence of any 
damage to the loft insulation and that it wasnt reasonable to expect QIC to include in the 
settlement any further damage that was yet to be uncovered. 
Mr C accepted much of what our investigator said but doesnt accept that his flooring is 
laminate. He asked for this issue to be referred to an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is no dispute about the claim itself as QIC have accepted this. Mr C has now opted for 
a cash settlement, so the issue is whether the settlement should include the cost of 
replacement engineered wood flooring. My role is not to decide whether the flooring is wood 
or laminate, but to look at the evidence and consider whether QIC have acted fairly and 
reasonably.
Mr C says that his flooring is still in place and can be further inspected. QIC have already 
inspected the floor and I wouldnt expect them to examine the flooring again without further 
evidence showing this to be necessary. 
Mr C says that its obvious that his flooring is engineered wood. Ive looked carefully at the 
photos provided but Im not satisfied from these that its clearly engineered wood rather than 
laminate. I therefore have to rely on the expert evidence I have. This comes from QICs field 
surveyors report which Ive read. The surveyor attended Mr Cs house and saw the flooring. 
He clearly states that the flooring is laminate. 
I acknowledge Mr C disagrees with the conclusions reached by QICs expert, but he hasnt 
obtained his own professional opinion which supports his position. I note QICs expert was a 
surveyor and in the absence of any other expert evidence to take account of, I think its 
reasonable to rely on his report. I also note that QICs own in-house surveying team 
reviewed the report and agreed that the flooring was laminate.
I do understand Mr Cs position and I appreciate what he says about his flooring, but I dont 
think this is enough for me to override the surveyors opinion. I cant therefore say that QIC 
have acted unreasonably in not including the cost of engineered wood flooring in the 
settlement. Im sorry to disappoint Mr C, but Im not upholding his complaint. 
Mr C may wish to reconsider obtaining his own evidence about the flooring. I cant say 
whether QIC would cover the cost of this or whether it would be enough to persuade it to 
change its mind  but I would expect QIC to consider any further evidence it is provided with. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2023.
 
Elizabeth Middleton
Ombudsman