DRN-4175225
The complaint
Mrs F complains that Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd unfairly turned 
down her pet insurance claim. 
Mrs F has brought her complaint through a relative but for ease I will refer only to Mrs F in 
this decision. 
My references to Casualty include its agent which it uses to handle claims and complaints.
What happened
Mrs Fs dog was diagnosed with diabetes and pancreatitis. She made a claim for the 
treatment costs. 
Casualty turned down Mrs Fs claim. The vets medical records showed a history of the dog 
being overweight. Being overweight increased the risk both of diabetes and, in turn, 
pancreatitis. Casualty rejected the claims because its policy excluded claims resulting from 
the pet being overweight. 
Mrs F came to us. She provided evidence from her vet which said the dogs diagnosed 
conditions were not related to the dogs weight. She could not afford to pay all the vets bills 
and had received demands for payment.
Our Investigator looked into the complaint. While she was doing so, Mrs F told us that very 
sadly her dogs health had deteriorated. The difficult decision had been taken to have her 
dog put to sleep. 
Our Investigator upheld the complaint. She did not think that Casualty had shown it could 
rely on the weight related exclusion to turn down Mrs Fs claims. She recommended that 
Casualty pay the claims, in line with the policy limit and excess and pay Mrs F £200 in 
compensation for distress and inconvenience caused by its rejection of her claims. 
Mrs F accepted the Investigators recommendation. Casualty did not agree and asked for a 
review, as it can do. It provided further comments, which it said were from its in-house 
specialist. Those comments did not change our Investigators mind about the fair outcome 
so the complaint was referred to me for review. 
I asked Mrs F to let me know whether she had made any payments towards the vets bills. 
She explained that she has been making payments by instalments but has not been charged 
any interest by the vets practices. To date, she has paid £100 to the dogs usual vet, and 
£500 to the emergency vet. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I uphold this complaint. Ill explain my reasons. 
I have reviewed the policy to assess whether Casualty has acted fairly, reasonably and in 
line with the policy term and conditions in turning down Mrs Fs claim. In doing so, I have 
focused on what I see to be the key issues. 
Casualty has rejected the claim under a policy exclusion that says it wont pay:
Any claims resulting from Your pet being medically overweight or underweight and 
this results in Your pet needing Treatment as a result of not being the recommended 
medical weight for its age, breed type and sex as recommended by a Vet.
It is for Casualty to show that it can properly apply the exclusion to turn down Mrs Fs claim. 
I dont consider it has shown that the exclusion applies. 
I have read Casualtys comments about the dogs weight and body condition score (BCS). 
Casualty has referred to entries in the dogs medical records dating back to 2014. I wont set 
out all the entries here as they are well known to both parties but the medical records 
indicate that the vet advised care with the dogs weight and advised weight loss each year to 
2017. From then:
In January 2017 the dog weighed 10.1kg. 
In April 2018 the dog weighed 11.6kg and had a body condition score of 8/9. The vet 
noted the weight gain and advised a change in diet and for the dog to be seen again 
in the weight clinic. 
In May 2019 the medical records show the dog had lost weight but not enough and 
again that Mrs F was advised about diet and weight clinics. 
The dogs weight was recorded as 10.6kg in June 2109 and, after being monitored at 
home, had reduced to 8.9kg in August 2020. 
In early January 2022 the dogs weight was recorded as 9.2kg and later that month 
had reduced to 8.2 kgs. The entry for 27 January 2022 said Weight 8.2 kgs. History: 
PUPD and urinated in the house a few times which is unlike herabdo palpatiation 
difficult due to pot bellied appearance The vet recorded several potential 
diagnoses. PUPD means polyuria and polydipsia  that is, urinating more than usual 
and drinking more than usual.
On 28 January 2022 the dog was noted to be likely diabetic. 
On 3 February 2022 the vet noted o concerned very lethargic today. Ate and had 
41U caninsulin @8.30am this am. Around 1.30pm was PUPD+++ and vom food up. 
Little wobbly/weak according to o. Plan: adv needs hosp to stabilise diabetes =/- 
investigate possible concurrent diseases. Poss pancreatitis +/- cushings (may test 
this later once stable).
On 4 February 2022, it was noted Spoke to owner  explained that we did a scan 
and blood tests (cpli 2000) which revealed  severe pancreatitis.
Casualty argues that the dog was overweight. But the vet who treated Mrs Fs dog said the 
dog was not overweight at the time of her diagnosis and had not been noted as overweight 
for a number of years: 
[The dog] presented to [the vet] with a normal body condition score of 4/9 to us. 
While she was over weight in the past, this seemed to have been resolved and no 
mention of obesity has been made during any routine checks for a number of years 
according to own vets clinical notes. 
Therefore obesity has not caused [the dogs] diabetes. [The dog] did have a pot belly 
but this is not due to obesity. This is due to a suspected endocrinopathy such as 
Cushings disease. Casualty argues that being overweight increases the risk of diabetes; and diabetes 
increases the risk of pancreatitis. But a risk factor is not enough, of itself, to show that the 
dog being overweight caused the diagnosed conditions. And importantly Mrs Fs vet has said 
that obesity did not cause the dogs diabetes. 
Casualty has provided comments from its in-house specialist:
The 18 April 2018 entry in the dogs medical record says:
Gained weight +++, O says no change to appetite. See 4 weeks for weight 
clinic. Warned may need prescription diet and may need investigation into 
underlying cause ie diabetes/hypothyroidism etc. 
A weight gain despite a change in appetite can indicate an underlying condition, but 
no investigations were carried out at the time. 
Pancreatitis and diabetes are closely associated with each, as uncontrolled diabetes 
can lead to pancreatitis for a number of reasons.
The clinical history for 27 January 2022 says Mrs F had noted increased drinking and 
urination, including in the house, for several weeks but had forgotten to mention this 
at her vaccination appointment on 11 January 2022. She declined blood tests on 
27 January 2022. 
The 28 January 2022 entry shows the incredibly high value for specific gravity, which 
was noted by the vet as being off the scale. Specific gravity is a measure of the 
urines concentration. High values can indicate endocrine disorders, such as diabetes 
and this together with the high value of glucose in the dogs urine indicated diabetes.
The urine sample showed high levels of ketones, which indicates a more severe or 
long-standing case of diabetes. High levels of ketones can indicate a more severe or 
long-standing case of diabetes, and are dangerous. They alter the natural PH 
balance turning the pets body more acidic. This in turn makes proteins within the 
body more susceptible to change and damage, which can lead to serious illness such 
as DKA. 
The dog was prescribed insulin but by 3 February 2022 her urine showed an 
incredibly high concentration of both glucose and ketones, which indicates her 
diabetes was still uncontrolled. 
The most common cause of DKA pancreatitis  the claimed for condition  include 
uncontrolled diabetes and pancreatitis due to high blood sugar levels. 
Ive considered the above comments. Casualty has not given its in-house specialists 
qualifications, but it appears that they are a vet or vet nurse. But I dont think their comments 
are more persuasive than the evidence given by Mrs Fs vet, who saw and treated the dog. 
Casualtys comments above do not counter the treating vets comments that the dog had a 
normal body condition score and her weight issue had resolved  or the treating vets view 
that obesity did not cause the dogs diabetes.
It follows that I dont consider Casualty has shown it can rely on the policy exclusion to turn 
down Mrs Fs claim. It should pay the claim, subject to any applicable excess and policy 
limit, together with interest as set out below. 
I also consider that Casualtys handling of the claim has caused Mrs F distress and 
inconvenience, at an already difficulty time. I consider Casualty should pay her some 
compensation and I assess £200 to be fair and reasonable. 
Putting things right
Within 28 days of the date on which we send it Mrs Fs acceptance of this final decision 
I require Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd to:Pay Mrs Fs claims for the diabetes and DKA pancreatitis, subject to any applicable 
excess and policy limit; and 
Pay interest on the instalments that Mrs F has made to the vets at the simple rate of 
8% per year from the date Mrs F has paid each instalment both to her usual vet and 
the emergency vet, until the date of settlement (subject to Mrs F providing Casualty 
with evidence of the payment amounts and dates); and
Pay Mrs F £200 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
If Casualty considers it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
the interest payment, it should let Mrs F know how much its taken off. If requested, it should 
also provide her with a certificate showing the amount deducted, so that she can reclaim it 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Casualty & General Insurance 
Company (Europe) Ltd to take the steps set out in the putting things right section above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2023.
 
Amanda Maycock
Ombudsman