DRN-3453577
The complaint
Mrs P has complained that Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays) mis-sold her a fee-paying First 
Additions account and a fee-paying Tech Pack, which were sold to her in September 2005 
and December 2015, respectively.
Mrs P says that the accounts were mis-sold as they were not explained to her and that she 
had no need for the benefits that they provided. Mrs P says that she believed that the 
monthly account fee was so that she could have paper billing.
What happened
Barclays said that our service is unable to consider the sale of the First Additions account, 
as it said that Mrs P had complained too late. Barclays also said that it didnt think that the 
migration of Mrs Ps account from a fee-paying First Additions package to a fee-free account 
that included a Tech Pack was mis-sold.
One of our adjudicators issued an assessment to say that they also thought that Mrs P had 
complained too late for our service to be able to look into Mrs Ps complaint about the sale of 
the First Additions account. Mrs P responded and accepted this assessment  so it no 
longer forms part of this complaint.
One of our adjudicators then assessed whether the Tech Pack had been mis-sold. The 
adjudicator didnt think that Barclays had acted unfairly or unreasonably by adding the Pack 
to Mrs Ps account.
Mrs P disagreed with the adjudicators assessment, so the matter was referred for an 
ombudsmans decision.
This decision will therefore only address whether it was fair and reasonable for Barclays to 
have swapped Mrs Ps First Additions account to a fee-free account that also included a 
Tech Pack.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged accounts on our website and 
Ive used that to help me decide this complaint.
I think it might help to explain that when the Tech Pack was added to Mrs Ps account, this 
happened as part of a wider account migration. Barclays has explained that it had decided to 
withdraw the fee-paying First Additions account from its range of accounts. But to ensure 
that account holders were able to continue to receive similar insurance cover, it arranged for 
all First Additions accounts to be migrated over to a fee-free account, but with a fee-paying 
Tech Pack added. This is something that Barclays was entitled to do, as changing the 
products that it wishes to provide customers is a reasonable exercise of its own commercial 
judgement. 
However, in making such changes to Mrs Ps account, Barclays was required to give Mrs P 
reasonable notice of the changes that were due to take place. And it was also required to 
clearly set out what options were available to affected accountholders too. This was to 
ensure that Mrs P had a reasonable amount of time in which to fully understand what 
changes were taking place on her account and to decide whether she wanted to continue 
with the Pack or not.
 
In this case, Barclays has provided a copy of the letters that it sent to Mrs P. The first letter 
dated 15 September 2015 explained that Ms Ps First Additions account was being removed 
and that her account was changing to a fee-free Barclays current account. It also explained 
that a Tech Pack would be automatically added to the account, costing £9.50 a month. The 
letter explained other changes, for example it explained that Ms M would continue to be 
provided with mobile phone insurance (as she did with her existing account) and that shed 
also get gadget insurance too. 
Finally, the letter explained that Mrs P had four options. Firstly, if she was happy with the 
changes, she didnt have to do anything. If Mrs P didnt want the Tech Pack added, it 
explained how she could contact Barclays to opt out of it being added to her account. It also 
explained what Mrs P could do if she wanted a different type of Pack on her account instead 
and also that she could close her account if she was not happy with any of the changes 
taking place.
Barclays then sent another letter to Mrs P on 15 December 2015 to confirm that her account 
had changed and that the Tech Pack had been added. It also reminded Mrs P that Packs 
are optional and can be removed at any time.
Based on the two letters that Barclays had sent to Mrs P, I think that Barclays had given Mrs 
P reasonable notice of the changes that were being made to her account. I also think that 
the changes that were being made, as well as the options that were available to Mrs P  
which included opting out of having the Pack  were made clear too. 
I understand that Mrs P is partially sighted. However, Ive not seen anything to suggest that 
Barclays had been made aware of this in or before 2015. And if Mrs P was unsure about the 
contents of the letter, she couldve contacted Barclays for further clarification about the 
changes being made, or she couldve asked Barclays to alter the way it communicated with 
her.
As such, based on what I have seen, I dont think that Barclays has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably when it added the Tech Pack to Mrs Ps account. I therefore dont think it 
would be appropriate to require Barclays to refund Mrs Ps Tech Pack fees.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2022.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman