DRN-1665753
The complaint
Mr R complains about Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited's ("Lloyds") decision to 
decline the claim he made under his home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr R noted a water leak coming from the ceiling in his lounge which was directly below his 
bathroom. So he contacted Lloyds in August 2019 to make a claim. Mr R appointed his own 
contractor to stop the leak and repair it. 
Lloyds sent a surveyor to Mr R's home to validate the claim. The surveyor reported back to 
Lloyds that the damage present had occurred over a period of time and therefore didn't think 
the claim should be covered under the policy. Lloyds considered the surveyors report, and 
declined the claim based on this. 
Mr R was unhappy with the decision. He said he only became aware of the leak when he 
contacted Lloyds about it in August 2019. Mr R also said that he suffers from spinal injuries 
which prevented him from seeing the damage referred to by the assessor in their report. So 
he raised a complaint. 
Lloyds considered Mr R's complaint but maintained its decision to decline the claim under 
the policy. So Mr R brought a complaint to this service for consideration. He thought Lloyds 
had acted unfairly by declining the claim and not paying for repairs to the bathroom floor, the 
living room ceiling or the table leg he said was also caused as a result of the leak. 
Our investigator carefully looked into everything but didn't think the complaint should be 
upheld. Whilst he appreciated Mr Rs circumstances that he didn't have any indication of a 
problem until he reported it, he was more persuaded that Mr R couldve or ought to have 
known there was an underlying issue. 
Mr R disagreed with our investigator. He maintained he didn't know about the leak until the 
point he contacted Lloyds to make a claim. In order to put things right, Mr R thinks Lloyds 
should accept the claim. 
As no resolution could be met, the case has been passed to me for final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I've decided not to 
uphold the complaint. I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr R, and so I will 
now explain why. 
There's no issue taken that Mr R's policy provides him with cover in the event an escape of 
water occurs at his home. However, there are also general exclusions that apply to all 
sections of the policy. And these exclusions are similar to those that I have seen in most 
home insurance policies. On page 33 of the policy terms, one of those exclusions says that the policy doesn't cover 'A 
gradually operating cause. This is something that happens gradually over a period of time, 
for example corrosion, damp, condensation, decay or decomposition.' This means Lloyds 
can decline a claim if damage has been caused gradually over time. 
We agree this exclusion is fair in principle, provided Lloyds can demonstrate that it's applied 
the term in a fair and reasonable way. 
Mr R has told us about the circumstances of his health. Due to this, he said he didn't see the 
damage to the living room ceiling or the area around the toilet that shows staining and 
broken tiles with black debris and mould in the cracks. Mr R said he did see the cracks on 
the floor, but rather considered this to be due to poor quality of tiles, rather than due to an 
escape of water. 
I've carefully considered the information Mr R has provided, along with the surveyor's report. 
And whilst I do appreciate and sympathise with Mr R's difficult circumstances, I'm not in 
agreement with him that Lloyds has acted unfairly by declining the claim upon the exclusion 
cited above. 
The surveyor reports on the damage in the bathroom which says 'On inspection of this room 
we have found that there is a large amount of damaged tiles, there is clear evidence that this 
damage has been ongoing over a long period of time. The cracks in the tiles are black with 
debris which has built up over time, the flooring is completely saturated also.' I've considered 
this along with the photographs taken, and it's fair to say the report of the damage is 
consistent with the damage shown in the photos. 
I appreciate what Mr R has told us and I sympathise with his circumstances. But when Ive 
considered all of the evidence, I'm more persuaded that as he was aware of the damage to 
the flooring in the bathroom and the surrounding area of the toilet, I think he couldve or 
ought have been reasonably been aware there was an underlying issue.  
I've also considered the damage in the living room. Mr R said he didn't notice the damage to 
the ceiling until he contacted Lloyds. I've looked at the photographs from the report and it's 
fair to say there's substantial mould growth and staining present which isn't something that 
generally occurs suddenly and unexpectedly. Mr R said he wasn't aware of this damage due 
to his health conditions which I appreciate. I don't dispute this. But the evidence 
demonstrates, in my view, that the leak had been occurring over a period of time - which is 
something Mr R's policy doesn't provide cover for. 
Mr R also claimed for damage caused to the leg of the table in his living room. He said he 
thinks the water damaged the leg causing the wood to split. I note the assessor looked into 
this and said 'the damage to the table as reported by the policy holder is not consistent with 
the circumstances of the claim, the flooring is reading dry and the extent of the damage to 
the table leg could not have occurred due to a single escape of water. I've considered 
carefully what both the surveyor noted and what Mr R has said. I'm not persuaded on 
balance that damage was caused to the table leg as a result of the water leak here because 
the flooring on which the table was standing on was recorded as being dry. And it follows 
that I cant fairly say Mr R has demonstrated the leak caused this damage. 
Theres one outstanding point Mr R made about the visit that took place in2019. Mr R said 
that the surveyor removed the side wall of the bath and didn't put this back in place before 
they left. Mr R is unable to put this back due to his circumstances. 
In the interest of good customer service, if the surveyor did remove the bath wall and left 
without putting it back, Id ask Lloyds to contact Mr R to help him with this.  Overall and to summarise, whilst I sympathise with Mr Rs circumstances, I'm not persuaded 
that Lloyds acted unfairly. I think there are clear signs of an underlying issue present that Mr 
R could've or have ought to have been aware of - particularly with the bathroom tiles that Mr 
R noted as damaged. And so, I won't be requiring Lloyds to do anything here as part of the 
claim for an escape of water. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 May 2020.
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman