DRN-3563784
The complaint
Mr H complains that following Lantern Debt Recovery Services Ltd (Lantern) buying his loan 
account from the original lender (M), they refused to honour a settlement he said M had 
agreed with him.
What happened
Mr H had a loan with M with an outstanding balance of £301.44. Mr H says that M had 
agreed to accept 20% of the balance to settle the account. He says he sent M a cheque for 
the amount, but it was never cashed. M went into administration and their accounts were 
sold on to debt recovery companies. Lantern bought Mr Hs account.
Lantern wrote to Mr H introducing themselves and explained they would now be responsible 
for the account, and all payments would need to be paid to them going forward. 
Mr H called Lantern and offered to pay 20% of the balance to settle the account as that was 
what he says hed previously agreed with M. Lantern declined the offer and said they would 
offer a 30% discount to Mr H to settle the account. Mr H disagreed with this and raised a 
complaint.
Lantern didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. They said there was no legal requirement for them to 
offer a discount to settle the account, but in an effort to move forward they offered a 50% 
discount to Mr H. Mr H paid the 50% to settle the account but remained unhappy with this 
and so brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator didnt feel this was a case that should be upheld. In summary she said, 
when Lantern had bought the account from M the full balance had been transferred to 
Lantern and so it was legitimate and reasonable for Lantern to ask Mr H to repay it. She felt 
Lantern had acted fairly when offering a reduced settlement of 50%.
Mr H disagreed with the investigator for the following reasons:
Lantern should have accepted the offer hed previously negotiated with M. Especially 
as Lantern had taken lower offers for other customers, and expecting him to repay 
this over a long period of time was unreasonable.
Lantern had paid very little to buy his debt and he had needed to borrow money from 
friends to pay the 50% settlement sum. 
He had only paid the 50% settlement sum to protect his own mental health.
As our investigator wasnt able to resolve the complaint, the matter has now been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have to tell Mr H that I have reached the same outcome as the investigator 
and for broadly the same reasons.
When Lantern bought Mr Hs account from M, it bought the whole debt. This would have 
been as part of a bundle of accounts and what Lantern paid to purchase these is irrelevant 
here as that was a commercial negotiation between the two entities.
As Lantern bought the whole debt, they were entitled to ask Mr H for payment of the whole 
amount. There is no obligation for Lantern to accept a lower offer regardless of any 
conversation Mr H may have been having with M previously. I understand Mr H must have 
been disappointed after having thought he had made an agreement with M, then finding out 
that M had gone into administration. I have seen no evidence to suggest the agreement was 
in place and, even if I had it doesnt mean Lantern would have been bound by it as they are 
entitled to make their own commercial decisions about the discounts they want to give their 
customers.
I appreciate Mr H feels that Lantern have given bigger discounts to other people, but this 
isnt something I can consider as part of his complaint. I can only look at how Lantern have 
treated him in this case. And, as Lantern reduced Mr Hs debt by 50% in order for him to 
settle the account and move forward, I think that was a fair and reasonable thing to do in the 
circumstances.
I understand Mr H has said he needed to borrow money from friends to clear this account, 
and he did this in order to protect his mental health. While I am sorry to hear that things have 
not been easy for Mr H, Ive not seen anything to persuade me that Lantern have done 
something wrong here.
I know Mr H will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision ends what we  in trying 
to resolve his dispute with Lantern  can do for him. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2022.
 
Kristina Mathews
Ombudsman