DRN-1681762
The complaint
T complains how The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited (NFUM) 
has handled two claims under the building insurance policy.
What happened
T is a limited company; Mr T is a director of T so I will also refer to Mr T in this decision.
NFUM have used various contractors and surveyors throughout this claim; for ease their 
comments may also be referred to as NFUM.
In 2017, Mr T made a claim following impact damage to brickwork and pipework at his 
business premises. The claim was accepted, and repairs were made by an NFUM 
contractor. However, the repair wasnt adequate. Mr T provided quotes for the guttering to 
be fixed in July 2019. NFUM has now agreed to pay a cash settlement of £6,500 to cover the 
works based on one of the quotes received from Mr T. 
NFUM apologised and accepted there were delays in arranging the settlement and offered 
£150 for the inconvenience caused. However, Mr T has said the lack of guttering for three 
weeks and faulty guttering has caused damage to the tarmac in the carpark below it. NFUM 
has rejected this element of Ts claim as it said the damage was pre-existing and wasnt a 
result of the leaking guttering. 
In March 2018, T made a claim for storm damage to the roof. NFUM has offered a £1,250 
cash settlement so a repair can be made to the damaged part of the roof. However, Mr T 
feels the whole roof is affected and to do a proper repair it needs a new skin or the roof to be 
removed and replaced by a metal roof. NFUM doesnt accept that, saying the roof in its 
opinion is at the end of its natural life and it will only cover for the cost of a repair to the area 
that was damaged by a storm. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Ts complaint. She said the matter that remains outstanding 
for the guttering claim is the damage to the tarmac below it. She felt that the evidence 
provided showed that the car park had other areas of erosion, not just under the guttering, 
and she wasnt persuaded that the insured works on the guttering alone was the cause of 
the erosion. So, she didnt think NFUM needed to do anything further. 
With regards to the claim for storm damage to the roof, she felt it was fair for NFUM to cash 
settle so that Mr T could arrange for a localised repair. She said Mr T hadnt provided any 
alternative costings for a repair to show that the amount offered by NFUM was unfair. 
Mr T disagreed with her views and says that as the roof contains asbestos sheeting, a repair 
cant be legally done without asbestos works. He feels the £1,250 offered isnt a realistic 
offer. He also doesnt think he has been offered enough compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator.
Guttering claim
This claim was following impact damage causing damage to brickwork and pipework. The 
guttering works were completed by an NFUM contractor in March 2017, and Mr T made 
NFUM aware of further issues with the guttering in October 2018. Due to the significant time 
that passed, NFUM have said that the guttering wouldve been subjected to the weather 
elements, and this couldve made the damage worse. Had it been made aware of the issue 
sooner, NFUM says it couldve dealt with the contactor that completed the works, but due to 
the time that has passed, this option isnt open to it now. NFUM asked an alternative 
contractor to provide a quote for the repairs, and Mr T also provided quotes for repairs. 
There was a dispute regarding the settlement amount. But NFUM have now agreed to pay 
Mr Ts quote of £6,500 and it has also compensated Mr T £150 for the delays in arranging 
settlement.
Ive seen that Mr T was happy to accept this outcome but wanted the damage to the tarmac 
to be settled as well. But Mr T also now feels that the compensation isnt enough. Ive 
considered his comments that he has lost out on business time having to deal with these 
issues. However, unfortunately any claim will have a degree of inconvenience and I think the 
£150 offered for the delay in settlement is fair, so I will not be asking NFUM to increase the 
compensation. So, what remains for me to consider is the damage to the tarmac underneath 
the guttering and repairs to the roof due to a storm.
Tarmac 
The outstanding dispute regarding the tarmac is whether it was damaged as a result of faulty 
guttering or general wear and tear. Ts policy, like many others, doesnt provide cover for 
damaged caused by wear and tear.
Ive considered all the evidence including photographs, video and the surveyors report.
Mr T said that the due to the faulty guttering works, the leaking guttering has caused the 
pitting and erosion of the tarmac. 
The report dated 17 December 2018 includes photographs of the tarmac in the car park and 
the tarmac under the guttering. These show that other areas of the tarmac have eroded in 
the car park as well as the tarmac directly under the guttering. Mr T also provided 
photographs from March 2017; these again show that the tarmac is eroded under the 
guttering. So, the damage looks to have been there prior to the guttering leaking. Mr T has 
said this was caused by there being no guttering for three weeks whilst the repairs were 
happening. He says the weather was poor and as there was no guttering, the rain just 
poured from the roof onto the tarmac. So, Mr T feels this is what caused the damage and the 
leaking guttering has added to the problem. 
The surveyors report says that the damage wouldve occurred over a number of years and 
is not as a result of insurance works. From what Ive seen, Im not persuaded that the tarmac 
was in good condition prior to the insured works. I also havent seen any expert report that 
shows me that by not having any guttering for three weeks would cause tarmac that was in 
good condition to erode that quickly. I dont doubt the leaking guttering has added to the 
problem as seen in the video, but Im not convinced that the tarmac was in a good state of 
repair prior to the impact damage and Im not persuaded that the tarmac damage is due to 
the insured works and I wont be asking NFUM to do anything further. Roof
The outstanding dispute relates to the settlement offered. NFUM have made an offer of a 
cash settlement for £1.250 as it says only a small part of the roof was damaged as a result 
of the storm. However, Mr T feels that the whole roof should be replaced as he says the roof 
contains asbestos sheets and cant just be repaired. 
The storm damage was reported beginning of March 2018. NFUM sent out a contractor a 
week later  this was the same contractor that did the original guttering works. It thought the 
damage was due to wear and tear but whilst it was up there it repaired the fascia on the front 
elevation of the building.  
In June 2018, Mr T reported the roof was still leaking. Mr T had lost faith in the first 
contractor so NFUM arranged for another chartered surveyor to inspect the roof. 
The survey was conducted in July 2018; in summary it noted the roof was 40-50 years old 
near the end of its serviceable life however, it said it was generally intact but showing signs 
of deterioration/de-bonding to the outer surface of the corrugated asbestos roof sheets. It 
noted that there were areas where repairs were required as part of general maintenance.  
The surveyor opinion was the roof was leaking as a result of a previous flash band roof 
repair failing and lack of maintenance. The surveyor didnt identify any signs of damage 
associated with storm damage. 
After this report Mr T employed a roof repair specialist who sealed the crack and resealed 
the skylight. 
However, in October 2018, Mr T informed NFUM that the roof was still leaking. He provided 
it a report from a local contractor that said it had carried out a full inspection of the roof. It 
found a cracked sheet and missing fixtures (bolts) in the skylight. In its opinion this was 
caused by high winds. The report wasnt supported with photographs or details of where the 
damage was located. Mr T on the back of this asked NFUM for a second opinion as he says 
the roof wasnt leaking before the storm. 
NFUM arranged for a structural report to be conducted in January 2019. This identified that a 
previous repair done on a crack had de-bonded. It said the sealant used around the 
perimeter of the roof light had not been installed with care as there were gaps in the sealant. 
It also commented that the fragility of the roof makes it difficult to carry out repairs however, 
a competent contractor should have removed all the moss surrounding the roof light and 
installed flexible sealant to the whole edge. It also noted a flashband repair on the crack 
wouldve been more suitable. Its suggested remedial actions were that the existing repair 
needed to be removed and redone. It suggested the crack be repaired with a flashband type 
of repair over the top of any sealant. It acknowledged the roof light is difficult to replace as it 
hasnt been installed correctly. It suggested that a new panel was placed on the underside of 
the roof and sealed with a flexible sealant to allow normal movement in the panel. This 
report also noted the roof is reaching the end of its design life.   
The surveyor said it was possible that the area close to the roof light mayve been struck by 
flying debris. NFUM considered the reports and agreed to cover the damage around the roof 
light as storm damage. It offered £1,250 as a cash settlement. Mr T was unhappy with this 
offer. NFUM has said in order for it to reconsider its offer it needed Mr T to provide copies of 
quotes for repairs to the specified area of the roof  the crack in roof panel above the 
skylight.  Mr T has provided two quotes. The first says the roof has had a number of temporary repairs 
and these are failing.  It recommends either over skin - £21,000 or full removal and new 
metal roof - £52,000. The second report Mr T obtained said it inspected the roof on 4 July 
2019 and says the roof is in good condition for its age. It also says the section at the front is 
damaged by severe weather, and the damage cant be repaired, it must be replaced. If only 
repaired, it will remain weak and pose risk to anyone underneath it. The cost for overlay 
£25,200. 
 
Having considered all the evidence Ive seen, Im not persuaded the whole roof has been 
damaged by a storm. NFUM has provided evidence from its experts to show the roof is 
reaching the end of its natural life, and so would naturally require replacing. An insurance 
policy isnt a policy to cover maintenance or general wear and tear of the property. The latter 
report conducted for NFUM also gives details how the repairs could be done.
Ive also considered the quotes/reports provided by Mr T. These are brief and are not 
supported by photographic evidence.  The latter one mentioned above says the roof is in 
good condition for its age. So, Im unsure why it then feels the whole roof needs to be 
replaced. It also doesnt support or give any detail as to why the damage cant be repaired 
and must be replaced. But then goes onto say if repaired- which implies it can be repaired- it 
will remain weak. I am not persuaded that this report supports its finding that the roof needs 
to be replaced.
So, based on what Ive seen, I wont be asking NFUM to replace the roof. Ive considered the 
terms and conditions of the policy and NFUM have the right to settle a claim by way of 
payment.  Although Mr T may wish for NFUM to do the work, they are not obliged to do so 
under the terms and conditions of the policy. 
Mr T has also raised his concerns that the roof contains asbestos and to replace a sheet 
would involve asbestos works. He feels the settlement isnt reflective of the costs that would 
be involved. He is aware of the type of cost from the previous claim that involved the 
pipework and guttering as this did involve asbestos removal. He raised this with NFUM in 
April 2019 and it said:
"You have advised that having calculated the value of the previous works from the vat paid 
by you on that work you consider the amount to be too low. This is because the original work 
you had done required the removal of the Asbestos Guttering and Down Pipes in line with 
the Control of Asbestos Regulations Act 2012 together with the localised repairs to the Wall 
to remove the damaged brickwork and to rebuild to match the existing, none of which is
required this time."
Ive not seen any expert evidence that asbestos works will be required. Our investigator 
enquired further with NFUM and they said a flashband type of repair of the crack would not 
require asbestos works. So, Im not persuaded that asbestos works are required to do the 
repair and I dont think further costs will be associated with this. I havent seen that Mr T has 
provided alternative costings for the repair to the specific area of the roof, so Im satisfied 
that the amount offered by NFUM is adequate to repair the damaged section only. I therefore 
wont be asking NFUM to do anything further on this claim.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2020.
 Angela Casey
Ombudsman