DRN-3776243
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV)  the 
insurer of their household cover - has provided poor service.
What happened
On 25 September 2019, Mrs P rang LV to tell it she was moving home. She gave LV details 
of the new property and LV said their premium would remain the same and that Mr and Mrs 
P would only need to pay an administration fee. Mrs P explained to LV that she was in the 
process of amending the address details of the new property with the relevant authorities 
and told LV what the new address would be. LV said it would check in 90 days time to see if 
the address had been updated and then it would amend the details on Mr and Mrs Ps policy 
documentation.
  
Later that day, Mrs P called LV again. Shed been surprised that LV had said shed only 
need to pay an administration fee and wanted to check her new property would be fully 
covered. During the call, Mrs P corrected LV about some of the characteristics of the new 
property it had recorded. LV said the first call handler Mrs P had spoken to would ring her in 
20 minutes.
  
Mrs P called LV again the same day. She corrected LV again about the details it held about 
the characteristics of her new property. This time, LV said shed need to pay an additional 
amount for her cover for the remainder of the policy year, as well as the administration fee. 
Mrs P said her local council confirmed in November 2019 that her address had been 
updated. She said she called LV on 16 December 2019 and LV explained itd made a note 
on Mr and Mrs Ps file to regularly check the official address databases. It said it would 
update its own records once these had been updated. LV told Mrs P that she didnt need to 
contact it further about this.
 
In March 2020, Mrs P made changes to her cover and made a claim on her policy. LV told 
Mrs P what the changes would cost for the remainder of the policy year  and told her what 
the equivalent annual premium would be, taking into the account the changes.  The updated 
policy documents Mr and Mrs P received didnt show the updated and accurate address 
details. 
In June 2020, LV said it would cost Mr and Mrs P £1,507.18 to renew their cover. The 
address information on their renewal documents still wasnt accurate.  Mr and Mrs P were 
confused by the size of their annual premium increase and contacted LV. They said LV told 
them itd noted incorrect information on the policy and that the cost should actually be 
around £250 more than their renewal premium. Mrs P told LV she was concerned that her 
property might not be fully covered and wanted her premium reduced to a fair value. She 
said she wanted the increase to her premium explained to her. Mrs P chased LV a number 
of times for a response to her concerns. 
On 5 August 2020, LV said that, when using the incorrect address details it held, Mr and Mrs 
Ps premium would reduce to £1026.54 if they withdrew their claim. But when it used the 
correct details, the cover would be £1,888.46 if they didnt withdraw their claim. It said it 
shouldve explained to Mr and Mrs P that once it had updated their address, it would need to 
re-calculate the premium.  LV said it would waive £195 of the increase as a good will gesture 
and said that the changes Mr and Mrs P had made to their cover in March 2020 would also 
have contributed to the premium increase. On 10 August 2020, Mr and Mrs P told LV they 
wanted to withdraw their claim.
On 14 August 2020, LV issued its Final Response Letter (FRL) to Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. 
It said Mr and Mrs P had agreed to contact its claims area and cancel the claim and that it 
would offer them cover for £1026.54. The FRL said that LV would waive £396.28  rather 
than £195 - of the difference between the annual premium theyd already paid and the cost 
of their cover based on correct address details.
On 20 August 2020, LV emailed Mr and Mrs P and said it had now correctly priced their 
cover and after several delays and mistakes with processing this it would offer Mr and Mrs 
P cover for £1026 but that the correct premium would be £1,888.46  and £1,312.83 if the 
claim was withdrawn. 
Mr and Mrs P said they emailed LV on 17 November 2020 asking how the numerous 
premium amounts itd communicated to them had been arrived at and asked when they 
would receive the refund due on the annual premium theyd paid. Mr and Mrs P said LV 
didnt respond to them. 
Mr and Mrs P brought their complaint to us. They said they were concerned the issues 
theyd experienced could impact on them being able to get insurance elsewhere and said 
they were unhappy with LVs final response to their complaint. They said they wanted a 
refund reflecting the difference between the annual premium theyd paid and the £1026.54 
LV had offered to provide cover for. They said they wanted compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience theyd suffered and reassurance that LV would update its records to 
reflect their claim had been withdrawn. They told us as well they wanted their premium 
reduced to a fair value and reassurance that their home and contents were covered.
 
Our investigator issued her view and didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. She said LV 
hadnt acted unfairly when arriving at Mr and Mrs Ps renewal premium, LV had admitted Mr 
and Mrs Ps policy documents showed the wrong address and had waived the £396.28 
additional premium, which our investigator said was fair and reasonable compensation.
 
Mrs P told our investigator that the refund and the £195 good will gesture remained 
outstanding. She said she was unhappy about the inconsistent increases to her premium 
and the confusing explanations LV had given about them.  She wanted confirmation the 
claim had been closed and recorded appropriately and was unhappy about LVs lack of 
response to her complaint. 
LV said it would process Mr and Mrs Ps refund for £480.64 and offered to pay £100 
compensation to Mr and Mrs P for being told to contact its claims team to withdraw their 
claim. Mrs P said she felt £100 to be a reduction on the £195 good will gesture LV had 
offered previously and said they should be offered compensation for all the inconsistent 
premium amounts LV had communicated to them. 
Mr and Mrs P asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
 
After Id considered all the available evidence to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint, I reached a different outcome to our investigator. Because 
the outcome was different, I issued a provisional decision giving both parties a further 
chance to comment on my findings ahead of issuing my final decision. 
My provisional decision
I explained my provisional findings to both parties as follows:
 
I am minded to uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint by requiring LV to pay Mr and Mrs P an 
additional £250 compensation for the trouble and upset it has caused them and pay them 
interest on their premium refund. Ill explain why.
Administration issues
 
Mrs P called LV three times on 25 September 2019 to check it had correctly recorded details 
about the property she was moving to. And after the first two calls, LV still hadnt noted down 
the correct details. I dont think this is fair or reasonable as Id have expected LV to have 
updated its records and told Mrs P the correct additional cost during the first call. So I think 
Mr and Mrs P should be compensated for this.
I think its fair and reasonable that LV offered Mr and Mrs P cover for £1026.54, given that 
LV admitted there were mistakes and delays in processing the correct premium for Mr and 
Mrs P. But I think Mr and Mrs P should be awarded some compensation for the times they 
needed to contact LV so that LVs mistake could be put right. 
Withdrawal of the claim
LV has offered Mr and Mrs P £100 compensation for telling them theyd need to contact its 
claims team to withdraw their claim rather than being able to act on the instruction theyd 
already given. I think this is fair and reasonable. 
Fairness of pricing
Mrs P told LV she wanted the increase to her renewal premium explained to her. Its not 
unreasonable for an insurer not to provide a detailed explanation, as it would involve 
divulging commercially sensitive information.
But I have reviewed information LV provided this service confidentially about Mr and Mrs Ps 
premium calculations.  And Im satisfied that LV fairly applied its underwriting criteria when it 
increased their renewal premium to £1507.18 and when it reduced this premium to £1026.54 
if they withdrew their claim. Im satisfied as well that LV hasnt treated Mr and Mrs P any 
differently to how itd treat other consumers with the same set of circumstances.
Communications about premiums
Ive already said Im satisfied that the £1507.18 and £1026.54 premiums communicated to 
Mr and Mrs P were fair and accurate. But LV communicated many other premium amounts 
to Mr and Mrs P. And - from the information LV provided confidentially to this service - I cant 
say that all of them were calculated accurately.
I think its reasonable that the inaccurate premium amounts confused Mr and Mrs P. Which 
caused them to question and complain about them. So I think Mr and Mrs P should be 
awarded compensation for the distress and inconvenience the different premium amounts 
LV communicated to them caused them.
Premium refundMr and Mrs P withdrew their claim, so I think its fair and reasonable LV agreed to refund the 
difference between what theyd paid for their cover and the reduction LV offered them.  But 
its not fair or reasonable that LV took as long as it did to pay this refund. Mr and Mrs P told 
LV on the 10 August 2020 that they wanted to withdraw their claim. So I think its fair and 
reasonable for LV to pay Mr and Mrs P 8% simple interest on the refund from the date they 
told LV they wanted to withdraw their claim to when the refund was paid. I also think Mr and 
Mrs P should be awarded compensation for having to wait as long as they did for the refund 
to be paid to them. 
LVs handling of Mr and Mrs Ps complaint
Mr and Mrs P told us they were unhappy about the number of times theyd had to contact LV 
about their complaint. This service cant comment on a businesss complaint handling 
processes. If Mr and Mrs P wish to pursue this matter further, theyd need to contact the 
Financial Conduct Authority.
Compensation
Mrs P told us she felt LV were reducing the £195 good will gesture it had offered them to 
£100. But Im satisfied that LV explained to Mr and Mrs P when it offered them the £195 that 
it was by way of a waiver of premium, and so this was never offered to them as a cash 
payment. 
Mr and Mrs P confirmed theyd never been without insurance. And didnt provide evidence 
that their 2021-22 premium with a different insurer was more expensive because their claim 
hadnt been closed by LV.
 
So I intend to award Mr and Mrs P £250, in addition to the £100 LV has already offered 
them, which I think is a fairer reflection of the distress and inconvenience LVs poor service 
and poor communication has caused them.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr and Mrs P and LV responded accepting my provisional decision with no further 
comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive considered the responses of both parties to my provisional decision.
 
Because both parties have accepted my provisional decision and havent provided any 
further comment or information, Ive decided uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint in line with my 
provisional decision. 
My final decision
I uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint by requiring Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company 
Limited to:
pay Mr and Mrs P a further £250 compensation, in addition to the £100 it has already offered them, bringing the total compensation to be awarded to £350; and
pay Mr and Mrs P the £480.64 premium refund (if it hasnt already) plus 8% simple 
interest on this amount from the 10 August 2020 until the date Liverpool Victoria 
Insurance Company Limited pays (or paid) the premium refund in full.
Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of 
the date on which we tell it Mr and Mrs P accept my final decision. If it pays later than this it 
must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 November 2022.
 
Ruth Peek
Ombudsman