DRN-2123608
The complaint
Mr S is complaining that Calpe Insurance Company Limited avoided his car insurance policy 
and is seeking to recover money from him.
What happened
Mr S was involved in an accident on a motorway with two other vehicles. He accepted he 
was at fault for the accident. He claimed for the loss on his car insurance policy. But Calpe 
subsequently avoided his policy because it said he didn't tell it about a motoring conviction 
he had. It also said he'd declared he was the legal owner of the car when he took the policy 
out, but it belonged to someone else. And it said it considered the misrepresentation to be 
deliberate or reckless. So it said it was retaining the annual premium.
Calpe advised Mr S it wouldn't deal with his claim, but it said it was required to settle the 
third parties' claims that were made, but it said Mr S needed to refund what it paid out. Mr S 
says Calpe told him he owed around £18,000. Mr S says he was worried about the 
implication of not paying this and paid £8,000 but he says he can't afford anything more. 
I issued a provisional decision partially upholding this complaint. And I said the following:
I think there are two issues I need to decide in this complaint:
1. Was it fair for Calpe to have avoided the insurance policy and retained the annual 
premium; and
2. Is Calpe entitled to recover the amount its paid to the third parties in this claim from 
Mr S?
avoidance of the policy
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract. The standard of care is 
that of a reasonable consumer.
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is  what CIDRA describes  as a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to 
be a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. One of these is how clear and specific the insurers questions were. And 
the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether the qualifying 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless or careless.
If the misrepresentation was reckless or deliberate and an insurer can show it would have at 
least offered the policy on different terms, its entitled to avoid the consumers policy. If the 
misrepresentation was careless, then to avoid the policy, the insurer must show it would not 
have offered the policy at all if it wasnt for the misrepresentation.
If the insurer is entitled to avoid the policy, it means it will not have to deal with any claims 
under it. If the qualifying misrepresentation was careless and the insurer would have 
charged a higher premium if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation, it will have to 
consider the claim and settle it proportionately if it accepts it.
Calpe says Mr S didn't tell it about an IN14 motoring conviction  allowing someone to drive 
a car uninsured  and also that he wasn't the car's owner and registered keeper. I note the 
statement of fact sets out that Mr S separately agreed to the following statements: 
"You are the registered owner of the listed vehicle.
You, or any person to be covered by the policy, have never been convicted of any offence, 
including any fixed penalty in connection with any motor vehicle or any criminal conviction 
and have no prosecution or Police enquiry pending." 
So I'm satisfied Calpe was given incorrect information when the policy started. Mr S hasnt 
explained why he gave false information. But I think Mr S would have clearly known he 
wasnt the owner of the car. I also think he would have reasonably remembered the motoring 
offence. And, given the amount of information Mr S didnt disclose, Im satisfied it was fair for 
Calpe to treat this misrepresentation as, at the very least, reckless.
Mr S took out the insurance policy through a broker. So he'd need to contact the broker 
directly, if he doesn't think the broker took sufficient steps to gather the correct information 
from him to make a representation to the insurer on his behalf.
Ultimately it was fair and reasonable for Calpe to avoid his insurance policy. And, given I 
think the misrepresentation was reckless, it was fair for Calpe to not refund the annual 
premium Mr S paid. 
right to recover its outlay
While Calpe has fairly avoided Mr Ss claim and doesnt have to cover the damage to the 
insured vehicle, legislation sets out that it may be liable for any uninsured losses a third party 
may have incurred from the accident. Calpe has said its incurred £18,751.50 in costs and it 
wants Mr S to refund these. And it sets out that the terms of the insurance policy entitles it to 
do so. 
I dont dispute the terms of the insurance policy entitled Calpe to recover any losses its 
incurred in these circumstances. But, given its declared the policy null and void, the terms of 
the contract do not apply any longer. So Calpe cant rely on these terms as its reason to 
recover its costs. That said, I dont think its unfair that it should be allowed to do so in the 
specific circumstances of this complaint as its incurred this outlay due to Mr Ss reckless 
misrepresentation. I also think Mr S would have been liable for these costs had Calpe not 
settled it as its likely the third parties would have pursued him directly.
Ive looked at the breakdown of the costs incurred and I think Calpe is allowed to recover 
any outlay legislation required it to settle  i.e. uninsured third-party losses. And I think the 
majority of the costs due fall within this. However, I note Calpe is looking to recover £168 of 
its own investigation costs. And I dont think thats fair. I think these costs are essentially 
standard administrative charges that an insurer will incur in any claim investigation. And I 
dont think theres anything that entitles Calpe to recover these charges. I also think it would 
be unfair for it to do so. I note Calpe says the terms of the policy entitled it to recover these costs. But, as I said, the terms of the policy dont apply given Calpe declared the policy null 
and void. So I think it should reduce the amount its seeking to recover from Mr S by £168. 
I note Mr S says he cant afford to repay these charges. I would expect Calpe to engage with 
Mr S to enter into a suitable repayment plan.
Neither party responded to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party responded to my provisional decision, I see no reason to reach a different 
conclusion. So I partially uphold this complaint for the reasons I set out in my provisional 
decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I partially uphold this complaint and I require Calpe 
Insurance Company Limited to reduce the amount its seeking to recover from Mr S by £168. 
I dont award anything else.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 September 2020. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman