DRN-4413968
The complaint
Miss D complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) wont refund the money she lost as a 
result of an investment scam. Shes being supported by a representative. To keep things 
simple, Ill refer to Miss D throughout this decision.
What happened
The background to this complaint is known to both parties, so I wont repeat all the details 
here. 
In summary, Miss D says she was introduced to the scammer by her ex-husband in March 
2022, and that the scammer then persuaded her that she could make huge returns if she 
invested in cryptocurrency and traded, as instructed, using a platform called MS. A separate 
account with a cryptocurrency exchange (Binance) was set up in Miss Ds name, through 
which funds would be transferred from her HSBC account onto MS.
A card payment of £4,500 was made to Binance (before being sent to the scammer). Miss D 
says she was able to log-on and review the activity on the MS platform at any time and was 
very happy with the returns shown. But that she started to suspect something was wrong 
when, days after shed made the payment, she couldnt withdraw the funds she wanted and 
was instead being asked to borrow and invest more.
The scam was reported to HSBC in July 2022. A formal complaint was later raised and 
referred to our Service. Our Investigator considered it but didnt uphold it. He concluded that 
the payment wasnt unusually large or out of character to suggest HSBC should have done 
more to prevent the scam and there was no potential for a successful chargeback claim. 
I issued my provisional decision to both parties in September 2023. I said I wasnt minded to 
uphold this complaint as I wasnt persuaded HSBC can fairly and reasonably be held liable 
for Miss Ds losses in the circumstances  and I provided the following reasons:
It isnt in dispute that Miss D has fallen victim to a scam and Im sorry to hear about 
the money shes lost. Its also not in dispute that she authorised the payment she 
made to Binance, using her HSBC debit card  and the starting position is that banks 
ought to follow legitimate payment instructions given by its customers.
I note theres disagreement about whether HSBC should have done more to protect 
Miss D by, for example, intervening on the £4,500 card payment on the basis that it 
presented a risk and signs of a known and prevalent scam. But I think its important 
to note that this transaction was, for all intents, connected to an earlier debit card 
payment Miss D had attempted  and on which HSBC did intervene. In other words, 
there had already been activity on her account to trigger an alert at HSBC, so the key 
question is simply whether that intervention went far enough.
The earlier card attempt (for £5,000) was blocked. When Miss D called HSBC to ask 
what had happened she was transferred to its fraud prevention team. In that call, 
Miss D explained shed tried to make a payment to Binance for the purchase of 
cryptocurrency. In response, HSBC said it wanted to check Miss D was aware of it 
and if the transaction was genuine. At the end of the call, HSBC told Miss D that the 
card had been unblocked and shed need to re-attempt the transaction. It asked Miss 
D to check the merchant website and gave a generic warning about safe account 
scams.
I would reasonably expect HSBC to have asked probing questions on the information 
Miss D had given (such as what the payment was for and for the basic surrounding 
context) with the intention of unravelling a potential scam  and I see no reason why 
Miss D wouldnt have been open and honest in responding to any of HSBCs further 
questions if theyd been asked. So, I agree that HSBC missed an opportunity to act 
on information which should reasonably have alerted it to a potential scam. Having 
said that, Im not persuaded that an appropriate warning would have likely stopped 
Miss D from proceeding with the payment or have ultimately prevented her loss.
I say this partly because this was a sophisticated scam where Miss D herself has 
explained how she was led to believe that the scammer was entirely genuine. The 
messages exchanged indicate, as is common with this type of scam, that Miss D 
believed she was forming a particularly close relationship with the scammer, albeit in 
a very short time  and she was encouraged by her ex-husband who had talked to 
her about the huge profits he was making. In my view, she was not only following 
the advice of someone she thought she could trust, and who she believed was a 
knowledgeable and successful investor, but also that of her ex-husband who, 
according to Miss D, had also persuaded [her] to invest more. Theres also evidence 
to suggest that the prospect of making significant returns was something Miss D had 
already seen play out off the back of a separate credit card payment (which isnt part 
of this complaint) shed sent to the scammer days before the £4,500 transaction.
Overall, and on balance, Im not persuaded that further questioning or an appropriate 
warning from HSBC would have resulted in Miss D discovering that she was being 
scammed. And crucially, Ive seen nothing to suggest Miss D would have found 
anything negative about MS, even if she had been advised by HSBC to carry out 
further research into the matter.
I also realise HSBC had committed to blocking some transactions to Binance before 
Miss D made her payment. But that decision was only in relation to credit cards, due 
to the increased risk of consumers carrying out risky activity with borrowed funds. 
HSBC was under no obligation to block debit card payments and didnt act outside its 
own policy by allowing this payment to go through. HBSC is also under no obligation 
to provide a refund under the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM), as the code 
doesnt apply to card payments or payments which the payer made to themselves 
(before being sent to the scammer). And, given the scam was reported some months 
later, in July 2022, and the payment was first sent to Miss Ds own Binance account, 
its unlikely HSBC could have recovered the funds through a recall or a chargeback.
I invited further comments and evidence from both parties. HSBC responded saying it had 
nothing further to add. Miss D replied saying she doesnt accept the decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that neither party has added anything further in response to my provisional findings, I 
see no reason to depart from the conclusions set out above. 
It follows that I do not uphold this complaint. My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 November 2023.
 
Thomas Cardia
Ombudsman