DRN-4150907
The complaint
Miss P has complained that her pet insurer, Casualty & General Insurance Company 
(Europe) Ltd (CGIC), turned down a claim she made under the policy she has for her dog.
CGIC is the underwriter of this policy i.e. the insurer. Throughout the claim Miss P was 
dealing with a different company who acts as CGICs agent. As CGIC has accepted it is 
accountable for the actions of the agent, in my decision, any reference to CGIC includes the 
actions of the agent.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision regarding this complaint earlier this month. In that decision I 
said the following:
Miss P has an insurance policy with CGIC for her dog, T. Shes had the policy since 2019 
but the underwriter changed to CGIC in September 2021.
T had cruciate ligament surgery to his left hind leg in January 2022 which cost around 
£3,860.00. Miss P made a claim under her policy but it was rejected by CGIC who relied on 
an exclusion saying T was overweight and that this was evidenced in his medical records.
 
Miss P wasnt happy about CGICs response and complained. She said there was one entry 
where Ts weight was recorded as 16.5kg by the hospital but this was an error. She said 
another entry where the vet said T was potentially overweight was from a member of the 
vets administrative team who had never seen T. Miss P added that she took T to a weight 
clinic in June 2022 and was told that he is at his ideal weight at 14.5kg. She said T had the 
same operation to another one of his right legs around six months before this one when he 
weighed 16.35kg and that was covered by her insurer so she didnt think that medical 
records prior to that operation were relevant. She added that the vet told her that the surgery 
wasnt linked to Ts weight and that vets have always struggled to advise her regarding Ts 
weight because he is a crossbreed.
CGIC didnt respond to Miss Ps complaint in time so she complained to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service and asked for the claim to be paid. She said nowhere in Ts notes does 
it say his weight was the cause of his injury. 
CGIC responded in the meantime and maintained its decision not to cover the claim. It said 
T had been overweight since 2015. It added that the notes suggested that T had been 
limping since December 2019 and that in March 2020 the vet suspected cruciate disease 
and gave advice for T to lose weight. 
One of our Investigators reviewed the complaint and thought that the claim should not have 
been rejected. He didnt agree that T was overweight and said that CGIC should reconsider 
the claim. 
CGIC didnt agree. It said that the first operation was covered because the policy, though 
branded the same, was underwritten by a different insurer and the terms were slightly 
different. It added that T had been overweight for some time and that there were a number of 
records of the vet advising Miss P to help him lose weight. It added that research shows that 
lameness can develop as a result of excess weight as do problems with anal glands that 
lead to them needing to be expressed. It said that T had some problems with his anal glands 
which further supports this. 
Our Investigator reviewed further medical notes provided by CGIC but didnt change his 
view. He said the advice Miss P was given in 2015 and 2016 was inconsistent as she was 
initially told that T needed to lose 1.5kg and, after gaining some weight, was told to only lose 
0.5 kg. He also didnt think that Ts anal glands needing to be expressed was related to him 
being overweight and said that some dogs are more prone to it than others. He added that a 
comment where T was said to be overweight which Miss P said was written by someone 
who hadnt seen T should not be taken into consideration and pointed out that T had a 
weight review a few months after the operation and Miss P was told his weight was fine.
 
As CGIC didnt agree the case was passed to me to reach a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided - and why
The policy
Under the veterinary fees section, the policy says it covers treatment carried out by a vet 
for treating an illness whilst the pet is insured with CGIC. Treatment includes consultation, 
examination, advice, tests, x-rays, slides, ultrasound, MRI scans, medication and surgery 
provided by the vet. The benefit limit under this section is £4,000 and the excess is £90.
The policy also enables the consumer to claim per condition up to the benefit limit in each 
and every policy period of insurance. At each renewal the benefit limit for each condition 
renews. Condition is defined as an illness or accidental injury or any symptoms or clinical 
signs of an illness or accidental injury affecting your pet. It defines illness as  any 
disease, sickness, infection or any change to your pets normal healthy state, which is not 
caused by an accidental injury.
The policy excludes claims resulting from the pet being medically overweight when this 
results in them needing treatment as a result of not being the recommended medical weight 
for their age, breed type and sex as recommended by a vet. 
 
The medical evidence
CGIC says that T has been overweight for a number of years. I see that vets have, at times, 
advised for T to lose weight and at other times said he was a normal weight, so I dont think 
this advice has been consistent. For example, in January and February 2020, T had a body 
condition score (BCS- similar to BMI for humans) of 6/9 and 6.5/9 (9/9 being obese) and 
around that time he weighed around 16.55kg. In August 2020 he weighed 16.4kg and was 
given a BCS score of 8/9. In January 2022 he had a BCS score of 5/9 and weighed 14kg 
and in February 2022 he was erroneously recorded as weighing 16.5kg but his BCS score 
was 6/9. He was then recorded as weighing 14kg in April 2022 but Miss P was told he may 
be overweight in June 2022. Shortly thereafter he was taken to a weight clinic and Miss P 
was told his score was 5/9 and was at an ideal weight  he weighed 14kg at the time.
In terms of Ts weight around the time of his operation, Miss P has provided evidence from 
the hospital who carried out the operation which said that there was an error on the report it 
had prepared dated February 2022 where it said Ts weight was 16.5kg. The hospital said 
that Ts weight was consistently 14kg. This is also supported by the fact that an earlier report 
dated around two weeks earlier states that Ts weight is 14kg. I agree with Miss P that it is 
very unlikely that T gained two and a half kilograms in two weeks and this is supported by 
the clarification the hospital provided since. So based on the above, I dont think Ive seen enough evidence to conclude that T has been 
consistently overweight.
CGIC referred to a note in March 2020 where the vet said that there is subtle osteophytosis 
of the distal pole of the right patella (lumps around the kneecap). The vet added that they 
suspected early stage of cruciate disease (damage to the ligaments in the knee) which could 
be managed conservatively with weight reduction as well as other things like hydrotherapy 
and some pain relief. But this note was in relation to the right leg whereas the claim was 
made in relation to the left one. And, in any case, the vet didnt say that Ts weight caused 
his right knee condition. In any event, as I said above, at the time of the operation to the left 
knee, T weighed around 14kg. 
Miss P said there is nowhere in the vets notes that says Ts weight played a part in him 
requiring this operation. Based on what I have seen, I agree with her. So even if I were to 
agree that T was overweight which I dont, at least not consistently, I have seen no medical 
evidence to say that this was the reason he required the operation that resulted in this claim. 
It follows, that I dont think that it is fair and reasonable for CGIC to apply the weight 
exclusion in the specific circumstances of this case. 
CGIC said there is medical research which says that weight gain can lead to lameness and 
also anal glands needing expressing suggests that the pet may be overweight. As far as 
I am aware some breeds are more susceptible to having to have their anal glands expressed 
so I dont think this is something I can take into consideration. And from Ts records it looks 
like he had to have his expressed at times, but they were often not considered to be full so 
this seemed to be done more as a precaution. In terms of weight contributing to lameness, 
again I have not seen medical evidence specific to T that says this is what caused his 
lameness. So I do not think the points CGIC is making here apply to this specific case.
The claim
CGIC said the first operation was covered because the policy was underwritten by a different 
underwriter and their terms were slightly different. I have had a look at the relevant term 
regarding weight and it is very similar to CGICs so I dont agree with CGICs reasoning on 
this. 
Overall, having looked at the policy I dont see any other reasons why this claim shouldnt be 
covered. So my provisional decision is that CGIC should cover this claim. 
Both parties responded to and accepted my provisional decision. CGIC confirmed that it 
would pay Miss P £3,770.62 plus interest. It calculated this by deducting the £90.00 excess 
from the claim amount of £3,860.62. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have accepted my provisional decision I will not be adding to or changing 
any of the findings I made in it. Including my decision that CGIC pays the claim. As such, my 
provisional findings now form the findings of this my final decision.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I have decided that Casualty & General Insurance Company 
(Europe) Ltd must now pay the claim for left pelvic limb lameness which came to £3,860.62 in line with the terms of the policy and subject to any policy limit and any applicable excess. 
Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd has confirmed that this comes to 
£3,770.62. It must also pay Miss P interest at a yearly rate of 8% simple payable one month 
from the date the claim was made up to the date it pays her.
 
If Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd pays interest and considers that its 
required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell 
Miss P how much its taken off. It should also give Miss P a tax deduction certificate if she 
asks for one, so she can reclaim tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 June 2023.
 
Anastasia Serdari
Ombudsman