DRN-2878671
The complaint
Mr V is unhappy N26 Bank GmbH (N26) have applied a fraud prevention marker (Cifas) 
against him. 
What happened
Mr V contacted N26 in November 2020 after discovering they had applied a Cifas marker 
against him. He told them that in November 2019, he was having some financial difficulties 
when he was introduced to a social media profile by a friend. The profile was asking people 
to create bank accounts and by doing so would allow the person to make some money to 
help pay for bills and expenses. Mr V contacted the person running the social media profile 
and was told to open an N26 account. If he did this, Mr V was told he would make a 
minimum of £500. After taking some time to think about it, Mr V agreed to open the account. 
He says he was told to use a specific email address to open the account with and once the 
account had been set up  he was also told to hand over the card and security credentials 
for the account  which he did. After this, Mr V told N26 that he was no longer able to access 
the account and got blocked on social media by the third party. After this, he said he asked 
N26 to close down the account.
In their response, N26 confirmed they were satisfied the Cifas marker had been applied 
correctly and wouldnt look to remove it. They said the account had been in receipt of two 
different sets of fraudulent funds in January 2020 which were then withdrawn/spent straight 
away via Mr Vs debit card. As a result, N26 believed the account had been set up for 
fraudulent purposes and so it was reasonable to apply a Cifas marker against him for misuse 
of facility.
Unhappy with N26s response, Mr V then complained to our service. From his complaint 
form alongside discussions with one of our investigators, Mr V provided a further explanation 
of what happened.
He confirmed again that he had been experiencing some financial difficulties  but this time, 
Mr V told our investigator that he had opened the N26 account to help save money. He also 
told our investigator that he only saw the social media profile a few weeks after the account 
had already been opened. The profile explained that they could help people make money via 
forex trading and after talking with his friend he decided to get in touch with the person on 
social media. He was asked to provide his card and security credentials and when asked by 
our investigator why he did this, Mr V explained that because he was under huge financial 
pressure and needed money urgently  coupled with his friend reassuring him that this 
opportunity was genuine  he was persuaded to do what he was being asked. After giving 
over his card and security credentials, Mr V confirmed he was blocked by the third party on 
social media. So he then asked N26 to close the account down. He provided our investigator 
with screenshots of partial emails to and from N26 in February 2020 to support this.
N26 provided our investigator with evidence which they feel shows they were right to apply 
the Cifas marker. This included evidence of two separate fraud claims made against the 
account as well as what details were provided when the account was opened. N26 have 
pointed out the email address used to open the account included the term fraudulent 
movements.
Our investigator reviewed what both N26 and Mr V had provided. Their opinion was that they 
felt N26 were correct to apply the Cifas and didnt recommend it was removed. As Mr V 
disagreed with our investigators opinion, the case has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker that N26 has applied is for misuse of facility. The misuse relates to using the 
account to receive and then spend fraudulent funds. N26 believe the account was set up for 
this purpose from the outset. For N26 to record this they dont need to be able to prove 
beyond reasonable doubt that Mr V is guilty of an offence of fraud. But to register a Cifas 
marker, theyre expected to be able to demonstrate that there are reasonable grounds to 
believe that a fraud or financial crime has been committed or attempted. Practically, what 
this means is that N26 must first be able to demonstrate that the funds that entered Mr Vs 
account were fraudulent funds  and not part of legitimate activity. And secondly, N26 will 
need to have robust evidence that Mr V was deliberately dishonest in his activity  including 
allowing his account to be used for fraudulent activity. 
With these considerations in mind, Ive firstly thought about the funds themselves which 
credited Mr Vs account. N26 has been able to provide evidence of separate notifications 
from a third-party bank in January 2020 and March 2020 respectively for payments which 
credited Mr Vs account. On both occasions, the third-party bank explain that their customer 
has been the victim of a scam in which they were tricked into sending their money to Mr Vs 
account  thinking they had been contacted by their bank and asked to move their funds to a 
safe account when they were actually contacted by a scammer. Given the amount of detail 
provided by the third-party bank to N26  Im satisfied its more likely than not the funds 
which credited Mr Vs account were as a result of fraud.
Ive then thought about the second element as to whether I believe Mr V was deliberately 
dishonest to the point that it was reasonable for N26 to escalate its concerns to Cifas. 
From what Ive seen, Im persuaded that N26 were entitled to do so. This is because: 
My review of Mr Vs testimony to both our service and N26 is somewhat different 
when it comes to the creation of the N26 account itself. For example, when our 
investigator asked what the purpose of opening the account was, Mr V has explained 
it was being opened to help budget his money and for savings purposes. However, in 
his communication with N26, Mr V has explained that he was told to open the N26 
account by the third party (who we now know to be a fraudster) as this was needed in 
order to make some money. Clearly theres some inconsistencies with what Mr V 
has said about how he came to open the account and so its now difficult for me to 
ascertain what happened and reach the conclusion that Mr V genuinely thought he 
was becoming involved in trading activity. Given what Mr V has told N26 at the time 
of making his complaint, it seems more likely to me that Mr V was told to open the 
account by the fraudster and subsequently hand over the card and security 
credentials to facilitate the fraudulent activity.
From Mr Vs version of events, he has explained he handed over the card and 
security credentials in and around November 2019. Hes also explained that shortly after this, he was blocked by the third party, so he got in contact with N26 to ask for 
the account to be closed. However, from Mr Vs screenshots  it doesnt appear hes 
asked for his account to be closed until February 2020  around three months since 
the account had been opened by Mr V. I also note that the evidence Mr V has 
provided suggests the request wasnt made until several weeks after the account had 
been used to receive and spent fraudulent funds. Given further inconsistences here 
between what Mr V has said and what the evidence shows, I think this increases the 
likelihood that Mr V knew the account was being used for fraudulent purposes.  
Having reviewed the account application, the email address used to set up the 
account (which Mr V has said he was also told to set up by the third party in his 
complaint to N26) includes the phrase fraudulent movements which is a clear 
reference to fraudulent behaviour. However, Mr V doesnt appear to question this at 
all and is an indication that this email address was being set up purely with the 
intention of it being used to conduct fraudulent behaviour. 
Whilst I understand Mr V has said he was struggling a lot with his finances and the 
third party promised to make him money  Ive yet to see any persuasive evidence 
which supports his version of events. I appreciate Mr V has provided some 
screenshots of text messages between him and a third party which hes sent to both 
our service and N26, but all these really show is that Mr V willingly gave over some 
security credentials such as a PIN which has then allowed his account to be used for 
fraudulent purposes. Theres nothing within the messages or any other evidence that 
Ive seen which supports Mr Vs version of events that he was essentially tricked into 
handing all these things over or that the account would be used for trading purposes.
Im also not persuaded by Mr Vs explanation for why he handed over the card and 
security credentials in the first place  especially in the context that the third party 
would be making money for him via Forex trading. Im unable to think of a reason 
why a third party wouldve need Mr Vs card, PIN and security credentials in order to 
carry out what Mr V has said. I also cannot think of a reason as to how Mr V thought 
he could earn profits from a forex trade without investing money into it at first. And 
whilst I appreciate Mr V has said he gave these things away out of financial 
desperation  Im still persuaded that its highly unusual to hand over these things 
without any challenge or justification as to why this was all needed. 
Taking the above into account, Im persuaded, on balance, that N26 had enough evidence to 
meet the burden of proof required by Cifas to add the marker against Mr V. This is because 
Im satisfied theres enough evidence to say the money sent to Mr Vs account and 
immediately spent was most likely because of fraud. In addition to this, Im persuaded on 
balance that the account was set up for the purpose of fraudulent activity. I dont find Mr Vs 
explanation about the account being used for forex trading plausible on this occasion. This is 
because there is no other persuasive evidence to support this scenario aside from Mr Vs 
own testimony. And given that his testimony to N26 and our service about what happened is 
inconsistent  Im unable to put as much weight on this. Therefore, given the remaining 
evidence which I addressed earlier, I believe its more likely than not that the account was 
being used for something untoward. And ultimately, Im also persuaded that Mr V helped to 
facilitate this and therefore acted dishonestly with N26. As a result, I dont think its fair to ask 
N26 to remove the fraud marker on this occasion.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or reject my decision before 15 September 2021.
 
Emly Hanley
Ombudsman