DRN-2918812
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy that a car supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with Advantage 
Finance Ltd was of an unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
On 3 December 2019, Mr D was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase 
agreement with Advantage. He paid a deposit of £1,000 and part-exchanged his existing car 
for £1,500. The agreement was for £10,000 over 60 months; with 59 monthly repayments of 
£313.75 and a final payment of £513.75. At the time, the car was over four years old and 
had done 84,525 miles.
Mr D said that he started to have problems with the air suspension on car in August 2020, 
and that the car had been in and out of the garage since. He also said that hes had to spend 
over £5,000 on repairs since he took possession of the car.
Mr D complained to Advantage on 29 December 2020, and they arranged for an 
independent engineer to inspect the car. But the engineer didnt say the fault with the 
suspension was present when the car was supplied to Mr D. So Advantage didnt uphold the 
complaint. Mr D wasnt happy with Advantages response, so he referred his complaint to us 
for investigation.
Our investigator said that, based on the evidence hed seen, there was a fault with the car. 
But he said that Mr D had been able to drive the car for over 8,000 miles before the fault 
occurred. The independent engineer hadnt said this fault was present when the car was 
supplied, and the investigator hadnt seen anything to show him that it was. So he thought 
the car was of a satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr D, and he didnt think 
Advantage needed to do anything more.
Mr D didnt agree with the investigator. He said this this situation has had a massive impact 
on his wellbeing and he thought that the independent engineers report was misleading and 
not in line with a proper report. He also said the car originally broke down on 8 February 
2020, which he thinks shows the fault was present when the car was supplied. So hes 
asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr D was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to look into complaints about it. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve 
been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, 
Advantage are responsible. Whats satisfactory is determined by things such what a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory given the price, description and other 
relevant circumstances. In a case like this, this would include things like the age and mileage 
at the time of sale; and the vehicles history.
The CRA also says that goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, where 
a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed that the fault was present when 
the car was supplied, unless Advantage can show otherwise. But, where a fault is identified 
after the first six months, its for Mr D to show that it was present when the car was supplied. 
So, if I thought the car was faulty when Mr D took possession of it, and this made the car not 
of a satisfactory quality, itd be fair and reasonable to ask Advantage to put this right.
It's not disputed that there was a fault with the car. Ive seen an invoice for £135.48, dated 
25 August 2020, from a garage who specialise in the make of car Mr D had. This confirms 
that the car had done 92,824 miles at the time. The garage investigated an air compressor 
timed out code, replaced a relay and two fuses, and tested the car for two days. The garage 
said there were no faults at time of test. 
A further invoice from the same garage, for £624.00, dated 3 September 2020, says the 
garage checked the wiring to the suspension and sensors, and replaced the compressor. 
The car was then road tested for a week and there were no codes or problem at the time of 
the test. At this point the car had done 92,852 miles.
The car passed an MOT on 15 September 2020, with a mileage of 92,876. There was an 
advisory relating to tyre wear, but no issues were noted with the suspension. An invoice for 
£189.69 from the garage the same day says that the suspension was checked but work 
needed to be done on the brakes so the car would pass the MOT.
Further work was done by the garage on 11 November 2020, when the car had done 94,689 
miles. Suspension components were replaced at the cost of £1,021.86.
Ive seen a copy of the independent engineers report dated 17 February 2021. At the time of 
the inspection the car had done 95,010 miles. The engineer said that a new suspension 
compressor had been fitted, and the suspension was fully operational, giving no cause for 
concern. But the engineer did say there was a fault that was traced to a faulty connection at 
the wiring terminals that connect onto the compressor. The engineer said that such faults are 
normally caused by vibrations from the engine and suspension and would occur due to 
general wear and tear.
Mr D doesnt accept this report as he didnt think it was in line with a proper report. But the 
report was done in an industry standard format by an engineer who was independent of both 
Advantage and Mr D  the engineers duty is to the courts and not to whoever instructed the 
report or paid for it. So Im satisfied that this report is reasonable to rely on.The car was supplied with a high mileage. And it travelled a further 8,299 miles before the 
garage first inspected it for the suspension issue in August 2020. Neither the garage nor the 
independent engineer has said that the faults were present or developing at the point the car 
was supplied, and Mr D hasnt provided any other evidence to show that it was.
Mr D has said the car first broke down on 8 February 2020, and that this was due to a 
suspension fault code. But I havent seen anything to show me the reasons for this 
breakdown i.e. a report from the breakdown/recovery company. And, in the timeline Mr D 
supplied as part of his evidence, he said the car was repaired at this time because of slight 
damages when purchased.
While I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr D, Im satisfied that the 
suspension fault was most likely general wear and tear as a result of the high mileage 
travelled. And, because Mr D was able to drive the car for more than 8,000 miles, and more 
than seven months, before the fault occurred, Im also satisfied that the fault wasnt present 
or developing when the car was supplied to Mr D.
So, Im satisfied that, under the CRA, the car was of a satisfactory quality when supplied to 
Mr D. And I wont be asking Advantage to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint about Advantage Finance Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2021.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman