DRN-4371521
The complaint
Mr J complains that Zurich Assurance Limited didnt take account of his ill health when they 
arranged an annuity for him. He also said that Zurich didnt make clear that he was able to 
shop around for a better deal with other providers under the open market option. 
Mr J would now like Zurich to recompense him for the lost income he believes he wouldve 
been entitled to had they correctly highlighted his options at the time.
Mr J is being represented by a third party. For ease, Ill refer to all submissions that have 
been made by the third party as having come from Mr J.
What happened
In 2009, Mr J contacted Zurich to understand what income he might be able to receive from 
his existing Zurich pension plan.
At that time, Zurich undertook a comparison of the income Mr Js pension fund could 
purchase with an annuity through themselves against a similar annuity provided by 
Prudential. Zurich determined that they would be able to offer Mr J a higher income 
compared to Prudential and set out his options which ranged from a level or increasing 
income, together with the choice of either a tax-free lump sum or a higher income without the 
lump sum.
After considering his options, Mr J selected a level annuity and took his lump sum  Zurich 
then set the annuity up with themselves. In February 2023, Mr J decided to formally 
complain to Zurich. In summary, he said that Zurich hadnt explained to him at the time that 
he couldve shopped around other providers for a better deal. He also said, in summary, that 
because of the health conditions he had at the time, he most likely wouldve been entitled to 
an impaired life annuity. Mr J says Zurich never made that clear to him.
After reviewing Mr Js complaint, Zurich concluded that they were satisfied that theyd done 
nothing wrong. They also said, in summary, that they had explained to Mr J at the time that 
they only offered their own and annuities from Prudential. Had he wanted to, they said, he 
couldve shopped around. They went on to explain this was covered in the literature they 
provided at the time. In addition, Zurich said they didnt offer enhanced or impaired life 
annuities at that time, so thats something they wouldnt have been able to offer Mr J had he 
informed them of it.
Mr J was unhappy with Zurichs response, so he referred his complaint to this service. In 
summary, he repeated the same concerns and explained that Zurich had failed to properly 
inform him of his wider options. He said, had they done, the income he couldve received 
wouldve likely been much higher.
The complaint was then considered by one of our Investigators. She concluded that Zurich 
had treated Mr J fairly. She was satisfied that there was sufficient evidence to show that Mr J 
had been informed of his options.
Mr J, however, disagreed with our Investigators findings. In summary, he said that he 
thought neither Zurich nor Prudential provided him with adequate information at the time the 
annuity was taken out and as such, they should both be held accountable on a joint and 
several basis. 
Our Investigator was not persuaded to change her view as she didnt believe Mr J had 
presented any new arguments shed not already considered or responded to. Mr J then 
asked the Investigator to pass the case to an Ombudsman to review that outcome.
After considering the complaint, I issued a provisional decision on this case because whilst I 
explained that I was still planning on declining the complaint, I wanted to clarify the chain of 
events that occurred and added wider reasoning and context to that of our Investigator.
What I said in my provisional decision:
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
involved and Ive done so using my own words. The purpose of my decision isnt to address 
every single point raised. My role is to consider the evidence presented by Mr J and Zurich, 
in order to reach what I think is an independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the 
facts of the case. In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, 
regulation and best industry practice, but it is for me to decide, based on the available 
information I've been given, what's more likely than not to have happened. However, I hope 
neither Mr J or Zurich will take the fact that my findings focus on what I consider to be the 
central issues, and not in as much detail as they have outlined, as a discourtesy. 
Whilst I appreciate that this likely isnt the outcome Mr J was hoping for, having carefully 
considered both sets of submissions, Im in agreement with our Investigators view and for 
largely the same reasons. As such, I wont be upholding Mr Js complaint and Ill explain 
why below.
Before I do, I should note that despite the sale taking place in 2009, Zurich have agreed 
that the case shouldnt be time barred and as such, this service does have the jurisdiction 
to look at this complaint. In addition, I think its also important to be very clear that this 
complaint is about Zurich and not Prudential. In addition, from what Ive seen, it was Zurich 
who arranged the annuity and provided all of the relevant information to Mr J.
The issue at the heart of this complaint is whether Zurich did enough to put Mr J in a fully 
informed position about his ability to shop around providers before he committed to the 
annuity. In addition, Mr J says that given his health at the time, Zurich failed to inform him 
that he might have got a better income by taking out an impaired health annuity. However, 
Im of the view that Zurich did highlight Mr Js options to him and Ill explain why.
In support of the complaint, Zurich supplied a copy of the outcome letter which they explain 
was sent to Mr J at the time that the annuity was arranged. It included a number of 
appendices with various information about the annuity being arranged.
In the letter Zurich sent to Mr J in January 2009, there was a section called Claims options 
available to you. The first section covered taking an annuity. The next section, called An 
annuity from another provider (by using the open market option) set out Mr Js rights to shop 
around. It stated, you are of course able to select any annuity provider of your choice. Different annuity 
providers offer different types of annuities, different annuity rates, charging and pricing 
structures, which can affect the final value of the income you receive. It may be possible 
to find an annuity that is more suitable to your personal circumstances with another 
provider. An option relevant to some may be an enhanced lifetime annuity or impaired 
lifetime annuity. These types of annuity give a higher than usual income and may be 
offered to you if the provider considers your lifestyle or state of health has reduced the 
likely period of payment to below the average life expectancy.
Zurich isnt a financial adviser and as such, wasnt able to provide personalised advice to Mr 
J at the time. Their records demonstrate that they didnt direct Mr J to take a particular 
course of action over another. Zurichs role was to provide enough information to Mr J to 
allow him to make an informed choice. Their literature made it adequately clear that they 
werent able to provide annuity options that may have resulted in a higher income for him. I 
think the wording in Zurichs letter was sufficient to have put Mr J on a path of discovery to at 
least explore other providers given the health conditions he explained he had at the time. 
Zurichs letter made it clear that he wasnt obligated to convert his pension with them into an 
annuity and he was able to shop around to get the best deal should he wish. Zurichs letter 
also explained that if Mr J wasnt sure which option was best for him, he should contact a 
financial adviser for guidance.
In addition, within the Key Facts document Mr J was provided with at the time of the sale, it 
states we can only offer an annuity from Prudential Retirement Income Ltd and in limited 
circumstance an annuity from Zurich Assurance Ltd. The same document also went onto 
state you will not receive advice or a recommendation from us. We ask some questions to 
narrow down the selection of products that we will provide the details on. You will then need 
to make your own choice about how to proceed.
Mr J signed a declaration on 22 January 2009 to say that he had read and understood the 
section detailed information about your annuity income options. In addition, within section 3 
of the Pension choice annuity application Mr J signed, it asked the question: Do you want 
to buy the pension from an insurer nominated by you or your adviser?  Mr J ticked no. So, 
it seems to me that it was made clear that he had a choice of seeking guidance from an 
alternative provider but he chose not to do so.
So, taking all of the above into account, Ive seen nothing to persuade me that Mr J wasnt 
put in a fully informed position before deciding to proceed with the annuity option he 
selected. Zurichs literature makes it clear that he can shop around, explains he hasnt been 
provided with financial advice, that the decision to proceed with the annuity is his alone and 
highlights if he does have a health condition, he may be able to secure a higher income 
elsewhere. It therefore follows that I do not uphold Mr Js complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision
After reviewing my provisional decision, Zurich responded explaining they had nothing 
further to add. However, neither Mr J nor his representative provided any further comment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.As no further comments were provided to my provisional decision, it therefore follows that I 
have reached the same decision for the same reasons that Ive set out above.
My final decision
Im not upholding Mr Js complained and as such, I wont be instructing Zurich Assurance 
Limited to take any action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2023.
 
Simon Fox
Ombudsman