DRN-1900762
 
The complaint
Mr V complains about how The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) handled a call he made 
to it on 26 July 2019. He said that his account details were discussed, although he was later 
told he couldnt clear security. And he said the call handler was rude, and hung up on him. 
What happened
Mr V said he rang RBS to order some statements. Those statements didnt arrive, but thats 
the subject of a separate complaint. This complaint deals with the content of this call. Mr V 
said he was not taken through security, but his account was discussed, including that it was 
in recoveries. He said that the staff member taking the call accused him of being abusive, 
refused to provide his name, and then terminated the call when he was challenged about not 
going through security. 
RBS said its collections department had contacted Mr V a number of times about his 
account, and hed made payments toward the debt. So it thought he knew that his account 
was in recoveries. But when he complained about this call, it at first said it couldnt find the 
call recording. It appears to have been looking at the wrong dates. RBS said it didnt contest 
what hed said, and it apologised. It paid him £70 to make up for poor service. 
RBS then located the call. It said that it didnt believe there was any breach in confidentiality 
on the call, and Mr V was already aware his account was in arrears and being handled by 
external agents. It wouldnt pay any more compensation.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He discussed the role of the 
information commissioners office (ICO), and suggested Mr Vs wider concerns about how 
RBS carries out customer identification might be something for the ICO to consider. He then 
turned to Mr Vs own experience on the call.
Our investigator said Mr V had identified that he was in arrears on his account at the start of 
his call, so he understood that Mr V was aware of this before he called. And Mr V had made 
payments through the agent who was managing his debt. Our investigator didnt think it was 
inappropriate for the call handler Mr V spoke to, to tell him that his accounts were with a third 
party.
Our investigator said that the call was escalating in tone before it was terminated, and the 
staff member couldnt offer any further help at that stage, because Mr Vs account was being 
managed by a third party. 
Our investigator didnt think that the call handler made errors during the call, so he said he 
wouldnt ask RBS to take any further action. 
Mr V said he wanted his case to be considered by an ombudsman. He also said he didnt 
think wed documented his complaint properly, but he didnt reply to our investigators 
invitation to send us more details. The case was then passed to me for a final decision.My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I didnt propose to 
uphold it. This is what I said then: 
Ive listened carefully to the call that Mr V had with RBS. The call handler did say that 
information about Mr Vs account would be available through the collections team, but 
that he was hopeful he could also find it. Mr V wasnt able to provide the details of the 
account number and sort code that the call handler wanted to find his account, so the 
call handler tried to find Mr V another way.  
As part of this, Mr V provided his name, full address and postcode, date of birth, and 
the branch where he opened the account. He also confirmed the account was in 
arrears. This information was enough to identify the account and to allow the call 
handler to find it on his system. 
Ill look separately at whether Mr V was told that statements were ordered for him, on 
this call. I wont discuss that here.
Mr V asked to speak to a manager, and was told that wouldnt be possible, because 
he hadnt been able to pass telephone security. But he says that information about his 
account had already been divulged by RBS on that call. I dont agree with that. Having 
listened carefully and repeatedly to this call, I dont think that the call handler had done 
any more than note details which Mr V had given, and confirm, as Mr V had already 
said, that his account was in collections. So I dont think I can conclude that the 
security of Mr Vs account was jeopardised by this call. 
Mr V also wanted to complain about how this call was handled. He said the staff 
member taking the call accused him of being abusive, refused to provide his name, 
and then terminated the call when he was challenged about not going through 
security. 
I think its also worth noting that at this stage what Mr V seemed to be saying was a bit 
different to what hed said earlier on the call, because at this stage he queried how 
hed been made aware of the arrears. Although it does seem as if this call was 
escalating in tone at this point, as our investigator said, I dont think it was helpful to 
use the term abusive here. Whilst it may not have been possible to help Mr V further 
on this call, I also dont think it was helpful to end the call quite as abruptly as the call 
handler did.
This call couldve been handled better. I think it would be appropriate for RBS to 
apologise after a call like this. So I think its worth noting that, even though RBS hadnt 
listened to this call at the time, it did apologise. And it paid Mr V £70 in compensation 
for any upset which you may have experienced as a result of the unacceptable 
standards of service which you have received. 
I think that the award that RBS made in this case is in line with what I wouldve 
recommended, if RBS hadnt already paid that. Because of that, I wont ask RBS to do 
any more now. So, although I know that Mr V will be disappointed, I dont think this 
complaint should be upheld.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Neither side has responded within the time limit I gave. 
What Ive decided  and whyIve reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I havent changed my mind.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2020.
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman