DRN-1757265
 
The complaint
Mrs C and Mr J say Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them a payment protection policy 
(PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mrs C and Mr J took out PPI in 1994 to protect their mortgage repayments. They recall the 
sale took place in a meeting, Nationwide cant confirm this. The policy covered them for 
accident, sickness and unemployment. They paid a monthly amount for it.
The adjudicator didnt recommend Mrs C and Mr Js complaint should be upheld. Mrs C and 
Mr J disagreed so the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is incomplete (as 
some of it is here), I have based my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, 
on what I consider is most likely given the available evidence and what we know about how 
Nationwide sold PPI at the time.
Nationwide has been unable to confirm if the policy was in single or joint names, so I have 
considered both Mrs C and Mr Js circumstances in reaching my conclusion.
Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive followed 
it here. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs C and Mr Js complaint. Ill explain why.
Nationwide had to make clear the PPI was optional, and Mrs C and Mr J had to agree to 
take it out. I cant know what was said at the time of the sale, there are no meeting notes or 
records available, and Nationwide doesn't have copies of any paperwork from the sale. But 
that's not surprising or unreasonable given how long ago it was. It's not easy in cases like 
this where the information is limited. I have to decide what I think is most likely. 
Mrs C and Mr J havent been able to give us much detail about the sale, but they recall they 
were told they had to take out PPI to get the mortgage. Nationwide says that PPI has never 
been a condition of its lending, Mrs C and Mr J would have given a leaflet telling them about 
the policy and the decision to take out PPI would have been entirely theirs.
I have thought carefully about Mrs C and Mr Js comments. And whilst I dont doubt these 
are their honest recollections, I have to take into account that the sale was over 25 years 
ago and how this might affect what they now remember. Overall, I think it's likely Nationwide 
made clear the PPI was optional, and they agreed to take it. I do understand they might not 
recall this given how long ago it was. Mrs C and Mr J say they were advised to take out the cover. Nationwide disagrees. I cant 
find any evidence that Nationwide looked at their individual circumstances before making a 
tailored recommendation, so on balance I dont think Nationwide recommended the PPI. 
This means it didnt have to check if the policy was right for Mrs C and Mr J. But it did have 
to make sure they got all the information they needed to decide if the PPI was right for them. 
Its possible the information wasnt as clear as it should have been. But I dont think they 
wouldve been put off taking out the policy if they had received better information. I say this 
because Mrs C and Mr J were eligible for the policy given their circumstances at the time 
and the policys terms and conditions. 
And it seems they werent affected by any of the things limiting the policys main benefits. So 
I think it unlikely better information about the policys exclusions and limitations would have 
changed their decision to buy it. 
Mr J was entitled to less than three months sick pay, Mrs C had no employee benefits as 
she was self-employed, and they had savings worth around three months income. But the 
PPI would have paid out in addition to Mr Js work benefits and for up to 12 months. It would 
have allowed them to use any savings to cover other living expenses whilst not working, or 
to protect them for their future needs. The PPI also gave them up to 12 months 
unemployment cover. I know Mrs C was self-employed but this policy made it no harder for 
her to make an unemployment claim than employed people. 
Given the consequences for Mrs C and Mr J of defaulting on a large and long term debt 
secured against their home, I think the PPI would have been useful for them if they were sick 
or lost their job(s).
I dont know when the cost was first made clear to Mrs C and Mr J, but the PPI was 
competitively priced and apparently affordable. And they could cancel it without further cost if 
at any stage they no longer wanted it.
Mrs C and Mr J also said that the cover would have been of little use to them as the benefit 
level wouldnt even have covered half of their monthly mortgage payment. But Nationwide 
has provided records showing this is not the case. Its evidence shows when Mrs C and Mr J 
bought the cover their monthly mortgage repayment was £151.80 with an additional £22 
charge under the scheme for maximum advances. Their PPI benefit level was £173.80. 
So, overall, it follows I dont think Mrs C and Mr J have lost out because of any problems 
with this sale. 
My final decision
My decision is I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 June 2020.
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman