DRN-3346480
The complaint
Mr P complains about Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limiteds (LV) handling of his 
car insurance claim. 
What happened
Mr P says there was an attempt to steal his car which, although unsuccessful, did cause 
significant damage to his car. So, Mr P made a claim to LV. Mr P says the breakdown 
vehicle which collected his car didnt bring the right equipment so he and the recovery driver 
had to push his car on to the rear of the breakdown vehicle. And, the recovery driver didnt 
ask Mr P to remove his dashcam. Mr P also says it took around a week for his car to be 
transported to the garage for repairs. 
Mr P says he waited several weeks for an update and, when LV contacted him, it was to ask 
for a crime reference number but no update about his car. Mr P says he chased LV for an 
update but the responses were slow and contained insufficient information without any 
indication on when his car would be repaired. Mr P says this went on for a few months and 
he then received contact from LV to say his car had been repaired. Mr P says when his car 
was delivered, the repairs werent complete so the delivery driver loaded his car back on the 
transporter and Mr P spoke with a manager who agreed to rectify all of the problems. 
Mr P says his car was returned again but there were still issues. He says, although there 
was still much work outstanding, he had to accept it conditionally as he needed his car for 
work. Mr P says his car wasnt safe to drive as the driver and passenger doors couldve 
opened at any time. Mr P says LV suggested an independent company inspect his car but 
he had concerns about this company as he researched them and noted lots of negative 
feedback from customers. Mr P says he raised this with LV but they dismissed his concerns. 
Mr P says he had to agree to this company carrying out an inspection but feels the inspector 
lied, didnt listen to his concerns and didnt do what was promised. Mr P complained to LV 
about their handling of his claim and listed a number of issues with his car which he felt still 
hadnt been resolved by LV.  
LV responded on 24 April 2020 to address the issues raised by Mr P in relation to the 
collection of his car and the delivery to the garage. As a resolution to these complaints Mr P 
received £250, broken down as £100 directly to Mr P to contribute towards travel costs and 
£150 of the excess being waived. LV sent a further complaint response on 24 June and said, 
when the car was returned to Mr P and the repairs werent completed correctly, they took his 
car back and they offered Mr P the use of a courtesy car which he declined. They said, as 
Mr Ps car wasnt repaired in full the first time, it was delivered back and they arranged to 
waive the remaining £150 excess to apologise for the further problems caused to Mr P. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr P. She felt LV should cover the cost to Mr P to 
resolve the issue with his dashcam and should also write a letter of apology to Mr P. LV 
agreed but Mr P disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. And, I think the investigators 
recommendation is a fair way to resolve matters. I understand Mr P will be disappointed by 
this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
Complaint response in April 2020
Were not free to consider every complaint a customer brings to us. We operate under a set 
of rules laid down by Parliament under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000, 
published by the Financial Conduct Authority and known as the DISP rules. These set out 
the extent of our powers, including the time limits that apply to our complaints. The rules say 
that, unless the business consents, or there are exceptional reasons to explain the delay, 
were unable to consider a complaint made more than six months after the date on which a 
business sent a complainant its final response. 
The relevant rule is DISP 2.8.2. This says we cant consider a complaint if the complainant 
refers it to us: 
(1) more than six months after the date on which the respondent sent the complainant its 
final response.. .
unless 
(3) in the view of the Ombudsman, the failure to comply with the time limits in DISP 2.8.2 
Rwas a result of exceptional circumstances 
LV sent their final response to Mr P on 24 April 2020. I can see that the email explained that 
Mr P had six months to bring his complaint to our service if he remained unhappy and that 
LV wouldnt give consent for us to look at it if Mr P brought it out of time. This means that   
Mr P would have had until 24 October 2020 to bring his complaint about the collection of his 
car and the delivery to the garage.
We received Mr Ps complaint on 30 October 2020. So, Mr P brought his complaint to us 
outside of the required six-month time limit. 
The rules do allow me to consider the merits of a complaint outside the time limits, where the 
delay is due to exceptional circumstances. DISP 2.8.4 G gives an example of exceptional 
circumstances where a complainant has been or is incapacitated. Mr P hasnt given this 
service evidence to suggest that there was an exceptional reason for the delay in bringing 
his complaint. So, it doesnt change my decision that this service cant consider the merits of 
this part of Mr Ps complaint as he is out of time to bring this complaint to this service. 
Delays in carrying out repairs 
I can see Mr P is unhappy about the length of time it took for LV to carry out repairs to his 
car. I can see Mr P contacts LV at the end of April 2020 to ask for an update. He says LV 
have his car which still hasnt been repaired. 
LV respond and apologise for the delay in the repairs and lack of communication. LV explain 
the repairing garage had closed in March due to the Covid-19 pandemic and the repairs 
couldnt proceed until the garage had authorisation to reopen. They explain the garage 
hadnt been given notice of the closure and they couldnt get through to Mr P when they 
were updating customers. In mid-May, LV email Mr P to say they know some of their garages are now starting to 
reopen and they can see the garage holding Mr Ps car has reopened and work on the 
repairs has restarted. LV continue to correspond with Mr P through the remainder of May 
which includes confirmation that the parts needed for the repairs to Mr Ps car were ordered 
before closure but were out of stock with an estimated arrival date of 26 May. LV say theyre 
hoping the parts will arrive in a week but it might well be the case the parts supplier may still 
be closed. 
LV email Mr P and say theyve heard back from the garage and they say, as long as theres 
no issue with the parts, theyre hoping to have his car ready by 27 May but theyll confirm 
that for definite the following week. LV confirm Mr Ps car will be quality checked before its 
returned and theyll look into any issues should any remain. LV say they believe Mr P would 
still be in the same position as theyre in now as the parts have been out of stock. However, 
LV accept the communication prior to lockdown couldve been better. So, LV agree to waive 
50% of the excess - so when the repairs are completed, Mr P will need to pay the garage 
£150 rather than £300.
LV then email Mr P to say all the parts have arrived apart from one piece of trim which is due 
to arrive that day, and as long as it does arrive, the car will be completed, quality checked 
and returned to Mr P that day. LV then email Mr P to say the trim hasnt arrived but the car is 
safe to drive so hes able to take it back on a temporary basis if he needs it for travel. Mr P 
declines as he says he wants all the work to be completed. Mr P then emails LV to let them 
know he has arranged to have his car back on 5 June. Mr P then emails LV on 5 June to say 
he couldnt take the car back as it wasnt fit for purpose. Mr P sent an email to the garage 
setting out the issues which he feels havent been resolved with his car and copies in LV. A 
few days later, Mr P emails LV and says he hasnt received an update from the garage. LV 
email Mr P and say, even though he doesnt have courtesy car cover on his policy, its best if 
they arrange for him to have a courtesy car as they dont know when his car will be returned 
as the garage are waiting for parts. The garage then email Mr P and confirm which parts are 
on order and should be received within a week. The garage say theyve spoken to the 
supplier and have offered to pick up the parts when they arrive in order to save time. 
The garage then email Mr P on 16 June to say some parts have arrived and some other 
parts should be received that day. In relation to the repair concerns Mr P had with his car, 
they explain once they have the door lock barrels the technician will fit these and test. They 
say the rear tyre looks ok and the car has had a four-wheel alignment and seems ok but the 
steering has an issue which they think is down to its age. They say the technician has given 
the car a road test and it seems ok. They say the door rubbers are fitted correctly but its the 
door cards which are the problem which is why the doors arent fitting right. They say they 
will try and improve this but will struggle to get it perfect as the inner door frame has nothing 
to screw the door cards to. The garage email Mr P again to say everything underneath the 
car looks ok and the technician drove it and all was ok. They say as soon as the lock set 
arrives they have a technician waiting to fit it and from there theyll be near completion. They 
say if all is ok and on track then they should be able to deliver Mr Ps car on 19 June. 
The garage email Mr P and say the door lock barrels arrived the day before and the 
passenger side door handle looks ok but the drivers side door handle is incorrect and is for 
a later model so theyve ordered another drivers side door handle which should arrive 
tomorrow. 
The garage say theyre looking at delivering Mr Ps car on 19 June provided the correct door 
handle arrives in time. The garage acknowledge Mr P is frustrated and their technician is 
trying to get things sorted as soon as possible. As an apology, they offer to fill Mr Ps car 
with fuel. The garage email Mr P the following day and say the drivers side of the car is 
stripped and ready for the door handle to be fitted which theyre still expecting to arrive today. They say theyre still working on getting the car delivered to Mr P on 19 June. The car 
was then delivered to Mr P but he remained unhappy as he says there were still issues.  
LV email Mr P to apologise and say their service has fallen short on this occasion. They say 
theyve recognised the poor service by honouring a total of £400  this is broken down as 
£300 excess waived and £100 compensation - which they believe is fair. Theres then further 
communication between Mr P and LV about the repairs and issues which Mr P feels havent 
been resolved. Its clear theres still a dispute around whether all repairs have been carried 
out so LV instruct an independent engineer  who Ill refer to as company H  to carry out an 
inspection. Company H found there was only one outstanding issue involving the door lock. 
LV then explain to Mr P that company H had confirmed the total costs needed to replace the 
door lock would be £60 including labour. LV then offered Mr P a cash settlement to get the 
lock set done by his choice of garage. LV agreed to cover the cost of £60 and pay a further 
£40 totalling £100 to cover any expenses in arranging this. Mr P accepted this offer.   
Taking this all into account, I understand why Mr P was frustrated with the length of time 
things took. I cant say the original delay was down to LV though as the garage was closed 
due to lockdown  something which was outside of LVs control. Mr Ps car was first returned 
to him on 5 June and then taken back after Mr P wasnt happy with the repairs. It was 
returned again two weeks later but Mr P felt there were still issues. I think LV then took 
reasonable steps in instructing company H and then resolving the issue company H had 
identified. I will add that company H recommended the door lock should be removed and 
checked and then replaced under warranty if found to have a manufacturing defect. It 
appears LV then took a commercial decision to offer the cost of replacing it  so I cant say 
the information Ive seen suggests the door lock issue was as a result of any repairs carried 
out by LV. I do however agree it will have been frustrating for Mr P to return his car to the 
garage with outstanding issues and for the lack of updates at the start of the claim. And, I 
think the compensation already offered by LV is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Repairs to Mr Ps car  
Its clear Mr P remains unhappy with the quality of repairs and feels there are issues still 
outstanding.  
I can see LV instructed company H who have provided a report which says the purpose of 
their inspection is to provide a post repair report in relation to Mr Ps concerns. Company H 
say, at the time of the inspection, Mr P was present. Insurers often appoint engineers 
experienced in this type of work to carry out an inspection, and thats what LV did. I think its 
a fair thing to do  and its reasonable for LV to rely on the engineers comments when 
deciding how to deal with the claim. 
Company H say Mr P told them of the following concerns: 
1. both doors not closing correctly, 
2. drivers door lock barrel failed, 
3. ignition key body longer than original and too close to lighting switch, 
4. unsure why steering stops had been adjusted, 
5. dashcam not set up following restoration of power, 
6. steering column shrouds misaligned and poorly fitted.
Company H make the following recommendations:  
1. During the course of my inspection, [Mr P] advised that he had renewed both front 
door aperture seals and door lock strikers two weeks prior to the attempted theft of 
his vehicle. The door seals were non-genuine replacements and fitted poorly in several places. In my opinion, the door seals are restricting the doors from fully 
closing. Although this could be overcome by adjusting the lock strikers, this is not the 
responsibility of the repairing garage and no remedial action is required.
2. Driver's door lock barrel should be removed and checked.
3. I have advised [Mr P] that the replacement key is the correct manufacturer 
replacement according to the VIN number on the vehicle. He accepts my 
explanation.
4. I have advised [Mr P] that the steering stops were adjusted following work 
undertaken to the steering column. He accepts my explanation.
5. The dashcam was powered down by the repairer as per standard procedures relating 
to GDPR. [Repairing garage] advised that all customers are asked to remove 
dashcams from their vehicle prior to collection. Consequently, any reconfiguration is 
[Mr Ps] responsibility.
6. Close inspection revealed that the lower column cover retainer was broken and a 
screw had been omitted from the underside. By [Mr Ps] own admission, this area of 
the vehicle has subsequently been worked on by other parties and as such I am 
unable to attach any responsibility to the repairing garage.
In conclusion, company H say 
1. I can confirm that I am unable to uphold [Mr Ps] complaint with regards to the doors. 
[Mr P] accepts my decision, but directed criticism at the repairer for failing to notify 
your [sic] him of this defect prior to delivering the vehicle back to him. However, in 
their defence, [repairing garage] advised that this issue had been discussed at length 
with [Mr P], and rectification advice offered.
2. Further investigation is required in relation to the door lock before a decision can be 
reached. [Repairing garage] has agreed to investigate the lock barrel, which should 
be replaced under warranty if found to have a manufacturing defect. However, I have 
advised [Mr P] that he may incur costs should any evidence of tampering or 
malicious damage be discovered, which he accepts.
3 & 4. No further action is required in relation to these points. [Mr P] accepts my     
       decision 
5 & 6. [Mr P] does not accept my explanation with regards to the dashcam and 
       lower column cover and will continue to seek remedial action.
An engineer is qualified to comment on damage to a car and repairs so it was reasonable for 
LV to take into account the engineers findings to assist their decision on whether there were 
any outstanding issues for them to resolve. Im persuaded by company Hs report because 
its clear they took into account Mr Ps specific areas of concern and then carried out a full 
inspection to determine whether LV were in any way responsible for any issues which still 
remain. I note Mr P has provided his own comments on company Hs report and, while I wish 
to reassure him Ive carefully considered his points, it doesnt persuade me that the overall 
conclusions reached by company H are inaccurate. And, in view of this, I can see LV have 
taken the further action recommended by company H so I cant say theyve acted unfairly. 
LV say the dashcam was disconnected for data security reasons and then just reconnected 
by the garage when the car was returned to Mr P. They say they dont think the garage has 
done anything to stop it from working but if it needs resetting up and Mr P is having difficulty 
doing this, he could take it to a retailer and LV will cover any cost if there is a small charge. 
LV also say theyve apologised for the issues experienced by Mr P but theyd be happy to 
send a letter of apology. I think these steps offered by LV are fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
 Putting things right
I think the steps already taken by LV to resolve the issues addressed in their complaint 
response is reasonable  so I wont be asking them to take any further steps in this respect. 
LV have agreed to cover any small charge should Mr P need help from a retailer to reset his 
dashcam. LV have also agreed to send a letter of apology to Mr P. I think this is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company 
Limited must take the steps in accordance with what Ive said under Putting things right 
above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2022.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman