DRN-3769995
The complaint
Mr Ms complained that British Gas Insurance Limited have refused to replace his gas fire 
after their engineer broke it during an annual service.
What happened
Mr M has had a HomeCare policy with British Gas for more than ten years.  The policy 
includes cover for repairs to Mr Ms gas fire and an annual service.
In early 2022, Mr M arranged for the service of his fire.  During the service, the engineer told 
him that one of the screws which attached the faceplate to the fire was threaded.  This 
meant it wouldnt hold the faceplate flush to the fire and there was a risk that carbon dioxide 
would escape.  The engineer said the only option was to cap the fireplace and condemn the 
fire.
Mr M objected to this and wanted the fire repaired.  He said that it had only ever been 
touched by British Gas engineers, so the screw must have been threaded by one of them.  
British Gas offered to send a second engineer to look at the fire.
The second engineer who attended was able to complete a repair by sealing the front of the 
fireplace.  But Mr M was worried that this work would mean his fire couldnt continue to be 
serviced in future.
Mr M researched the fire and found that parts were no longer available to repair it.  He 
complained to British Gas that, as a result of what one of their engineers had done, his fire 
needed to be replaced.
In response, British Gas said they wouldnt replace the fire.  They said their engineer had 
made a mechanically sound repair and the fire was safe.  But the policy didnt cover 
replacements or repairs for cosmetic purposes.  They also said the fire was old and theyd 
previously recommended replacement due to the difficulty of getting parts for repairs.  And 
they said theyd notified Mr M of this when the fire had been serviced.
Mr M wasnt satisfied with British Gass response and brought his complaint to our service.  
Our investigator reviewed it and concluded British Gas didnt need to do anything else to 
resolve the complaint.  She noted the policy didnt cover replacement of the fire and was 
quite old.  And British Gas had confirmed it was safe to use.  While she acknowledged       
Mr Ms concerns about future repairs, she noted that British Gas had records that the repair 
had been done  and how.
Mr M didnt agree with our investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.  Ill explain why.
I understand Mr Ms concerns.  But I can only say British Gas should do more to resolve his 
complaint if Im satisfied that somethings gone wrong  and thats British Gass fault.
I do think theres some confusion here.  British Gas have referred to their policy not covering 
replacement items or cosmetic repairs.  I found that unhelpful, as I cant see Mr M has ever 
suggested he was unhappy with a cosmetic repair.  He believes the way the repair was done 
will make it impossible for the fire to be serviced in future and has reservations about its 
safety.  And he says British Gas caused the damage which necessitated the repair  so they 
should bear the cost of putting that right.  Thats what Ive focused on in my decision.
The key here is whether I agree with Mr Ms position about the damaged screw.  He says it 
can only have been damaged as a result of something a British Gas engineer did during a 
service  either in early 2022 or previously.  Ive thought very carefully about this.  But I dont 
agree with him its the only possible explanation.
Documentation provided by Mr M shows that, by 2022, the fire was at least 18 years old.  
And parts do wear out.  While I accept Mr M firmly believes the screw was damaged during 
the 2022 service, Ive not been provided with any evidence that supports this, as opposed to 
the screw thread simply wearing out.   
And, although Mr M described the fire as pristine, British Gas had advised five years 
earlier, in March 2017, that he should consider replacing the fire, due to its age and because 
replacement parts were no longer available.  So I dont find it surprising that, five years after 
this advice, a part broke.  Based on the evidence provided to me, I dont think its reasonable 
to conclude the most likely cause of that was how the engineer dealt with the service.
I appreciate Mr M has ongoing concerns about the fire, both in terms of its safety and future 
maintenance.  But, as I explained above, I can only say British Gas should do something 
more if Im satisfied they did something wrong.  Thats not the case here.  His fire was 
repaired by the second engineer and left in a safe working condition.  Theyre not obliged to 
do more than that under the policy.  And I cant make a decision based on what may happen 
in the future.  So Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint about British Gas 
Insurance Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2022.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman