DRN-2694253
The complaint
Mr Bs unhappy about AXA Insurance Plcs decision about a liability insurance claim he 
made under a Tradesmen Insurance policy.
What happened
Mr B was carrying out work in a building where a leak apparently occurred from a pipe he 
had fitted incorrectly. This caused some damage to work hed already completed, which he 
had to rectify and so he sought cover from his policy. 
AXA rejected the claim based on two policy exclusions;
Damage to goods supplied, own or completed works exclusion
We will not cover loss of or damage to goods or materials supplied or for use by you, or any 
work, process or other operation that you or anyone on your behalf are carrying out or have
completed. This exclusion will not apply to goods or materials or any work, process or other 
operation previously supplied, used, carried out or completed under a separate contract.
Rectification of defects exclusion 
We will not cover
1) the cost or value of any defective, harmful or unsuitable goods, materials or work, process 
or other operation supplied, used or undertaken
2) expenditure incurred by anyone in:
a) investigating or providing a remedy for
b) removing, reinstating, replacing, reapplying or rectifying any defective, harmful or 
unsuitable goods, materials or work, process or other operation supplied, used or 
undertaken. 
Our investigator explained that he didnt think the exclusions were onerous, ambiguous or 
unfair. He said all insurance policies contain limits on cover such as limitations and 
exclusions. And to cover everything endangers the risk of moral hazard, which in Mr Bs 
case would mean a tradesman could perform their work in a less than optimal manner 
expecting the insurer to cover everything that goes wrong without financial risk. 
The context of the contract Mr B was apparently a party to involved him carrying out works to 
a ground floor commercial unit and the top floor (converting to residential units). The 
investigator accepted AXAs view that this was a single contract of works. And so, the fact 
that one part may have been completed when damage was found didnt make for separate 
contracts.  The investigator was open to Mr B providing suitably qualified legal opinion on 
whether separate contracts existed, but no such information has been provided. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At its height Mr B incorrectly fitted a pipe which leaked causing damage and he seeks 
insurance cover for the rectification costs. 
Mr Bs policy covers several insured risks one of which is public liability. Under this there is 
cover for damages which Mr B is legally liable to pay as a result of several things, including 
accidental damage to property. That doesnt arise here because there wasnt an amount of 
damages that he was legally liable to pay.
There is potential cover under a contract works section, but the circumstances of Mr Bs 
case would be excluded under the faulty workmanship, materials and design exclusion. 
This is because he didnt fit a pipe correctly. 
Turning to the two exclusions AXA cited, Im satisfied they apply in Mr Bs case. The first 
exclusion (damage to goods) means the work hes carrying out on the contract isnt covered 
but work previously carried out or completed under a separate contract is. This brings into 
focus whether Mr B was engaged in one or two separate contracts. Theres no copy of any 
contract(s) made available, but the information provided shows Mr B was engaged by a 
single claimant in relation to refit a commercial unit and residential units above. Im 
persuaded this was a single contract and Mr B hasnt provided anything to show the position 
was different. 
The rectification of defects exclusion also applies in Mr Bs case. His claim was for 
rectification costs areas of work hed already completed as part of the contracted works 
because of the pipe he incorrectly fitted. Its clear the policy doesnt cover the cost or value 
of any defective work or reinstating/rectifying any defective work undertaken.
Although Mr B thinks the policy doesnt cover what he wanted thats something hell need to 
raise with the broker that sold him the policy.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2021.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman