DRN-4484011
The complaint
Mr Y complains about a decision taken by Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc trading as Novuna 
Personal Finance (Novuna) to decline a claim he made against it under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75).
What happened
In September 2022 Mr Y entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Novuna for four items 
of furniture including two sofas. The furniture was supplied by a retailer that I will call D at a 
cost of £6,000. 
In December 2022 Mr Y took delivery of his ordered furniture.
Under the terms of the agreement, everything else being equal, Mr Y undertook to pay a 
deposit of £1,800 followed by 36 monthly payments of £116.66 making a total repayable of 
£5,999.76 at an APR of 0%.
After taking delivery of his furniture Mr Y complained to D that the two sofas werent what he 
had ordered, they being the wrong size with sofa 1 being 154 wide rather than 159 wide 
and sofa 2 being 89 wide rather than 120 wide.
In May 2023, and unhappy with Ds response to his complaint, Mr Y raised a section 75 
claim against Novuna.
In July 2023 the two sofas were inspected by a company that I will call H. H confirmed that 
sofa 1 was 154 wide and sofa 2 was 92 wide.
In July 2023 Novuna emailed Mr Y to say that it wasnt upholding his section 75 claim 
because it was satisfied that he had been provided with the two sofas he had ordered.
In July Mr Y complained to Novuna about its decision to decline his section 75 claim.
In August 2023 Novuna issued Mr Y with a final response letter (FRL). Under cover of this 
FRL Novuna confirmed to Mr Y that it was satisfied that it had done nothing wrong in 
declining his section 75 claim.
In September 2023, and unhappy with Novunas FRL, Mr Y referred his complaint to our 
service.
Mr Ys complaint was considered by one investigators who came to the view that it shouldnt 
be upheld.
Mr Y didnt agree and so his complaint has been passed to me for review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont 
comment on any specific point or particular piece of evidence, its not because Ive failed to 
take it on board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order 
to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to do this, reflecting the fact 
that we are an informal free service set up as an alternative to the courts.
I would also add that where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, 
as some of it is here, Ive to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Finally, and for the avoidance of doubt, I would like to make it clear that Im only considering 
in this decision the complaint Mr Y has against Novuna and not any complaint he might have 
against any other business.
When something goes wrong with goods or services and the payment was made, in part or 
whole, with certain types of credit, as is the case here, it might be possible to make a section 
75 claim. Section 75 says that in certain circumstances, the borrower (Mr Y) under a credit 
agreement has a like right to claim against the credit provider (Novuna) as against the 
retailer (D) if there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the retailer (D).
 
Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. But I 
take section 75 into account when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint. I 
dont have to reach the same view as, for example, a court might reach when considering 
breach of contract or misrepresentation. From what I can see, all the necessary criteria for a 
claim to be made under section 75 have been met.
So, I will now consider whether there is sufficient evidence of a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation.
breach of contract
The order form (contract) makes reference to sofa 1 (made up of four units/codes) and sofa 
2 (made up of one unit/code). The contract also states that All sizes stated and any hand 
drawn diagram above are approximate. For detailed information refer to Point of Sale 
Schematics at time of purchase
Having reviewed the contract and the schematics Im satisfied that what Mr Y ordered was:
a sofa made up of four units measuring 155 wide when put together (sofa 1)
a sofa made up of one unit measuring 93 wide (sofa 2)
And what Mr Y was supplied with was:
a sofa made up of four units measuring 154 wide when put together (sofa 1)
a sofa made up of one unit measuring 92 wide (sofa 2)
Given that there may be some small errors in Hs measurements, both sofas were made to 
order and accepted manufacturing variances Im satisfied that Mr Y was supplied with what 
he ordered and there has been no breach of contract by D in this respect.
Im aware that the contract, adjacent to Mr Ys signature, has measurements recorded of 
159 in respect of sofa 1 and 120 in respect of sofa 2. But like the investigator shared with 
the parties its unclear when these handwritten measurements were recorded or by whom. Now Ive not ignored what Mr Y says about these recorded measurements. But Im not 
persuaded they constitute an agreed contractual term especially when the contract is 
considered as a whole and in the round.
misrepresentation
In this context misrepresentation means a false statement of fact made by D that induced 
Mr Y to enter into the contract. 
I accept that I cant say for certain that D didnt misrepresent the contract by providing 
measurements to Mr Y of 159 and 120 for the two sofas. But by their very nature such 
alleged verbal conditions are hard to substantiate, and I therefore have to assess this aspect 
on the basis of the balance of probabilities. To do that I look at the wider circumstances of 
the complaint. 
Given that the order form quotes codes for all four parts of sofa 1 and for sofa 2 and what 
the schematics says these four units and sofa measure Im not persuaded, on the balance of 
probabilities, there was any misrepresentation by D in this respect.
other issues
Mr Y appears to have raised with D three other issues about his order. Now its not clear that 
Mr Y has ever raised these issues with Novuna. But for the sake of completeness I would 
add that like the investigator, and for the same reasons, Im not persuaded that any of these 
issues are sufficient for me to conclude there was either a breach of contract or a 
misrepresentation by D.
Having considered everything, I dont think Mr Y has provided enough evidence to show 
either a breach of contract or misrepresentation here. So in the circumstances I dont think it 
was unfair for Novuna to decline his 75 claim.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2024.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman