DRN-1340970
 
The complaint
 Mr F complains that Lloyds Bank PLC has failed to meet his requests for reasonable 
adjustments.
What happened
 Mr F had a current account with Lloyds which he accessed through online banking. In 2019 
Mr F had problems logging onto the banking system. He couldnt remember his password 
and entered it incorrectly five times in a row. This automatically locked him out of the system.
He called Lloyds to explain the problem he was having. He said he should have been 
warned he was on his last chance before the system locked, so he could take some action. 
The call handler passed this feedback onto the IT team. She also advised that Mr F could 
use telephone banking or go into branch if the online system didnt suit his needs. 
Mr F wasnt happy with this and made a complaint. He said he had additional needs that 
Lloyds were aware of. And he said it should change its login process so it displays a warning 
as he requested. He also complained about poor service on the phone and said the call 
handler hung up on him. He requested call recordings for all calls he had made to Lloyds.
Lloyds didnt uphold Mr Fs complaint. It said it had fed Mr Fs comments back to its IT 
department, but wasnt able to make the suggested changes. It recommended Mr F use 
telephone banking or going into his branch, as both of these options would require him to 
remember less security information. Lloyds also sad that it didnt agree it have provided poor 
service and it appeared to be Mr F who hung up the call.
Mr F was unhappy with this response. He also received a CD containing the calls he 
requested, but he felt the files were named in a confusing way and didnt include their 
duration in the file name. He brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered all the issues but didnt recommend the complaint was upheld. 
He said Lloyds had suggested other ways Mr F could bank and he thought that was enough. 
He also thought it was reasonable that the durations of the phone calls werent in the file 
titles. And he didnt feel Lloyds had provided poor service.
Mr F didnt agree with our investigator, so the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I understand this situation has been frustrating for Mr F. He would like to use online banking 
to manage his account, but has found it difficult due to his additional needs. When deciding 
on complaints I look at what the business has done and if they have treated their customer in 
a fair and reasonable way in the circumstances.Mr F has raised a few different complaint points. So I have addressed each one in turn.
Online Banking
Mr F has explained that the online banking system doesnt meet his needs. He says it would 
be helpful if there was a warning on the login page that shows before your last attempt, to 
say you will be locked out after the next attempt. He has asked that the system is changed to 
meet his needs.
I can appreciate the frustration this has caused Mr F and that it would have been 
inconvenient to get locked out without knowing this would happen. However Lloyds have 
said it wont be able to change the system. I can see that the issues Mr F has experienced 
have been flagged with the relevant team. And that team confirmed it is something they have 
considered. But it isnt my role to tell Lloyds how its online banking should operate. Just to 
assess whether it has treated its customers fairly. 
In this case Lloyds has taken the feedback and passed it to the relevant team. It has also 
suggested other ways that Mr F can manage his accounts with it. I think this is fair as it still 
allows Mr F to access his accounts without using the system that doesnt meet his needs. I 
therefore wont be asking Lloyds to do anything differently or in addition.
Poor Service
Mr F feels Lloyds provided poor service when he called. I have reviewed all the information 
provided by Lloyds in relation to the call. I note that the call was terminated early as Mr F 
was still talking when it ended. However it appears that Mr F terminated the call and not 
Lloyds. This may have been due to poor signal and not intentional. However I cant see that 
this is Lloyds fault. Mr F was frustrated when he called. Form what Ive seen, the call 
handler was patient and acted on his requests. Although she was unable to reach the 
outcome Mr F had wanted, I dont agree that Lloyds provided poor service. 
Format of Call Files
I understand Mr F feels that it would have been more convenient if the duration of the calls 
had been included in the titles of the files Lloyds provided. I can understand Mr F may want 
to be able to easily view the duration of the calls. However this can be done by clicking on 
the files. The duration is then visible on the media player. Lloyds has provided the calls Mr F 
requested and helpfully labelled them by date and time. I therefore think it has handled 
Mr Fs request fairly and reasonably and wont ask it to do anything differently in that 
respect.
I can appreciate Mr Fs frustrations and the online banking system not meeting his additional 
needs, however there are other methods of banking that may be more suited to him. I also 
think Lloyds has handled Mr Fs requests promptly and with understanding, so I think its 
treated Mr F fairly and reasonably. I therefore wont be asking Lloyds to do anything further 
or differently in this case. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, I wont require Lloyds Bank PLC to do anything further or 
differently. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 April 2020.Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman