DRN-3839477
The complaint
Mrs V complains about the service she received from AXA PPP Healthcare Limited when 
she contacted them regarding her private medical insurance.
What happened
Mrs V took out a private medical insurance policy with AXA on 29 November 2021. The 
policy was underwritten on a moratorium basis.
On 15 December 2021, Mrs V contacted AXA as she had been suffering from back pain for 
two weeks. In the call AXA advised Mrs V that it would need to have a form completed by 
her GP before it could agree to any claims. Mrs V asked if this was necessary as the service 
she was looking to use didnt need a GP referral. AXA explained it was necessary to check 
that the condition causing her to claim wasnt already in existence prior to the policy being 
taken out, and as she said her symptoms started around that time this was needed.
Mrs V was unhappy with how this call was handled and so she contacted AXA again. She 
said she felt like she was being accused of trying to get something she wasnt entitled to. 
She explained she was only trying to obtain advice about some yoga stretches she could do 
to help with the pain and wasnt making a claim. And her GP had said it was going to take 
some time to get the form completed and she would be charged. AXA agreed to look into 
what had happened. 
In March 2022, Mrs V made a complaint to AXA as she was unhappy with the ongoing 
service she had received. She also said that she hadnt received a call back that was 
promised to her. 
AXA looked into her complaint. It said that as she had a moratorium policy, this meant she 
wasnt covered for any medical issues she had received in the five years prior to taking out 
the policy. Whilst a GP referral isnt required for the services she was requesting, AXA said it 
still needed to check that she was eligible for that service. So, it didnt think the initial advisor 
had done anything wrong. And in relation to the service provided by the second agent, AXA 
said that the agent had done everything he had agreed to do. AXA also said that the agent 
left a voicemail for Mrs V on her mobile phone asking her to contact him  so the call back 
was made.
Mrs V brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into the matter but didnt 
think the complaint should be upheld. She found that the type of policy Mrs V had taken out 
meant that AXA was entitled to request details of her medical history in order to check if a 
claim was covered  even if a GP referral was not a requirement of the service Mrs V 
wanted to use. And in relation to the overall service received, she was satisfied that a call 
back was made to Mrs V, and so she didnt think that AXA had to do anything more.
Mrs V disagreed with the investigators outcome and so the matter has been passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is important to point out that were an informal dispute resolution service, set up as a free 
alternative to the courts for consumers. In deciding this complaint Ive focused on what I 
consider to be the heart of the matter rather than commenting on every issue or point made 
in turn. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to Mrs V. Rather it reflects the informal nature of 
our service, its remit and my role in it.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that insurers must handle claims fairly and 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into account when deciding 
what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mrs Vs complaint.
Request for medical information
Mrs Vs policy is underwritten on a moratorium basis. The policy wording describes this as:
If you joined us on moratorium terms, it means that you wont have cover for treatment of 
medical problems you had in the five years before you joined us until: 
youve been a member for two years in a row, and 
youve had a period of two years in a row, since you joined, that have been 
trouble-free from that condition.
I think the above makes it clear that AXA wont cover any medical conditions, which a 
policyholder had in the five years before the policy began. In this case, the relevant 
moratorium period began on 29 November 2021.
Mrs V contacted AXA just over two weeks after taking out the policy in relation to back pain. 
As she had taken out a policy underwritten on a moratorium basis, I dont think it is 
unreasonable for AXA to want to check her previous medical history to ensure she was 
eligible under the policy before considering approving her claim. 
Ive noted Mrs Vs comments that she was only seeking advice and she wasnt making a 
claim. But in order to use the service she has referred to, which gives telephone access to 
physiotherapists, she would still need to meet the eligibility requirements of the policy. So, 
Im satisfied AXA has acted fairly and in accordance with its policy terms and conditions 
when requesting this information.
Mrs V wants confirmation that her policy records have been amended to show that she 
doesnt have a pre-existing back problem. AXA has stated that it has never said or written 
that she has a pre-existing condition, and they dont have any medical evidence to show that 
is the case. 
AXAs customer service
Mrs V has said that she isnt happy with how the initial call was handled by AXA. She said 
she told AXA she was only looking to get advice on some yoga stretches to help with the 
pain, but the agent referred to her making a claim. 
Ive listened to the recording of this first call but Im not persuaded that the advisor handled 
the call inappropriately. Mrs V said her back pain started two weeks before but was now 
getting unbearable, so she thought she needed to make a call to get some help. I appreciate Mrs V may have only been looking for such support as stretches, however, this wasnt made 
clear. It was only when the advisor explained that medical information would be needed that 
Mrs V said she was looking to use the particular service under the policy which didnt need a 
GP referral. The advisor explained that even though this service didnt require a GP referral, 
it was still necessary to obtain information from her GP to confirm eligibility of the cover, due 
to the policy being taken out on a moratorium basis. 
Im aware that Mrs V has commented about the way the advisor made her feel during this 
call. I appreciate that she may have felt that the questioning regarding her medical history 
was unnecessary, especially as she didnt have a pre-existing back problem. However, Im 
persuaded that the advisor was simply following the process for those people with policies 
underwritten on a moratorium basis. It is important to note that the advisor did say that, 
based on what Mrs V had said, it was likely that there wouldnt be any problem, as the 
medical evidence from her GP would support her comments.  
 
Mrs V has also complained about the service she received from the second agent at AXA, 
specifically that she didnt receive a call back in January as promised. I can see that in their 
conversation on 15 December 2021 the agent explained to Mrs V why the medical 
information was being requested. He then offered to obtain clarification about the claims 
process to see if there was anything else that they could do. Im aware that following this 
there was another call and several emails between the agent and Mrs V about the situation 
and, apart from a slight delay over the Christmas period, it would seem that the agent was 
keeping Mrs V updated about the matter. 
In her complaint Mrs V has said she didnt receive any further contact from this agent. AXA 
said the agent did call and left a voicemail on 18 January 2022, asking Mrs V to contact him. 
AXA has provided this call recording and, at the beginning of the call the telephone number 
is heard. This matches the number we have for Mrs V and so it would appear that a call was 
made, and a voicemail left. It isnt clear why this didnt show as a missed call on Mrs Vs 
phone or why she didnt receive the message, but I cant fairly say that AXA didnt contact 
her as agreed.
Taking everything into account, and based on what Ive seen and heard, Im not of the 
opinion that AXA has acted inappropriately or treated Mrs V unfairly during her contact with 
its advisors and agents. So, I dont require AXA to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs V to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2022.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman