DRN-4006251
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) blocked and closed his accounts
and withheld his money for nine months for no reason. He says this led to him not being able
to purchase a house or pay his loan, the latter of which adversely impacted his credit rating.
What happened
NatWest blocked Mr Ss accounts on 21 September 2020 and closed them with immediate
effect. It held onto over £17,000 contained within these accounts, releasing this to Mr S in
June 2021.
Mr S has explained that as a result of the block and closure he couldnt make repayments
towards his NatWest loan. He says he attended branch, phoned and used the online chat
multiple times to find out how he could repay his loan. However, he wasnt given a straight
answer until April 2021, when he was able to recommence payments from his new account
with a different provider. This led to arrears on his loan and NatWest recording adverse
information on his credit file.
Mr S has also explained he was in the process of buying a house and needed the money in
his accounts to pay the deposit. He provided evidence to show that hed had a mortgage in
principle approved in June 2020 and an offer accepted on a property in August 2020, for
which hed paid a deposit to remove it from the market. He says he couldnt sign the
purchase contract as he didnt have the money for the deposit, so the sale fell through. He
was able to get back the deposit hed paid to have the property taken off the market, but
even after his money was released in June 2021, his credit score had decreased so much
hes now not able to apply for any credit and attempt another property purchase.
NatWest has said its actions were in line with the terms and conditions of Mr Ss accounts
and its statutory obligations and it doesnt have to provide a reason for why it took the
decision to close Mr Ss accounts.
Mr S referred his complaint to our service and our investigator upheld it. She explained that
NatWest hadnt provided any evidence to show its immediate closure and withholding of the
funds for nine months was fair. She also concluded that NatWest hadnt done enough to
help Mr S set up a new payment method for his loan, referencing the evidence Mr S had
provided of his contact with NatWest and the fact NatWest had admitted over the course of
her investigation that it hadnt given proper guidance on this. As a result, our investigator
recommended NatWest do the following:
Remove the adverse information it had recorded on Mr Ss credit file.
Pay 8% simple interest on the funds from one month after the block to when it was
Released.
Pay £350.
While NatWest agreed to the recommendation to settle the complaint, it made it clear it felt it
was unfair as Mr S should take some responsibility for the fact his loan wasnt repaid as all
the normal routes to repay were open.
However, Mr S didnt agree. He didnt feel enough consideration had been given to the fact
he couldnt complete on his property purchase and that his credit score had been damaged
so drastically. Our investigator agreed to increase the compensation to £500 but Mr S still
didnt agree this was enough. NatWest didnt respond to the increase in compensation as
the complaint was passed for a final decision.
Since then, the investigator has contacted Mr S and asked him to provide a full copy of his
credit report, explaining that in order to fairly assess the impact of NatWests actions on his
credit score, wed need to see a full copy of his report. Otherwise, we cant be sure its solely
the adverse information reported by NatWest that has caused the drop in his credit rating. Mr
S hasnt provided this.
She also asked Mr S for further evidence that he was close to exchanging on his property
purchase when his account was closed, such as correspondence with his solicitor discussing
an exchange of contract date. She explained the evidence provided so far is from very early
on in a house buying process. Mr S wasnt able to provide anything more than what hed
already sent us.
The investigator has also explained to Mr S that his loan is still in arrears to the sum of
£2330 as hes never attempted to make up the payments he missed once he was made
aware how to pay his loan in April 2021. At the very latest he could have cleared this in June
2021 once the money in his account was released to him.
Mr S responded to this saying he shouldnt have to pay this money as it is all interest applied
because of NatWest making it impossible for him to make his loan payments.
So, because Mr S disagreed, the complaint has been referred to me for a decision. 
What I provisionally decided  and why
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 
21 February 2023. I provide a copy of my findings from that decision below:
NatWest has a wide range of legal and regulatory obligations it must meet when providing
account services to its customers. These obligations are ongoing so dont just apply at
account opening stage. To comply with these obligations, it may need to review accounts
and the activity taking place on them. Sometimes these reviews will lead to the accounts 
being blocked and closed. If NatWest didnt do this, it could risk serious sanction.
NatWest isnt under any obligation to reveal to a customer why it blocked an account. This
information is often commercially sensitive. So, I dont think NatWest did anything wrong in
not communicating its reasons for blocking the accounts to Mr S at the time of the block, or
since.
However, NatWest does need to provide information to this service so we can fairly decide a
complaint. NatWest hasnt done so on this occasion, and it means I cant fairly and
reasonably conclude it has complied with the legal and regulatory obligations and the terms
and conditions, when blocking and closing Mr Ss accounts and holding onto the funds for
nine months.
Ive considered what NatWest has said about why it wont provide further information to our
service about the reasons for the block and closure of Mr Ss accounts. This service has the
power to request evidence of this nature under the dispute resolution rules (DISP) and Im
not persuaded the reasons given by NatWest exclude it from complying with these rules.Taking this into account, I agree NatWest should pay Mr S compensation for the trouble and
upset he faced by having his accounts blocked and closed and funds withheld for nine
months. It should also pay 8% interest on the withheld funds and given I cant be satisfied
these were fairly withheld; this should be paid from when the account was blocked.
Property purchase
Mr S has explained the impact the closure, block and lack of communication from NatWest
had on him. Aside from the understandable stress and worry caused simply by having his
account blocked and closed without any notice, he says this was amplified by the fact he
was in the process of buying a property. Hes explained that NatWests withholding his
money meant he couldnt exchange and complete the purchase.
From the evidence hes provided I can see Mr S was in the process of buying a property and
I can see it was something he was serious about as hed paid a deposit for the sellers to
take it off the market. However, what isnt clear from the evidence is that Mr S was just about
to exchange when his account was blocked. I therefore have no way of knowing if the
purchase had progressed far enough for him to be ready to exchange contracts and
complete. This is significant as for me to make an award of compensation to Mr S for the
loss of his property purchase, I need to be happy that, but for NatWest withholding his
money, the purchase would have gone through.
There are numerous steps after a mortgage has been agreed in principle and an offer
accepted. For example, a property survey may need to be completed and all the relevant
searches undertaken and critically an official mortgage application submitted and agreed. An
agreement in principle isnt a guarantee that the mortgage provider will approve the
mortgage  this is subject to further considerations and may still be declined. All of these
things could have impacted the property purchase and meant it wouldnt have been
successful. And as I have no evidence from Mr S that any of these steps had been
successfully completed, its therefore difficult for me to attribute the loss of the property
purchase solely to NatWests error here.
So, whilst I fully appreciate the block and closure came at a bad time for Mr S, Im not able to
say NatWest should compensate him for the loss of the property.
Loan repayments and credit rating
Having reviewed the evidence in relation to the missed loan payments between November
2020 and March 2021 (five in total), Im satisfied there should be no adverse information
recorded against Mr S for these.
Its clear Mr S was contacting NatWest to find out how to make these payments and it was a
cause for concern for him  in fact it was his main issue when contacting this service in
October 2020. So, whilst I appreciate NatWest has said all the usual channels were open for
him to pay towards the loan, it doesnt seem this was properly communicated to Mr S 
something NatWest has admitted. As soon as it was communicated, he recommenced his
repayments.
Im therefore persuaded that Mr S wasnt deliberately trying to avoid making repayments and
had NatWest not withheld his money and been clearer in its communication, he wouldnt
have missed any payments. It therefore follows that NatWest should remove any adverse
information in relation to these five missed payments and ensure any interest that accrued
because of this is refunded.Mr S says NatWest closing his account and recording adverse information in relation to his
loan has severely impacted his credit rating. I can see Mr Ss credit rating has decreased but
Mr S has not provided his full credit report when asked. As a result, I cant fairly say it is just
the data recorded by NatWest that has decreased his rating. But I am satisfied the
information recorded in relation to his loan would have certainly had an impact on this, so
Ive taken this into account when reaching a fair figure for compensation.
I agree NatWest shouldnt have recorded adverse information for the period of missed
payments above. However, Mr S did still owe these instalments to NatWest which now form
most of the arrears on his account. Mr S believes the outstanding money is all interest, but
its unclear why he thinks this as he is aware he missed payments. Its true that some of the
amount owed could be interest, but the majority is made up of the payments Mr S couldnt
make following the block on his account. And whilst I think NatWest made an error here, it
doesnt take away the fact Mr S owes this money towards his loan.
But I dont think NatWest has communicated any of this to him in a clear way or made it
obvious at the time that Mr S needed to clear the arrears to get his loan back on track. I
therefore dont believe he should be at a detriment for what has happened on the loan
account following the account block. As a result, I think its fair for NatWest to ensure no
adverse information is recorded on Mr Ss credit report, not just for the period of the missed
payments, but up to the present. If any interest has been charged because of the missed
payments, this should be refunded, and the loan reworked taking this into account. It is then
up to NatWest and Mr S to discuss the loan going forward.
In conclusion, whilst I fully accept NatWests actions had an impact on Mr S, when
considering the fact I cant be sure his credit score and property purchase were solely
impacted by NatWest actions, I think the original amount recommended by the investigator
of £350 is fair.
Both Mr S and NatWest agreed with my conclusions in the provisional decision and didnt 
have anything further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given both Mr S and NatWest agreed with the provisional decision, I see no reason to 
depart from my conclusions detailed within it. I therefore uphold Mr Ss complaint as I cant 
be satisfied NatWest fairly blocked and closed his account and withheld his money for nine 
months. 
Putting things right
In order to settle this complaint, NatWest should:
Pay 8% simple interest on the withheld funds from the date of the block to the date of
settlement.
Remove all adverse data recorded against the loan.
If necessary, rework the loan to ensure Mr S doesnt pay any additional interest
because of the missed payments.
Pay £350 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ss complaint against National Westminster Bank Plc 
and direct it to carry out the settlement detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 April 2023.
 
Sarah Brimacombe
Ombudsman