DRN-3534031
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy with the service he received from Mapfre Asistencia, Compania 
Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A. (Mapfre) when he made a claim on his tyre 
and alloy wheel insurance. 
What happened
Mr D purchased a tyre and alloy wheel insurance policy through a broker in 2018. In 2021 he 
sustained damage to his rear nearside tyre and alloy wheel, and he submitted a claim. 
Mapfre paid for the tyre to be replaced. But the alloy wheel was deemed unrepairable, so 
this part of the claim was declined. 
Mr D was unhappy with this. He says he was expecting a contribution towards the wheel, 
whether it was repairable or not. He said he had never been given the full terms and 
conditions of the policy, and he wasnt aware that replacement was excluded. He says the 
service he received from Mapfre was very poor. He maintains it was difficult to contact 
Mapfre, hed been left on hold and hed wasted many hours dealing with this issue. He says 
hes financially worse off and if Mapfre had acted sooner he probably wouldnt have bought a 
new alloy wheel. Mr D would like £150 as a contribution as he expected or a refund of his 
premium. 
When Mr D complained, an investigator at this service looked at the complaint and felt that 
Mapfre hadnt done anything wrong in declining the claim. 
But Mr D doesnt agree, and hes asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it. Ill explain why.
I would like to start by saying I wont be dealing with any possible mis-sale issues or 
documentation receipt issues in this final decision against Mapfre. As this policy was sold to 
Mr D via a broker, providing Mr D a copy of the terms and conditions was the brokers 
responsibility, not the responsibility of Mapfre. 
The crux of the issue I can deal with is whether Mr D was covered for the items he claimed 
for, and whether he received a poor service when he submitted his claim. 
Mr D called Mapfre on 9 July 2021 in order to submit a claim. He followed this up with an 
email on that same day. He attached a photo of the damaged alloy, and details of the 
damaged tyre. He also gave details of where would be easiest garage to take the car for 
alloy repair. 
The next contact was on 12 July 2021. Mr D called Mapfre to say that he was having the tyre 
replaced that day and he needed authorisation to do so. I understand from Mr Ds complaint 
form that authorisation was given after further contact with Mapfre that same day, and the 
tyre was replaced. 
On 27 July Mr D sent a further email to Mapfre. He said he was taking the alloy for repair 
that day. He asked for an immediate response.
The following day, 28 July 2021, Mr D called Mapfre. In this call Mr D told Mapfre that the 
alloy was too badly damaged to repair. So, he wanted authority to purchase a replacement 
alloy. The handler he spoke to in Mapfre said that she couldnt authorise anything and hed 
have to wait until the claims handler got in contact. Mr D wasnt happy with this as he was 
quite anxious to get this resolved. But at the end of the call he advised he would await 
further contact. 
Mr D followed this up immediately with an email. He said the alloy needed replacing and he 
was looking for the agreed policy contribution. 
Mapfre replied within 10 minutes of this email. It set out the policy terms regarding alloy 
repair, and what to do if using your own repairer. Mapfre gave Mr D an authority number for 
repair.
Mr D replied confirming the wheel is not repairable. He says he will source a replacement 
and he requested £150 contribution. 
Mapfre reply the following day. It said that alloy wheel replacement was excluded and the 
policy is repair only. So, no contribution would be made. 
Mr D replied immediately. He said hed tried to call but theres no answer. He said he had 
been given an authorisation number and hed received confirmation that he would receive 
£150 contribution towards the cost of replacing the alloy wheel. He wanted Mapfre to honour 
the terms of the policy.
Mapfre replied. It reiterated the policy terms again. Mapfre said replacement was excluded 
and it advised Mr D to cancel the alloy replacement if he didnt want it. 
Mr D replied and said hed been misled by Mapfre on three occasions. He said he hadnt 
received any documentation that set out that replacement cover was excluded. Mr D 
reiterated that he has been given an authorisation number, and he raised a complaint. 
So, lets look at what the policy says. The policy is designed to contribute towards the cost of 
repairing or replacing tyres, and/or repairing the alloy wheels. This level of cover is set out in 
both the key facts document and the policy terms and conditions. So, based on this Im 
satisfied that Mr D was on cover for a replacement tyre, but he was never on cover for a 
replacement alloy. 
I appreciate the argument Mr D makes. He says he never received the full policy terms and 
conditions. He says when he contacted Mapfre, nobody seemed capable of telling him that 
alloy wheel replacement was excluded, and he says he was led to believe the claim was 
being covered, as he was provided with an authorisation number. He says this led him to act 
as if he was covered when he ordered a new alloy wheel.
But even though Mapfre isnt responsible for providing the policy terms and conditions in this 
specific instance, I dont think it matters. Mr D did have the key facts document, and this 
document clearly sets out alloy repair only. Further to this, the fact the wheel needed replacement only came to light on 28 July 2021, some 19 days after the claim was initiated. 
All contact up to that point indicated that Mr D was having the wheel inspected at a repairer 
of his choice, to see if a repair was possible. The first time Mapfre were aware that the alloy 
was unrepairable was when Mr D called Mapfre on 28 July 2021. And confirmed to Mr D 
within 24 hours of this diagnosis that a replacement claim was excluded. So, I dont think it 
caused any delays or did anything wrong in this regard.
I do however agree that Mapfre did supply a claim authority number in response to Mr Ds 
email on 28 July 2021. But this authority number is clearly for repair only, and doesnt 
mention replacement. Mapfre quoted the policy terms that set out what happens if you take 
an alloy to your own repairer. It specifically said your auth number for this repair is and it 
sets out where you need to send the repair invoice to. Im satisfied that even though this 
email was sent after Mapfre knew the alloy needed replacing, the email sets out steps to 
take in the event of a repair, not a replacement. Im also conscious that even if Mr D didnt 
pick this up, this was followed up again the following day, and in that email Mapfre clearly set 
out that if an alloy cant be cosmetically repaired, no settlement will be paid.
I appreciate that Mr D feels this chain of emails and the provision of an authority number did 
impact his decision, and I can see why he feels aggrieved. I acknowledge Mr Ds point; it 
does look like Mapfre didnt read his email from 28 July 2021 correctly. But I need to take 
into consideration that the key facts document was clear, and Mr D shouldve been aware of 
the exclusion. Further to this I think its more likely than not a replacement alloy was actually 
needed, to make the car safe. So, a replacement was always going to be required and Mr D 
was always going to have to source one.
I also looked at the service Mapfre provided Mr D throughout this claim. Mr D says he called 
Mapfre numerous times. He says Mapfre never answers the phones, nor do they reply to 
emails. Mr D says when you do speak to someone, Mapfre has no awareness of the 
products its dealing with. 
When I initially reviewed this complaint, I was inclined to agree with Mr D. I felt, based on the 
evidence Id been provided that Mapfre had provided a poor service, and I informally wrote 
to both parties with a compensatory recommendation. But Mapfre has since provided a 
clearer timeline of what happened from when Mr D initially made the claim, and when the 
alloy wheel claim was rejected. And I can now see that any issues that arose only really 
arose when the alloy was deemed unrepairable. 
I completely understand Mr Ds frustrations with Mapfre. But I think they were borne out of a 
misunderstanding of the cover provided by the policy. I know Mr D has already conveyed his 
thoughts to us, and hes said that not upholding this complaint excuses Mapfres behaviour. 
He says email responses were sloppy and he also says that in his many communications 
with Mapfre he was told alloy wheels werent covered.
But I dont agree that the emails were misinformed or sloppy. Once it was identified a 
replacement alloy was required, Mapfre replied to each email efficiently. Yes, I agree one 
email couldve been better. But as Ive said above, I dont think the outcome wouldve 
changed. I can also see Mr Ds frustration with the call. But I can see why the agent that Mr 
D spoke to didnt or couldnt validate his claim on the spot. I think Mr D was eager to get the 
claim moving, but its clear the agents role wasnt to validate the claim, but to update the 
systems and to get the claim to the next stage, where it would be allocated to the 
appropriate handler in Mapfre. I know Mr D was frustrated by this but this seems to be 
Mapfres business model and its not something this service would interfere with. And as 
advised Mapfre did engage almost immediately with Mr D after this call on 28 July 2021, so 
Im satisfied it hasnt done anything wrong.I know Mr D will be disappointed with this outcome. But I think Mapfre correctly declined the 
claim for the alloy wheel. I know that the interactions Mr D had with Mapfre were frustrating. 
But it was borne out of a frustration with what was covered by the policy and what was not. 
But I can see Mapfre did try to make this clear, and in the main I think Mapfre did deal with 
correspondence as I wouldve expected. Because of this, I wont be asking Mapfre to take 
any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2022.
 
Derek Dunne
Ombudsman