DRN-1098233
 
The complaint
Ms E says Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) mis-sold her a regular premium payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
In 2006 Ms E took out a credit card with BOS. At the same time she was sold a regular 
premium PPI policy to cover her credit card payments.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She thought Ms E had made it 
clear in the application she wanted PPI and the policy wouldve suited her needs.
Ms E disagreed. She says it wasnt made clear the policy was optional and didnt need it.
So the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this complaint.
Ms E was sold the PPI over the phone when she applied for her credit card. BOS needed to 
make it clear the PPI was optional and Ms E says this wasnt done. Ms E hasnt given us 
much detail about what was said at the phone call to make her think this. But I think thats 
understandable as the PPI was sold so long ago. So Ive relied more on what the documents 
from the time show.
Ive looked at the demands and needs statement and I can see that PPI was recommended 
to Ms E and that it records she has no other means of making her credit card payments if 
she couldnt work. So although I dont know exactly what was discussed - I think PPI and Ms 
Es needs were discussed during the meeting.
Ive also seen a copy of the credit card agreement and can see that after signing for the 
credit there is a separate section that deals with PPI. Within the section I can see Ms E has 
placed a tick next to I wish to purchase Credit Card Repayment Cover and signed just 
below this confirming her selection. If she didnt want PPI she couldve left the section clear 
so I think Ms E wouldve understood she didnt have to take PPI and that she signed to take 
it because she wanted the cover.
This was an advised sale. What this means is that BOS not only had to provide information 
about PPI in a clear, fair and not misleading way so that Ms E could make an informed 
choice about buying PPI. It also had to make sure that if it was to recommend PPI that the 
policy was suitable to her needs and circumstances.I dont know if BOS did take all the steps it shouldve. But I think the policy was a suitable 
recommendation for Ms E for the following reasons:
She was eligible for the policy and it doesnt look like she wouldve been caught by 
any of the main exclusions in the terms and conditions of the policy which couldve 
made it difficult to make a successful claim. 
 
At the time of the sale Ms E says she was entitled to a good level of sick pay even 
though this isnt reflected in the demands and needs statement taken at the time. But 
regardless of what sick pay she mayve been entitled to the policy wouldve paid out 
on top of this and covered her credit card payments for up to 12 months if she 
couldnt work due to accident or sickness or lost her job. So I think the policy 
wouldve provided a useful benefit to Ms E in her circumstances. 
 
There was nothing to suggest that the policy wasnt affordable to her at the time and 
if she decided she no longer wanted the policy she couldve cancelled it.
 
I also need to consider whether BOS gave Ms E information in a way which was clear, fair 
and not misleading so that she could make a proper choice about whether or not she wanted 
to take the policy out. I dont think BOS did give all of the information as it shouldve. 
But for the same reasons that the policy was suitable and based on what Ms E has told us 
about her circumstances at the time, I think she wouldve still taken out the PPI policy if 
shed been given all the proper information on the policy.  
Which means BOS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms E.
But BOS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms E because: 
When the policy was sold, BOS expected to get a high level of commission and profit 
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Ms E about that. 
Because BOS didnt tell Ms E, that was unfair. 
 
To put that right, BOS has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Ms E.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have to pay back to Ms E any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2019.
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman