DRN-4514058
The complaint
N, a limited company, complains that Denis O Brown & Associates Ltd (DOB) mis-sold its 
commercial farm combined insurance policy.
N is being represented in this complaint by one of its directors.
What happened
N was insured for its commercial farm combined insurance policy via DOB acting as a broker 
between 2016 and 2020. In 2020 N moved to another insurance provider. In 2023 DOB 
offered to provide a new quotation for that policy year and met with N.
During the meeting, N raised concerns about the previous cover it held via DOB and the 
meeting was ended part way through. 
N complained to DOB about their agents conduct during the meeting. N also complained 
that its livestock cover had been removed without its knowledge or permission in 2017 and 
that it wasnt covered in the following policies it had via DOB. So, N complained to DOB that 
it had mis-sold its policies from 2017 to 2020. 
DOB apologised for their agents handling of the meeting with N in 2023 as they accept a 
mistake was made by saying N had made multiple previous claims and about the previous 
policy cover. However, DOB didnt agree the previous policies were mis-sold as they said, 
and provided information they said supported, the livestock cover being removed in 2017 
was at Ns request. DOB also said that N requested a quote for livestock cover in 2019, and 
documents sent to N showed it didnt have this cover listed on its schedule from 2017 to 
2020, so N should have been aware.
N remained unhappy and approached this service.
One of our investigators looked into things but he didnt uphold the complaint. He said DOBs 
apology for the incorrect information in 2023 was fair, and he was persuaded that on 
balance, N had asked for the livestock cover to be removed in 2017, and was, or should 
have been, aware it didnt have this cover in the following policy years.
N didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator.
Firstly, DOB accept the meeting in 2023 wasnt handled how they would have expected, and 
theyve apologised for this. N says it recorded this conversation which shows DOBs agent 
was lying during the meeting. DOB has recognised incorrect information was given about Ns 
previous policy history and said this was likely due to their agent not reviewing the previous 
policies correctly before the meeting. 
As what happened during the meeting in 2023 isnt in dispute, I dont need to decide whether 
wrong information was given or not by DOB during this meeting. DOB has also apologised, 
and I think thats fair and reasonable in the circumstances for their error. As explained to N 
by our investigator, N is the eligible complainant here, and I cant compensate a director of N 
personally. And nothing has been provided which demonstrates any detriment to N as a 
business, such as reputational damage, as a result of what was discussed or incorrectly said 
in that 2023 meeting. And whilst there was wrong information given in that 2023 meeting, 
that is separate to, and doesnt demonstrate, alleged mis-selling from 2017-2020. Im 
satisfied that DOBs apology is sufficient for the incorrect information which was discussed in 
the 2023 meeting.
N also says it was told previously by DOB that they had destroyed historic policy information. 
But N complains that DOB has now been able to provide some documentation. Whilst I 
recognise what N says, DOB has provided available documents to N when responding to its 
complaint, and the same documents to this service in support of their position. And Ive 
considered these documents when reaching my final decision. Whilst DOB may have 
informed N some documents were previously destroyed, its unclear what specific 
documents they were referring to. Even if DOB is unable to provide all the documents 
relevant throughout the policy years, that doesnt automatically mean that Ns complaint or 
allegations would be upheld.
DOB has provided this service (and N) with the documents they do have available, and Ive 
taken these into account when considering whether DOB mis-sold Ns policies between 
2017 and 2020 as alleged.
N alleges DOB mis-sold its policy as it says it wasnt told its livestock cover had been 
removed between 2017 and 2020. N says this was a key part of cover it would have required 
given the nature of its business. N also says it made a claim in 2016 so would have wanted 
the cover to continue from then too.
There arent any recordings of any conversations or telephone calls from the 2017, 2018 or 
2019 renewals. Where there is limited information, or conflicting information, I consider 
cases on the balance of probabilities. That is, what do I think is more likely to have 
happened than not. And when doing this, Ill consider all the information available.
DOB has provided its internal note (N has also been sent a copy by DOB) from the 2017 
renewal. In this, it indicates DOB had visited N the day before and N had asked for several 
changes in order to reduce its 2017 renewal premium. One of these changes was to delete 
livestock cover. There were also several other changes including reducing sums insured for 
other parts of the policy.Whilst N disputes it asked for the livestock cover to be removed, on the balance of 
probabilities, I think it is unlikely DOB would have made the request to delete that cover, and 
amend and remove other cover, unless N had requested them to. Its clear from this that N 
was looking to reduce the premiums, and that supports on balance why amendments and 
deletions were made. N also made other changes in later policy years to reduce its premium 
too.
On the balance of probabilities, I am unable to conclude that the livestock cover was 
removed without Ns request to do so.
Another key point which I think supports this, on the balance of probabilities, is the 2019 
renewal. I say this as DOB has provided a copy of the renewal quote sent to N which 
outlined:
Following your request for quotes I can confirm the following:

Livestock  Quote to add Cattle Sum Insured of £200,000. Annual premium 
would be £562.73. This quote is based on cover for standard perils, plus theft 
and fatal injury whilst straying.
Alongside this, there were also quotes to add Storm Damage, increase the Business 
Interruption cover and amend the Employers Liability cover. All these additional quotes 
would have significantly increased the renewal premium beyond what was initially quoted for 
renewal. 
On balance, its unlikely DOB would have obtained additional quotes for all these different 
covers, unless N had asked it to do so. So, the fact that a quote was requested for livestock 
cover, on balance, persuades me that N was most likely aware it didnt already have that 
cover on its policy, otherwise it wouldnt have asked for a quote to add it.
The livestock cover wasnt then taken up, and the cover further reduced by N to reduce the 
renewal premium to a price and cover N was happy to go ahead with.
Furthermore, the policy schedules also didnt indicate this cover was on Ns policy between 
2017 and 2020, so N would have been able to see from these schedules that it didnt have 
livestock cover during that period. N has said it doesnt recall receiving schedules. However, 
given it was a combined insurance policy for Ns business, including cover for farm buildings, 
machinery and plant, business interruption, employer, environmental and public liability and 
the directors home and contents, if N didnt receive the documents for a consecutive three-
year period, which it was paying a significant premium for, it would have been prudent for it 
to contact either DOB or the insurer directly to request these.
Additionally, DOBs renewal quote said it contained the relevant documents and schedules, 
so if N didnt receive those documents specifically referred to, then it could have contacted 
DOB or the insurer directly to request these.
With the above in mind, I havent concluded, on balance, that DOB has mis-sold Ns policies 
between 2017 and 2020. And Im satisfied, on the balance of probabilities and the 
information provided, that the livestock cover was most likely removed at Ns request, and 
the documents available to N were sufficient to outline that it didnt have this cover during 
that period.N also complains that it was told by DOB a potential livestock claim would be declined in 
2018 due to the circumstances of what had happened. N says it was led to believe that it did 
have cover for livestock for other reasons, just not for what had happened. Unfortunately, 
there isnt a recording of that conversation, but either way there was no detriment to N. I say 
this because whether N was told it didnt have cover for what had happened, or that it didnt 
have cover at all, it wasnt because of incorrect advice that a claim wasnt paid, as there 
wouldnt have been cover in any event regardless of the advice at the time. As Ive outlined 
above, Im satisfied that sufficient information was provided to demonstrate N didnt have 
that cover between 2017 and 2020.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask N to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2024.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman