DRN-4441519
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain about their mortgage with Kensington Mortgage Company Limited. 
Theyre unhappy with the interest theyve been charged, how Kensington has treated them 
in arrears  including reporting to the credit reference agencies  and they say it went back 
on an agreement to write off part of their arrears.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P took out a mortgage with another lender in 2007. They borrowed around 
£155,000 on repayment terms over 25 years. For the first three years there was a fixed rate 
of 8.49%, after which they would be charged 3.59% above the Barclays Bank base rate. 
Although technically theyre different interest rates, in practice the Barclays Bank base rate 
has been the same as the Bank of England base rate. 
In May 2016, Mr and Mrs Ps mortgage was transferred to Kensington. Mr and Mrs P have 
been in and out of arrears for many years, and Mrs P in particular has had health problems. 
These issues relate to both before and after the transfer to Kensington.
Another ombudsman has already issued a decision setting out the scope of Mr and Mrs Ps 
complaint and our ability to consider it  taking into account the time limit rules that apply to 
complaints. He said that Mr and Mrs Ps complaint concerned four key issues:
Fees and charges added to their mortgage balance 
How their mortgage has been reported to the credit reference agencies
Whether interest has been applied correctly to their mortgage
Whether Kensington agreed that it would write off part of their arrears in 2018 if given 
sufficient information about Mrs Ps condition.
The ombudsman said that we could consider:
The fairness of any fees and charges added to the balance  but only since 29 
January 2021
The way the account has been reported to credit reference agencies for the last six 
years leading up to their complaint  since November 2016
The fairness of interest charged for the last six years leading up to their complaint  
since November 2016
What Mr and Mrs P were told in 2018 and whether part of their arrears should have 
been written off. Although Kensington said it had dealt with a complaint about this at 
the time, it wasnt able to provide a copy of the final response letter showing that 
Mr and Mrs P had been given a six month deadline to refer their complaint to us. The 
final response letter it had only referred to a complaint about not being given a copy 
or transcript of the call, not about whether or not it would waive the arrears.
Our investigator went on to consider the merits of those issues. He said:
There were no fees and charges added to the mortgage since January 2021, so 
Kensington hadnt acted unfairly in this respect.
The mortgage had been reported accurately to the credit reference agencies. Where 
a credit record showed that the mortgage was in arrears even though Mr and Mrs P 
had made their monthly payment or paid more than the monthly payment, that didnt 
mean Kensington had wrongly reported theyd missed the payment. It meant that 
even though theyd made a payment their mortgage was still in arrears overall.
Kensington had charged interest in line with the mortgage offer and terms and 
conditions. It had charged interest at 3.59% above base rate throughout. So it hadnt 
charged interest unfairly.
He didnt think that Kensington had agreed to write off part of the arrears in 2018. He 
said there seemed to have been some confusion about what it had said on one 
phone call, but that had been clarified on another phone call. Kensington had agreed 
to waive its expectation that Mr and Mrs P would contribute to their arrears as well as 
pay their regular monthly payment, but it hadnt agreed to write off any of the arrears.
Mr and Mrs P accepted the investigators conclusions on the first three matters, but not the 
last. Mr P said his recollection of the relevant phone calls with Kensington in 2018 was very 
clear and he was certain it had agreed to write off around £4,000 of arrears  so it wasnt fair 
that it hadnt done so. Mr and Mrs P asked for an ombudsman to review this part of their 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Following the involvement of the other ombudsman and then our investigator, the issues in 
this case have narrowed. The main focus of Mr and Mrs Ps complaint is now on whether 
Kensington agreed to write off arrears in 2018 as part of a discussion with Mr P about 
Mrs Ps health and the impact of that on their finances and wider circumstances. 
In the rest of this decision, Ill therefore focus on that part of their complaint. But before I do 
so, I just want to confirm for completeness that I agree with the previous ombudsman about 
what parts of this complaint we can consider. And I agree with the investigator that there 
have been no fees or charges since January 2021  Mr and Mrs P have been paying in full 
since then, plus contributing to past arrears. I also agree that interest has been charged at 
3.59% above base rate throughout as it should have been, and that Kensington has been 
reporting the mortgage to the credit reference agencies fairly.
Turning to the key matter still in dispute, then, its important first of all to understand that this 
part of the complaint turns on what was said between Mr P and Kensington in 2018. The 
recordings of these calls do not survive. Thats unfortunate, because it means I cant listen to 
the calls for myself and understand exactly what was said. But its not surprising given the 
calls were over five years ago  theres no requirement for Kensington to retain call 
recordings for that long and I make no criticism of it for not doing so.What this does mean, however, is that the evidence is incomplete. While I dont have the call 
recordings, I have Mr Ps testimony based on his recollection on the one hand, and I have 
the notes Kensingtons staff members made at the time on the other hand. 
There are problems with both of those sources of evidence. The notes are contemporaneous 
 they were made at the time by the staff members Mr P spoke to. But they are relatively 
brief and only intended to capture the essence of the conversation  they are not a full 
transcript of everything that was said. 
And while I have no doubt that Mr Ps recollection of what was said on the call is honest, 
genuine, and deeply held, I also have to bear in mind that it was five years ago. Human 
memory is fallible  in general, the longer ago an event is, the less reliable the recollection of 
it. Even at the time, Mr Ps understanding of the conversation might not have been the same 
as Kensingtons understanding. And memory is not the same as a recording or photograph  
its not fixed but changes over time. The act of remembering things can change what is 
remembered. Memories can change or fade over time, and what is remembered can be 
influenced by later emotions and beliefs. In other words, its possible that what Mr P 
remembers is an accurate record of what was said. But its also possible that its not. That is 
not to suggest that what Mr P has told us is not his genuine recollection  Im sure it is. 
These things are subconscious, not conscious. But all the same I have to bear in mind that, 
however genuine his recollection and however certain he is about it, his memory might not 
be accurate.
With that in mind, Ive looked at what is recorded in Kensingtons notes from the time.
On 21 June 2018, theres a record of a call from Mr P. He described their circumstances, 
including Mrs Ps health. It was agreed that Mr P would call back with details of their income 
and expenditure to discuss whether a payment arrangement could be agreed.
On 25 June 2018 Mr P called back. He went through their income and expenditure. 
Kensington asked Mr P to send in evidence of Mrs Ps medical conditions. A payment 
arrangement was declined because Kensington wanted Mr and Mrs P to make an initial 
payment before the arrangement started, which Mr P said he couldnt afford. Kensington 
said it would consider whether it could assist with the initial payment requirement once it had 
seen medical evidence. 
On 4 July Mr P called to ask to what address he should ask their GP to send evidence of 
Mrs Ps conditions.
On 26 July Kensington recorded that it had received the medical evidence. It noted a 
decision that it would agree to a payment arrangement waiving the need for an initial 
payment first. It called Mr P to discuss that with him but was unable to contact him and left a 
message on his voicemail.
On 31 July 2018, there is a note that Mr P called back and was transferred to the relevant 
team. There is no note of his conversation with that team on that day, but there is a note 
dated 1 August which records the conversation yesterday  so this note is not quite 
contemporaneous. The 1 August note of the 31 July conversation records that Mr P believed 
he had been told that Kensington would waive the arrears. Kensington said it could not 
waive the arrears, it had been talking about waiving the requirement for an initial payment 
arrangement. Kensington said it would listen to the 25 June call recording to check what was 
said and call Mr P back. 
On 16 August, Kensington called Mr P without success, leaving a voicemail message. On 4 September, Kensington left a further message for Mr P, as it wanted to discuss their 
income and expenditure further  in particular, whether there was any way to reduce their 
discretionary expenditure.
On 21 September Kensington spoke to Mr P. A further payment arrangement was agreed, 
waiving the requirement for an initial payment of £4,929.72. The notes record that Mr P said 
hed previously been told that Kensington would waive the payment arrears on the mortgage 
in light of Mrs Ps condition, and only recover the fees and charges that had been added to 
the account. Kensington had listened to the 25 June call and didnt agree that Mr P had been 
told that it would waive the arrears  it had said it might be able to waive the requirement for 
an initial payment subject to the medical evidence. 
Kensington agreed at this time it would send Mr P a transcript, but not a recording, of the 
relevant call. Kensington no longer has a copy of the transcript. Neither do Mr and Mrs P  
theyve provided us with transcripts of some calls, but these are of much more recent calls 
where Mrs P reiterates what she believes Mr P was told; theyre not of the crucial calls 
themselves. So these transcripts are evidence that Mr P believes he was told that 
Kensington would waive the arrears, but they are not evidence  beyond his recollection  
that it actually did say that. 
On 25 February 2019, Mrs P called and said that Mr P had been told Kensington would 
waive the arrears. Kensington said it had not agreed to waive the arrears, it had offered to 
waive the requirement for an initial payment. There are other later calls and emails which 
also confirm that Mr P has been consistent in his recollection of what he was told.
Mr Ps recollection is that he was told that Kensington would agree to write off the arrears of 
around £4,000 (having more recently seen the contact note I referred to above following a 
subject access request, he now says £4,929.72) subject to receiving evidence of Mrs Ps 
condition because of a relationship Kensington had with a charity working in the field.
Thats the extent of the evidence I have. Ive said that Kensington hasnt retained copies of 
the call recordings  thats not unusual given the passage of time. It seems it did prepare a 
transcript of the relevant calls around September or October 2018, as part of Mr Ps 
complaint about what hed been told. Or at least, it told Mr P it would prepare a transcript. 
Theres no evidence that a transcript was ever actually prepared, or that it was sent to Mr P 
if it was. Nor does Kensington now retain a copy of the transcript.
Thats unfortunate. I dont criticise it for not retaining the call recordings. But it ought to have 
prepared the transcript, it ought to have sent it to Mr P and it ought to have retained a copy 
on its file. Theres no evidence it did any of those things.
As a result, the only evidence I have is Mr Ps recollection, and Kensingtons notes. The 
evidence is incomplete and unsatisfactory. But I have to do the best I can with whats 
available  deciding, on the balance of probabilities, what I think is most likely to have 
happened.
It's unfortunate that Kensington didnt prepare or retain the transcript. But I dont draw any 
inferences from that  I dont think its evidence that it deliberately concealed the evidence of 
what was said for sinister purposes. I think its more likely to be an unfortunate administrative 
failing.
Mr P has been clear and consistent in his recollection (other than, having seen the SAR, 
becoming more precise about the amount) since shortly after the conversation. Its recorded 
in Kensingtons notes from 2018 that he understood then that hed been told Kensington 
would waive the arrears. So his recollection is not recent; its been consistent from shortly after the conversation onwards.
But just because his recollection has been consistent, that doesnt necessarily mean its also 
accurate. On balance, I think its not.
The crucial conversation appears to be the 25 June 2018 call. That call was a discussion 
about the arrears situation, about Mr and Mrs Ps finances, and about whether there was 
anything Kensington could do to assist them. 
Afterwards, Mr P believed hed been told Kensington could waive the arrears, subject to 
evidence of Mrs Ps condition. Kensington didnt accept that it had said that  and the notes 
record that it checked the call recording to confirm it hadnt said that. It clarified that to Mr P 
on 21 September.
On balance, Im not persuaded that Kensington agreed to waive the arrears. Thats not what 
its notes say it agreed. Thats not what its notes say was said on the 25 June call, having 
checked the recording. And, importantly, the arrears werent around £4,000, or precisely 
£4,929.72, at this time. At the time of the 25 June call, the arrears were around £9,000. The 
notes were made contemporaneously, or at least by the next day, so I think theyre likely to 
broadly reflect Kensingtons understanding of what was discussed. 
If  as Mr P said on the 21 September call he believed hed been told  Kensington had said 
it would waive the arrears and only collect the arrears fees, the sum to be waived would be 
around £9,000, not £4,000 or £4,929.72.
At this time, the mortgage was in substantial arrears. Kensington was considering going to 
court to repossess the property. Before it would agree to an arrangement to clear the arrears 
instead of going to court, it needed to know that an arrangement would be affordable  
hence asking about income and expenditure. And it would need Mr and Mrs P to make a 
substantial payment to reduce the arrears to an acceptable level  an initial payment  
before it would agree to an arrangement to repay the rest.
I think what happened was that Kensington explained this to Mr P. Mr P said that he and 
Mrs P couldnt afford to make the initial payment  £4,929.72  to reduce the arrears down 
to a level that Kensington would agree to accept repayment by arrangement. He explained 
Mrs Ps condition. Kensington then agreed it would consider waiving the requirement for the 
initial payment, subject to receiving evidence of Mrs Ps condition.
The later notes following Kensingtons review of the call support this conclusion. So does 
Mr Ps recollection that the amount being discussed was around £4,000 not around £9,000. 
And its consistent with Kensingtons policy at the time.
Its possible  and I think most likely  that there was a misunderstanding. Mr P thought 
Kensington was offering to write off the arrears, or £4,929.72 of the arrears, but Kensington 
was actually only offering to waive the requirement to make an up-front payment before 
agreeing to a payment arrangement. It wasnt offering to write that sum off altogether. It 
would be collected as part of the payment arrangement, rather than being paid first as a 
condition of agreeing to the arrangement. 
That misunderstanding was corrected by Kensington on the 21 September call. But by then 
Mr P had become convinced by his memory of what had been said  whether because hed 
misremembered it initially, had misunderstood what Kensington had told him, or because 
Kensington hadnt explained it clearly enough  and he didnt accept the correction he was 
given on 21 September. If Kensington had then provided the transcript of the call as it said it 
would, it might be that Mr P would have accepted his recollection or understanding was mistaken. But it didnt, and Mr P continued to believe what he thought hed been told in June 
rather than the correction he was given on 21 September.
Kensington should have provided the transcript. It may be that it should have been clearer in 
explaining things on the 25 June call. But Im not persuaded that it actually agreed to write 
off the arrears  whether in full or in part. And even if it did mislead or confuse Mr P about its 
intentions on 25 June, the correct response to that would be to correct the confusion  not 
proceed as if it was true. It should have ensured Mr P understood what was actually 
happening, not implemented his mistaken belief. It did that on 21 September 2018. I dont 
think it would be fair and reasonable to require Kensington to write off the arrears when that 
was never what should have happened. 
I understand Mr and Mrs P will be disappointed by this conclusion. But I hope they will 
understand why Ive reached it, and why I think that Mr Ps recollection of what he was told  
while honest, genuine, and strongly believed  is mistaken.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 January 2024.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman