DRN-4024428
The complaint
Ms G complains that Newline Insurance Company Limited cancelled her pet insurance policy 
without her knowledge and refused to reinstate the policy.
Ms G will see that my decision is about a different business to the one our investigator 
referred to in her correspondence. Newline is the underwriter (the insurer) of this policy. Part 
of this complaint concerns the actions of Newlines agent which is the business our 
investigator referred to. As Newline has accepted its accountable for the actions of the 
agent in my decision any reference to Newline includes the actions of the agent.
What happened
Ms G had a lifetime pet insurance policy for her dog since 2015, insured by Newline. The 
policy renewed automatically each year on 19 February.
Ms G paid the policy premiums monthly by direct debit. Newline couldnt collect the February 
to March 2022 premium from her bank. Newline said on 2 March 2022 it emailed Ms G 
saying it hadnt been able to collect the premium and she should contact it within 10 working 
days from receipt of the correspondence to avoid the policy being cancelled. And on 9 March 
2022 it emailed Ms G saying as it hadnt heard from her the policy would be cancelled in 
three days if she didnt contact it. Newline said on 11 March 2022 it emailed Ms G saying it 
had cancelled the policy.
On 4 April 2022 Ms G phoned Newline saying shed just received its letter through the post 
about it cancelling her policy and asked why that had happened. Newline told her about the 
uncollectable premium. She asked to reinstate the policy and she said she paid the 
outstanding premium with her credit card. Newline said it would check if the policy could be 
reinstated. When Ms G chased for confirmation Newline refused to reinstate the policy.
Ms G complained to us. In summary she said:
The email address Newline used to tell her the premium had been missed had been 
shut down in June 2016 by the email provider. Newline would have received a 
bounce back email saying the email had been undelivered and she provided 
evidence about that point. She said Newline should have then contacted her by 
phone or post to tell her about the missing premium and its intention to cancel the 
policy.
Shed told Newline about her new email address several years ago. She didnt know 
Newline still had her defunct email address as she received her policy documents by 
post.
She contacted Newline as soon as she knew there was a problem with her policy.
She would never knowingly miss a premium payment as it was very important to 
have the policy. Shed been paying the policy since her dog was young to ensure he 
had lifetime cover as he got older and he now had an existing medical condition that 
Newline provided cover for which another insurer wouldnt cover.
She wants to pay the missing premium for the policy to be reinstated. She also wants 
Newline to pay her compensation for the stress and anxiety it caused. She had to 
pay vet bills since the policy was cancelled and shes been worried as her dog had 
been waiting for an x-ray which she couldnt afford without the policy cover.
Newline initially said:
When the policy started Ms G gave her contact preference as email so it sent her 
emails about the cancellation to the email address its had on its system since the 
policy started. It had no record of her contacting it to change the email address.
It had no record of its emails to Ms G being undelivered or rejected. If so it would 
have sent her the correspondence by post.
If Ms G wasnt able to access that email address it meant she hadnt received her 
policy renewal documentation for a number of years. She should have told it she 
didnt receive the policy documents, then it would have been clear it had the wrong 
email address which would have been updated.
In the 4 April 2022 call it didnt take Ms Gs card payment for the premium and it 
hadnt told her the policy would be reinstated, it said it would check if the policy could 
be reinstated.
It acted within the policy terms in cancelling the policy.
Our investigator said Newline had acted fairly in not reinstating the policy.
Ms G disagreed and wanted an ombudsmans decision. She added that the policy terms say 
that Newline should have written to her at her last known address before it cancelled the 
policy. If so she would have got the letter and been able to contact Newline before it 
cancelled the policy.
Before I made my provisional decision I asked both parties for some more information. Ms G 
said since the policy had ended shed paid vet fees of about £100. Her dog was still waiting 
for the diagnostic x-ray and he was still in pain. She hadnt taken out another policy for her 
dog as under a new policy his condition that needed treatment would be excluded as a pre-
existing condition.
Newline gave a detailed response which included that it had received a message of failed 
delivery to its email to Ms G of 5 February 2022, to confirm the policy renewal, and to its 
emails to Ms G of 2 and 11 March 2022 about the missing premium and policy cancellation.
Newline now said it had reissued those letters and sent to Ms G by post. It sent screen shots 
of its system which it said showed the relevant letters were posted to Ms G. It said she 
hadnt contacted it in the timescales given even though she received the letters by post.
What  provisionally decided  and why
I made a provisional decision that I was intending to uphold the complaint. I said:
I have to decide whether Newline acted fairly and reasonably in cancelling and not 
reinstating the policy, and I dont think it did. Im intending to uphold this complaint. Ill 
explain why.
Newline and Ms G have sent us policy terms. Those sent by Newline say:We have the right to cancel your policy at any time by giving you 14 days notice in 
writing where there is a valid reason for doing so. We will write to you to set out the 
reason/s for cancellation. Valid reasons may include but are not limited to:
Where we have been unable to collect a premium payment. We will write to you 
requesting any outstanding payments be brought up to date within 14 days of receipt.
We will also notify you that if payment is not received within 14 days, your policy will 
be cancelled with immediate effect.
The policy terms Ms G sent differ as they include the words we will send the cancellation 
letter to the last known address we have for you
Its not clear which were the relevant terms at the policy renewal in February 2022. But even 
if it was the version Ms G sent us I think address can be reasonably be read to also mean 
email address, not just postal address. And Newline has now given evidence that it sent 
some of the relevant letters to Ms G by post.
Until very recently Newlines evidence was that it had sent the letters about the missing 
premium and policy cancellation only to Ms Gs email address that it had on file and much of 
the parties correspondence has been about whether that was reasonable. However, 
Newline now says it received a failed to deliver message to its emails to Ms G of 5 February, 
2 and 11 March 2022 so it reissued those letters and sent to Ms G by post.
I appreciate Ms G may be concerned Newline has now given different evidence about how it 
sent her the relevant correspondence. I think its disappointing Newline has only now given 
this evidence. But its system notes that its highlighted show the correspondence which it 
emailed to Ms G on 2 and 11 March was also reissued and sent by post.
Newlines system also shows the letter it sent to Ms G on 9 March 2022 was only sent by 
email. I think its more likely than not that email also wasnt received by Ms G. Shes 
provided evidence which shows the email address Newline had for her was closed by the 
email provider in June 2016 and if an email was sent to that email address Newline would 
receive a response saying the email couldnt be delivered.
So the relevant evidence now is that on 2 March 2022 Newline sent Ms G a letter in the post 
about the missed premium saying she needed to contact it to avoid the policy being 
cancelled. And on 11 March 2022 Newline sent Ms G a letter in the post saying it had 
cancelled the policy.
From the evidence I have I think Newline didnt cancel the policy in line with its policy terms. 
The policy says if Newline hadnt been able to collect a premium it will write to Ms G 
requesting any outstanding payments be brought up to date within 14 days of receipt. The 
policy also says if payment is not received within 14 days, your policy will be cancelled with 
immediate effect.
Even if I took it that the 2 March letter should have been received in the post by Ms G on or 
about 7 March 2022 Newline cancelled the policy on 11 March 2022. Thats less than the 
14 days from receipt referred to in the policy terms and less than the 10 working days from 
receipt referred to in its letter. So I dont think Newline acted within its policy terms or fairly in 
cancelling the policy when it did.
In addition, the policy terms refer to outstanding payments having to be brought up to date 
within 14 days of receipt and Newlines 2 March letter refers to Ms G needing to contact it 
within 10 working days from receipt of the correspondence to avoid the policy being cancelled. So the date of Ms Gs receipt of the letter is key to when Newline could correctly 
cancel the policy.
The only evidence I have for when Ms G received a letter about policy cancellation is from 
the phone call she made to Newline on 4 April 2022 when she said a letter has just come 
through the door. So the evidence is she received Newlines letter on or about 4 April 2022. 
And I think that evidence is supported by her reasonably saying the policy is important to her 
as it provides her dog, who has an existing medical condition, with lifetime cover so she 
wouldnt want the policy to be cancelled. I think Ms G would phone Newline as soon as she 
got a letter about policy cancellation.
In the 4 April call Ms G offered to pay the missing premium that day. Newline didnt take the 
payment as it wanted to check about reinstatement of the policy. But I think Ms G asked to 
pay the missing premium within 14 days of receipt of being told the premium was 
outstanding. So I dont think Newline correctly cancelled the policy under a strict 
interpretation of the policy terms or fairly and reasonably in all the circumstances.
I think the fair and reasonable outcome in these circumstances is for Newline to reinstate the 
policy so that Ms G is in the position she would have been if she if it hadnt cancelled the 
policy. That also means Ms G will first need to pay Newline the premium payments for the 
policy, which she would have paid if the policy had been in force at the time. She will be able 
to make claims on the reinstated policy for the vet fees shes incurred, subject to the policy 
terms.
The policy was due for renewal in February 2023 and I see no reason why Newline shouldnt 
offer Ms G the renewal as it would have done if it hadnt wrongly cancelled the policy which 
renewed in February 2022. So Ms G should be able to continue the lifetime cover for her 
dog. If Newline doesnt offer Ms G renewal of the policy from February 2023, on the policy 
terms it would have offered her if it hadnt cancelled the 2022 policy, she will need to make a 
separate complaint.
Its clear Ms G has been caused considerable inconvenience and upset by Newlines 
unreasonable decision not reinstate the policy. Shes had to postpone her dogs diagnostic 
x-ray as she couldnt afford to have the treatment without the policy cover. Shes 
understandably upset shes not been able to get treatment for her dog. And its reasonable 
that she didnt take alternative insurance as the required treatment would be an excluded 
pre-existing condition under a new policy. In all the circumstances I think Newline should pay 
Ms G £250 compensation for her distress and inconvenience its actions have caused.
Responses to my provisional decision
Newline accepted my provisional decision, although its agent made points why it didnt agree 
which focused on issues it had raised in previous correspondence with Ms G and us.
Ms G was disappointed with the redress Id recommended. In summary she said:
She wasnt in a position to pay the lump sum of premiums, about £680, to re-instate 
the 2022 policy which had built up due to the time taken to resolve the complaint. If 
Newline had agreed to reinstate the policy from the outset, as it should have done, 
she would only have had to pay a couple months of premiums to catch up.
It wasnt fair she had to pay the years worth of premiums to reinstate the 2022 policy 
as she would be paying for a year's worth of insurance cover her dog didnt have and 
had had to suffer through. Her dog hadnt been able to have treatment for about 
13 months and she had to get painkillers to manage his pain because she couldnt 
afford treatment. She didnt think the redress acknowledged what she saw as Newlines 
mismanagement and dishonesty and the impact on her and her family.
Ms G asked that I waive the need for her to pay the premiums for the reinstated 2022 policy 
or increase the compensation award to cover the premiums as she hadnt been able to use 
that policy. She also asked that I consider awarding more compensation for her distress and 
inconvenience Newline caused and she gave me some personal details about that. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Newlines agent doesnt agree with my provisional decision, the important point is 
Newline is the business responsible for the complaint and it accepts my provisional decision. 
In any event, in my provisional decision Ive addressed the issues its agent has raised.  
Ive carefully considered Ms Gs response. I appreciate the points shes made but I still think 
the redress I proposed gives a fair and reasonable outcome. 
Newline must reinstate the 2022 policy so that the lifetime cover with its benefits isnt 
interrupted. Ms G says as that policy period has passed shell be paying for a policy she 
didnt and now cant use. But when the policy is reinstated if the date of her getting the 
painkillers from the vet is in the 2022 policy period she can claim the cost of that treatment 
under the 2022 policy (subject to policy terms). If she doesnt want to make a claim under 
the 2022 policy its still fair that she has to pay the premiums for the 2022 policy as she is in 
effect paying for the continuation of life cover during that period so theres no break in cover 
when she starts the 2023 policy.
If Ms G isnt able to pay the policy premiums to reinstate the 2022 policy in one lump sum 
she can contact Newline about paying the premiums in instalments. In the circumstances 
I think it would be fair for Newline to accept instalment payments of a reasonable amount.
Its not unusual for a policyholder to pay premiums for a policy they dont actually use for that 
year. The issue for Ms G is if the 2022 policy had been in place at the time her dog would 
have had treatment during that period rather than him having to wait in pain. That doesnt 
mean Ms G shouldnt pay the premium for the 2022 policy but it does mean I think 
compensation is payable or her inconvenience and upset. 
Ms Gs told me why it was very difficult for her and her children to see their dog in pain. For 
compensation purposes I can only take into account her, as the policyholder,
distress and inconvenience. Thats not to take away from I know it would have been difficult 
for the family. 
I understand why Ms G is frustrated and concerned about how Newline, through its agent, 
handled her claim and complaint. But I havent seen evidence that Newline has been 
dishonest, as Ms G suggests. And I dont award compensation as a penalty or fine against 
the business. Overall I still think that £250 is a fair amount of compensation for Newline to 
pay for Ms Gs distress and inconvenience. 
For the reasons Ive given in my provisional findings and these findings I uphold this 
complaint. Putting things right
Newline must reinstate Ms Gs dogs lifetime cover policy from February 2022 once Ms G 
has paid the outstanding premiums and pay her £250 compensation for her distress and 
inconvenience its actions have caused.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Newline Insurance Company Limited to:
reinstate Ms Gs dogs lifetime cover policy from February 2022 once Ms G has paid 
the outstanding premiums, and
pay Ms G £250 compensation for her distress and inconvenience its actions have 
caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman