DRN-2906023
The complaint
Mrs R complains that shes been overcharged premiums on a life insurance policy by Aviva 
Life & Pensions UK Limited. 
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well know to both parties so I wont recount them in 
detail here, save to set out the key events that led to this complaint. 
Mrs R took out a life assurance policy in respect of her husbands life in 2007. The policy 
was designed to provide a lump sum payment to Mrs R in the event her husband (Mr R) died 
during the policy term. 
Mrs R says she recently had cause to review her policies and noticed the premium she was 
paying towards the policy was significantly higher than for other policies she held. She 
complained to Aviva. 
Aviva considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. It explained that Mrs R was initially 
quoted a monthly premium of £58.90, but the illustration noted that this was subject to 
change depending on the answers given in the application. After gathering full information 
from Mr R, Avivas underwriters adjusted the premium to £92.29. Mrs R accepted the policy 
on this basis and cover has been in place since August 2007.  
Mrs R remained unhappy and referred her complaint to our service. She maintained that 
other policies shes taken out in the intervening years have been significantly cheaper than 
the policy she took out with Aviva. Our investigator considered the complaint but didnt 
uphold it. He explained insurers are entitled to set their own premiums, based on their own 
underwriting criteria. He noted that the premium had increased between the quote stage and 
the offer stage because of disclosures within the application. He said it wasnt unfair for an 
insurer to increase the premium if it deemed the associated risk had also increased. 
Mrs R disagreed and asked for the case to be reviewed by an ombudsman for a final 
decision. She felt our investigator had failed to properly consider if shed been overcharged. 
She considered the original premium, before medical underwriting, was also too high. She 
noted other policies shed taken out in intervening years as evidence that shed been paying 
too much.  
To assist in my investigation, I requested a copy of Avivas underwriting criteria that applied 
when the policy was taken out in 2007. I also invited Mrs R to provide any further evidence 
to substantiate her belief that shed been over-charged. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator and for largely the 
same reasons. While I understand Mrs R is concerned shes been over-charged, I hope it 
will be reassuring to her to know Ive found no evidence she was. Ive also seen no evidence 
to suggest Aviva acted unfairly or unreasonably towards her. So I wont be asking it to do 
anything further to resolve this complaint.  
Insurers are entitled to set the premium they want to charge for offering cover. Theres no 
formula on how an insurer should set the premium its prepared to charge. And theres also 
no requirement for an insurer to offer a competitive rate for its insurance. Ultimately if a 
consumer is unhappy with the price offered, they can shop around for alternative cover. 
In Mrs Rs case I note that she took out the policy through a broker. As such, any concerns 
about being recommended a policy that didnt offer the most competitive rate would need to 
be directed to the broker.
The only thing I can consider here is whether Aviva calculated the premium correctly based 
on its own underwriting criteria. 
Aviva has provided me with the underwriting evidence to show why the premium was 
increased following Mr Rs disclosures within the application. Having carefully considered 
this, Im satisfied the price Mrs R was charged had been calculated correctly based on the 
information provided at the point of sale and was in line with Avivas underwriting criteria.
Ive also considered the evidence provided by Mrs R, which includes policy schedules for 
policies taken out on her life and another individuals life in recent years. Mrs R believes 
these show that she could have obtained cover for Mr Rs life for a much lower premium 
than Aviva charged. But these policies cannot be considered a fair or reasonable 
comparison to the policy in dispute. The risk presented by each of the policies was different 
to the policy in dispute. For example, Mrs R is 12 years younger than Mr R. So, while I can 
see the premiums for these other policies was significantly lower than that charged to Mrs R 
for the policy in dispute, it does not demonstrate she was over-charged. And, as Ive 
explained, Im satisfied Aviva considered the application in line with its underwriting criteria  
so it didnt treat him unfairly or different to any other application.
In summary, Ive found no evidence that Mrs R was overcharged for her insurance in 2007, 
so I dont uphold this complaint. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2021.
 
Lisa De Noronha
Ombudsman