DRN-3160922
The complaint
Mr Ws complaint is about information given to him by Amtrust Europe Limiteds legal 
helpline and the level of service he received from Amtrust in response to his complaint about 
this issue.
All references to Amtrust include their claims handlers.
What happened
Mr W has the benefit of a legal expenses insurance policy underwritten by Amtrust. He had a 
problem he needed help with concerning the occupier of the neighbouring property. His 
policy provided him with the benefit of a legal helpline he could contact in those 
circumstances.
When Mr W contacted the helpline, he was advised to send a letter before action to his 
neighbour to ask them to stop causing damage to his property as well as nuisance. He did 
this but his neighbour didnt comply with his request. He called Amtrust again when this 
happened who directed him to make a claim on his policy. The claim wasnt successful; 
Amtrust didnt agree to cover because they were advised the claim didnt have reasonable 
prospects of success, as required by the policy. Mr W accepted the position but remains 
unhappy about being directed to send a letter before action to his neighbour. He says that he 
wouldnt have written to his neighbour at all had he known his claim might not have been 
covered and that doing so has made things much worse for him with his neighbour. In 
particular, he says his neighbour is now piling more rubbish up against the wall of his house 
than he had done before and has obstructed his driveway on a number of occasions. Mr W 
is also unhappy with how his complaint was handled by Amtrust.
Amtrust said Mr W was correctly advised by the legal helpline that he needed to attempt to 
resolve things with his neighbour before taking legal action. They also said the legal helpline 
was operated by a firm of solicitors and that if he was unhappy with them he could refer the 
complaint to the Legal Ombudsman.
Our investigator considered Mr Ws complaint. She said his complaint shouldnt be upheld. 
She thought that the advice Mr W was given about having to write a letter before action 
before pursuing an action against his neighbour was correct. Mr W wasnt happy with this so 
asked for an Ombudsman to look at things again.
I considered the complaint. I conveyed the following to both parties:
I intend to uphold (Mr Ws) complaint. It's clear from the first call he had with the helpline 
that he was immediately directed to send out a letter before action and led to believe that if  
his neighbour didn't comply with that letter his legal expenses insurance would take effect 
and solicitors would be appointed to act for him. It was also suggested that he would be 
expected to send out this letter and resolve things himself (on both this call and the 
subsequent one with the helpline) before cover would be afforded to him.
It's not a condition of cover that a policyholder tries to resolve things with the person they're 
in dispute with before making a claim so it's unclear why he was advised of this. And though 
such advice might sometimes be helpful, in this case he was directed to send out a letter 
threatening legal action without being told he might not have the benefit of insurance to 
pursue this at a later date.
(Mr W) has said that had he known there was a risk he wouldn't be covered to take things
further, he wouldn't have sent the letter he was directed to. He also expressed that the letter
caused his neighbour to behave more aggressively towards him, which has caused him
distress. I'm persuaded by this given the account (Mr W) gave about his neighbour when he 
initially contacted the legal helpline.
I understand that (Mr W) also had problems making his complaint to Amtrust about this
issue. In particular he says he was given a phone number to contact rather than an email 
address. He says he tried several times but wasn't able to get through to the case officer as 
she wasn't available. He's also said that (Amtrust) told him they would be sending him 
information about his complaint by email which he wasn't receiving. After trying to resolve 
this issue with (Amtrust) he says he contacted (his home insurer) to explain the problem. At 
this point he says (Amtrust) told him they had the wrong email address for him. All in all I 
think this would've been frustrating for (Mr W) and put him to some considerable 
inconvenience, particularly given his journey with Amtrust.
For those reasons I think Amtrust should pay (Mr W) £350 in recognition of the trouble and
upset caused by the incorrect information given to him by the legal helpline and the 
difficulties he experienced trying to complain about this. It should be noted that I haven't 
directed Amtrust to accept (Mr Ws)' claim because I don't think that's the correct course of 
action. Although I accept the call with the first advisor raised an expectation that cover would 
be provided, it doesn't follow that the claim should be covered. If things had happened as 
they should, Mr (W) would have been advised that his claim needed to be assessed under 
the terms of the policy before cover could be considered. So I think the correct remedy is to 
compensate Mr (W) for the trouble and upset he experienced as a result of being given the 
wrong advice.
I gave both parties 14 days to respond to my provisional findings. Mr W replied, accepting 
my findings. Amtrust have also responded. They said:
They acknowledge Mr W wasnt informed that the terms and conditions of the policy had 
to be met in order for a claim to be accepted in his first contact with the helpline, but he 
was informed that if the letter before action wasnt complied with he would be directed to 
make a claim and that a solicitor would be appointed;
Mr W received the benefit of his policy by way of a legal opinion from the panel firm they 
appointed once a claim was made and a further letter of advice on potential next steps; 
such as obtaining an expert report;
Mr Ws submission that he would never have sent a letter to his neighbour had he known 
there was a risk his claim wouldnt be covered is made with the benefit of hindsight. 
There was no indication the neighbour would become more aggressive in response to a 
letter before action. So, it doesnt follow he would have done something differently other 
than send the letter before action if he was told he might not have had legal expenses 
insurance cover.
In relation to the service issues, they accept they inputted the incorrect character when 
recording Mr Ws email address, but they took this off Mr Ws handwritten claim form. It 
was only when Mr W later completed an electronic claim form that the correct email 
address came to light. He was however receiving some of their emails and once the 
problem was revealed Amtrust provided Mr W with all of the missing correspondence.On the issue of missed calls to the claims handler, call backs were arranged on each 
occasion that Mr W was unsuccessful in making contact. Amtrust say each time the 
claims handler called back Mr W wasnt available and voicemails were left.
They are minded to accept my provisional findings but would like further comments on 
our expectation of the service provided by the legal helpline. 
They feel the compensation awarded exceeds what would normally be warranted in such 
circumstances.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I remain of the view that Mr Ws complaint should be upheld for the same 
reasons set out in my provisional findings.
I understand that the legal helpline is provided by a firm of solicitors. An insurer offering this 
kind of service is responsible for the advice given on it. As a Service, we cant usually 
comment anything to do with the quality of the legal advice provided but there are 
exceptions; for example where the advice given is obviously wrong or based on factual 
mistakes. Other examples include where an insurer accepts the advice was wrong or we had 
evidence from someone suitably qualified to say the advice was obviously wrong. We can 
also consider issues arising out of the service provided by that helpline.
An insurer has an obligation to provide policyholders with clear, fair and not misleading 
information. In this case, I think it failed to do this. Having listened to Mr Ws calls with the 
legal helpline, its clear to me he was led to believe he was obliged to send a letter before 
action to his neighbour before he could have the benefit of cover. Thats not correct, and it 
wasnt necessary for him to do this. An insurer shouldnt be leading customers to believe 
they need to resolve disputes themselves before making a claim. Its not a pre-requisite of 
this policy or any legal expenses insurance policies Ive seen in relation to property disputes. 
And if a customer is advised to send a letter before action by an insurers helpline, they 
should also be told what the consequences of sending that letter are in order to allow 
policyholders to make up their minds, with the benefit of all the facts, about whether they 
want to do this. 
The consequences of sending a letter before action in this case might have been that the 
letter could inflame relations further with Mr Ws neighbour and, that any claim he 
subsequently made on the policy for help to pursue legal action might not be accepted 
because the policy is subject to a number of terms and conditions. That was the position Mr 
W found himself in so he should have been presented with the possibility of that happening 
before embarking down the route he did. I agree with Amtrust that Mr W was told that if the 
neighbour didnt comply with what was asked of him in the letter, Mr W could make a claim 
on his policy and a solicitor would be appointed. But that in itself was misleading. The 
appointment of a solicitor sounded very much like one would be appointed to act for Mr W in 
his dispute with his neighbour. In reality, the solicitor was appointed by Amtrust to assess Mr 
Ws claim and confirm whether it was covered under the terms of the policy. If it was, only 
then would the solicitor act for Mr W. And in this case the solicitor didnt because the claim 
didnt fall within cover.
Amtrust have suggested that Mr W derived some benefit from his legal expenses insurance 
policy because he received an assessment of his claim and was given some advice on 
possible next steps- in the form of obtaining an experts report that might help support his 
position. I dont think this absolves Amtrust of their failings in the circumstances of this 
complaint. And I dont agree that Mr W derived much benefit in a negative legal assessment or the suggestion of spending more money on expert evidence that may or may not help him 
when hed already been directed to threaten legal action he didnt have help to follow 
through on.
Amtrust have talked about what Mr W would have done if hed been told he might not get 
cover under the policy. Mr W says he wouldnt have sent the letter before action but Amtrust 
feels this assertion is made with the benefit of hindsight. Its clear to me that Mr W had tried 
to resolve things with his neighbour by engaging other people- both a Fire Officer and his 
local Council. When this failed, he got in touch with Amtrust for legal help. He also made 
clear during the call that he didnt think his neighbour would take notice of anything that he 
sent to him. Taken together with his testimony, Im persuaded that Mr W wouldnt have sent 
a letter before action if he didnt think he was going to get solicitors appointed to help him 
with his claim against his neighbour. That was what he was led to believe would happen 
after all. So, I remain of the view that he would have done something different if properly 
presented with all the options from the outset. It follows that Mr W is entitled to the trouble 
and upset I provisionally directed above.
On the general service issues complained of by Mr W, Amtrust have talked about the 
mistake in recording his email address correctly leading to no real detriment to Mr W. I dont 
agree. Amtrust could have checked the address with Mr W by telephoning him if they were 
unclear about his handwriting. Because they didnt, it inconvenienced Mr W to keep getting 
in touch to ask for communications. And I dont think that when Amtrust said they arranged 
call backs to Mr W every time he called, this meant those call backs were pre-agreed with 
him. Instead it seems they called back at random times when Mr W wasnt available. I think 
this could have been avoided if Amtrust had simply asked him when was convenient for him 
or given him some dates and times that worked for their claims handler rather than 
consistently leaving telephone messages. 
Finally, its been suggested that the award Ive made is higher than our usual trouble and 
upset awards. We dont have a set amount for trouble and upset awards. Rather we base 
these on the impact theyve had on the consumer and what went wrong in the particular 
circumstances of the case. Ive done that here. In this case, Amtrust are responsible for Mr 
W receiving misleading advice that led him to do something, he otherwise wouldnt have 
done, resulting in his neighbour behaving more aggressively towards him and in a way that 
caused him stress, which he then couldnt get help with from Amtrust at a later date. This 
was compounded by the difficulties he faced in trying to complain about the issue. My award 
of £350 isnt excessive in those circumstances and takes account of the trouble and upset 
caused to Mr W in the round.
Putting things right
Amtrust should pay Mr W £350 for the trouble and upset caused to Mr W by their actions.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ws complaint against Amtrust Europe Limited and direct them to comply with 
my award set out above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2022.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman