DRN-1512380
 
The complaint
Mr C complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) lent to him 
irresponsibly over the last 10 years or so. 
What happened
Our investigators background summary covered all the relevant facts and issues, and is 
known to both Mr C and Halifax, so there is no need for me to repeat it here in any great 
detail. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. So, if Ive not mentioned 
something its not because Ive ignored it, rather its because I dont think its of direct 
relevance to the issues I need to deal with. 
Mr C said he has been banking with Halifax since 2008 when he obtained a current account. 
The initial overdraft limit on his current account was increased to £5,000 over the next 3-4 
years. In 2013 he said he was granted a credit card with an initial limit which was increased 
from £1,000 to £2,000. He also said that he was granted a loan in 2016 at a time when 
Halifax should have been able to see that his existing level of debt was not affordable. Mr C 
complains that it ought to have been apparent to Halifax that he was unable to afford the 
loans and credit advanced to him, as they had access to and could see all his income and 
expenditure information, and also because he had been required to take payment holidays 
on his loan on multiple occasions.
Halifax said that the credit card account was opened by Mr C with a £2,000 credit limit and 
although Mr C had requested increases to that limit, Halifax had declined them all. They said 
Mr C maintained his account within its limit and payments to it were made by direct debit. 
Halifax have also said that with regard to the overdraft limit, this was increased in 2015 from 
£3,750 to £5,000 and at that time large credits were being received each month from a third 
party, which had been the case since 2013. They said the account was being run well, and 
they had no cause for concern at that time, and they were unaware Mr C was facing financial 
difficulties or that he had a gambling problem, because he hadnt shared that information 
with them. Halifax rejected Mr Cs complaint.
Mr C was unhappy with Halifaxs final response and so brought the complaint to this service 
and our investigator looked into it. Having done so, the investigator found that some of the 
complaints were out of time, and that this service could only look at matters from August 
2013 onwards. Of the complaints which this service could look into, he didnt think that 
Halifax had done anything wrong. Mr C didnt agree with that and asked that the complaint 
be passed to an Ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.The role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to mediate individual disputes between 
consumers and businesses, and to award redress where it is appropriate.  
I have taken into account both sides views in considering whether Halifax acted fairly and 
reasonably. Ive looked at the issues raised and considered all the available evidence. 
Where evidence is not complete, I think about what is more likely to have happened in the 
light of the evidence which is available. I have to make an independent decision about what I 
think is right for each case, and thats what Ive done here. And in this case, I dont think that 
Halifax has done anything wrong. Ill explain why.
Our investigator correctly identified that there are some areas of Mr Cs complaint we cant 
look at because they have been brought to us out of time. The Dispute Resolution Rules 
(DISP), which from part of the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook (a financial services' 
regulator), govern what we can and cant consider. As part of this, one of the things we have 
to consider is whether the complaint was brought in time.
DISP 2.8.2 states: The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it 
to the Financial Ombudsman Service:
(2) more than:
(a) six years after the event complained of; or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought 
reasonably to have become aware) that he had cause for complaint;
unless the complainant referred the complaint to the respondent or to the 
Ombudsman within that period and has a written acknowledgement or some other 
record of the complaint having been received; unless:
(3) in the view of the Ombudsman, the failure to comply with the time limits in DISP 
2.8.2 R or DISP 2.8.7 R was as a result of exceptional circumstances;
Applying this rule, its clear to me on the evidence Ive seen that Mr C ought reasonably to 
have been aware that the matters he now complains of were known to him by August 2013. I 
therefore agree that only those activities which occurred after that date can be considered by 
this service.
The first issue is Mr Cs credit card and its limit increases. Mr C has described the increases 
but has provided no evidence in support of that view, whereas Halifax said their records 
indicate it was opened with the credit limit of £2,000 and not increased thereafter. So, on the 
balance of probabilities, I think it is likely that Mr C is mistaken in his belief that increases 
were granted to him, as Halifaxs records are likely to be more reliable, in the absence of any 
other evidence, than Mr Cs memory. It follows that Halifax havent acted unfairly in refusing 
him the increases. 
After August 2013 Halifax granted only 1 increase to Mr Cs overdraft. Whilst I appreciate Mr 
C says he was facing financial difficulties, this was not known to Halifax as he had not told 
them. In the absence of that information, Halifax were able to see was that he was operating 
his account within the overdraft limit and he had large credits being applied to his account 
regularly. Ive also considered, alongside this, the loan that Halifax granted to Mr C in 2016. 
The Lending Code requires a business to assess whether a borrower will be able to repay 
any borrowing in a sustainable manner, by considering information from Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs), including existing financial commitments where provided, as well as the 
following, as appropriate:
 
The type and amount of credit being sought.
How the customer has handled their finances in the past;
Any internal credit scoring techniques;
The customers declared income;
Why the customer wants to borrow the money and for how long; and
Any security provided
 
But there isnt a set list of checks which Halifax had to do. Ive asked Halifax to explain the 
basis on which they decided to grant the overdraft increase and the loan, and they have told 
me it was based on information supplied by Mr C, data from the credit reference agencies 
and their own risk strategies. 
Businesses arent required to cross check a customers declared income, or obtain proof of 
income when agreeing unsecured borrowing, and they are entitled to rely on their customers 
to provide accurate information about their income and expenditure.
They say their own Credit Decisioning System (CDS) considered the applications by 
referencing the data from the CRAs and Mr Cs declared income. I think thats a reasonable 
explanation. Its for Halifax as a business to decide who they extend credit to and on what 
basis. What Id expect is for them to perform enough checks before they do so. Based on the 
information available to me, Im satisfied they did that here. 
So, although Mr C will probably be disappointed with my decision, I cant say Halifax has 
acted unfairly or unreasonably here and Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint against Bank of Scotland plc 
trading as Halifax.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 July 2020.
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman