DRN-2955768
The complaint
Mrs B complains about Allay Claims Ltd and their failure to pursue her claim for mis-sold 
Payment Protection Insurance (PPI) effectively.
What happened
In July 2019, Mrs B authorised Allay to pursue claims for mis-sold PPI against several 
lenders. One of these lenders was lender M. 
Allay submitted a Data Subject Access Request and from this, lender M confirmed Mrs B 
had PPI on her account. So, Allay submitted a full claim on Mrs Bs behalf. This claim was 
made before the PPI deadline, and lender M acknowledged the claim.
But in October, lender M requested further information from Allay. They asked for 
information around Mrs Bs Individual Voluntary Arrangement (IVA) that shed held before 
the claim had been submitted. Allay failed to recognise this request had been made, and 
requested nothing further from Mrs B. So, later that month, lender M wrote to Allay again 
confirming they were closing the claim as they hadnt received all the information they 
needed.
In 2020, Mrs B contacted Allay on different occasions asking for an update on her claim. And 
Allay told Mrs B they were awaiting a decision on the claim. In February 2021, Mrs B 
became frustrated with the lack of progress and asked Allay for lender Ms details so she 
could chase the claim herself. And when she did, lender M confirmed the claim had been 
closed in 2019 as Allay hadnt provided further information. And they explained they were 
now unable to re-open the claim. Mrs B was unhappy with this, so she raised a complaint.
Mrs B felt Allays failure to provide information to lender M had resulted in her losing the 
opportunity to make a claim for mis-sold PPI. And she thought it was highly likely her claim 
wouldve been upheld, as PPI was located on the account. As lender M wouldnt re-open the 
claim, Mrs M wanted Allay to compensate her for the amount she believed the claim was 
worth.
Allay upheld Mrs Bs complaint. They agreed theyd made a mistake by failing to respond to 
lender Ms request for further information. They explained this had been fed back to the 
handler whod received the documents in 2019. But they didnt think they should 
compensate Mrs B for what she believed the claim was worth, as there was no guarantee 
her claim wouldve been upheld. So, they offered Mrs B £400 compensation, which they said 
was more than the average win theyd secured for customers.
Mrs B didnt agree with this. And Allay offered to increase the total compensation to £500, to 
recognise the upset Mrs B had been caused. But Mrs B maintained her view that her PPI 
claim wouldve be worth a lot more had it been progressed correctly. As Mrs B remained 
unhappy, she referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They didnt dispute Allay had 
acted unfairly by failing to respond to lender Ms request for further information. And they 
recognised the upset Mrs B wouldve been caused when she was told she was unable to 
claim for mis-sold PPI some two years later. But they didnt think Allay should compensate 
Mrs B for the potential value of the claim, as the presence of PPI on an account didnt mean 
it was definitely mis-sold. So, they couldnt say for certain the claim wouldve been 
successful if it had been investigated fully. Because of this, they felt the £500 offered by 
Allay was a fair one, to compensate Mrs B for her loss of opportunity to have her claim 
investigated, and the upset this caused.
Mrs B didnt agree. She maintained her view that her claim wouldve been successful and 
that she should be compensated for the value of the claim. She was also unhappy that 
lender M requested further information, when she didnt think this was necessary. And that 
lender M had refused to re-open the claim due to exceptional circumstances.
Our investigator explained this complaint focused solely on the actions of Allay. And any 
issues with lender M would need to be raised and investigated separately. So, as Mrs B 
didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
Its not in dispute that Allay failed to note lender Ms request for further information 
surrounding Mrs Bs IVA. And by failing to do so, I think its clear Mrs Bs claim was closed 
by lender M without the claim being fully investigated. So, Im satisfied that Allay have acted 
unfairly, and that Mrs B should be compensated for this.
What is in dispute is the value of the compensation Allay have offered. Mrs B doesnt think 
the £500 offered by Allay is fair, as she believes she wouldve received significantly more 
than this if lender M had fully investigator her claim. So, Ive thought about the offer Allay 
have made against Mrs Bs comments, to decide whether I think the offer is a fair one. And 
having done so, I think it is.
Mrs Bs main dispute centres around the potential success of her claim, had Allay provided 
lender M the information they requested. And I dont dispute Mrs B had PPI on her account, 
as this was confirmed by lender M. But this doesnt mean Mrs Bs claim would definitely 
have been successful. As well as PPI being located on an account, lender M would also 
have needed to decide whether this PPI was mis-sold. And they were unable to do so, as 
they closed the claim before confirming their decision on this.
Im unable to speculate on whether the claim wouldve been upheld. And when Im 
considering what Allay should do to put things right, any direction or award I make is 
intended to place Mrs B back in the position she wouldve been, had Allay acted fairly. So, if 
I was to direct Allay to compensate Mrs B for the potential value of her claim, I could be 
potentially placing Mrs B in a position of betterment, if lender M had gone on to decline the 
claim. And that isnt something Im able to do.
But I do agree Mrs B has lost the opportunity for her claim to be investigated fully. And I think 
Allay should compensate her for this. I also think it wouldve been upsetting for Mrs B when 
she realised her claim had been closed without a full investigation, despite Allay advising her they were awaiting a response from lender M for several years. I recognise the frustration 
this wouldve caused and I think Mrs B should be compensated for this as well.
Allay have offered Mrs B a total compensation amount of £500. And I think this offer is a fair 
one, in line with what I wouldve recommended had it not already been made. I think it 
recognises Mrs Bs loss of opportunity fairly, and the upset this wouldve caused. Because of 
this, I dont think Allay need to offer anything more on this occasion.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mrs B was hoping for. And I recognise Mrs B wont feel 
as though this addresses her potential financial loss, or her feeling of being let down by both 
Allay and lender M. But this decision focuses solely on the actions of Allay, and what I think 
they should do to recognise the errors they made. Any issues Mrs B has regarding the 
service lender M received should be raised separately.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint about Allay Claims Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2021.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman