DRN-3198382
The complaint
Mr C complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE declined a claim he made under his travel 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr C bought a Staysure annual multi-trip travel insurance policy on 6 December 2019. It 
covered him between 4 March 2020 and 3 March 2021, and it included cover for a medical 
condition he declared. The insurer was Great Lakes.
Mr C bought the policy to cover a family holiday to the USA between 1 and 22 April 2020. 
But on 11 March 2020, the US government announced upcoming restrictions on travellers 
who had been in certain areas before entering the country. On 14 March 2020, the US 
government announced plans to restrict travel from Europe. The US borders were 
subsequently closed to UK travellers on 17 March 2020 (UK time). And on 17 March 2020, 
the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO  formerly the Foreign & 
Commonwealth Office (FCO)) advised against all but essential international travel. These 
restrictions remained in place at the time Mr C was due to travel. So, Mr Cs holiday was 
cancelled.
Mr C is claiming for his share of the costs towards an accommodation which was booked 
separately, and he hasnt got a refund for.
Great Lakes said the cancellation section of the policy doesnt provide cover due to 
government action, FCDO advising against travel, or fear of becoming infected with Covid-
19. It also said that Mr C hadnt chosen to extend his cover to cover these circumstances. 
So, Great Lakes declined Mr Cs claim. 
Mr C says the policy wording is misleading as he bought comprehensive cover. He wants 
Great Lakes to pay his claim.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. She acknowledged that the policy 
didnt provide cancellation cover due to a change in FCDO advice in the circumstances of 
this complaint. But she also noted that the policy excluded cover if Mr C travelled against 
FCDO advice. She didnt think it was fair that the policy didnt cover him if he didnt travel, 
but also it didnt cover him if he did travel. This was because she didnt think Great Lakes 
had done enough to highlight these terms to Mr C. Overall, our investigator thought Great 
Lakes should consider the claim.
Mr C agreed with our investigators findings, but Great Lakes didnt. In summary, it said that 
it was clear that the circumstance causing cancellation wasnt an insured event under the 
policy, and there was no policy that would cover every unforeseen risk.
As no agreement was reached, the complaint was passed to me to decide. I issued my 
provisional decision on the complaint in November 2021. Heres what I said:
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must 
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules, and 
other industry guidance, into account when deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of Mr Cs complaint.
Firstly, there may be some limited situations where, if I didnt think an insurer had clearly and 
transparently signposted a policyholder to certain policy provisions relating to claims for 
changes in FCDO advice and/or claims for travelling against FCDO advice, I might think it 
was fair and reasonable for an insurer to accept a claim outside of a strict application of the 
policy terms and conditions. But I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for me to ask 
Great Lakes to do it here. Ill explain why.
The policy documentation
The Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) summarises the cover available. On 
page 2 it says:
You will not be covered if you travel to a country or region where the Foreign and 
Commonwealth Office has advised against all travel or all but essential travel.
The policy terms and conditions say, on pages 39 and 41: 
General exclusions [] No section of this policy shall apply in respect of: []
24. Your travel to a country or specific area or event to which the Foreign & 
Commonwealth Office, or the World Health Organisation (WHO), or similar governing 
body have advised against all, or all but essential travel.
Our investigator considered the above information in reaching her conclusion that it would be 
fair and reasonable for Great Lakes to accept Mr Cs claim. But additionally, Ive also seen 
the key facts document relevant to Mr Cs policy. This document highlights the significant 
conditions and exclusions on the policy. On page 2, it says:
FCO & WHO directive
You are not covered to cancel or cut short your trip as a result of the Foreign & 
Commonwealth Office (FCO) or the World Health Organisation (WHO) or other 
regulatory authority issuing a directive against all but essential travel to/from your 
travel destination for reasons other than earthquake, fire, flood or hurricane, unless 
you have the Optional Travel Disruption cover added to your travel policy.
Our investigator didnt think Great Lakes had clearly highlighted the exclusion of cover from 
claims arising from changes to FCDO advice based on the IPID and the policy terms. But 
Ive also considered the key facts document. And I think this document is clear and 
transparent that cover for cancellation due to changes in FCDO advice is only available in 
the event of an earthquake, fire, flood or hurricane. So, I think it was for Mr C to decide what 
level of cover he wanted to buy.
The policy terms
No insurance policy covers every eventuality and insurers are entitled to decide what level of 
risk they wish to accept in return for the premium paid for a policy. So, Ive looked at the 
terms of Mr Cs policy.The cancellation section of Mr Cs policy lists the circumstances in which cover is available, 
one of them being where f) the Foreign and Commonwealth Office issue a directive advising 
against all, or all but essential travel to your trip destination because of an earthquake, fire, 
flood or hurricane. The FCDO did advise against all but essential travel when Mr Cs holiday 
was cancelled, but this was due to the Covid-19 global pandemic  rather than due to an 
earthquake, fire, flood or hurricane. So, the situation Mr C found himself in isnt one of the 
specific listed insured events under the cancellation section of his policy.
Additionally, I can see that the cancellation section of the policy specifically excludes cover 
for 16. prohibitive regulations by the Government of any country, or delay or amendment of 
the booked trip due to Government action. 
It's difficult to say with any certainty one specific reason for Mr C's claim. A combination of 
factors  the spread of Covid-19, FCDO advice and government restrictions in the USA  are 
all likely to have impacted to some degree on Mr C's decision to cancel his trip. But what's 
clear is that, at the time Mr C cancelled, US government restrictions on travel were in force. 
And when Mr C cancelled the holiday, he referred to restrictions on travel to the USA and not 
being able to travel as planned. So, not only is the reason for the cancellation of the holiday 
not covered as a listed insured event, I think the exclusion I've quoted applies to the 
circumstances of this claim anyway. 
Taking everything into account, I dont think Great Lakes has acted unfairly or unreasonably 
by declining Mr Cs claim.
Were the policy terms clear?
Mr C says that he opted for the comprehensive cover in good faith to ensure he was 
adequately protected for all eventualities. He says he thought he only needed to buy the 
Optional Travel Disruption Extension (which provides cover for cancellation of a holiday due 
to changes in FCDO advice more generally) if he wanted additional level of cover of £1,000 
or £3,000 on top of the £5,000 he already held for cancellation.
Ive thought about what Mr C says about the terms being misleading. But I dont think they 
are. I think the terms make it clear the Optional Travel Disruption Extension is an add-on that 
provides cover in specific circumstances. Mr C didnt buy Optional Travel Disruption 
Extension cover, so I cant fairly ask Great Lakes to pay his claim under this section of the 
policy. 
For clarity, Ive only considered Mr Cs complaint about a declined claim against the insurer. 
I know Mr C also has concerns about the sale of the policy, but thats not something Great 
Lakes is responsible for.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr C, but I dont think Great Lakes has done anything wrong in 
declining the claim.
Great Lakes didnt have any further comments to add following my provisional decision. 
Mr C wasnt happy with my decision. He said other insurers covered the costs of the other 
travellers, and he had a fully comprehensive policy to cover the unforeseen. Mr C didnt 
understand how he could be expected to take out more insurance for something that was 
unknown at the time (Covid-19).
Both parties have now responded to my provisional decision, so Im issuing my final 
decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Mr C is disappointed because he thought he had fully comprehensive cover. But as I 
explained in my provisional decision, no insurance policy covers every eventuality and 
insurers are entitled to decide what level of risk they wish to accept in return for the premium 
paid for a policy.
Mr C bought his policy before Covid-19 was a known risk. But there were other policies on 
the market at the time that wouldve covered changes in FCDO advice more generally  
including the Optional Travel Disruption Extension that he couldve bought from Great Lakes. 
For clarity, this cover isnt something restricted to Covid-19 only.
Having considered everything again, I see no reason to depart from the findings I reached in 
my provisional decision. That means Ive reached the same decision, and for the same 
reasons.
Taking everything into account, I dont think Great Lakes did anything wrong in declining 
Mr Cs claim. This is because I dont think the claim is covered under the terms and 
conditions of the policy, and I dont think there are any reasonable grounds upon which I 
could fairly ask Great Lakes to pay his claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Mr Cs 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman