DRN-3150235
The complaint
Mr J complains that he was unable to complete a balance transfer despite successfully 
applying for a credit card with Sainsburys Bank Plc. 
What happened
Sainsburys Bank approved Mr Js application, but later told him it was unable to accept 
balance transfers from his existing credit card provider. 
Mr J complained and said Sainsburys Bank shouldve made it clearer that there were 
specific exclusions in terms of other lenders it would accept balance transfers from. 
Sainsburys Bank didnt uphold Mr Js complaint and he referred it to this service. 
An investigator looked at Mr Js case and obtained screen shots showing the online 
application process. The investigator didnt agree that information about exclusions for 
balance transfers was hidden or unclear. Mr J asked to appeal, so his complaint has been 
passed to me to make a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr Js application came via a comparison website. But Sainsburys Bank has 
sent us copies of the screens Mr J wouldve seen when completing his application. After 
pressing apply now Sainsburys Bank says its system takes customers to a screen titled 
Just before you start. On that screen, it lists various bullet points, one of which say 
Sainsburys Bank cant process balance transfers from some providers and a link to 
excluded lenders was provided. 
I understand Mr J feels the information was buried and not obvious. And I agree there was a 
lot of information to take in. But I think that reflects the nature of the credit card product Mr J 
applied for. Im very sorry to disappoint Mr J but I dont agree the information in question was 
buried or hidden by Sainsburys Bank. The information Ive seen shows Sainsburys Bank 
did provide confirmation that balance transfers from certain businesses are excluded. I think 
thats reasonable in the circumstances of this case.
As Im satisfied Sainsburys Bank dealt with Mr Js complaint fairly Im not telling it to do 
anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman