DRN-3226627
The complaint
Mr K complains on behalf of C  a limited company he is a director of  that Lloyds Bank 
PLC is holding C liable for a series of transactions it didnt make and has closed its account.
What happened
At the end of October and beginning of November 2019, there were a series of high value 
transactions on Cs business account with Lloyds. Shortly after the last of these transactions 
 Mr K noticed that his company debit card was missing. He reported his card as missing to 
Lloyds. Then when he logged onto his account, noticed these transactions and told Lloyds 
that he didnt make them and they werent made with Cs authority.
Lloyds looked into this and found that the transactions were made using Mr Ks genuine 
company debit card  with the correct PIN used for the transactions. As Mr Ks card and PIN 
had been used, Lloyds held C liable for these on the basis that Mr K had authorised them 
and then closed Cs account.
Mr K complained to Lloyds. He said that Lloyds hadnt investigated the circumstances 
properly and that it shouldve picked up on the transactions  given the amounts of them. He 
said that Lloyds should have reviewed the CCTV evidence from where the fraudulent 
payments were made. He also reported the issue to a fraud reporting agency  but says 
Lloyds had ignored all of this.
Lloyds responded and explained that it would be standing by its decision to close Cs 
accounts. But it acknowledged that the service it had provided around this had fallen short 
and offered Mr K some compensation to put this right.
Mr K remained unhappy with this and brought Cs complaint to us. Our investigator looked 
into this and was persuaded that it was Mr K that authorised these transactions on Cs 
behalf. She noted it was a cheque paid into the account that facilitated the following 
payments. Mr K said he didnt make this deposit but Lloyds records showed that it was made 
using Mr Ks company card and that the PIN was used correctly, with no incorrect attempts. 
Given that Mr K had said that no one knew the PIN and he hadnt kept it written down, she 
couldnt understand how anyone other than Mr K had authorised this payment and the 
subsequent ones that followed. She also noted that Mr K had logged into his account before 
he reported the transactions and would have seen them at this point. It was only several 
hours later, when he logged on again, that he contacted Lloyds about these.
Mr K wasnt happy with this. He said that he hadnt consented to these transactions and nor 
had he logged onto Cs account when our investigator said he had. He said that he tried to 
get CCTV footage from Lloyds but it didnt provide this. Mr K also said that he couldnt 
access any of the money in Cs account despite it sending a notice that it would close the 
account in 60 days. He restated that the amounts here should have flagged on Lloyds 
systems given the amounts involved and the nature of the transactions. So the complaint 
has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For clarity, my decision here only deals with those parts of this complaint that relate directly 
to C as a company. Ive issued a separate decision on other elements of the complaint Mr K 
brought to us and so wont address any of those points here.
In looking at this complaint, Ive considered whether its fair that Lloyds has held C liable for 
the transactions that took place. In doing so, Ive considered all the circumstances of the 
dispute alongside the relevant law, rules and regulations. Here the relevant regulations are 
the Payment Services Regulations 2017. These explain that a payment can only be treated 
as authorised if the payer has consented to it. As a part of that, the payment service provider 
(here Lloyds) must show that the payment was authenticated.
Lloyds records of its investigation into these transactions say that the genuine card was used 
for each transaction and the PIN was used correctly each time  with no incorrect attempts 
in a way that might suggest someone trying to guess it. While some of this information is 
now unavailable to me due to the passage of time, what I have seen supports that Mr Ks 
card was used and that his PIN would have to be entered to make the transactions in 
question here. So, Im satisfied that the transactions were more likely than not authenticated.
Then I need to consider whether Mr K authorised and consented to the transactions on Cs 
behalf. The versions of events differ here - Mr K says it wasnt him, Lloyds has concluded it 
was. I have to look at things impartially and, to make a fair decision, balance the evidence 
available to me and reach a decision on whats more likely than not to have happened.
Ive considered all that Mr K has said and provided but I think its more likely than not that 
he authorised and consented to the payments here. I know that will be a difficult message, 
but thats what the evidence leads me to conclude.
I say this because there is just no likely explanation for how someone unknown to Mr K was 
able to take his card and use it with the correct PIN number on each occasion for a number 
of days. Mr K has explained that his card was missing, but he says that no one knew his PIN 
number and that he never wrote it down. In which case, I cant see how anyone other than 
Mr K authorised these payments. He has said that technology has made it easy for criminals 
to commit fraud these days  but there is simply no evidence to suggest that this is whats 
likely to have happened here.
In deciding this, Ive also taken into account the circumstances around the transactions, 
which also make me think its more likely than not that Mr K authorised them. He has 
suggested that around the time of the transactions, he was looking to close the account and 
before this he logged onto his online banking to provide information to his accountant.
So it may have been that Mr K wasnt actively monitoring Cs account when the transactions 
in dispute were made. But on the day the disputed transactions stopped, Lloyds 
investigation here shows that someone logged into Cs account using Mr Ks details and 
security information at 15:54. At that point, there was no further contact about the account 
with Lloyds. Its only later, at 19:24 that Mr K logged on and then reported his card missing at 
19:34.
Mr K says that he didnt log on to his online banking at 15:54. But Lloyds records show that 
someone did and they used Mr Ks security details to do so. Given that these security details 
were particular to Mr K and the same ones that were used later to access the account at 
19:24, I think its more likely than not to have been Mr K himself. That being the case, I dont know why he wouldnt have reported the transactions which would have been visible to him 
when he first logged on at 15:54.
So overall here, the evidence persuades me that its more likely than not that Mr K 
authorised and consented to these transactions on Cs behalf. That means I think its fair for 
Lloyds to hold C liable for them. I realise that Mr K thinks that Lloyds should have flagged 
these transactions or stopped them. But, as Im satisfied that Mr K most likely authorised 
them in the first place  it follows that I dont think this would make a difference here.
Mr K thinks that CCTV evidence would help show that it wasnt him that made the 
transactions. But that wouldnt change my decision here, where the information I already 
have is persuasive. Even if CCTV showed someone other than Mr K making some of the 
transactions in question  it wouldnt answer the question of how someone else came to be 
in possession of his card and the associated security information. And CCTV wouldnt rule 
out that someone other than Mr K may have made these transactions with his consent.
So Im satisfied that Lloyds is fairly holding C liable for these transactions. But Lloyds also 
took the decision to close Cs account here too. Thats something it was entitled to do as a 
business. Ultimately, a business like Lloyds is entitled to choose who it offers banking 
facilities to  just as a customer is free to decide who they bank with. Lloyds has explained to 
this service why it closed the accounts and Im satisfied based on these reasons that it was 
entitled to do this in the circumstances. 
Lloyds also blocked access to the accounts. Again, Lloyds has explained why it did that here 
and Im satisfied it was entitled to have done that. Thats in line with the terms and conditions 
of the account which give examples of when Lloyds may take action like this. 
Mr K has said that the fact that Lloyds blocked his account meant that it effectively closed his 
account then as he couldnt do anything during the 60 days of notice it gave him. In this 
respect, Lloyds acknowledged that there were some shortcomings in its service around this 
for Mr K. It made an offer of compensation to him personally. But here, the eligible 
complainant is C as a limited company and I see no reason that I could make any award for 
any inconvenience caused to it as a company. Ultimately, Lloyds was entitled to do what it 
did here and Im satisfied it acted fairly in doing so, even if Mr K disagrees with this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2022.
 
James Staples
Ombudsman