DRN-3352983
The complaint
Mrs M and Mr M complain that Quickly Finance Limited trading as Fast Track Reclaim (FTR)
are asking for a success fee for a claim that theyd already paid.
What happened
In June 2019, Mrs M and Mr M signed letters of authority (LoA) instructing FTR to act for
them in pursuing PPI claims with their lender Ill call R. In April 2020 Mrs M and Mr M said
R told them their claims were successful, and shortly after FTR asked for their success fee
for the successful claim, which Mrs M and Mr M paid. But in September 2021, FTR sent
them an invoice asking them to pay another success fee. Mrs M and Mr M complained to
FTR.
FTR said that Mrs M and Mr M had two successful claims for mis-sold PPI with R. Theyd
received the compensation for both in April 2020, but FTR had only been told by R about
one of the claims being successful at that time. And theyd sent Mrs M and Mr M their
invoice for their success fee which Mrs M and Mr M had paid. But in September 2021 they
were made aware that the other claim had also been successful. So, they asked Mrs M and
Mr M to pay their success fee for this claim as it was successful because of the work done
by FTR.
Mrs M and Mr M werent happy with the response from FTR and referred their complaint to
us.
Our investigator said Mrs M and Mr M had authorised FTR to pursue their claims for PPI.
And their terms and conditions were clear as to the fee that FTR would charge for successful
claims. Mrs M and Mr M knew theyd received redress for both claims, and the invoice sent
by FTR only referred to one of these claims. So, he said FTR was justified in asking for their
success fee as both claims were successful.
Mrs M and Mr M didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in February 2022 that said:
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im currently minded to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Its not in dispute that Mrs M and Mr M instructed FTR to act for them in pursuing a claim for
mis-sold PPI. And that Mrs M and Mr M had successful PPI claims which they paid FTR the
success fee they asked for when theyd received their redress in 2020. In reaching my
decision I need to determine whether the success fee FTR is asking Mrs M and Mr M to pay
in 2021 for another PPI claim is justified. And whether FTR has acted fairly and reasonably
in their actions with Mrs M and Mr M.
Mrs M and Mr M signed a LoA in June 2019, and I can see from FTRs records they sent a
letter of complaint to R in August 2019. FTRs records show two reference numbers for
these claims, *6171 and *6169.
The agreement Mrs M and Mr M would have had with FTR was on a No win No fee basis.
This means FTR charged a percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the amount of
work they did. This meant any work done on any unsuccessful claims would be done for
free. Where a claim was successful, FTRs fee maybe more or less than the value of the
work they actually did. This is the risk taken by all parties in this type of agreement.
In March 2020 R told FTR that they didnt hold a valid LoA for Mrs M and Mr M, the case
reference on the letter is for *6171 only. But on 22 April 2020 I can see R told FTR that Mrs
M and Mr Ms other claim *6169 was successful. So I think it was clear that the issue with
the LoA only related to claim *6171.
After being notified claim *6169 was successful, I can see on the same day FTR asked Mrs
M and Mr M to sign new LoAs. In asking Mrs M and Mr M to sign the new LoAs FTR said:
The Lender has advised us that due to the details you have provided on the letter of
authority being invalid, they are unable to acknowledge the complaint to us directly. In order
for us to progress your claim and ensure that you get the best advice and the highest chance
of success you need to return the letter of authority (enclosed) within the next 7 days.
Mrs M and Mr M signed the LoAs on 27 April 2020 and returned them to FTR. From FTRs
records they sent the new LoAs to R on 5 May 2020. The same day FTR sent their invoice
to Mrs M and Mr M for the successful claim *6169. And this was paid by Mrs M and Mr M, 18
May 2020. So, Im satisfied FTR was authorised to act for Mrs M and Mr M for claim *6169.
And R recognised FTR as Mrs M and Mr Ms representative as they told FTR when the
claim was successful.
But Mrs M and Mr M received the redress for both claims *6169 and *6171 on 9 April 2020.
As outlined above R had said they didnt have a valid LoA for claim *6171. So, while Im
satisfied R had accepted the LoA for claim *6169, and FTR were authorised to act for Mrs
M and Mr M for this claim. I dont think R accepted FTR as Mrs M and Mr Ms
representative for claim *6171 as they didnt have a valid LoA.
I can see R paid Mrs M and Mr M the redress for claim *6171 in early April 2020. And this
was before FTR had asked Mrs M and Mr M to sign another LoA that would have authorised
FTR to act on their behalf, and before FTR sent the new LoA to R in May 2020.
I think this explains why R didnt notify FTR when Mrs M and Mr Ms claim *6171 was
successful as they didnt accept FTR had authority to act for Mrs M and Mr M.
So, at the time the redress was paid by R to Mrs M and Mr M in early April 2020, FTR
didnt have a valid authorisation accepted by R for them to represent them. As I dont think
FTR was authorised to act for Mrs M and Mr M for claim *6171 before the claim was
successful, I dont think their fee is justified.
Response to my provisional decision
Mrs M and Mr M didnt ask for any other comments or information to be considered.
FTR didnt agree with the provisional decision and said that their fee was justified. In 
summary FTR said :In August 2019 R said theyd found two PPI policies. They submitted letters of 
complaint to R on Mrs M and Mr Ms behalf later the same month with the 
references *6169 and *6171;
case specific LoAs werent submitted or requested by R. And R had investigated 
based on the authority provided by the LoAs signed by Mrs M and Mr M on the 4th 
June 2019;
the letter sent in April 2020 that said the LoA was invalid shouldnt have been sent to 
Mrs M and Mr M. But should have been challenged by FTR with R;
Mrs M and Mr M had signed further LoAs in April 2020 that showed they were happy 
for FTR to act for them; and 
the redress made to Mrs M and Mr M was as a result of the submission of the LoAs 
to their lender R. 
My final findings
Ive considered the comments that have been made. But Ive not been persuaded to change 
my thinking. Ill explain why.
As I said in my provisional decision, R  did consider FTR as Mrs M and Mr Ms 
representative for one of their PPI claims, as they told FTR when the claim was successful. 
And on FTR asking for their fee Mrs M and Mr M paid it.
But I dont think R saw FTR as Mrs M and Mr Ms representative for the other claim. Its not 
in dispute that a letter was sent in April 2020 to Mrs M and Mr M saying the LoA was invalid 
for case reference *6171. FTR said they should have challenged this with R but they didnt. 
And as R didnt consider FTR to be representing Mrs M and Mr M they didnt tell FTR when 
the claim *6171 was successful. 
While Mrs M and Mr M did sign another LoA for FTR in April 2020 this was after the redress 
had already been paid to them by R for both the mis-sold PPI claims including *6171. So, I 
dont think FTR was authorised to act for Mrs M and Mr M for claim *6171 before the claim 
was successful. And I dont think its fair or reasonable for Mrs M and Mr M to be asked to 
pay this fee many months later as I dont think the fee is justified. My final decision
I uphold this complaint. And ask Quickly Finance Limited trading as Fast Track Reclaim to 
waive their fee for claim *6171.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 April 2022.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman