DRN-4050087
The complaint
D complains about a payment he says he made from his banking account with TSB Bank plc 
that went missing. 
What happened
In September 2022 D says he made a payment to a third-party credit card of £5000 from his 
TSB account that didnt arrive. So, D logged a complaint with TSB.
TSB looked into the complaint but didnt uphold it. TSB said that D hadnt provided enough 
information to raise a chargeback with the third-party bank. Following the Final Response 
Letter (FRL) from TSB, it did raise the chargeback and in October 2022, £5000 was returned 
to Ds TSB account. 
D felt an additional £5000 was still missing, so our investigator looked into the complaint. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint as she thought there was an additional £5000 
outstanding after the successful chargeback. Our investigator asked TSB to reimburse the 
money and pay an additional £450 for the trouble and upset the situation had caused. 
TSB responded to the investigators view and didnt agree with the outcome. It said two 
amounts of £5000 had been made from the TSB account, and these were both received by 
the third-party credit card they were intended to pay. D then raised a chargeback and one of 
these payments was retuned. This left £5000 with the third-party credit card, which 
according to TSB, matched the TSB statement.
As TSB didnt agree with the investigators view, the complaint was passed to me to issue a 
final decision. 
I emailed D on 23 March 2023 to say that Id looked through the information provided by D 
and TSB and hadnt found evidence there was a missing £5000. I asked D to provide more 
information to highlight where D felt the missing payment was showing on the TSB 
statement. D didnt supply any new information, so Im now formalising my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its very clear from the information D has given us that he feels very strongly about his 
complaint. Im also very sorry to hear of the financial challenges D has been suffering from. 
Ive read through the information in its entirety, and having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold this complaint. I know this will come as a disappointment to D, but I hope after 
listening to my reasoning, he will understand how and why I reached my outcome.
I want to be clear to D that Im only looking into his complaint against TSB. As the third-party 
credit card is in another name, my decision wont touch on that complaint. 
TSB has sent us its internal system notes to show that D made two payments of £5000 to a 
third-party credit card on the 5th and 6th of September 2022. These payments are also 
evidenced by the bank statements D and TSB have sent our service. 
TSB has also sent screenshots and explained that although the payments were made on the 
5th and 6th, the payments dont show as completed until 7th and 8th of September 2022. 
Our service has been sent copies of the third-party credit card statement for the period in 
question, and I can see the two payments did credit on 5th and 6th September 2022. So, 
although the money shows on Ds statements as debited a day late, the money was received 
as intended by the third-party credit card on the day D made the payments. 
Our investigator asked both TSB and the receiving bank to confirm that these two payments 
were made and received without issue, which they confirmed they were.
D then asked for a chargeback to be completed and on 11 October 2022 the third-party 
credit card account was debited by £5000, and it was sent back to Ds TSB account. That 
£5000 was received into the TSB account on 27 October 2022. This has again been 
evidenced by the screen shots and statements provided by the two banks. Ive seen a copy 
of the chargeback request and although D asked for the payment made on the 08 
September 2022 back, as no payment was made on that day, the payment from the 06 
October 2022 was recalled. 
So, at this point both accounts look to be in the correct position as arranged by D and Im 
satisfied that no payment of £5000 has gone missing from the TSB account on the two dates 
mentioned above.
D says the missing payment was made on 8 September 2022. I understand D attempted to 
make another £5000 payment on the 8 September, but this wasnt authorised and didnt 
debit the TSB account. If it had, Id expect it to show on the TSB statement around 10 
September. Based on the information Ive seen, the only debit of £5000 on the 8th was in 
fact the payment D authorised on 6 September 2022. So, according to the statements both 
D and TSB have supplied, two payments of £5000 were the only two made and these were 
both received at the intended account. 
D has complained that the third-party credit card is £5000 short on the payments he sent. As 
D raised a chargeback request, one of the two £5000 payments were sent back to D and 
credited his account on 27 October 2022. Ive seen evidence of this on the TSB statement. 
This would leave the third-party credit account short of £5000. So, the total now sent is only 
the one payment of £5000. 
D has said that at one point he was £10,000 short of funds due to an error with the payment. 
Ive asked D to show me where he thinks this £10,000 is missing from the TSB statement, 
but hes been unable to. D says due to the time that passed; he is unable to show the 
missing payment. Ive considered this point carefully and whilst I understand the point D is 
making regarding the time thats passed, the statements are still available to view. If any 
payments were missing, they would show on the TSB statement that D supplied and still has 
access to. 
I understand D is also unhappy with how long it took TSB to raise the chargeback and 
investigate the money he said was missing. TSB have said the chargeback form wasnt fully 
completed and I can see it did raise the chargeback request once this was done. Its also 
clear from the information D has supplied that there has been some confusion between all 
parties involved regarding what payment D was referring to when he said it was missing. 
This has taken TSB some time to understand, and I find that to be reasonable given the 
situation. In summary, based on all the information supplied by D, TSB and the third-party bank, Im 
satisfied that D made two payments of £5000 and these were both received without error. 
One of these payments then got returned via the chargeback process. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 April 2023.
 
Tom Wagstaff
Ombudsman