DRN-3220333
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy with how HSBC UK Bank Plc has dealt with his request for a refund of a 
payment he made using his HSBC credit card.
What happened
At the beginning of 2020, Mr M booked a hire car for an overseas holiday. He made the 
initial booking using an agent Ill call A. But the car was actually being rented through a 
company Ill call H.
 
Mr M used his HSBC credit card to pay A for the original booking. A further payment of 
£578.60 was later charged to his credit card by H, primarily for additional insurance. Mr M 
told us he never agreed to this extra insurance as cover was included in the amount hed 
paid to A.
 
When Mr M spoke to HSBC to ask for a refund, he was unhappy with the information he was 
given, and the service provided by the bank. He told us the banks call handlers dont 
understand English or explain things correctly. HSBC initially credited the disputed amount 
back to Mr Ms account while it looked into things, but it later re-debited this. Mr M was 
unhappy with how the bank dealt with this issue, including being given conflicting information 
about how long things would take. So, he complained.
 
HSBC accepted there had been problems with the banks customer service. It said sorry and 
credited his account with £50. Not long after this, Mr Ms refund request was passed to 
HSBCs fraud department as it seems there was a question mark over whether Mr M had 
authorised this payment.
 
Mr M wasnt happy with how HSBC had dealt with his complaint. So, he brought it to our 
service. Mr M also told us the rental car he was given wasnt what hed paid for. One of our 
investigators looked into things. Briefly: she thought the car supplied by H was of a suitable 
standard; Mr M had signed a document agreeing to the extra charges by H; and she didnt 
think thered been a breach of contract or misrepresentation here so she said she wouldnt 
be asking HSBC to refund the disputed amount. But she did think the bank should pay Mr M 
a further £100 for the poor service it provided.
 
HSBC accepted our investigators findings. Mr M didnt. He asked for his complaint to be 
reviewed by someone senior. So, as this matter remains unresolved, its been passed to me 
for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold it in part. Ill explain why. But first, Im very aware that 
Ive summarised this complaint very briefly, in less detail than has been provided, and in my 
own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think is the 
heart of the matter here: has HSBC dealt with Mr Ms request for a refund fairly and 
reasonably? 
If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. As above, 
Ive considered all the available evidence. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every 
individual point or argument to reach what I think is a fair outcome. Our rules allow me to do 
this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. 
The crux of Mr Ms complaint is that he says: H charged him for something he didnt agree to 
and didnt need; H gave him a smaller car than was agreed; and, he had numerous 
problems understanding, or being understood, by HSBCs call handlers and got a poor 
service from the bank.
 
Mr M told us he asked for a refund under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (S75). 
In some circumstances, where Mr M has a claim against a supplier for a breach of contract 
or misrepresentation, he also has a like claim against the creditor  in this case thats HSBC.
Class of rental car provided
Thinking about the size of car Mr M got, I can see he made his initial booking and payment 
to A. The booking set out that Mr M would be renting a Mercedes C class or similar. Ive 
looked at the details of this. Its clear to me that A wasnt the rental company. Instead, it was 
acting as an agent for the rental company, H. As terms and conditions clearly set out that it 
was responsible for placing an order for a rental car with H.
 
Certain criteria must be present for someone to be able to raise a S75 claim. Im not satisfied 
Mr M is necessarily eligible to raise such a claim on this issue. But I dont think I need to 
make a finding on this as its a moot point. Thats because Im satisfied theres not been a 
breach of contract or a misrepresentation on this matter. I say this because Im satisfied A 
didnt misrepresent the type of car Mr M would get  and Im also satisfied he got the correct 
class of car. Ill explain why.
In effect, A was agreeing to arrange a car rental booking through H for Mr M and to then give 
him a voucher to redeem with H to reflect the booking hed paid for. The responsibility for the 
fulfilment of the rental booking  including what class of car Mr M was given  rested with H. 
As responsibility was to arrange the booking and to provide Mr M with the voucher, and I 
can see it did this. So, Im satisfied there was no breach of contract or misrepresentation in 
respect of this as A supplied what Mr M paid for.
 
As above, I can see the booking details were for a Mercedes C class or similar. I can also 
see from the invoice from H that Mr M gave us, that the rental car he was given was a BMW 
X1 4x4. I know Mr M doesnt agree, but Im satisfied this is indeed a similar class of car to a 
Mercedes C class. Again, I think Mr M was given what he paid for.
Additional Insurance Charges
Ill now turn to the extra amount Mr M paid to H. Here, the payment was actually made to H 
rather than its agent A. Mr M told us at no stage did H discuss with him any optional extras, 
nor did he agree to having any. He said, he wasnt made aware H even offered the 
additional insurance option, and if hed been told this, he would have explained he already 
had As insurance cover included on his voucher and wouldnt need it twice. Mr M also told 
us he only became aware of the extra charges when his credit card statement arrived.  But 
this is contradicted by the evidence he sent to us.
 Firstly, Ive looked at the invoice from H that Mr M provided. This is dated 1 February 2020. 
Mr M has highlighted that the car provided was a BMW X1 4x4. The invoice gives a clear 
breakdown of the charges, including details of the insurance cover. So, Im satisfied from this 
invoice that Mr M was made aware at the time the extra options that H offered and what the 
cost was.
 
Ive also looked at Hs Rental Record that Mr M sent to us. Again, this gives a breakdown of 
the cost of the extra charges. I can see Mr M has signed the bottom of this record. So once 
more, Im satisfied from this that Mr M should reasonably have been aware at the time of the 
detail and cost of these charges.
 
Ive also thought about what Mr M told us about not needing this extra insurance as it was 
already provided by his voucher from A. I dont agree this was the situation. The voucher 
from A states that collision damage and theft protection cover was included. But the voucher 
also makes it clear that a large excess applied in the event of loss or damage to the hire car. 
Ive looked at the details of the cover supplied by H. This is designed to waive the excess 
payments not included in the cover detailed in As voucher. So, Im satisfied Hs cover didnt 
duplicate the cover in the voucher.
 
After taking all this into account, Im not satisfied Mr M wasnt made aware of the extra 
charges at the time, or that the extra insurance duplicated what hed already paid for. 
Theres nothing in the available evidence to suggest H didnt provide this cover to Mr M.
 
Nor am I satisfied that, given that the charges were clearly set out in the invoice, and the 
Rental Record which Mr M signed, he didnt authorise the payment. It follows that I dont 
think theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by H. As such, theres no basis 
for me to direct HSBC to refund this payment to Mr M.
 
HSBCs Customer Service 
Ill now turn to Mr Ms points about the difficulties he told us he had when speaking to 
HSBCs call handlers. How the bank chooses to structure its call centres is a commercial 
decision for it to make. As such, this isnt something wed interfere with.
 
But what I have thought about is whether Mr M has been treated fairly in the individual 
circumstances of this complaint. So, Ive looked at the customer service he experienced 
when asking HSBC for a refund and the calls he had with the bank relating to this. The bank 
accepts there were problems here and that Mr M was given incorrect information. I can see it 
said sorry and credited his account with £50. Im pleased to see the bank has agreed, in line 
with our investigators view, to make a further payment of £100 to Mr M. Im satisfied this is 
fair and reasonable. 
I say this because the issues Mr M experienced didnt ultimately affect his refund request. I 
can also understand, given that Mr M said he didnt authorise the extra charges, why HSBC 
got its fraud department involved.  As Ive outlined above, after looking at the available 
evidence, I dont think theres grounds for HSBC to give Mr M a refund. Im satisfied the 
rental car he was given was of a similar class to what he booked. Im also satisfied he 
authorised the additional payment to H and it supplied the extra level of insurance cover 
outlined in its invoice.
My final decision
My final decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc should pay Mr M a further £100 on top of the 
£50 it has already credited to his account.
 This final decision ends the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. This 
means we are unable to consider the complaint further, nor enter into any correspondence 
or discussion about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2022. 
John Miles
Ombudsman