DRN-3599226
The complaint
Mr G complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) carried out 
unnecessarily detailed checks into his account. 
What happened
Mr G has held a credit card with AESEL for many years. On 26 October 2021, AESEL 
emailed him requesting documentation in relation to his identity and address. That email set 
out the documents that AESEL would accept in relation to each of these. AESEL also asked 
Mr G to declare his: nationality, employment status, industry, occupation and sources of 
income. Mr G says that he had not expected to receive this email and so, mindful of the risk 
of phishing scams or similar such emails, he ignored it.
On 8 November 2021, AESEL wrote again to Mr G, telling him that it had not received the 
information it had requested. It told him that it required that the information be provided 
within 20 days, or else his account would be terminated on 9 January 2022. AESEL chased 
again on 5 December 2021, telling Mr G that his account had been suspended and would be 
terminated on 24 January 2022 if the required documentation had not been received by 
then.
On 8 December 2021, Mr G contacted AESEL to complain about these checks. He said that 
the information was not needed, and that requests should have been made by letter. He 
asked why the checks were being made, as they had not been done before. Mr G was told 
that they were an FCA requirement. Mr G says that he has contacted the FCA and been told 
that the specific documents requested by AESEL are not set out in their regulations, so he 
thinks that it was misleading to say that this was a regulatory requirement. Mr G provided a 
partial copy of his paper driving licence, which he says ought to satisfy AESELs 
requirements. He says that it was wrong for AESEL to suspend his account in these 
circumstances. 
Mr G says that during the course of this and other complaints with AESEL, they have been 
unprofessional in the way that they handled his telephone calls. He says specifically that the 
calls were repeatedly hung up by AESEL employees and that this was inappropriate. AESEL 
says that any calls which were terminated by its staff were a response to Mr Gs conduct on 
those calls and followed warnings that the call would be ended.
Mr G also says that the online chat service provided by AESEL was unreliable, in that he 
could not always use it. AESEL have looked into this and agreed that it was likely that the 
service hadnt worked for Mr G to the standard they would hope. On 29 December 2021, 
AESEL provided its final response to the ongoing complaint.  They have paid Mr G £100 in 
relation to this.
Our investigator thought that AESEL had not done anything wrong. While the specific details 
of the KYC checks are not set down by the FCA, some checks are required and it is for a 
bank to decide what form these should take. Mr G did not agree and so this has come to me 
for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.As our investigator recently explained, my decision here will address the complaints that 
American Express have responded to about them telling Mr G they needed further 
information from him and about the service provided around this. There have been further 
complaints raised by Mr G about the actual closure of the account itself and AMEX not 
providing a suitable response to a Data Subject Access Request which will need to be 
considered separately. 
It is a regulatory requirement that businesses carry out certain checks in relation to accounts 
like Mr Gs. The aims of these checks are set out in FCA guidance and are known as Know 
your customer (KYC), but the specific steps which banks take are something that they can 
decide in how they comply with the relevant regulatory requirements. That being the case, I 
think it was fair for AESEL to say that the checks were necessary to comply with FCA 
requirements. The manner and timing of the checks were decided by AESEL, but that does 
not in itself mean that they were not required.
So Im satisfied that AESEL were entitled to perform the checks they did here and to ask for 
reasonable information in line with these. Having considered the relevant FCA guidance, I 
think that it is reasonable to require two separate documents, one in relation to identity and 
the other address. B has asked for two forms of ID here, in line with its usual procedure. I 
dont think thats an onerous request. Nor do I think it was unreasonable in the 
circumstances here, given the nature of the checks and the regulatory requirements B was 
seeking to comply with.
Mr G says that this was the first such check made on him, and that other people are not 
being asked for this information. But AESEL has shown that the checks here were part of its 
process in trying to comply with regulatory obligations. It may be that the form these checks 
take differ from customer to customer. But its my role to consider the individual 
circumstances of the complaint thats referred to us. Here, Im satisfied that AESEL treated 
Mr G in a similar way to any other customer in his position. They required certain information 
and asked him for this in a clear way.
I have then considered whether it was appropriate to request the information by email. I am 
satisfied that it was. While I can understand Mr G considered the emails to be potential 
scams, this does not mean that it was wrong for AESEL to contact him by email, or to 
escalate the issue when these emails did not receive a response beyond forwarding them to 
a fraud check address. AESEL can only do so much to make their emails look genuine, as it 
depends on how a customer may perceive these in light of the wider issues around fraud 
and scams. But their emails contained information such as the last digits of Mr Gs account 
and his full name and were sent in line with AESELs systems and procedures. I have to be 
fair to both sides and so Im satisfied AESEL has done enough here.
While I can understand Mr G wanting to be careful  when looked at impartially, email is a 
valid way of contacting a customer. While Mr G thinks that email is less formal and 
professional than a hard copy letter, I do not think that it is unreasonable or unfair to make 
use of it. The messages sent were clear and consistent about what Mr G needed to do here 
and about what would happen if he didnt do that. I cant see that he contacted AESEL in any 
other way to discuss this either, which it would have been reasonable to expect, given the 
urgency of these messages. 
I am satisfied, then, that the request for additional information was properly made, and that 
the explanation given was a reasonable one. I am satisfied that Mr G did not comply fully 
with the request and that, in line with warnings, AESEL suspended his account. In the 
circumstances, I am satisfied that this was fair and reasonable.In relation to the online chat and telephone call issues, I have considered the information 
provided by AESEL, including call notes. I can see that AESEL cannot identify the issue with 
the online chat, but that it has decided that something probably went wrong, and has 
credited Mr G with £100. Given the fact that their investigation did not identify any system 
issues, I am satisfied that this was a reasonable outcome, and that they do not have to do 
anything more in relation to this. 
I have considered the telephone call notes, and can see that the call handlers state that the 
calls became heated, and that Mr G was warned that the calls would be ended. I have not 
been able to listen to the calls, but I have been able to read the notes that AESELs call 
handlers made and considered this alongside what Mr G has told us to decide what I think 
more likely happened. Mr G was understandably upset at being asked for additional 
information. I think that it is likely, given the notes, that call handlers have, on occasion, 
found his manner to be inappropriate. Its clear that Mr G views things differently, but AESEL 
is entitled to decide on how it approaches calls like these and based on what Ive seen, it 
acted fairly in terminating the calls as it did here where it wasnt happy with Mr Gs conduct 
during them. In the circumstances, I cannot say that AESEL got anything wrong in the way 
that the calls were handled. 
I can understand Mr Gs unhappiness at being asked to provide new details and documents 
in relation to an account he has held for such a long time. But I think that AESEL made clear 
why the documents and information were needed, and gave clear and reasonable 
timescales to provide them. In the circumstances, I think that suspending his account was a 
reasonable response. It follows that I wont be asking it to do any more here.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2022.
 
Marc Kelly
Ombudsman