DRN-3005040
The complaint
Mr J complains that Ageas Retail Limited wont pay for his recovery after a breakdown claim 
on his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr Js car broke down and he said he called Ageas agent to see what cover he had. Mr J 
said the agent wasnt able to view his policy so a manager said he would send out 
breakdown recovery free of charge. But six months later the breakdown recovery company 
sent Mr J an invoice for £776.40. Ageas said it had no records of a call from Mr J and he 
didnt have breakdown cover. 
Our investigator initially recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought it 
was more likely than not that Mr J had called Ageas agent. And the agents name was on 
the breakdown job sheet. So he thought the manager had instructed the breakdown free of 
charge. But Ageas provided further evidence from the breakdown company that Mr J had 
called it and hed given it the agents name. So the investigator thought it was for Mr J to pay 
the invoice. 
Mr J replied that he hadnt made the call to the breakdown company. He said he had no 
internet access at the time and couldnt have looked for its number.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr J feels frustrated that Ageas wont take responsibility for the invoice 
for his recovery. And I think, two years after the event, anyones recollections may not be 
perfect. Like the investigator, Ive had to consider who was more likely to have instructed the 
breakdown recovery company and so who is responsible for paying the bill. 
Mr J said he called Ageas agent but, because it was changing administrators, it wasnt able 
to locate his policy to see if he had breakdown recovery. Ageas said that if Mr J had called 
its agent, he would have been passed to the correct administrator. It had no record of his call 
and no footprint had been left in the policy record. The breakdown was in the afternoon 
when offices would have been open. 
Ageas says that it has no relationship with the breakdown recovery company as it uses a 
different recovery network. But the job sheet provided by Mr J has Ageas agent in the box 
for the callers name. Mr J provided an email from the recovery company that stated that as 
the agents name was in the caller box, then the initial call was from it.
But Ageas has provided emails from the recovery company saying that Mr J gave it Ageas 
agents name as the customer, and it had his own number on the job sheet as hed called it. 
But I take Mr Js point that this seems an unlikely feat of recall two years after the event. 
Mr J thought his number would have been taken from his policy. Hes told us that Ageas 
agent couldnt access his policy at the time, but hed provided personal details. But the 
phone number on the invoice isnt the one on his policy documents, which is also the 
number hes given us. 
Mr J also recalled that he didnt have any credit on his phone in any case so he couldnt 
have called anyone on this number. And so it wouldnt have been recorded on any system 
automatically. He thought he may have used his passengers phone to call the agent. So I 
have no explanation for how the recovery company obtained Mr Js mobile number unless 
he provided it directly. 
I think the onus is on Mr J to show that he has a valid claim. But Mr J wasnt able to provide 
call records to show that he had called Ageas agent rather than the recovery company. And 
he wasnt able to obtain a call recording from the recovery company that would have shown 
that Ageass agent, rather than himself, had contacted it. So I have no evidence to show who 
contacted the recovery company, apart from its recollection two years after the event and the 
contradiction of the agents name as the caller on the job sheet. 
In his initial complaint letter to us, Mr J said he had been quoted a recovery cost before he 
was offered free recovery by Ageas agent. I cant see who provided this quote to Mr J. Hes 
told us that he didnt have internet access at the time. 
So I have no convincing evidence to show that Ageas agent instructed the recovery 
company on this occasion. Mr J didnt have breakdown cover on his policy. So, although I 
can understand Mr Js frustration, I cant say that Ageas should pay the invoice for Mr Js 
recovery.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman