DRN-4420300
The complaint
Ms T complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank was irresponsible 
in its lending to her.
What happened
Ms T applied for a Tesco Bank credit card in October 2021. Her application was approved, 
and she was provided with a credit limit of £5,100.
Ms T says that Tesco Bank didnt carry out adequate checks before the credit was provided 
and she was only asked about how much she paid towards her mortgage. Ms T says she is 
self-employed and so her income fluctuated and that given her outgoings the lending was 
unaffordable.
Tesco Bank issued a final response letter dated 25 January 2023. It said that when Ms T 
applied for a credit card it checked the information on her application with other sources and 
carried out a credit check. It said that following its review of Ms Ts application and credit 
report it was happy to move ahead with her application. It said that Ms T signed the 
agreement and that the charges and fees had been applied in line with the terms and 
conditions of Ms Ts account.
Ms T wasnt satisfied with Tesco Banks response and referred her complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld this complaint. He thought that Tesco Bank had carried out 
proportionate checks before Ms Ts account was opened but said that the information 
gathered through these checks should have raised concerns. He noted that Ms Ts credit file 
showed she owed £16,581 to other creditors and sustainable repayments towards these 
debts would have taken a significant portion of her income. He said the additional credit 
provided by Tesco Bank resulted in Ms Ts overall debt being higher than her yearly income. 
Given this he didnt think the lending should have been provided.
Tesco Bank didnt agree with our investigators view. It said Ms T had a clean credit history 
with no signs that she was struggling to manage her financial commitments. It said that Ms T 
had a monthly net income of £1,500 and from the data it received from the credit reference 
agencies she was paying £361 towards her loan balances and £121 towards her mortgage. 
It then used industry standards to estimate her other costs. It said taking into account Ms Ts 
repayments towards her revolving debt would still have shown the credit card with a limit of 
£5,100 to be affordable. It said that debt to income ratio was measured on a customers 
existing unsecured debt against their monthly income and that Ms Ts was within its 
tolerance. It also noted that Ms T completed a £3,000 balance transfer at 0% which would 
have potentially reduced her monthly outgoings.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint because, while I agreed with our 
investigator that the complaint should be upheld, I reached this decision based on different 
reasoning.
The details of my provisional decision are set out below.
Tesco Bank gathered information through its application and carried out a credit check 
before providing the credit card to Ms T. The credit check didnt raise any concerns that 
Ms T was struggling to manage her financial commitments (no defaults, judgements or other 
adverse data was recorded). But it did show that she had other loans and revolving credit 
outstanding. Ms T was recorded as self-employed, and her income noted as £17,000 
annually resulting in a monthly net income of £1,500. Ms Ts monthly loan repayments were 
recorded as £361 and her balance on her revolving credit was £4,706 which would result in 
repayments at 5% being around £235 a month.
Based on the information gathered, Ms T was already paying a substantial portion of her 
declared income towards other credit commitments (around 40% based on the numbers 
noted above). Ms T was self- employed and has said her income fluctuated which isnt 
uncommon. Given this I think it would have been reasonable for Tesco Bank to have asked 
further questions to ensure it had a clear understanding of Ms Ts financial circumstances 
and the money she would have available to repay the new credit.
Ms T has provided copies of her bank statements for the months leading up to the credit 
card account being opened and a copy of her tax self-assessment from the time. I have 
looked at this information to assess what Tesco Bank would likely have found had further 
checks been made.
Ms T declared an annual gross income of £17,000. A monthly net income of £1,500 was 
then recorded. However, based on an annual gross income of £17,000, the net monthly 
income for a salaried individual would have been around £1,300. Ms T was self-employed 
and so it would be important to understand the income that she was able to take towards her 
expenses (after items such as business expenses). I cannot say what Ms T would have 
disclosed if asked about her net income (after any business expenses) but her self- 
assessment gave a total profit of £6,437 for the year of 2021 - 2022, suggesting her income 
available for her personal use was only around £536 a month.
That said, even taking her monthly net income as £1,300 (based on the gross income of 
£17,000), I still think this raises concerns about the affordability of a credit card with a credit 
limit of £5,100. I say this because Ms Ts credit file showed she was paying £361 towards 
her loan balances and (based on a rate of 5% for sustainable repayments) £235 for her 
existing revolving credit. This gives total monthly credit commitments of around £596 (over 
40% of Ms Ts declared monthly income). Adding the Tesco Bank credit card increases this 
amount to around 65% of her monthly income. I think that this level of repayments should 
have raised concerns. Further noting Ms Ts other expenses, including her mortgage, other 
housing costs such as leasehold payments, council tax and utilities as well as her transport 
and other general living costs and that her income fluctuated and was possibly substantially 
lower than declared, I do not think this lending should have been considered sustainably 
affordable for Ms T.
Based on the above I am upholding this complaint.
No new information was provided in response to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In summary, before providing credit, lenders need to complete reasonable and proportionate 
affordability checks. There isnt a set list of checks a lender is required to carry out, it just 
needs to ensure the checks are proportionate when considering things like: the type and 
amount of credit being provided, the size of the regular repayments, the total cost of the 
credit and the consumers circumstances.
As I set out in my provisional decision, the results of Ms Ts credit check showed she was 
paying a substantial portion of her declared income towards other credit commitments and 
so I think it would have been reasonable for Tesco Bank to have asked further questions to 
ensure it had a clear understanding of Ms Ts financial circumstances and the money she 
would have available to repay the new credit. Had it done this, I think that Tesco Bank would 
have realised that Ms Ts monthly income was lower than it had recorded and that based on 
her outgoings, the credit card with a limit of £5,100 was likely not to be sustainably 
affordable for Ms T. 
Because of this, and for the reasons I set out in my provisional decision, I do not think this 
lending should have been provided and so I am upholding this complaint.
Putting things right
Tesco Bank should rework the account removing all interest, fees, charges and insurances 
(not already refunded) that have been applied.
If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Ms T along with 
8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment to the 
date of settlement. Tesco Bank should also remove all adverse information regarding 
this account from Ms Ts credit file.
Or, if after the rework there is still an outstanding balance, Tesco Bank should 
arrange an affordable repayment plan with Ms T for the remaining amount. Once 
Ms T has cleared the balance, any adverse information in relation to the account 
should be removed from her credit file.
If Tesco Bank has sold the debt to a third party, it should arrange to either buy back the debt 
from the third party or liaise with them to ensure the redress set out above is carried out 
promptly.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Tesco Bank to deduct tax from any award of interest. It 
must give Ms T a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if she asks for one. If 
it intends to apply the refund to reduce an outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting 
the tax.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as 
Tesco Bank should take the actions set out above in resolution of this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2023.
 Jane Archer
Ombudsman