DRN-3899876
The complaint
Miss H complains about the settlement payment AA underwriting Insurance Company 
Limited (AA) offered her following an accident when her car was considered a total loss, 
under her motor insurance policy.
What happened
In July 2022 Miss H was involved in a car accident. She made a claim to AA, and it 
determined her car was an economic write-off. Its engineer estimated the cars market value, 
using two of the industry trade-guides, at £5,885. AA offered this as a settlement payment to 
Miss H minus the policy excess. 
Miss H didnt think this was a fair offer. From her research she found prices advertised 
between £8,790 and £10,850. She complained to AA, and after waiting ten weeks for a 
response, was told its position hadnt changed. AA did, however, offer £50 for the delay in its 
response.
Miss H wasnt satisfied with AAs response and referred the matter to our service. Our 
investigator upheld her complaint. She obtained valuations from two different trade guides, 
which gave valuations of £6,690 and £6,430. Our investigator thought it was fair that AA paid 
the average of all four valuations, which came to £6,223.75. In addition, she says AA should 
pay 8% simple interest on the difference between AAs valuation and the higher figure she 
confirmed. 
AA didnt agree. It says it had acted in line with our services guidelines when valuing Miss 
Hs car. Miss H also disagreed with our investigators findings. She maintains that her car is 
worth more than the amount proposed based on advertisements she has seen.          
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Miss H wants the best settlement she can achieve for the loss of her 
car. In her complaint she says the advertised for-sale prices shes found for similar cars are 
around 40% higher than the payment AA offered her. Ive looked at her policy terms to 
understand what cover is provided in these circumstances. 
AAs engineer determined Miss Hs car was an economic total loss and confirmed it would 
be written off as a category N. In this scenario the policy terms say AA will pay for the loss 
of the insured car and that, The maximum amount payable will be the Market Value. 
The policy defines market value as, The cost of replacing the Insured Car with one of the 
same make, model, age, mileage, specification and condition at the date of accident or loss. 
I cant see that the policy terms define how AA will establish the market value in these 
circumstances. However, AA refers to following the approach our service considers 
reasonable.  
We dont provide valuations for cars, but we will look to see whether the insurers offer is 
reasonable. In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations 
from the motor trade guides. These are used for valuing second-hand vehicles. We find 
these guides to be particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on 
nationwide research and likely sales figures. The guides also consider regional variations. 
We take all other available evidence into account as well, for example, engineers reports.
Miss H refers to examples of similar cars she found advertised. I acknowledge her 
comments that these cars are advertised at a higher price than AAs settlement offer. 
However, we dont generally find advertisements particularly persuasive. This is because 
these are essentially asking prices and not selling prices. Its generally accepted that 
advertised for sale prices are higher than the actual selling price. Its for this reason that the 
trade guides are used as they provide evidence of likely retail selling prices.
AAs settlement offer fell within the range of the two valuations it obtained. I can see that it 
used the correct loss date, mileage, make, model, and age for Miss Hs car. Our investigator 
obtained valuations from two further trade guides. These gave higher valuations. Again, I 
can see the correct details were used when obtaining these valuations. The average of all 
four trade guide valuations came to £6,223.75. 
I think the approach our investigator took to valuing Miss Hs car was fair. Valuing second-
hand cars isnt an exact science so I would expect there to be a range of values showing 
between the trade guides. When considering the value of Miss Hs car, the difference 
between AAs settlement offer and our investigators average valuation, isnt an insignificant 
amount. Because of this I think its fair that AA pays this higher amount in settlement of Miss 
Hs claim.  
I acknowledge AAs concern that it was acting in line with our approach when valuing Miss 
Hs car in the way it did. But our guidance does say we will compare an insurers valuation 
against the online motor trade guides to see if its fair. The guide sets out the four guides we 
will look at, which includes all the valuations obtained by both AA and our investigator in this 
case. 
I acknowledge there was a delay in AA responding to Miss Hs complaint. AA sent Miss H a 
cheque for £50 to acknowledge this. However, complaint handling isnt a regulated activity in 
itself. This means Im not able to consider this point here. 
Having considered all of this I dont think AA treated Miss H fairly in the settlement payment 
it offered, given the higher valuations our service has seen. So, I think its fair that AA pays 
Miss H a total payment of £6,223.75 in settlement of her claim, in addition to 8% simple 
interest on the difference between this and AAs original offer. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. AA Underwriting Insurance Company 
Limited should:
pay Miss H a total of £6,223.75 in settlement of her claim, plus 8% simple interest to 
be paid on the difference between its offer and this higher amount until payment is 
made. *If AA considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Miss H how much its taken off. It should also give Miss H a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 April 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman