DRN-3346173
The complaint
Mrs D has complained that Omni Capital Retail Finance Limited (Omni Capital) rejected 
her claim against it under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in relation to her 
purchase of some solar panels.
Background
Mrs D bought solar panels for her home in March 2014. The purchase was funded by a two 
year loan from Omni Capital, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions 
of the installer under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer 
misleading Mrs D into believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they werent.
Mrs Ds complaint was considered by one of our investigators. She thought that the benefits 
of the panels were mis-represented to Mrs D, and that fair redress would be for her to be 
paid compensation so as to effectively make the panels self-funding over a period of six and 
a half years (and to pay interest on the compensation payment at the rate of 8% a year). The 
calculation of how much compensation should be paid should be based on evidence of the 
actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future performance  
including that Mrs D would consume 37% of the electricity she would save, this being our 
standard approach in these cases.
Omni Capital accepted the investigators decision in principle, but calculated the redress 
based on the assumption that Mrs D would consume 100% of the electricity she saved. The 
investigator thought that wasnt realistic. As no agreement could be reached, the case was 
referred for an ombudsmans decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Omni Capital is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mrs D was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for her.
So I think that Omni Capital didnt treat Mrs D fairly and she lost out because of what Omni 
Capital did wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mrs Ds complaint for Omni Capital to put things right by recalculating the 
original loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mrs D from the solar 
panels over a period of six and a half years so she pays no more than that, and she keeps 
the solar panel system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended.
I am satisfied that in carrying out this calculation, it would be fair to require Omni Capital to 
assume that Mrs D will consume 37% of the electricity generated by the panels (and export 
the rest back to the power grid). This figure has been arrived at by the Financial 
Ombudsman Service after reviewing an experts report on the subject. This report used 
information from the Energy Saving Trust to look at what a range of consumers would 
themselves consume depending on the length of time their household is occupied for during 
the day. The average across this research worked out at 37%, so its a fair reflection of what 
an average consumer will consume. So I think it would be fair and reasonable to apply this 
figure in Mrs Ds case.
As this calculation will show that Mrs D has paid more than she should have, then Omni 
Capital needs to reimburse her accordingly. Since Mrs D has settled the loan, Omni Capital 
must pay her the difference between what she paid in total and what the loan should have 
been under the restructure above, with simple interest at 8% a year.
Im satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mrs D first 
contacted Omni Capital that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Omni 
Capital must pay £100 compensation for the inconvenience caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding this complaint. Omni Capital Retail Finance 
Limited must put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman