DRN-4248569
The complaint
Miss P complains that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) didnt add her 
mother as a named driver to her motor insurance policy. She wants it to accept that both 
drivers were insured, to cover her claim and to repair her car. 
What happened
Miss P took out a policy with LV through an online comparison site. She said she had added 
her mother as a named driver to obtain a quote. Miss P was transferred to LVs site to 
complete her purchase. Some time later, Miss Ps mother was involved in an incident whilst 
driving Miss Ps car, and it came to light that she hadnt been added to the policy. So LV 
declined to cover the claim and it is now seeking reimbursement of its costs. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He saw that Miss P 
had been asked to check the driver details on LVs site and she could have then checked 
that her mother had been added to the policy. Miss P could also have checked this when 
she was sent a welcome letter with a link to her policy details. He thought the onus was on 
Miss P to check the details were accurate before taking out the policy. So he didnt think LV 
needed to do anything further. 
Miss P replied asking for an Ombudsmans review, so her complaint has come to me for a 
final decision. Miss P said she would provide further evidence to prove that her mother had 
been added to the policy. She also said they hadnt signed forms agreeing that LV could act 
on their behalf in settling the other drivers claim even though LV said they had done so.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss P has described the financial and emotional effects of this matter on her mother and 
herself. I was sorry to hear about this and I can understand that this has been a very 
stressful and frustrating experience for them. 
Miss P provided evidence from the online comparison site showing that she had added her 
mother to obtain a quote from it and this was then passed to LV. And Im satisfied that this 
was Miss Ps intention. 
But Miss P completed her purchase on LVs site and her mother wasnt then included as a 
named driver. The online comparison site said it had run tests and hadnt recorded any 
errors at the time. So I dont know why Miss Ps mothers details werent correctly added to 
her quote on the LV site. 
Miss P said she wasnt asked to confirm her details on the LV site. But I disagree. I can see 
that when Miss P was transferred to LVs site she was firstly presented with her payment 
details. Then she was presented twice with the driver details, amongst other things. Before 
she could move on to buying the policy Miss P was asked to tick a box to confirm the cover 
met her needs and her details were correct. 
LV sent Miss P a welcome pack after she completed her purchase. This included details of 
the drivers on the policy. And both the cover summary and the policy certificate clearly state 
that just Miss P is on cover. LV asked Miss P to check that her details were correct. I can 
understand that Miss P presumed that they had transferred over from the comparison site. 
But I think it was for Miss P to make sure she had the cover that met her needs. 
Unfortunately, she didnt then check and correct the details to add her mother.
Miss P said the price she had paid for her policy was low for a new driver because her 
mother had been added. But our Investigator checked this and found a similar quote for a 
new driver. So I dont think the premium Miss P paid shows that her mother had been 
included.
I think it was for Miss P to check that the policy met her needs. She didnt do this and so 
didnt notice that her mother hadnt been added to the policy she bought. So Im satisfied 
that LV wasnt then obliged to provide cover for the incident where her mother was driving 
her car. And I cant say that it did anything wrong in this. 
Miss P said LV had stated that they had signed a form giving it consent to act on their behalf 
in settling the other drivers claim when they hadnt done so. I havent seen that Miss P 
raised this as a complaint to LV to give it a chance to respond. So I cant consider this matter 
further here. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 October 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman