DRN-2920093
The complaint
Mr P complains about the way AXA PPP Healthcare Limited (hereafter AXA PPP) handled 
a claim he made on his private medical insurance policy.
What happened
In July 2020 Mr P contacted AXA PPP. He made enquiries about the level of psychiatric 
cover he had on his policy. And he explained that hed been referred for inpatient trauma 
therapy by his psychiatrist because his anxiety and depression had worsened. AXA PPP 
said it would need a medical report to assess eligibility for cover, so Mr P provided one from 
his psychiatrist. 
AXA PPP didnt think the report contained all of the information it needed. So it asked that 
one of its recognised psychiatrists (Mr Ps psychiatrist was not on AXA PPPs list of 
recognised specialists) provide a report instead. However, once that was received, AXA PPP 
declined Mr Ps claim and said it had done so in view of an exclusion for depression and 
associated conditions. 
Mr P complained about the way AXA PPP had handled matters. He said it had made a 
number of aspects confusing, it had provided inconsistent information: such as why it 
needed another report, and the exclusion on his policy wasnt clear. He also said the 
exclusion wasnt mentioned in any of his renewal documentation, it wasnt fair for it to be 
relied on given hed been symptom free for a long time, and his policy had been mis-sold. 
AXA PPP maintained its declination of the claim and said the exclusion, which had been 
applied in 2012, was for the lifetime of Mr Ps policy. It did acknowledge that it hadnt 
provided the level of service it should have done however, so it apologised and sent Mr P 
£500 in compensation.  
Our investigator said the concerns Mr P had about the sale of his policy would need to be 
directed to the party that sold it  which was not AXA PPP. They also said there was no 
provision in Mr Ps policy to cover what he had claimed for, the policy exclusion was clear 
and not misleading, and there was no indication that it would be removed even if Mr P did 
remain symptom free. 
Our investigator agreed that the service provided by AXA PPP had fallen short. But they felt 
the £500 compensation was a fair recognition of the trouble and upset that AXA PPPs 
failings had caused. And so they did not recommend that Mr Ps complaint be upheld. 
Mr P disagreed and reiterated his original concerns. He also said that AXA PPP had messed 
him around for weeks, had been vague and dishonest, and hed been paying for cover that 
could not have benefited him. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both sides have provided detailed submissions which I have carefully considered. I am 
aware that I have summarised events in less detail than they have been presented, but if I 
have not mentioned or do not go on to mention something, it is not because I have ignored 
it. It is because I do not think it is relevant to the outcome of this complaint. 
For largely the same reasons as our investigator I will not be upholding Mr Ps complaint and 
will now explain why. 
As I understand matters, Mr P has since cancelled his cover with AXA PPP, but he had 
made a number of successful claims for psychiatric related cover on his policy in the two 
years prior to AXA PPP applying the exclusion that it did.
Mr Ps policy was designed to pay for the diagnosis and treatment of medical conditions that 
respond quickly to treatment. It was not designed to cover the ongoing, recurrent or long-
term treatment of a chronic condition, and this was reflected in its terms and conditions here:
Will my policy cover me for recurrent, continuing or long-term treatment?
Your policy covers treatment of medical conditions that respond quickly to treatment  
defined in our glossary as acute conditions. This policy is not intended to cover you against 
the costs of recurrent, continuing or long-term treatment of chronic conditions.
The definition of a chronic condition was also set out here: 
Chronic condition  a disease, illness or injury that has one or more of the following 
characteristics:
it needs ongoing or long-term monitoring through consultations, examinations, check-
ups, and/or tests
it needs ongoing or long-term control or relief of symptoms
it requires your rehabilitation or for you to be specifically trained to cope with it
it continues indefinitely
it has no known cure
it comes back or is likely to come back.
So in view of those terms and Mr Ps claims history, I dont think it was unreasonable of 
AXA PPP to apply the exclusion it did. I am aware that Mr P has a number of additional 
concerns about the exclusion, but having considered them all I cant fairly conclude that it 
was applied unfairly or should be removed. 
For example Mr P says the exclusion wasnt in his renewal invitations, but he was sent a 
letter on 8 October 2012 which advised that from 8 December 2012 claims for depression 
and associated conditions would no longer be covered under his policy. And there was no 
suggestion in this letter that the exclusion was subject to a review in the future or after a 
period of being symptom free. 
Mr P also discussed the exclusion with AXA PPP at the time of it being applied and went on 
to annually renew his policy both following the exclusion and up until 2020. So I think he was 
aware of the content of the exclusion despite it not being mentioned in his renewal 
documentation. 
I know that Mr P says he could have sought a policy with a different insurer that would have 
covered depression and associated conditions under a moratorium basis. But again, I dont think that means the exclusion AXA PPP applied was unfair or should have been removed. 
The exclusion on Mr Ps policy was not subject to moratorium underwriting. It was in place 
for the lifetime of his policy. And although Mr P says he was paying for cover he could not 
use, the exclusion only related to depression and associated conditions and should not have 
precluded him from accessing cover that AXA PPP considered to be unrelated to it. Mr Ps 
son had access to the policy too, and still remains on it, so he would also have the benefit of 
this cover. 
I appreciate Mr P thinks AXA PPP was dishonest and hid behind policy terms, but I dont 
think its declinature was unreasonable. Like the investigator before me, I have seen the 
information that both psychiatrists provided to AXA PPP. Mr P was claiming for inpatient 
trauma therapy and told AXA PPP this his depression and anxiety had worsened. Both 
psychiatrists had provided commentary on Mr Ps illness and the treatment proposed for 
him, and given the exclusion that was in place I dont think it was unreasonable of AXA PPP 
to have declined Mr Ps claim. 
That being said, it is not disputed that AXA PPP failed to provide Mr P with the level of 
service it should have. I wont recite every single failing that occurred because both parties 
are aware of what happened. But in the three weeks between Mr P making his claim and 
AXA declining it, its failings did have an impact on Mr P. 
Mr P was given incorrect information on more than one occasion. He was not sent 
information when he should have been. And his expectations around the outcome of his 
claim were not well managed. Mr Ps concerns were not always followed up either, and 
much of the impact on him was being experienced at a time when he was evidently unwell 
and seeking treatment. 
While I think it was right of AXA PPP to acknowledge where it went wrong and provide 
recompense, I must bear in mind that compensation is not designed to punish a business for 
a mistake it has made. It is designed to be fair and proportionate reflection of the impact that 
mistake has had on someone. 
Again, I understand why Mr P is unhappy about what happened. But I think AXA PPPs 
apology and award of £500 compensation is a fair and proportionate reflection of the impact 
of its mistakes on Mr P. So I will not be directing it to increase this amount.  
For the reasons given above I will not be interfering with AXA PPPs position. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2022.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman