DRN-4107236
The complaint
Mr S complains that Santander UK Plc failed to refund several transactions from his account 
that he didnt authorise resulting in a debt that has impacted his credit rating.
What happened
Mr S had a gambling account with a merchant Ill refer to as V and had made numerous
transactions without any issues. In 2019, Mr S says he made bets with V in one of their
shops and then received four large payments into his account which totalled in excess of
£11,000.
Mr S then transferred most of those funds into another account. A few days after receiving
those funds, his account showed that they had been removed from his account back to V,
taking the account into an unarranged overdraft.
Some weeks later, Mr S raised the issue with Santander and denied hed authorised the
payments back to V. Santander looked into the transactions as a dispute (rather than as
fraud) and didnt offer Mr S a refund because he had a legitimate relationship with V.
Mr Ss account now had a debt which was left unpaid. This eventually defaulted and
Santander passed the debt to their collections area to seek recovery of it. No payments
were made by Mr S and nothing further was heard until about two years later when Mr S got
back in touch with Santander to complain about his credit rating that was being affected by
the outstanding debt (which Mr S denied was his).
Santander looked into the situation and didnt think that theyd made an error. They wrote to
Mr S and explained to him that they had carried out an investigation at the time and found no
reason to think the payments should have been refunded. They pointed out to Mr S that hed
moved the payments from V to other accounts and continued to use his account, so would
have known about the payments to V, but had delayed notifying them about the debt.
Santander didnt offer any refund to Mr S and told him the debt was still outstanding and any
reference to it on his credit file would remain.
Mr S was unhappy about the situation and then brought his complaint to the Financial
Ombudsman Service for an independent review where it was looked into by one of our
investigators.
Evidence was sought from both parties and Mr S maintained that hed never authorised the
payments to V. He said that he was briefly out of the country which delayed his notification to
Santander and was suffering from mental health issues and distractions in his personal life.
This delayed any contact with Santander. Mr S says he moved address in 2021 and didnt
receive any letters from Santander about the debt.
Santander were unable to provide detailed information about the transactions made back to
V and eventually accepted that they could have done more at the time with Mr Ss dispute
but didnt think it would have made a difference.
Santander provided details of addresses held for Mr S, including the one where he was living
at the time of the original issue in 2019. Santander confirmed that theyd sent several letters
to Mr S during this period.
Santander attempted to contact V but didnt receive much help from them. Santander
attempted a good faith chargeback to try and resolve the matter, but this wasnt accepted
by Vs bank. Santander eventually identified more information about the transactions which
showed they hadnt been made by Mr S. But what had happened is that V had recalled the
payments using the card payments system. Santander believed the issue of the payments
was between Mr S and V but accepted they could have done more at the time and offered
Mr S £200 which he turned down.
Mr S attempted to obtain evidence about the transactions (his betting slips) but was unable
to find them and couldnt obtain any assistance from V.
After reviewing the evidence, the investigator thought Mr S was responsible for the
payments and didnt uphold the complaint. Mr S disagreed and asked for a further review 
which has now been passed to me for a decision.
I issued my provisional findings on the merits of Mr Ss complaint on 31 March 2023. In my 
provisional findings, I explained why I intended not to uphold Mr Ss complaint and offered 
both sides the opportunity to submit further evidence or arguments in response. An extract of 
that decision is set out below and forms part of this final decision:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of this complaint concerns four payments Mr S received from V which amounted to
over £11,000. Those four payments were then recalled by V from Mr Ss account a few days
later, after Mr S had already utilised the funds. This eventually created a debt on the account
which resulted in a default (the amount went unpaid). The debt was reflected on Mr Ss
credit file. A few years later Mr S had difficulty obtaining a loan because of the negative
reporting on his credit file.
It appears here that V had some issue with the payments made to Mr S and utilised the card
payments system to force the return of them. Santander would have no control over this
because the payments system allows a merchant to recall funds theyve sent if theres a
relevant issue with them. Whats not known here is what that issue was?
Santander would have had the opportunity to use a chargeback to challenge the recall of
the payments. This is a process contained within the payments processors rules for dealing
with transactions made by card. They are subject to strict rules and timescales.
It's apparent that Santander didnt fully follow up with the situation at the time and then lost
the opportunity to use the chargeback system to challenge the recall of the payments. Thats
because the time limits applied to them had passed.
So here, the relevant issue for me to consider is would a chargeback request have made a
difference to the outstanding debt? If Santanders actions at the time affected the refund of
those monies, then they would likely be responsible for the debt. If, on the other hand, the
overall circumstances showed that V were likely to have successfully defended any
challenge, then Santander wouldnt be responsible for the ongoing debt.I asked Mr S to provide evidence that he was entitled to those funds. Thats because if he
could provide relevant evidence (such as betting slips) showing he won the money, then he
could show that Santander would have had a good chance of challenging the recall of the
funds by V in any chargeback request.
Mr S has been unable to provide the slips or any other evidence about why he received
those payments. He confirmed he threw the slips away shortly after he received the
payments into his account. To date he believes someone at V was undertaking fraud and is
responsible for the payments being recalled. Mr S has said an employee has information but
that they wish to remain anonymous. Mr S stated that hes tried to obtain cooperation from V
on numerous occasions, but they havent assisted him.
Without evidence that Mr S was entitled to those funds in the first place, its difficult to reach
a conclusion that Santanders actions caused the overall loss. Thats because V took steps
to recall the funds which doesnt seem to be something done lightly by them. Ive thought
about Mr Ss assertion that an employee was responsible, but the likelihood is that any recall
of funds utilising the card payment system would involve multiple employees working at V.
Its not something that I would think immediately pointed towards fraud as the reason for it.
If it was one employee at the branch used by Mr S, then how would they obtain those card
payments from Vs own accounts? It doesnt seem like this is the likely answer here.
It's also not clear why Mr S left the issue of the outstanding debt for about two years.
Looking at his account, it continued to be used for about six months after the money was
taken back by V. So, Mr S would most likely have been aware that the money was still
outstanding, and his account had an unarranged overdraft which needed to be resolved. It
seems as though Mr S didnt raise it until it affected his ability to get a loan sometime later.
I appreciate Mr S has said he was having some personal difficulties at the time, but his
account shows it was still being used to make payments to gambling merchants for some
months after the original issue, so I think he was in a position to continue to deal with
Santander about the outstanding debt.
Ive also thought about Mr Ss assertion that he didnt receive any correspondence from
Santander at his address. Santanders usual practice for an outstanding debt would be to
write to Mr S on several occasions. Theyve confirmed they wrote to Mr S and theres no
reason for me to think those letters werent sent by Santander to Mr Ss current address at
the time.
My current thoughts here are that as I havent been able to assess any evidence that Mr S
was originally entitled to the funds taken back by V, I cant fairly say that any chargeback
would have likely been successful. Without further evidence to show Mr S had legitimately
won those funds, Im currently minded not to uphold the complaint.
Santanders offer of £200 for the lack of chargeback request at the time is, I think, a suitable
way for them to recognise the lack of service here. Im not currently intending to ask
Santander to do anything further.
The credit reporting on the debt by Santander requires them to accurately record the position
of any repayments, which it appears they have done. So, without evidence that Mr S was
entitled to those funds, the debt required repaying because hed utilised those funds before
they were taken back by V. Im currently not intending to ask for any changes to the 
reporting.Neither party responded to my provisional decision or a reminder about the closing date to 
receive any further responses. I noted that Mr S was in communication with our service 
during this period on another matter using the same contact details. Im satisfied hes  
received the provisional decision and had an opportunity to respond.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and as neither party had anything further to add, I see no reason to reach a
different conclusion. So, this final decision confirms the findings set out in my provisional
decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2023.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman