DRN-1662265
 
The complaint
Mrs O complains that since 2011 she has been paying premiums to British Gas Insurance 
Limited (BGI) for a home emergency insurance policy that she wasnt aware of. 
 What happened
In September 2019, Mrs O received a renewal letter from BGI about a home emergency 
insurance policy called Energy Extra 50 policy. She says she hadnt been aware of this 
policy and queried it with BGI. She was told this had been shown on the billing account for 
her energy supplier since July 2011.
Because she didnt know about it, Mrs O asked for all the payments she had made for this 
since 2011 to be refunded. BGI said renewal letters for this product had been sent to Mrs O 
every July since 2011. The costs of the product were also shown on every bill sent by her 
energy supplier since then. So it wouldnt agree to make any refund.
Mrs O complained to us. However, BGI raised an initial point that because of the time that 
had elapsed since Mrs O started paying for the product, under our rules we couldnt consider 
her complaint without its consent, which it wasnt willing to give.
Our investigator agreed that this was the case. He said that under the rules set by the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), which we are required by law to follow, we couldnt, 
without BGIs consent, consider a complaint unless it was brought within six years after the 
policy started, or within three years after Mrs O should reasonably have been aware of the 
policy.
BGI had supplied a copy of Mrs Os energy supply bill dated October 2011 which showed a 
cost for the Extra Energy product. It also supplied a copy letter sent to Mrs O in July 2015 
telling her she could cancel the product if she wished. So he agreed that the complaint failed 
both the tests he had referred to.
We could consider a complaint outside those time limits if there were exceptional 
circumstances. But he said he wasnt aware of anything that would have prevented Mrs O 
from complaining within the set time limits. So we wouldnt consider her complaint further.
Mrs O said she had a private engineer service her boiler and do any repairs needed for a 
year, which she wouldnt have done if she knew about the policy with BGI. She cancelled her 
BGI policy on 13 September 2019 and asked for her complaint to be reviewed.
My provisional findings
I issued my provisional view to Mrs O and to BGI on 3 February 2020. In it I said Id asked 
the investigator to make some further enquiries of BGI. As a result of these enquiries it 
transpired that:up till July 2015, there was no insurance policy in existence. Mrs O had an energy 
tariff with her supplier called Extra Energy. Under this she paid an extra daily 
charge on her gas bill for her supplier to provide a boiler repair service; and
on 30 July 2015, BGI wrote to Mrs O telling her that this arrangement would come to 
an end on 31 August 2015. After that date BGI proposed to provide her with an 
insurance policy providing similar benefits. BGI said it would provide Mrs O with more 
details before it made this change. It said she could also tell BGI she didnt want to 
continue the arrangement.
 
I said that this service could only consider complaints that fell within the dispute resolution 
rules (DISP) established for us by FCA. So we could consider complaints about a home 
emergency insurance policy. But we couldnt consider complaints about an uninsured boiler 
repair service.
BGI had confirmed that up till 2015, the product provided for Mrs Os Extra Energy tariff 
was a repair service, not an insurance policy. That being so, I couldnt consider anything that 
happened in relation to the repair service from 2011 until it changed to an insured product, 
apparently in 2015. However, the energy ombudsman service might be able to look at this 
for Mrs O.
On the other hand, as the insurance policy started, at the earliest, in 2015, it didnt fall 
outside the time limit mentioned above. So I could consider this part of Mrs Os complaint. 
BGI had agreed that this was the case.
So that I could consider this part of Mrs Os complaint, the investigator had asked BGI to 
provide the following documents:
the correspondence sent to Mrs O (after the letter of 30 July 2015 referred to above) 
which established Mrs Os new policy;
a copy of the policy document and any subsequent amendments to it; and
any correspondence sent to Mrs O each year after the policy was set up dealing with 
renewal of the policy, or referring to the policy.
 
BGI hadnt been able to supply any evidence of Mrs O entering into the policy, or a copy of 
the policy terms. It wasnt clear when any policy began. An energy bill for the three months 
to 10 September 2015 contained the old service arrangements and didnt mention any 
insurance policy.
A bill for the three months to 13 September 2017 did seem to include payment of a policy 
premium because of a mention of Insurance Premium Tax. But this wouldnt necessarily 
have been obvious to a consumer such as Mrs O.
BGI had sent us copies of renewal notices issued to Mrs O in August 2018 and August 2019. 
These had information about what was covered by the policy BGI offered. However, in the 
absence of any evidence that Mrs O had agreed to take out a policy, and was aware of its 
full terms after July 2015, I couldnt say that these should affect Mrs Os position.
I said that on the evidence Id seen, I didnt think Mrs O had agreed to enter into an 
insurance policy with BGI from the date it was first available in 2015 until Mrs O cancelled it 
on 13 September 2019. I accepted her evidence that she wasnt aware she had entered into 
any such policy until September 2019, and so she had paid for an alternative service.That being so, I thought it was fair and reasonable that BGI should refund to Mrs O all the 
premiums it had charged her for any such policy between those dates, with interest from the 
respective dates of payment. I thought it should also pay her a further £150 as compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience it had caused her.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mrs O didnt respond to my provisional decision.
BGI didnt provide any of the further documents the investigator had asked for earlier. It said, 
in summary, that:
it had written to Mrs O in July 2015 pointing out that she then had Extra Energy and 
could cancel it if she wished. But she hadnt responded to this letter;
all energy bills sent to Mrs O were headed Extra Energy so BGI was clear about the 
product Mrs O held;
the renewal notice sent to Mrs O in August 2018 clearly showed the product. 
However, Mrs O hadnt contacted BGI to discuss this; and
it had found from its records that Mrs O had apparently booked boiler breakdown 
visits with BGI in February 2011 and December 2013. So Mrs O must have been 
aware then that she had the benefit of the product.
 
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The breakdown visits BGI has found relate to the previous non-insurance product which, as 
Ive said, we cant consider. So I dont think they are relevant to the issue of whether, from 
July 2015 onwards, Mrs O had agreed to enter into an insurance contract with BGI, and was 
aware of its terms. I don't think anything BGI has provided is evidence that she did. So my 
view remains unchanged.
Putting things right
I remain of the view that BGI should refund all the premiums it charged her for the policy, 
and pay her the further sums I mentioned in my provisional view, all as set out fully below. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint, and order British Gas Insurance Limited:
1. to refund to Mrs O all premiums it has charged her for home emergency insurance 
cover between July 2015 and 13 September 2020;
 
2. to pay Mrs O interest on these premiums at the yearly rate of 8% simple from the 
date each premium was paid by Mrs O until settlement (*); and
 
3. to pay Mrs O compensation of £150 for the distress and inconvenience it has caused 
her. 
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2020.
 
___________________________________________________________________
 
(*) If BGI considers that its required by HM Revenue and Customs to withhold income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mrs O how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs O a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue and 
Customs if appropriate.
 
 
 
Lennox Towers
Ombudsman