DRN-3721254
Complaint
Mr R is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) wont refund him in full after 
he fell victim to a scam.
Background
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties. I dont intend to set it out in 
full here, but I will briefly summarise the key facts.
Mr R was looking for investment opportunities. He conducted online research into high-
interest bonds. His research led him to an apparently authentic website. He filled out a form 
to register his interest. After doing so, he was contacted by a man who claimed to be a 
representative of a well-known financial business. He was offered the chance to invest in a 
bond that paid a return of 8.4% per annum. This offer was supported by professional looking 
documentation. This showed different rates depending on how long Mr R was willing to lock 
up his money for.
After considering his options, Mr R decided to invest for the longest possible term. He 
transferred £75,000 to an international currency remittance service. He gave the payment 
instruction in branch. Unfortunately, Mr R hadnt been dealing with a legitimate company but 
a scammer.
He tells us he questioned why he was being asked to make a payment to a third-party 
business that hed never previously heard of. The scammer told him that it was part of a 
network of companies that were owned by the business he was looking to invest with.
After he made the transfer, contact with the scammer stopped. Mr R realised that it was 
likely hed fallen victim to a scam and so he notified Halifax promptly. It considered the 
complaint under the terms of the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code. It didnt 
think it had provided an effective warning (as defined in the CRM code) and so agreed to 
refund 50% of the money Mr R lost to the scam.
However, it didnt think it should be obliged to refund the remaining 50%. It didnt think Mr R 
had a reasonable basis for believing that the investment opportunity was a legitimate one. It
considered that there were multiple red flags that ought to have put him on notice of the risk 
that he was dealing with a scammer. It noted that Mr R had contacted the firm that was 
being impersonated to see whether the name of his contact was genuinely an employee of 
that firm. The person he spoke to said that they couldnt confirm either way.
Halifax also thinks that Mr R shouldve checked the website of the regulator, the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA), and if hed done so hed have seen a warning that scammers were 
impersonating this particular firm to trick people into making fake investments. It thinks that 
someone of Mr Rs level of investment experience shouldve known to make these checks 
before proceeding.
Mr Rs complaint was looked at by an Investigator. She initially upheld the complaint, but 
then later took a different view. She agreed with Halifax that Mr R hadnt met his requisite 
level of care under the CRM code and that it was fair and reasonable for Halifax to hold him 
liable for half of the money he lost as part of the scam.
Mr R disagreed with the Investigators opinion, and so the complaint has been passed to me 
to consider.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued my provisional findings on this complaint on 24 August 2022. I said:
The starting point in law is that Mr R is presumed liable for any transaction he 
authorised. He did authorise the payment that is the subject of this complaint, albeit 
only because hed been tricked into thinking he was paying into a legitimate 
investment. Thats not the end of the story. Halifax is a signatory to the CRM code. 
This code says that firms should refund its customers where they fall victim to a scam 
like this one, except in a small number of circumstances.
In this instance, Halifax has accepted that it didnt provide an effective warning and 
so has agreed to refund half of Mr Rs losses. However, it thinks he should be liable 
for the remainder on the grounds that he failed to meet his requisite level of care 
because he made this payment without a reasonable basis for believing that  the 
person with whom [he] transacted was legitimate.
However, I also consider Halifax should fairly and reasonably:
-Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to 
counter various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the 
financing of terrorism, and preventing fraud and scams.
-Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs 
that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other 
things). This is particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and 
scams in recent years, which banks are generally more familiar with than the 
average customer.
-In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or 
in some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect 
customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Im satisfied that this payment was unusual and out of character and that Halifax 
shouldnt have processed it without first satisfying itself that Mr R wasnt at risk of 
financial harm due to fraud.
Halifax has said that Mr R was well known in his local branch because he often 
visited to ask for international payments to be made. However, Ive looked at the 
statements for his account and I can see that, in the preceding twelve months, he 
sent four international payments from his account and that the largest of these was 
for around £3,000. The other large payments made from this account were to HMRC 
to settle Mr Rs tax liabilities.Overall, I think that when he made a first payment to an international money 
remittance company for £75,000, the risk that hed been targeted by a scam 
shouldve been clear. As hed made the payment in branch, there was ample 
opportunity for staff to have asked him some basic questions to ensure that he wasnt 
at risk of a scam. If a bank employee had recommended that he check the FCA 
register, then I think its likely hed have done it and the scam wouldve been 
prevented.
Ive considered whether Mr R can be considered partially responsible for his losses 
here. In doing so, Ive considered what the law says about contributory negligence 
but also borne in mind the fact that I have to reach a decision based on what I 
consider to be fair and reasonable. And having done so, Im satisfied that he 
shouldnt be considered partially responsible.
All the communications from the scammer were professional and credibly those of a
legitimate investment company. In particular, the information he was given regarding 
the bond had the appearance of an authentic piece of promotional material for a 
financial product like this one. In addition, the scammers took several steps to create 
the impression that they were carrying out legally required compliance tasks, such as 
checking Mr Rs identification documents.
The promised rate of return was significantly out of line with what was typically on 
offer to retail customers. However, Im mindful of the fact that the details of the bond 
appear to have been selected to match those of a genuine bond issued by the 
impersonated firm (albeit one that was issued only to institutional investors). The rate 
of return wouldve been a generous one. But it was not so outlandish that it wouldve 
been an obvious scam, except to an individual with more investment experience than 
Mr R.
From what Mr R has told us, he had a rudimentary knowledge of investment 
products. This was the first time hed looked into the possibility of investing in high-
interest bonds. Halifax has argued that Mr R shouldve carried out more detailed 
checks and that, given his investment experience, he shouldve known what checks 
to carry out. Its said that he shouldve known to check the FCA website for any 
warnings. I asked Halifax if it could show me any evidence to demonstrate Mr Rs 
history of making investments, but it hasnt been able to provide anything. I also 
wouldnt have expected him to know to check the FCA website for warnings.
Halifax has attached a lot of significance to the fact that Mr R called the 
impersonated firm and asked whether they had any employee with the name the 
scammer had given. He was told that, due to the impact of the pandemic and 
widespread homeworking, it wasnt possible to confirm either way whether he was a 
genuine employee. Theyve also observed that Mr Rs calls to the scammer 
sometimes didnt connect and that he received emails from someone claiming to be 
that persons secretary and office manager. While these things appear suspicious 
with the benefit of hindsight, Im not persuaded that Mr R was careless in taking them 
at face value.
Its also been pointed out that the scammer seemed to be unhappy when Mr R 
insisted on making the payment in branch because hes distrustful of online 
payments. Halifax has suggested that he shouldve found it strange that a legitimate 
business would be resistant to him making online payments.
Ive considered this point carefully, but Im not persuaded by it. Mr R had been told 
that there was a deadline he needed to meet if he wanted to participate in this 
investment opportunity. The scammer told him that making the payment in branch would slow things down. In addition, I think Mr R simply thought he was being careful 
by insisting on making the payment in branch because he assumed that hed be 
generally less vulnerable to scams by making payments in branch.
Overall, Im satisfied that Mr R was the victim of a manipulative and cynical scam and 
cant be said to be partially at fault here.
Both parties responded to agree with the findings I reached in my provisional decision, so I 
dont see any reason to depart from them. 
Final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint. Bank of Scotland plc trading as 
Halifax now needs to pay Mr M
- The remaining 50% of his losses to the scam.
- Interest calculated using the monthly average rate for a fixed-rate bond as published 
by the Bank of England for the month of November 2020. This calculation should be 
based on the entire sum he lost to the scam and up to the date any settlement is 
paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2022.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman