DRN-2604392
The complaint
Mr K, a named driver under Ms Ss car insurance policy, has complained about the way 
Aviva Insurance Limited handled a third party claim. Mr K was involved in an incident with 
another vehicle which resulted in a third party claim for vehicle damage and personal injury.
Mr K is the lead complainant.
What happened
In October 2018 Mr K was involved in an incident with another car. 
The other driver said they had slowed down to allow space for a large goods vehicle (LGV) 
ahead of them at a multi lane roundabout when Mr K collided into the rear of his car. 
Mr K said the other driver slammed on their brakes and was driving in an erratic way both 
before - and at the time of the incident. Mr K said he hit the rear of the other car at low 
speed. Mr K said the LGV was some 40 metres away and it wasnt necessary for the other 
driver to brake when they did. He said the other driver had room to manoeuvre without 
braking. So Mr K said the other driver was responsible for the incident.
Aviva received a claim for vehicle damage and personal injury from the other driver and a 
passenger. Aviva settled the claim as a fault claim against Mr K.
In August 2020 Mr K contacted Aviva and made a complaint. He said it hadnt kept him 
updated on the claim and hadnt told him it had settled it in the third partys favour. He was 
unhappy that Aviva hadnt properly investigated the claim and hadnt tried to obtain CCTV 
footage which he says would have shown the third partys driving behaviour. He thought the 
incident may have been staged. 
Aviva upheld part of Mr Ks complaint. It said it should have managed his expectations in 
relation to looking for CCTV footage. It said it wouldnt have looked for footage for the 
journey before the incident as this wouldnt carry much evidential weight to proving 
negligence in relation to the incident, and having made enquiries it couldnt see there was 
CCTV at the location in any event. 
Aviva referred the matter to its legal department and accepted that it should have done more 
to probe the other driver as to why they slammed their brakes on as Mr K described. 
However, Aviva said even if it had done this, it was very unlikely to have changed the 
outcome as it was unlikely the other driver would have confirmed his driving was erratic. But 
it would have shown Aviva properly investigated the claim before reaching its decision. 
Aviva paid Mr K compensation in total of £300 for failing to provide the level of service he 
should have expected to receive from it. 
Aviva said it carried out checks against the history of the other driver and found no concerns. 
It said that its decision to settle the claim as a fault claim on a without prejudice basis was 
reasonable. It said it would be difficult to prove negligence on the part of the other driver as 
the argument would be that Mr K didnt leave sufficient room to brake. 
In December 2020 our investigator in discussions with Mr K established that there was no 
CCTV in the location of the incident. However, Mr K says there was in the area where he 
says the other driver had earlier slammed on their brakes. Mr K strongly believes that had 
Aviva been able to obtain footage of this, it would have made a difference as this would have 
shown the driving behaviour of the other driver. 
Mr K told our investigator hed discussed the case with a solicitor and their opinion was that 
Avivas approach to deciding liability was incorrect. So the investigator asked Mr K if he 
could provide an opinion from his solicitor to show that in their view the chances of success 
were 51% or more, and he would consider this as part of his investigation. Mr K felt this was 
unfair as the costs to obtain such a report would be significant. Our investigator explained 
that if this service upheld Mr Ks liability complaint, we would ask Aviva to reimburse Mr K for 
the costs of the report. 
Mr K made a Subject Access Request to Aviva and in January 2021 he provided further 
comments on his findings which he wanted us to consider as part of his complaint.
In February 2021 our investigator issued his findings. He thought overall Aviva had done 
enough to resolve Mr Ks complaint and had settled the claim in line with the terms of the 
policy.
Mr K didnt agree. In summary he doesnt believe we have fairly investigated his complaint. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We dont decide liability as this is the role of the courts. But we can look at whether an 
insurer reached its decision in a reasonable way and in line with the policy. 
Mr Ks policy has a very common term which Ive seen in almost all motor insurance policies. 
This term allows Aviva to take over the defence and settlement of a claim in Mr Ks name. 
This means Aviva might make a decision Mr K doesnt agree with, but the policy allows 
Aviva to do this.
Mr K has provided very detailed responses to this service which Ive read and considered. 
My findings cover the salient points as to the crux of Mr Ks complaint. 
Mr K says that the Financial Ombudsman Service is here for the consumer. Our role is to 
look at what both parties say and decide whether the insurer has acted reasonably and in 
line with the policy. If or where it hasnt, we look at what went wrong, the impact and what an 
insurer did to put things right.
Mr K says that Avivas legal advice was that it should have probed the third parties for more 
detailed comments. The agent on behalf of Aviva responding to his complaint went against 
that legal advice by saying that even if they had done this, its unlikely it would have changed 
the outcome. He says that because Aviva failed to carry out a critical investigation at the 
time, liability shouldnt have been found against him. Aviva hasnt said that the outcome  if it had asked for more details from the other driver and 
passengers  would have definitely been different. I agree with Mr K that it isnt possible to 
know for certain what the outcome would have been. As it didnt ask for more details which it 
accepts, Aviva has formed a view on balance as to what most likely would have happened: 
that view being that the other driver was unlikely to provide more details to enable Aviva to 
defend liability and find the other driver at fault for the incident.
I understand Mr K doesnt agree with Avivas view here. But I dont think Avivas approach 
was unreasonable. Aviva accepts responsibility for failing to obtain a more detailed response 
from the third parties. I can see that both Mr K and Aviva provided different examples of 
case law to support their view as to liability. 
Aviva can make a judgment as to what reasonable enquiries it should make when 
investigating an incident. Mr K says Aviva should have looked to obtain CCTV footage 
several moments before the incident where Mr K says the other driver had slammed their 
brakes on for no good reason. I appreciate that Mr K strongly believes this evidence should 
have been obtained by Aviva and the impact he believes it would have had on Avivas 
decision. 
I dont think it unreasonable that Aviva didnt look into obtaining CCTV footage of an incident 
Mr K says happened some time before the incident. Mr K didnt claim for the light damage to 
his car and so until a third party claim was made, there was nothing for Aviva to investigate. 
The third party submitted their claim over a month after the incident. So its quite possible 
that CCTV footage of the other driver slamming on brakes earlier  even if Aviva had looked 
to obtain it then  was no longer available. 
It is accepted by Mr K that there was no CCTV recording of the incident or independent 
witnesses to it. 
Aviva accepts that its handling of the claim was poor. I agree with Mr K that it failed to keep 
him updated, failed to advise him when it settled the claim and should have contacted the 
third parties for a more detailed account. I think the final compensation sum of £300 Aviva 
paid is a fair amount to reflect the distress and inconvenience its poor service caused Mr K. 
But having considered all of the information provided, I havent seen enough to safely 
conclude that Avivas failing means that its decision to settle liability was reached 
unreasonably. I think it has shown that with the information available - and the likely outcome 
of the additional information had it been requested from the third parties  the decision would 
have most likely remained the same. 
I understand Mr Ks strength of feeling about his complaint. As Aviva settled the claim on a 
without prejudice basis, he is free to seek his own legal advice if he wishes to pursue the 
third party directly. 
Based on what Ive seen, Im not asking Aviva to change how it has recorded the settling of 
the claim. So this means Im not upholding the complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Ms S to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 June 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman