DRN-1944368
The complaint
Miss A complains that Zurich Insurance PLC didnt agree to cover the cost of curtailing her 
holiday. She believes it mis-sold her a travel insurance policy which didnt meet her needs.
What happened
In January 2019, Miss A took out an annual travel insurance policy online through a price 
comparison website. During the sales process, she declared medical conditions for her 
children, including that one of her sons (Master A) had autism. Zurich agreed to cover this 
condition.
Miss A and her children flew abroad in August 2019. Unfortunately, when they arrived at 
their destination, they found their luggage had been lost. Their luggage had included some 
items which had helped to control Master As condition. Master A was distressed by the loss 
of some of these items, which had a real impact on his condition. Miss A called Zurich to see 
if it was prepared to pay for her and her family to return to the UK early. The airline told her 
she couldnt change her existing booking and she said she didnt have the money to pay for 
this herself.
Zurich offered to arrange a visit to a doctor so Miss As other child could get some 
replacement medication and said itd pay for this appointment. It also suggested the doctor 
could assess Master As condition to see if it was necessary for him to return home. But it 
told Miss A that it wouldnt pay for the curtailment of her trip unless it was medically 
necessary. It said that the only cover that would apply was under the baggage delay section 
of the policy. It offered to pay her 50% of the baggage delay benefit upfront (£150 per 
person) for her to put towards the cost of an early return flight. And it said she could then 
make a claim for the replacement items shed bought once she returned to the UK.
Zurich tried to get in touch with Miss A to arrange a house-call from a doctor. It tried to call 
her a number of times and sent her an email explaining what it was prepared to offer. 
Miss A got back in touch with Zurich three days later, once shed returned to the UK. Shed 
recovered her luggage after four days and decided not to return early. Miss A said shed 
never received its email or calls. She was unhappy with Zurichs decision not to cover the 
costs of curtailing the trip. She felt, given Zurich had agreed to cover Master As autism, that 
it shouldve covered their early return to the UK. She also felt the policy had been mis-sold to 
her. She asked us to look into her complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Miss As complaint should be upheld. She explained that while 
Zurich had agreed to Master As autism, this didnt mean every eventuality related to autism 
would be covered. She explained the policy only covered the costs of curtailment if a 
medical practitioner had confirmed it was medically necessary.  She didnt think Miss A had 
provided evidence to show it was medically necessary to curtail the trip. Shed listened to 
calls between Zurich and Miss A. She noted that Zurich had offered to arrange a doctors 
appointment for Master A, so the doctor could confirm if it was medically necessary for him 
to return home early. 
Miss A disagreed. She felt the dates of the calls Zurich had referred to werent accurate. And 
she still felt she'd been mis-sold the policy. 
The complaints been passed to me to decide. I need to explain that in this decision, Ive only 
considered how Zurich handled Miss As curtailment request. She let our investigator know 
that she wasnt happy with how Zurich settled her baggage delay claim. I cant look into this 
point here though. Thats because Zurich hasnt had a chance to consider that issue or 
respond to a complaint about it. Miss A will need to complain to Zurich about the delayed 
baggage settlement before we can potentially help.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think Zurich has treated Miss A fairly. Ill explain why.
Its clear Miss A was in a very upsetting situation. Im sorry to hear about the impact the loss 
of her luggage had on Master A and I can understand how distressing the situation mustve 
been for the family. So I can entirely understand why Miss A wanted to cut short the trip and 
return to the UK. 
But in making my decision, I need to think about whether Zurich handled Miss As claim 
promptly and fairly. And whether it applied its policy terms reasonably. The relevant 
regulators rules say an insurer mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive thought 
about how Zurich responded to Miss As situation and whether it treated her fairly.
The policy says that cutting short a trip because of illness is covered if its necessary and 
unavoidable. But it also contains a special condition. This states that: Any claim relating 
from death, injury, illness or quarantine must be supported by written confirmation and/or a 
death certificate from a medical practitioner.
This means that before a curtailment claim for illness is accepted, a policyholder needs to 
provide evidence from a medical practitioner to show that it was medically necessary to cut 
short the trip. This isnt an unusual term in travel insurance policies. Most, if not all, travel 
insurers require medical evidence to show that cutting short a trip was medically necessary. 
And its generally for a policyholder to show they have a valid claim on the policy and provide 
evidence to support that.
In this case, Miss A didnt provide Zurich with any medical confirmation to show it was 
necessary and unavoidable for Master A to come home. Ive listened to the calls between 
Miss A and Zurichs claim handler though. Miss A doesnt dispute the fact Zurich offered to 
arrange for Master A to see a doctor and that the doctor could provide a report for the claims 
team to review. In my view, this was an appropriate and reasonable response from Zurich.
I understand why Miss A didnt want to take up this option and that she didnt want to cause 
Master A any additional upset. But in the absence of supporting medical evidence, I dont 
think Zurich was in a position to decide if cutting short the trip was medically necessary. 
Based on the evidence it had at the time, I think it acted fairly by offering to arrange a 
medical appointment for Master A and agreeing to cover the cost. I havent seen anything to 
suggest that if a doctor had thought it was medically necessary for Master A to come home, 
Zurich wouldnt have agreed to cover any costs.
Ive then gone on to think about what additional actions Zurich did take to assist Miss A. Im 
pleased to see Zurich took Miss As personal situation into account when trying to work out a way forward. And I can see from the records that Zurich did try to call Miss A several times 
to discuss options with her and it tried to email her these options too. So I think it was very 
proactive in trying to offer assistance and support to Miss A at a difficult time.
Overall, I dont think I could fairly require Zurich to do anything more.
I appreciate Miss A feels that the policy was mis-sold to her, because she declared Master 
As autism, but her curtailment claim wasnt covered. In my view, if Miss A had needed to 
make a claim for Master As autism which fell within the scope of the policy terms, it would 
likely have been covered. As Ive explained, I think if itd been shown it was medically 
necessary to cut the trip short, this wouldve been paid. Or if Miss A had incurred any 
medical expenses getting treatment abroad due to Master As autism, Zurich wouldve met 
these too. In these particular circumstances though, Miss As situation simply wasnt 
covered.
Im also aware that Miss A is concerned that the dates for the calls Zurich gave us dont tally 
with her own recollections. Id like to reassure her that this doesnt make a difference to my 
decision as it doesnt matter exactly when the calls happened. I simply needed to hear what 
was discussed. And based on the information Miss A gave during the call, Im satisfied 
Zurich sent us the right calls.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Miss As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 September 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman