DRN-3345115
The complaint
Mr H is a sole trader. He complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) failed to 
action his request for a payment holiday on his Bounce Back Loan.
What happened
Mr H took out a Bounce Back Loan with NatWest in May 2020. Under the terms of the 
agreement, Mr H wasnt required to make any repayments to the loan during the first 12 
months. Payments were scheduled to start on 18 June 2021.
Mr H says he contacted NatWest about taking out a payment holiday prior to the first 
payment falling due, but that one wasnt put in place. He says the bank acknowledged his 
online request on 25 March 2021, but despite a number of attempts thereafter he wasnt able 
to arrange a payment holiday. As he had insufficient funds to make the necessary payments, 
the loan fell into arrears and the bank has been contacting about this.
NatWest says that Mr H applied for the wrong type of payment holiday when making his 
online request in March. This was for a capital repayment holiday, which isnt available on 
Bounce Back Loans. The bank says it told Mr H how to apply when he called to follow up on 
this request in April, and sent him a link through which to complete his request. But it says 
its not received an application from Mr H since.
Our investigator didnt think NatWest had done anything wrong. She thought the bank had 
explained the steps that Mr H needed to take to arrange the payment holiday  and as he 
hadnt followed these, one hadnt been put in place. 
Mr H didnt accept our investigators view and asked that an ombudsman review the matter, 
so it was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that this matter has caused Mr H some considerable concern, particularly as 
 with no payment holiday in place  the loan has fallen into arrears and NatWest has been 
contacting him about missed payments. But for me to uphold the complaint and require the 
bank to take any action, Id need to find it had made an error or acted unfairly  and I dont 
think it did. Ill explain why.
I can see that Mr H applied for a payment holiday in March 2021, well before the monthly 
payments fell due. But unfortunately, he completed the wrong online form. He asked for a 
12-month capital repayment holiday (which in fact wouldve still required him to pay the 
interest)  but this wasnt available for a Bounce Back Loan. I dont think this is down to an 
error on NatWests part, as I think its website is sufficiently clear as to the process for 
requesting a payment holiday on a Bounce Back Loan. There is a set process that must be 
followed for this, in keeping with the rules of the government-backed Loan Scheme.
Mr H didnt hear back from NatWest about this request, other than an automated 
confirmation that it had been received. It wouldve been helpful if the bank had responded to 
let him know that it had been cancelled as hed made a mistake. But this was cleared up in 
good time anyway, as Mr H called NatWest to chase things up in April  leaving sufficient 
time to arrange a payment holiday before the first payment fell due in June  and was 
advised as to how to make his request. 
NatWests records show that Mr H then accessed the correct online application, but didnt 
complete it. So having not received a request, no payment holiday was put in place. As Mr H 
had all he needed to arrange the payment holiday, I cant say that it was down to an error on 
NatWests part that this wasnt done.
I appreciate that the missed payments and contact hes had from the bank about this will 
have been concerning for Mr H. But with no payment holiday in place, the payments fell due 
and NatWest was entitled  and required  to get in touch with him about this and Ive not 
seen that it acted unreasonably when doing so. If the account remains in arrears, I would 
suggest that Mr H contact the bank to discuss the options available to him and agree a way 
forward.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2022.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman