DRN-1461617
 
The complaint
Mr S complains that Evergreen Finance London Limited (trading as MoneyBoat) was 
irresponsible in its lending to him.
What happened
This complaint is about the six instalment loans MoneyBoat provided to Mr S between May 
2017 and September 2018. His borrowing history is set out below.
Loan Date Repaid Instalments Amount
1 26/05/2017 15/09/2017 4 £350
2 19/09/2017 13/10/2017 2 £200
3 04/05/2018 17/05/2018 2 £200
4 17/05/2018 25/06/2018 6 £350
5 02/07/2018 17/09/2018 6 £250
6 18/09/2018  6 £350
 
Mr S said that his credit file at the time of the loans showed he had been in a debt 
management plan and that the lending resulted in him going into a second debt 
management plan. He said he was gambling at the time of the loans and that his bank 
statements would have shown this. 
MoneyBoat said that before providing the loans it carried out credit and affordability checks 
and that based on these the repayments were affordable. It said Mr S repaid four of the 
loans early and didnt raise any financial difficulties with it at the time of the loans.
Our adjudicator upheld this complaint in regard to loans two to six.
MoneyBoat didnt accept our adjudicators view. It said that although information may have 
been given it wasnt realistic to expect this to all be reviewed in the early stages of the 
lending relationship.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.We've set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
MoneyBoat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr S could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and 
the consumer's income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that MoneyBoat should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customer's income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MoneyBoat was required to establish 
whether Mr S could sustainably repay his loans - not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ss complaint.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold this complaint in regard to the first loan. As the parties havent 
disputed this I havent assessed this loan further. I have however included it in my overall 
consideration of Mr S lending history.
The second loan was taken out a few days after the first was repaid. Before this loan was 
provided, MoneyBoat gathered information about Mr S income and expenses and carried 
out a credit check. I find these checks proportionate given this was only the second loan in 
the lending chain. Mr S' monthly income was recorded as £1,680 and his disposable income 
was calculated as £618. Given the monthly loan repayments were around £129, the loan 
appears affordable on a strict pounds and pence basis.
However, it is reasonable to expect that MoneyBoat will take into account the information it 
receives when making a lending decision. And in this case I think the credit report received 
at this time should have raised concerns that Mr S was struggling to manage his money. The credit report dated 19 September 2017, shows that Mr S had a history of borrowing from 
short term lenders and had a number of short term loans outstanding at the time, some of 
which were in arrears. He also had other unsecured loans in arrears. If the amount due on 
the unsecured loans and the short term loans were included in his credit commitments then 
this would have shown taking on another short term loan wasnt affordable. Given the 
information in the credit report I think that MoneyBoat should have realised that Mr S was 
having problems managing his money and that lending to him wasnt sustainably affordable. 
 
There was then a break between when loan two was repaid and loan three taken out. I find 
that this break, compared to his previous lending relationship, was significant and so I have 
considered loan three as the start of a new lending chain. 
Loan three was for £200 with monthly repayment amounts of around £118. Mr S monthly 
income was recorded as £1,600 and his disposable income was calculated as £651. 
Therefore, this loan does initially appear affordable and given it was the first in the lending 
chain, I find the checks carried out before it was provided were proportionate.
As mentioned above, it is reasonable to expect MoneyBoat to consider the information 
gathered in its lending decision and having looked through the credit report provided at the 
time of loan three I find this should have raised concerns. Mr S had two defaults recorded 
within the previous 12 months and while this alone wouldnt necessarily mean a loan 
shouldnt have been provided, combine with the other information and I think that 
MoneyBoat should have realised that lending to Mr S wasnt sustainably affordable.
I say this because Mr S had a number of other short term loans outstanding at the time 
which werent all up to date. He also had unsecured loans which he wasnt maintaining his 
payments on. Given this information I think that MoneyBoat should have realised that Mr S 
was struggling to manage his money and that lending to him wasnt sustainably affordable.
Mr S took out three further loans, each one being taken out shortly after the previous loan 
was repaid. This suggests that Mr S was borrowing again due to the hole left by his previous 
repayment. His amount of borrowing didnt reduce and I find that continuing to lend to him 
shouldnt have been considered sustainably affordable.
Therefore I uphold this complaint in regard to loans two to six. 
Putting things right
Mr S should be refunded all interest and charges he has paid on loans two to five along with 
8% simple interest* paid from the date of payment to the date of settlement. 
I understand that loan six is still outstanding. If this is the case all payments made towards 
this loan should be taken as though they were made towards the capital amount. Based on 
the information provided this results in overpayments. All overpayments should be refunded 
to Mr S along with 8% simple interest* paid from the date the overpayment would have 
arisen to the date of settlement. If loan six is no longer outstanding then all interest and 
charges paid on it should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* paid from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement. 
MoneyBoat should also remove any adverse information about loans two to six from Mr S' 
credit file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires MoneyBoat to take off tax from this interest. MoneyBoat
must give Ms S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Mr S complaint. Evergreen Finance 
London Limited should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 June 2020.
Jane Archer
Ombudsman