DRN-3414896
The complaint
Mr B complains U K Insurance Limited (UKI) have recorded a fault claim on his motor 
insurance policy unfairly.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision setting out whatd happened, and what I thought about that. 
Ive copied the relevant elements below, and they form part of this final decision.
In December 2020 Mr B was unfortunately involved in an accident. He said the other driver 
cut across him from his left, as he was exiting a roundabout. He clipped the back end of her 
car, with the front passenger side of his car sustaining some damage. He felt she was 
rushing, wasnt from the area, and said she was entirely to blame for the accident. So, when 
UKI said they were going to settle the claim on a 75 / 25 liability basis, he complained.
UKI said they were sorry to hear Mr B was unhappy with their proposed 75 / 25 liability 
decision. They said the circumstances hed described to them were hed positioned his car in 
the far right lane of the roundabout, and as hed moved to take his exit  the other party 
continued round, rather than taking the exit as he expected. UKI explained the other party 
said their intention was to continue round, they were indicating right, and Mr Bs car was 
behind them when it collided. The damage to his car was left side front corner, and damage 
to other car was right side rear quarter. 
UKI said theyd reviewed the road markings, and there were no road markings saying the 
other driver needed to have exited  the road marking showed the other driver could carry 
on in their lane rather than exiting. UKI added the Highway Code does say technically the 
other driver was in the wrong lane. But said there is still a responsibility on the exiting car, 
Mr B here, to make sure the way is clear before doing so. They said the damage would 
suggest the other partys car was in front or at least level for them to be seen before he 
moved to exit the roundabout. Overall, they felt the 75 / 25 liability decision was fair  and 
referred to the policy conditions which allowed them to decide how best to settle the claim.
Mr B didnt agree with this, so asked us to look into things. 
One of our Investigators did so  and explained we cant decide liability, but we can look and 
see whether UKI had acted fairly in how they reached their liability decision. She felt UKI 
hadnt acted fairly  in part because they didnt get a legal opinion. To put matters right, she 
felt UKI should update this to a non-fault claim and pay Mr B £50 compensation.
Mr B accepted this, but UKI didnt. They pointed again to their policy terms and said their 
team leaders are qualified solicitors who have substantial experience with road traffic 
accidents and how these would likely be decided in court  and an opinion was given from 
them.
As UKI didnt agree, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to reiterate what our Investigator explained  which is I cant decide the 
liability outcome only the courts can do that. But I can decide whether UKI reached that 
liability outcome fairly  taking into account all of the information provided.
Here, our Investigator didnt think UKI had done enough, but for reasons Ill go on to explain I 
think they did. I realise this will be disappointing for Mr B.
The policy terms UKI have referred to above say:
We are entitled to:
Take over and carry out the negotiation, defence or settlement of any claim in your 
name, or in the name of any other person covered by this policy
So, as they said, theyre allowed to decide how to settle the claim  and theyre not required 
to get a policyholders approval to do such things. Where a policyholder disputes liability, Id 
expect to see the insurer have gathered enough evidence to fairly reach that outcome. What 
that evidence looks like depends on the facts of the accident  it could be as simple as 
relying on their own policyholders version of events if that gives enough information.
Mr B has reported to UKI he was on the roundabout, and when exiting he hit the other driver. 
In the form Mr B completed for UKI after the accident they asked, and he answered, as 
follows:
How did the accident happen?
We were leaving the roundabout when the other party drove over my path
Who do you consider is at fault for the accident and why?
I consider the other party at fault because I was in my correct lane on the roundabout to exit 
ontowhen she drove over my path on the roundabout
The allegations from the other drivers insurer are noted as follows:
Please be advised that our insured was in the nearside lane when your client, in the offside 
lane, has attempted to exit the roundabout. According to the road markings, our insured was 
positioned in the correct lane. This lane allows them to exit the roundabout to the  or 
continue around towards the  Our insured was indicating whilst negotiating the roundabout 
and your client, positioned behind them, should have been aware if their intentions and not 
exited the roundabout until our insured passed the exit.
So, both parties quite clearly are blaming each other for the accident. 
UKIs position is that, based on Mr Bs testimony plus the dispute from the other party, a 
court would likely hold Mr B at least partially at fault for the accident. Theyve said this is 
because he should have checked the way was clear before moving over.Ive listened to his call with our Investigator, where hes explained he moved over, she was 
in the front lane, hes braked because hes seen her and thats how the damage occurred to 
the front of his car and the rear of hers. 
Events could have occurred exactly how Mr B has described  which would suggest hes not 
done anything wrong. But, equally, events could have happened as per the other insurers 
comments Ive set out above  the evidence available in this case supports both version of 
events. And this isnt to say Mr B isnt telling the truth, but its about what the information 
gathered shows.
UKI didnt get an independent solicitors opinion, and its quite common to do so. I can see 
our Investigator had concerns over this, and it might have helped to do so. But the 
circumstances Mr B and the other party have shared both sound plausible  as does UKIs 
comment about him needing to have checked the way was clear before moving to exit.
Id also add insurers generally will have more experience than policyholders in 
understanding how liability might be looked at by a court. Thats not to say the policyholders 
point of view isnt valid, it is. But insurers will have actually been to court, and argued many 
claims. 
Here, UKI have said their team leaders are qualifiied solicitors who have dealt with many 
road accidents and argued liability. I think thats very likely to be true given their role day to 
day will be handling insurance claims and all of the issues that arise out of that  such as 
liability.
Overall, I currently plan to say UKI have acted fairly when deciding how to settle liability. 
Because of that, I wont be awarding any compensation.
As I understand it, the offer to settle liability as 75 / 25 split was made on a without prejudice 
basis  meaning if Mr B wishes to pursue the matter privately, then he can do so.
Id just add I can see the matter went on for a long time, but it seems this is because the 
other insurer was taking a long time to reply.
Responses to my provisional decision
UKI replied and said they had nothing further to add.
Mr B replied, and in summary said he didnt think UKI had acted fairly still. He said the 
Highway Code said the other driver was in the wrong lane  and if she wasnt in the wrong 
lane, the accident wouldnt have happened.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id just like to confirm to Mr B I did read all of his reply to my provision decision, and Ive 
reflected what I consider to be the key part of his response.
I do genuinely understand Mr Bs frustration. From his perspective, hes in the right lane, and 
if the other party wasnt in the wrong lane then the accident simply wouldnt have happened.
As I can see Mr B understands, I cant decide liability. All I can consider is whether UKI have 
acted fairly in making the decision they have. I can see they did take into account what the Highway Code said  but, they also said any driver has to make sure the way is clear before 
performing a manoeuvre like exiting a roundabout  as Mr B was here. I dont think I could 
reasonably say thats an unfair point for UKI to be factoring in when thinking about the right 
way to settle the claim. 
Overall, I think UKI have taken a reasonable position when deciding liability, which does take 
into account Mr Bs concerns. Because of that, I still wont be asking them to change his 
claim to a non-fault one or pay any compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 May 2022.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman