DRN-4128649
The complaint
Mr W complains about the response of Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard when 
he asked it to help him obtain a refund for goods he bought online but did not receive.
What happened
Mr W purchased goods online from a third party retailer I will call A. Mr W used his 
Barclaycard credit card to make the purchase. Mr W arranged to collect the goods from the 
retailer.
Mr W went to one of As stores to collect the goods only to find someone else had already 
collected the goods without his knowledge or permission. Mr W considers that As security 
procedures are at fault because someone other than him was able to collect the goods. Mr 
W considers this is a breach of contract, which entitles him to a full refund. In particular Mr W 
wants a refund directly from A under a process known as chargeback. Mr W tells us A told 
him he should ask Barclaycard to carry out a chargeback. Or Mr W wants a refund from 
Barclaycard relying on the provisions of Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(Section 75). Mr W could only get such refunds by going via Barclaycard, so he contacted it 
and complained.
Barclaycard started the chargeback process, as part of this process A was contacted for its 
version of events. A told Barclaycard that the goods Mr W had ordered had been collected in 
store. Further A explained that it has a procedure to protect its customers when goods are 
collected in store. It sends a unique code to its customers telephone number. In this case 
such a code was sent to Mr Ws telephone number only. The person who collected Mr Ws 
goods in store had been in possession of this code that was why the goods were released to 
them. Having heard what A had to say Barclaycard did not continue with the chargeback. 
Further, Barclaycard did not agree that Section 75 applied here. This is because the general 
effect of Section 75 is that if Mr W has a claim for breach of contract against the supplier he 
can also bring a like claim against Barclaycard. However, Barclaycard did not accept that 
this was a matter where Mr W had a like claim for breach of contract against it as he did 
against the retailer. This was because there had been no breach of contract in its opinion.
For all of these reasons Barclaycard declined to uphold Mr Ws complaint. 
Dissatisfied, Mr W complained to our service. 
Once Mr Ws complaint was with us Mr W let us know that he is very distressed because he 
is now over his credit limit for his credit card account. Further, Mr W does not agree he 
should have to pay for the goods he says he never collected, and if he has to pay, then he 
told us that he is likely to self-harm.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. She did not recommend that Mr 
Ws complaint should be upheld.
As far as I am aware Barclaycard did not respond to our investigators recommendation. 
However, Mr W rejected our investigators recommendation and repeated he had not 
collected the goods and therefore he should not have to pay for them. He also repeated that 
hed been let down by As security procedures that was not his fault, and he should not have 
to pay for its mistake. Mr W gave examples of what extra measures he thought A should 
have put in place to make sure its security measures were good enough. Mr W also 
reiterated he expects a full refund. 
Mr W asked that an ombudsman review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I regret to hear about how distressed Mr W has become during the course of this complaint.  
I am very mindful about what he has said about how his mental health has been impacted by 
breaching his credit limit and the thought of being asked to pay for goods he tells us he 
never collected. Mr W might want to ask a trusted friend to be with him before he reads this 
decision further. I understand that Mr W has been offered help from a specialist team in 
Barclaycard in the light of what he has said about is mental health. We have also signposted 
Mr W to organisations he might want to contact if he continues to have thoughts of self-
harming. I hope Mr W will feel able to seek assistance from these sources if he requires it.
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive 
done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made by all the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think 
are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. Rather, Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Mr W and Barclaycard disagree about almost every other key aspects of this complaint. 
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant regulations, 
law, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) 
what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. Here relevant 
regulations and law includes but are not limited to the relevant rules about chargeback and 
Section 75 (section 75). Ill look at each in turn.
Chargeback
Chargeback is a process which in some very specific circumstances allows customers to ask 
for a transaction to be reversed if there is a problem with goods or services that they have 
paid for using a credit card. Chargebacks are dealt with under the relevant card scheme 
rules There is no automatic right to a chargeback. But we consider it is good practice for a 
financial business to consider carrying out a chargeback if its customer asked it to do this 
provided that there is fair chance the chargeback will be successful.
I recognise that Mr W tells us that A told him to ask Barclaycard to raise a chargeback. But 
just because A said this it does not follow that I must order Barclaycard to give Mr W a 
refund. Rather, if I am to order Barclaycard to refund all or part of the cost of the goods, I 
must be satisfied that it acted incorrectly in the way it made a chargeback claim under the 
chargeback regulations.
A chargeback can only be successful if there is a valid chargeback reason code, as defined 
under the card scheme rules. Here the reason code used was merchandise not received. I 
think this was the correct reason code to use. However, the chargeback was successfully defended by A on the basis it was able to demonstrate that the goods had been collected by 
someone who had a unique code that had only be sent to the purchaser, that is Mr W. 
I take on board Mr Ws frustration that this defence was sufficient as he suggests that A 
ought to have had what he sees as a far more robust security measures in place such as 
asking for identification documents from the person who collected the goods. I can also well 
understand why Mr W considers it is unfair that he is being asked to pay for goods he tells 
us he did not collect. But these are wider issues that touch on the underlying dispute. 
Chargeback is not a mechanism for the sort of full investigation of every avenue that Mr W 
might like. I also accept that Mr W may feel misled by A telling him to raise a chargeback. 
But whilst I acknowledge all this, in the circumstances I am satisfied that there was no 
realistic prospect of Barclaycard overcoming As defence. In the circumstances, Barclaycard 
acted correctly in the way it made a chargeback claim under the chargeback regulations.
It follows that I dont uphold this part of Mr Ws complaint. It also follows that for all of these 
reasons I have no proper basis to say Barclaycard must give Mr W a refund. 
Barclaycards response to Mr Ws claim under Section 75
Ive already mentioned that due to the type of finance Mr W used to purchase the goods, if 
Mr W has a claim for breach of contract against A he has a like claim against Barclaycard 
because of Section 75. Further, the law also provides that in general if the goods are not 
delivered into his physical possession and within the timescale the law prescribes then this 
would be a breach of contract. And further I would expect Barclaycard to take responsibility 
for such a breach of contract. It seems both parties agree about this. 
As I have already mentioned Mr Ws stance is that he went to As shop to pick up the goods 
but was told the goods had already been collected. Barclaycard has told us about the 
collection procedures that A uses for in store collections. If the procedures are followed it 
means only someone with access to Mr Ws telephone would have been able to collect the 
goods. I dont find it would be a breach of contract to hand over the goods to such a person. 
I see no reason, on balance, why the procedures would not have been followed. I therefore 
find it likely that someone with access to Mr Ws telephone collected the goods. Therefore 
based on the information on the file, in the circumstances I dont agree that the contract has 
been breached. It follows from what Ive said above that I am satisfied that I have no fair or 
reasonable basis to say that Barclaycard must do anything further in relation to this part of 
Mr Ws complaint as I dont uphold it. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2023.
 
Joyce Gordon
Ombudsman