DRN-3214443
The complaint
Mr J is unhappy with the way UK Insurance Limited (UKI) dealt with the repairs to his car 
under his car insurance policy.
What happened
Mr J took out a car insurance policy with UKI. In July 2021 he made a claim on his policy 
after his car was damaged in a road traffic accident. 
UKI collected the car and carried out repairs. When the car was returned to Mr J, he noticed 
that the bumper had been replaced and that the colour didnt match. Mr J complained to UKI 
and his car was collected by UKIs garage on 11 August 2021. It was returned to him on 13 
August 2021 but the new paint on the bumper still didnt match the original paint on the car. 
The car was returned to the garage again on 24 August 2021. Mr J received his car back on 
1 September 2021. Whilst the colour was still not a perfect match Mr J was satisfied that it 
was similar enough that no further repairs need be carried out. 
Mr J complained to UKI about his car having to be returned twice for repairs and the level of 
service he had received. He was unhappy about the courtesy car he had been provided with 
and the additional miles added to his cars mileage when it was driven to the garage for 
repair. 
UKI agreed that their service had not been up to standard and initially offered Mr J £50 
compensation. This was reviewed and a further £150 offered. Mr J was not happy with this 
and brought his complaint to this service. He didnt think that £200 compensation reflected 
the poor level of service or the inconvenience caused. 
Our investigator thought that the £200 compensation offered to Mr J was fair, and that Mr J 
had not lost out financially. Mr J disagreed and asked for the matter to be considered by an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
UKI have accepted that mistakes were made during the repair process. These repairs have 
now been completed but I understand Mr Js frustrations that these were not completed 
satisfactorily on the first occasion. The issue for me to consider is whether UKIs offer of 
£200 compensation to settle this complaint is fair.
Its not my role to fine or punish UKI for their mistakes, but to put Mr J back into the position 
he would have been had UKI not made the mistakes. I can also award compensation for 
distress and inconvenience as a recognition of the emotional and practical impact that 
mistakes can have.
I accept that Mr J was inconvenienced by having to return his car twice for repairs. He had to 
telephone UKI and correspond with them regarding the repairs and the arrangements for 
these to be carried out. 
Mr J was without his own car for the duration of the repairs, although he was provided with a 
courtesy car. The courtesy car was not of a similar make and model as Mr Js own car. 
However, his policy does not guarantee a car of a similar specification. Mr J was concerned 
that he was provided with a petrol car and if he were to drive into the congestion zone he 
would have to pay the congestion charge. I understand Mr Js concern, but Mr J did not in 
fact have to pay any congestion charge and so I cant say that UKI should compensate him 
for this. It would not be fair to make an award for potential costs that were not actually 
incurred.
Mr J also says that driving the courtesy car was inconvenient when visiting a family member 
as he had a parking concession available on his own car which was not available on the 
courtesy car. I understand that this would have inconvenienced Mr J as he had to park a 
further distance away, but Im not aware that he incurred any additional parking charges as a 
result. 
Mr J was also unhappy that his car was driven to the garage which was about 25 miles 
away, increasing his cars mileage. He accepts that he gave permission to the garage to 
drive his car but says he thought the garage was more local to him. Ive considered this 
issue but dont think that UKI have acted unreasonably. If a car is able to be driven, I dont 
think its unreasonable for it to be driven with the permission of the owner  thus avoiding the 
need for a tow truck. I note that Mr J gave permission and was informed of the location of the 
garage in advance by text. I also note that following Mr Js complaint the car was returned to 
him by tow truck in order to try to reduce any additional mileage. 
Whilst I appreciate Mr Js frustration about the way UKI handled his claim, I dont think that 
he lost out financially as a result. I recognise that Mr J was inconvenienced, but I think that 
the £200 compensation offered by UKI is fair. I know that Mr J will be disappointed by my 
decision, but I dont make any further award of compensation for distress or inconvenience.
My final decision
UK Insurance Limited have already made an offer to pay £200 to settle this complaint and I 
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. 
My decision is that UK Insurance Limited should pay Mr J the £200 it offered, less any of this 
sum that has already been paid. If UK Insurance have already paid the £200 in full, no 
further sum is payable.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2022.
 
Elizabeth Middleton
Ombudsman