DRN-2864887
The complaint
Mr M complains about Royal & Sun Alliance (RSA) regarding the time taken for a repair to 
be carried out at his home. He wants RSA to refund the excess he paid. 
What happened
Mr M held home emergency cover with RSA. This was administered by a third-party 
company L, but for the purposes of this complaint I will attribute the actions of L to RSA. 
On 11 December 2020, Mr M contacted RSA and reported that a leak had caused a small 
hole in his living room ceiling. 
RSA asked Mr M some questions about the leak and about his home. Mr M explained that 
the leak only manifested when the shower was in use, and that there was also a separate 
bath available for use. The call handler asked if any vulnerable people occupied the property 
and Mr M advised that there were not, but he and his wife were senior citizens.
The call handler advised Mr M that, based on what he had told her, the leak would not be 
covered by his policy, as the policy excluded leaks from a bathing facility if there was 
another means of bathing at the property. 
Mr M became upset and hung up. 
Mr M called RSA again later that day to make a complaint. He explained that his wife was 
not able to use the alternative bathing facilities due to mobility. RSA then reconsidered the 
claim and decided to include the leak within its cover. 
RSA sent a contractor to Mr Ms home the following day. 
The contractor diagnosed that the waste pipe from the shower had split and needed to be 
replaced. He considered that, due to the location of the leak the bath would need to be 
removed for access, which would take several hours. The contractor considered that 
alternatively he could access the pipe via the living room ceiling to carry out a repair more 
quickly.  
Mr M elected to wait and have a repair conducted by moving the bath, a few days later. 
RSA approved the work and the contractor was scheduled to return to carry out the repair on 
15 December 2020. 
On the day of the planned repair, the contractor informed RSA that he was unable to work 
due to an emergency. RSA informed Mr M of this and it was hoped that the repair would be 
conducted the next day. 
The contractor was unable to attend on 16 December 2020. Mr M was advised of this when 
he made contact with RSA. 
The contractor then attended and repaired the shower pipe on 17 December 2020, and Mr M 
confirmed that he was happy with the repair. 
Mr M then made a complaint to RSA. He considered that there had been undue delay in 
carrying out the repair and he thought that he and his wife ought to have been 
accommodated elsewhere pending the repair. He noted that his wife had had to travel to a 
family members home to shower and this had caused them inconvenience.
RSA did not uphold Mr Ms complaint and declined to refund his excess, so he contacted us.
One of our investigators has considered this complaint and set out his view to the parties. He 
did not recommend upholding the complaint on the basis that the delays were due to 
circumstances outside of RSAs control. 
Mr M did not accept that view and asked for an ombudsman decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have, in particular, considered the policy wording and the nature of the leak at Mr Ms 
home. 
Mr Ms policy cover makes clear that some circumstances are excluded from cover, 
including:
where there is a leak from a shower, bath or sink when in use and there is another means 
of equivalent bathing or washing at the home and
Where the leak can be contained providing you with enough time to arrange a repair 
privately.
In this situation, Mr M initially confirmed that his home had an alternative means of bathing, 
and that no one in his home was vulnerable. On that basis, it appeared that RSA was 
entitled to exclude the leak. 
Mr M then called back and, through further explanation, it became clear that the bath was 
not a viable alternative for his wife, due to mobility issues. 
RSA then decided to include the leak within cover. 
It appears, however, that the second exclusion above, that the leak could be isolated to 
enable the policy holder to arrange a private repair, continued to apply to Mr Ms claim. 
I am therefore mindful that the situation at Mr Ms home did not fall within the definition of an 
emergency covered by the policy, and RSA could have maintained its decline of the claim 
had it wished to. 
Once it had accepted cover, however, RSA was bound to provide a reasonable service, in 
line with the remainder of the policy. 
RSA sent a contractor within a reasonable timeframe, and that contractor set out options for 
Mr M, including a quicker repair via the ceiling, or a repair in a few days time, when the bath 
could be removed. Mr M elected to wait a few days and have the repair by removing the 
bath. I consider that this decision demonstrates that Mr M did not think the situation an emergency 
at the time of the contractors attendance and diagnosis of the problem, as Mr M elected to 
wait rather than have an immediate repair. 
The leak repair was then planned for 15 December, but due to unforeseen circumstances, 
the contractor was not able to return and carry out the repair until 17 December. 
I do not think that this delay was unreasonable, or that it was within the control of RSA. Mr M 
was updated on the days of planned attendance and when he called for updates.
Mr M thinks that RSA ought to have sourced an alternative contractor, but I cannot see that 
there was evidence of the situation having become an emergency, such as to warrant a 
change in contractor, especially when it seemed that the delay was likely to be only one day. 
The repair was then carried out satisfactorily on 17 December. 
I understand that Mr M has described the inconvenience he and his wife experienced, and 
that his wife had to travel elsewhere to shower, during a time when travel restrictions 
applied. I understand his view, but I do not think that RSA acted unreasonably in the 
circumstances which appeared to them at the time. 
Mr M has also stated that he thinks that RSA ought to have sourced alternative 
accommodation for him and his wife due to the inaccessibility of the shower. I have 
considered the policy wording, which limits the provision of overnight accommodation to 
circumstances where it has not been possible to resolve the emergency and the home is 
rendered uninhabitable. 
I do not consider that this requirement was met by Mr Ms situation, both in that it appears 
that it would have been possible to resolve the leak immediately via the ceiling, but Mr M 
elected not to do this, and also that his home was not rendered uninhabitable by the leak. I 
therefore do not consider that Mr M was eligible for overnight accommodation under the 
terms of the policy he held, and I do not criticise RSA for not offering this.  
Mr M wants a refund of his excess due to the inconvenience he suffered. I do not think this 
would be a fair outcome and I consider that Mr M benefitted from the policy cover, which 
RSA could have declined to provide. 
For these reasons, I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint, and do not ask RSA to do anything 
further. I appreciate that this will be disappointing for Mr M, but I hope it clearly explains my 
reasons. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint and do not ask Royal & Sun 
Alliance Insurance plc to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2021.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman