DRN-2819326
The complaint
Mr S has complained that when making a claim against Assurant General Insurance Limited 
(AGIL) under his gadget insurance policy for the loss of his mobile phone, AGIL rejected his 
claim although he had provided the supporting documentation it requested. 
What happened
Mr S has a Tech Pack gadget insurance policy with AGIL covering his mobile phone and 
other devices. This policy is a benefit provided by his bank. 
On 3 December 2020, Mr S contacted AGIL to make a claim for the loss of his phone. As 
part of its consideration of his claim, AGIL wanted to verify that the phone belonged to Mr S. 
Mr S provided proof of his purchase of a  Model 10+ phone on 14 January 2020. He 
provided copies of the till receipt and also an e-receipt.
AGIL asked for further evidence, and referred him to the following term of his policy:
We need to know that the device, SIM card and accessories you are claiming for 
are yours. Therefore you may need to provide some form of proof of ownership. 
You may need to be able to tell us the make and model of your device. We may 
ask to see something that tells us that the items you are claiming for belong to you. 
For mobile phones, this confirms:
- make, model, memory size, colour and IMEI number of your mobile phone. The 
IMEI number is the unique serial number for your mobile phone. You can find it by 
inputting *#06# into your mobile phone. It should also be on the documentation 
that came with your mobile phone when you purchased it.
AGIL asked for the IMEI number of Mr Ss phone. As well as being available on the phone 
itself, this also appears on the box. Mr S said he didnt have the box any more.
AGIL closed its investigation into Mr Ss claim on 17 December 2020 as he couldnt provide 
the IMEI number for the phone he was claiming for. On 8 March 2021 it issued its final 
response to his complaint about the rejection of his claim.
Mr S brought a complaint to this service. On 13 March 2021, Mr S provided an IMEI number 
to our investigator. Our investigator passed this to AGIL. However AGIL has said its 
enquiries have shown that the IMEI number provided by Mr S relates to a Model 10 phone 
and not a 10+. Its asked Mr S to provide more evidence from the network provider to show 
the IMEI number he gave was connected to the phone hes claiming for. Mr S has said he 
cant provide this information as the sim card in the phone was an international pay as you 
go sim, and he didnt use the phone to make or receive calls. He used it to connect to WIFI 
to access the internet. 
Our investigator considered that this was a plausible explanation, and that as hed provided 
AGIL with a receipt for the purchase of the phone he was claiming for, and an IMEI number 
as requested, it wasnt fair for Assurant to continue to rely on the clause it has to not look 
into his claim.
AGIL doesnt agree with our investigators view and has asked that this complaint be 
considered by an ombudsman. Its therefore been passed to me to make a final decision 
from this service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im going to uphold Mr Ss complaint and Ill explain why.
When assessing a claim for loss of an insured item, there will be a number of things that an 
insurer will wish to be satisfied about. Its entirely reasonable that AGIL should wish to be 
satisfied that it has reasonable evidence that the item being claimed for did in fact belong to 
Mr S. There will be other matters about which it will also wish to be satisfied, such as 
whether any of the policy exclusions apply.
In this case, AGIL initially dismissed Mr Ss claim because he couldnt provide an IMEI 
number, this being one of the identifying factors by which it verifies ownership. Then, when 
Mr S did eventually provide an IMEI number, it wasnt satisfied that this related to the phone 
being claimed for because its information was that the number given by Mr S relates to a 
Model 10 phone and not a 10+. Mr S has also provided a photo of the phone with this IMEI 
number that was taken on 13 May 2020, and photos of the box which Mr S had originally 
said he didnt have.
Ive undertaken a search through www.imei.info and entered the IMEI number provided by 
Mr S. This shows that the phone with this number is a Model 10+, which accords with the 
proof of purchase that Mr S has provided. 
I therefore dont consider that AGIL is acting reasonably in requiring Mr S to provide further 
evidence of ownership. Its policy specifies the information it may ask for to verify ownership. 
In my view Mr S has provided that information. 
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im upholding Mr Ss complaint. Assurant General 
Insurance Limited should continue to assess Mr Ss claim under the remaining terms and 
conditions of his policy. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2021.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman