DRN-3031632
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M have complained that Yorkshire Building Society (YBS) mis-sold them a 
mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M applied for the mortgage in October 1998 and did not take out PPI at that 
time. It was in February 1999 that they were sold PPI over the phone. Although it was a joint 
mortgage, the PPI was set up just to cover Mr M.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs M disagree with the adjudicators 
opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs M say they werent aware theyd taken out PPI  meaning that it was added 
without their knowledge or consent. However, they applied for the mortgage in October 1998 
and the mortgage went live in December 1998. It wasnt until February 1999 that they bought 
PPI. As the mortgage was already running at that time, they would have been aware that it 
wasnt a condition of having the mortgage. YBS has provided a copy of the declaration form 
that it ran through with Mr M over the phone which shows that there was a discussion about 
PPI. Ive also seen a copy of the PPI welcome letter that was sent to Mr and Mrs M shortly 
afterwards.
The sale happened a long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising if Mr and Mrs Ms 
recollection of events has faded. Given the available evidence, I consider that Mr and Mrs M 
would have known that they had a choice about buying the PPI. It seems to me that they 
decided to buy it, knowing that they didnt have to, even if they no longer remember doing 
so.
YBS didnt advise Mr and Mrs M to take out the policy, so it didnt need to ensure that it met 
their needs. But it did need to provide Mr and Mrs M with sufficient information for them to 
make an informed decision about whether or not the policy was right for them.
Mr M says he would have received some sick pay from his job. But the policy would have 
paid out in addition to this and potentially for longer than Mr M would have received full pay 
for. And Mr and Mrs M didnt have any other means, such as savings, to fall back on. 
Overall, I think Mr and Mrs M had a need for the policy and could have benefitted from it at 
what would have been a difficult time.
Its possible that YBS could have provided more information about the policy, particularly 
about the things that it didnt cover. But Mr M wasnt affected by any of those things. As I 
think Mr and Mrs M had an interest in the policy and decided to buy it, I dont consider that 
further information would have caused them to change their minds. So they are no worse off 
as a result of anything YBS may have done wrong, so theres nothing YBS needs to do to 
put things right.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 February 2022. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman