DRN-3255101
The complaint
Ms K complains about an overdraft on her student current account with Santander UK Plc. 
She says it increased the overdraft limit irresponsibly, failed to support her when she 
experienced financial difficulty and didnt make adjustments for her as a survivor of abuse.
What happened
Ms K had a student account with Santander. Its a standard feature of its student accounts 
that theres an overdraft, and the overdraft limit generally increases over the life of the 
account, to support the student during the years of their studies.
Ms Ks overdraft limit was initially £250, but this increased in increments until by 2016 it was 
£1,500. Ms K says this was irresponsible, and didnt take into account that she had little or 
no income going into the account. 
Ms K stopped using the account and Santander withdrew the overdraft facility. Ms K 
contacted Santander and asked for the account to be extended, and for a payment plan to 
be agreed. 
In November 2018, Santander and Ms K agreed a payment plan of £101 a month. As she 
didnt keep to the arrangement, Santander applied a default to the account. It says she 
missed the first payment, in December. Although she made payments after that, the account 
had been defaulted by then and was passed first to Santanders collections department then 
to a third party debt collector. Ms K says the first instalment was missed because Santander 
failed to set up a direct debit, and so it wasnt fair that the account was put in default.
Ms K said she asked Santander to communicate with her by email because she didnt have 
a permanent address or phone number, but it refused to do so. 
In 2020, Ms K told Santander that she had been a victim of abuse, and that the increase in 
overdraft had not been requested by her  the perpetrator had access to her account. She 
says that Santander didnt take that into account or treat her sympathetically, and expected 
her to repay the full amount without making any adjustments in either the amount of the debt 
or how it dealt with her. It didnt protect her from overspending. And when it defaulted the 
account and agreed a payment plan it didnt explain the impact of that  having a default on 
her credit file has prevented her being able rent property or pay course fees, which has 
affected her income. All of this has caused her great stress and anxiety.
Santander said that the account had operated as it should. Because this was a student 
account, the overdraft was set at a standard level for this type of account. And there were no 
transactions or activity on the account which would have given it any cause for concern. By 
2018, Ms Ks studies had ended and the account converted to a graduate account. But as 
the account was no longer in use and Ms K was not paying any credits into it, Santander 
said she was in breach of the graduate account terms and conditions.
Ms K complained. She said she wanted the defaulted overdraft removed from her credit file, 
and for Santander to refund the £1,500 that was irresponsibly lent to her. 
Our investigator didnt recommend upholding the complaint, so Ms K asked for it to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are two key aspects to Ms Ks complaint, it seems to me, and Ill deal with each in 
turn. The first is whether Santander should have given Ms K the overdraft, and the second 
concerns how it treated her after it withdrew the facility.
A substantial overdraft is a standard feature of a student account. The overdraft facility is 
designed to help the student support themselves during their studies, with the expectation 
that it will be paid back from employment after the studies are complete. So  unlike a 
standard overdraft  theres less emphasis placed on affordability at the point its taken out.
Santanders student account comes with an automatic £250 overdraft on opening the 
account, and the limit automatically increases to £1,500 once £500 has been deposited into 
the account. That then remains the limit for the duration of a standard three year course. 
Once the student graduates, Santander converts the account to a graduate account and 
allows the overdraft to continue  on condition that regular income is paid into the account.
Santander received a request shortly after the account was opened for the limit to be 
increased from £250 to £1,500. Ms K says she didnt make this request, and Santander 
should not have granted it. But as Ive explained, an increase to £1,500 was a standard 
feature of the account. Im satisfied that this was the reason why the limit went up  it wasnt 
because of the request, and it would always have happened whether requested or not.
As I say, the affordability and responsible lending checks for a student account overdraft are 
different to a standard overdraft, because of the specific type of customer theyre aimed at. 
Santander checks past credit history when the account is taken out. And it monitors the 
performance of the account during its life  withdrawing the overdraft if it has concerns over 
how its being conducted.
In this case, when Ms K applied for the account, there was nothing to suggest that giving her 
the account with the standard overdraft would not be responsible or appropriate for her. And 
theres nothing in the conduct of the account over its first three years which gave  or ought 
to have given  Santander concern either that Ms K was struggling with the account, or that 
the account was being used by a third party without her consent. 
Im sorry to hear that Ms K says she was the victim of abuse by a third party who used the 
account. In situations like that I would expect a lender to take action if it was aware  but 
Santander wasnt aware until Ms K told it when she complained in 2020. Even so, Santander 
should be alert to suspicious activity on the account that might show that transactions 
werent carried out by Ms K. But in this case, there was nothing that ought reasonably to 
have given Santander cause for concern  and where it doesnt know, and cant be expected 
to know, that there might be an issue, its difficult to expect it to have taken action. In any 
case, Ms K has said she no longer wants to pursue this part of her complaint.
Im therefore satisfied that Santander did not lend irresponsibly when it gave Ms K the 
overdraft, or when it increased the limit to £1,500 and allowed it to remain at that level for the 
next three years. 
When the account converted to a graduate account in 2018, Ms K didnt keep to the terms and conditions of the account because she didnt pay in the minimum required each month. 
Santander tried to contact her to discuss the account and when it was unable to do so it 
withdrew the overdraft facility.
I think Santander made reasonable efforts to contact Ms K around this time. It wrote to the 
address it had for her. Ms K emailed Santander through its banking app, but Santander 
wouldnt discuss the account with her that way; it asked her to call. I dont think this was 
unreasonable. Emails arent secure  and, importantly, since this was by now about 
repayment of a debt, Santander needed to have a discussion with Ms K about her situation 
and whether she could afford repayments.
Santander and Ms K did manage to speak towards the end of 2018. A payment arrangement 
was agreed  Ms K was to pay £101 per month towards the debt.
Unfortunately the first payment, due in December 2018, wasnt made. Ms K says this was 
because Santander didnt collect it from her via direct debit, though Santander says it was 
Ms Ks responsibility to ensure she made the payment.
When Ms K didnt make her payment, Santander sent a formal warning that it was intending 
to issue a default notice. I dont think this was an unreasonable step to take, since there was 
an outstanding debt, a repayment plan had been agreed, and Ms K hadnt made the first 
payment. Santander is required to notify her of the potential consequences of that.
However, Ms K then did make the agreed payments. She paid £101 in January, and then 
every month until May 2019. 
Despite this, and after the January payment was received, Santander took the decision to 
default the account, and recorded a default on Ms Ks credit file in February.
I think this was premature. As Ive said, its understandable that Santander considered a 
default, and warned Ms K about it, when the first payment was missed. But when Ms K 
made the next payment, and the next, it should have thought again whether defaulting the 
account at this point was the right way forward. Im not persuaded it was.
So then Ive thought about whether it would be right to ask Santander to remove the default 
from Ms Ks credit file, on the basis that it wasnt appropriate to apply it in February 2019.
To help me decide this, Ive looked at what happened over the next few months. Ms K 
continued to make the agreed £101 each month until May. But then she stopped making the 
agreed payments. She finally cleared the balance in 2020.
If I ask Santander to remove the default on the basis that it should not have been applied in 
February, I have to take into account that its likely it would have been applied later that year 
in any case, because Ms K stopped making payments in May 2019.
That means that if Santander had not recorded a default in February 2019, it would more 
than likely have recorded one in say September of that year. And that would have been a 
reasonable thing to have done.
I do think it was premature to apply the default in February. But I dont think Ms K has lost 
out as a result  because she would always have ended up with a default on her credit file, 
though one recorded later on in 2019. And as an earlier default will drop off her credit file 
sooner than a later one, she has not been left in a worse position.
I know this will disappoint Ms K. Im sorry about that, and I dont intend to minimise how upsetting shes found this complaint, after everything shes been through. But for the 
reasons Ive explained, I dont think I can fairly ask Santander to remove the default from her 
credit file. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.,
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2022.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman