DRN-2569270
The complaint
Mrs M says Barclays Bank UK Plc mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mrs M bought the PPI in 1997 whilst applying for a new credit card. Our adjudicator who 
looked at this case said the complaint should be upheld. Barclays disagreed and asked for 
an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. Having done this, Ive decided to uphold 
the complaint.
Mrs M says the PPI was added without her knowing about it. But I dont think this is right 
because I see she did tick the PPI box on the application, although this was obviously a 
long time ago now. 
However, the issue here is relatively straightforward. Mrs M suffered from an existing 
medical condition known to be a lifelong condition and one which can cause complications 
and / or other conditions.
Barclays concedes it advised her to buy the PPI policy with the card, but where she ticked 
the box as Ive mentioned above, there was no mention about medical conditions such as 
hers being an important consideration. So, I dont think Mrs M was told everything she 
ought to have been told given Barclays was advising her.
We now know that the policy terms excluded a wide variety of things. It said any sickness, 
disease condition or injury which was known about at the time of the application couldnt be 
claimed for.
Thinking about the condition Mrs M had been diagnosed with in 1989 and was still ongoing, 
I think Barclays was wrong to advise her to buy the PPI cover. Barclays says it wants to 
know how the condition affected her; but in my view, these are the sort of questions 
Barclays should have been asking at the time of the sale and before recommending she 
buy the cover.
So, I dont think the policy was suitable for Mrs M and if shed had these things explained to 
her, I think shed have considered it poor value for money. She wouldnt have ever agreed to 
buy the policy.
As Ive found the policy was unsuitable, I dont need to consider any other points. The PPI 
was mis-sold.
Putting things right
Barclays should put Mrs M in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out 
PPI. The policy should be cancelled if it hasnt been cancelled already and:
A. Barclays should find out how much Mrs M would owe on her credit card if the policy 
hadnt been added to it. It should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any 
interest charged on those premiums. It should also remove any charges that were 
caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges.
Barclays should then refund the difference between what Mrs M owes and what she 
would have owed. If Mrs M made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Barclays 
can take off what she got for the claim from the amount it owes her.
B. If when Barclays works out what Mrs M would have owed each month without PPI  
Mrs M paid more than enough to clear her balance, Barclays should also pay simple 
interest on the extra Mrs M paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point 
when Mrs M wouldve owed Barclays something on her credit card. The interest rate 
should be 8% a year.
C. Barclays should tell Mrs M what its done to work out A and B.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclays to take off tax from this interest. Barclays must give Mrs M a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay the compensation as 
outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 March 2021.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman