DRN-3131774
The complaint
Mr B complains that Covea Insurance plc unfairly said his motor insurance policy was void 
and declined to pay a claim.
Where I refer to Covea, I include the insurance broker and others insofar as I hold Covea 
responsible for their acts and omissions.
What happened
Through a broker, Mr B took out a motor trade road risks policy for the year from early 
January 2020. The policy schedule gave his address in a city in the North of England.
The subject matter of this complaint is a large sports utility vehicle first registered in 2018. In 
late August 2020, Mr B agreed a price of about £28,000.00 and acquired the vehicle on 
finance. He asked the broker to add it to the policy. Mr B changed the registration number for 
one personal to him.
In September 2020, he reported that someone had broken into his house and taken his car 
keys and his car. Police recovered his car, but it had suffered damage. 
Covea appointed an investigator to interview Mr B by telephone. By a letter dated 14 
October 2020, Covea said the policy had been void from the start. Its letter included the 
following:
The Statement of Fact declares that you are a part time self-employed Motor Trader 
involved in 100% car sales trading from your risk address [address in the East of 
England]. Your other occupation is declared as a self-employed property manager
Covea declined to pay the claim and it returned the premium Mr B had paid. Mr B 
complained to Covea. By a final response dated early December 2020, Covea turned down 
the complaint.
Mr B brought his complaint to us in February 2021. He said he had to pay £5,350.00 for 
repairs, and the cost of his insurance had trebled.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that the 
actions Covea took were in line with the Insurance Act.
Mr B disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that:
He was  and is  self-employed in full- time property management.
He has received part of the premium of £600,00 from the broker but not a full refund.
He has never come across to the address in the East of England.
Its not true that hes a full-time restaurateur.
We should ask Covea to compensate him for the £10,000.00 he has lost.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account the relevant law. If Mr B had been acting as a consumer, then 
Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 wouldve applied. As he 
took out a trade policy, Insurance Act 2015 applied.
In this decision, I name Covea, but I wont name any other company or individual.
From the policy schedule, I find that Covea had asked Mr B his motor trade occupation and 
he had said he was in car sales. Covea had asked Mr B about any other occupation and he 
said he was a property manager. He didnt mention a restaurant business.
After the investigator did the telephone interview, they drafted a statement for Mr B. It didnt 
mention the East of England. The statement included the following paragraphs:
4.  I am self-employed full time as a Restauranteur and part time as a Motor Trader.
5.  I am also a Director of [name] Investment Ltd and have been since 2017, this is a       
property management company.

20. I went out to work in the evening using my other car
21. My business is a takeaway restaurant in [named city in the north of England].
22. 
23. I got home at some time between 3am and 4am on 10th September 2020.
From that, I find that Mr B had told the investigator that he had a takeaway restaurant 
business and that  on the night of the theft  hed been working (in that business) until after 
3:00 in the morning. Mr B hasnt suggested that hed only recently acquired the takeaway 
restaurant business. So I find it likely that Mr B had  since at least early January 2020  had 
a takeaway restaurant business in addition to his occupations in the motor trade and in 
property management.
I find that his answers in January 2020 were incorrect in not mentioning that takeaway 
restaurant business. As he mustve known his own businesses  I consider that his answers 
were careless if not reckless as to the truth. So Im not satisfied that Mr B made a fair 
presentation of risk to Covea.
Mr B denies knowledge of the address in the East of England. And Covea hasnt provided 
any statement of fact document. Apart from Coveas letter of 14 October 2020, I havent 
seen any evidence that Mr B gave that address. I find it likely that Covea made a mistake in 
stating that address in its letter.
From its underwriting criteria, I accept that Covea wouldnt have offered Mr B a motor trade 
policy if he had told it that:
he had more than one occupation in addition to his motor trade; or 
was self-employed in the business of takeaway food.
I accept that Covea has refunded the premium to the broker in full. I dont hold Covea 
responsible for any deductions the broker has made before passing the refund to Mr B.Keeping in mind the Insurance Act, I dont find that Covea treated Mr B unfairly by treating 
his policy as void from the start. I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Covea to alter that 
decision or to pay the claim or to do anything more in response to this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Covea Insurance plc to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2021. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman