DRN-3790839
The complaint
Ms M complains that Lloyds Bank PLC blocked her account when she was trying to 
complete an online transaction. She also complains about the service she received when 
trying to resolve matters, including that Lloyds arranged a welfare check for her.
What happened
In April 2022, Ms M tried to complete a transaction on a website using her Lloyds debit card. 
She says she was provided with a security code to complete the transaction and once she 
inputted the details, she was told she could move forward. However, the transaction then 
failed. 
Ms M said she went through this process a few more times, and even changed the amount 
of the transaction in case that helped matters, but the payments ultimately failed. So, Ms M 
called Lloyds.
Ms M was put through to Lloyds fraud team and was asked some security questions. 
However, she was unhappy with the advisers conduct on the call and became upset. There 
was some further conversation and then the call ended. Lloyds was concerned about Ms Ms 
welfare following the conversation that had happened. So, it arranged a welfare check to 
Ms Ms home from the police. 
Ms M was unhappy with Lloyds service and complained. In summary, she was unhappy she 
was having trouble spending her own money and said Lloyds didnt notify her that there was 
an issue with her account. She was also unhappy that Lloyds arranged a welfare check and 
thought the adviser had misinterpreted what shed said. She also said the police visit was 
very embarrassing for her. 
Lloyds reviewed Ms Ms complaint. It explained that the attempted transactions had flagged 
as being suspicious and that it wasnt always able to notify customers of this in advance. 
Lloyds said if this was the case, it would discuss matters with customers when they call. In 
relation to the call, Lloyds apologised if Ms M thought that the security questions were 
excessive, but it was trying to ensure her account was safe. As I understand it, the contact 
notes show Lloyds tried to contact Ms M again about matters, close to two weeks after it 
issued its final response letter, but couldnt get through.
Ms M remained unhappy and brought her complaint to this service. One of our investigators 
reviewed matters and didnt recommend Ms Ms complaint be upheld. In summary, he 
explained that Lloyds is obliged to have fraud prevention systems in place. And, whilst he 
appreciated it was frustrating that Lloyds needed to speak to Ms M directly in this instance, 
he thought the actions Lloyds took were with the security of Ms Ms account in mind. 
In relation to the call, our investigator agreed that the adviser misinterpreted what Ms M said, 
which led to the police being called. That being said, whilst he thought matters escalated 
unnecessarily, he thought the adviser was ultimately concerned about Ms Ms welfare and 
didnt agree Lloyds had done anything wrong by ensuring her welfare was checked. 
Lloyds didnt dispute our investigators findings, but Ms M did and, in summary, mostly 
repeated her earlier points of concern.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms M has provided lots of detail about her complaint, and Id like to thank her for taking the 
time to do so, particularly as I appreciate she has been through a very difficult time with her 
health. Its important I explain, however, that my findings will only address those matters I 
consider central to the outcome of this complaint. So, while I have considered all the 
evidence provided by both parties, including the correspondence sent in after our 
investigators view, I wont address each and every point that has been raised. I trust this 
wont be taken as a discourtesy, but this reflects the informal nature of our service. And to be 
clear, I consider the crux of this complaint to be about the temporary block on Ms Ms 
account, the call with Lloyds fraud department and the decision taken to arrange a welfare 
check from the police.
The temporary block on Ms Ms account
Lloyds said that the attempted transactions flagged on its systems as being suspicious. I 
appreciate the frustration this wouldve caused Ms M, particularly as she was entering the 
security codes she was provided with, which were accepted, and she was under the 
impression that she could continue with the transactions, only for these to then fail a number 
of times.
However, in this instance, because of the concerns Lloyds had, it wanted to speak with 
Ms M to be sure that the transactions were genuine on this occasion. Whilst I appreciate the 
inconvenience and upset this caused Ms M in the circumstances, I dont think Lloyds has 
acted unreasonably and Im persuaded that the actions it took were to safeguard Ms Ms 
account. 
I appreciate Ms M says she expected Lloyds to contact her and explain it had concerns 
about the account. However, as Lloyds outlined in its final response letter, there are some 
circumstances where it cant notify a customer of its suspicions in advance and instead, it 
waits to discuss matters when they call. Ive thought about this and, given the 
circumstances, I dont think this is unreasonable. And, Ms M called Lloyds shortly after 
attempting the transactions, so Im not persuaded there was any prolonged negative impact 
here.
Lloyds has told this service that the blocks have since been removed from the account and 
Ms M is able to use her card again. And, as I understand it, Ms M hasnt made this service 
aware of any continued issues with making transactions on the account. However, Lloyds 
has told this service that the card has been flagged as compromised. Whilst Lloyds says 
Ms M is still able to use the card, its suggested that Ms M orders a new card either online, 
on the phone, or in branch, in order to limit any further issues moving forward. I think this 
suggestion is reasonable. 
The phone call with Lloyds and the action taken to arrange a welfare check
Ms M called shortly after the transactions failed and was put through to Lloyds fraud 
department. The adviser asked Ms M some security questions about the attempted transactions and also some other account usage. I was sorry to hear how upsetting Ms M 
found the call with the adviser. However, having listened to the call, Im persuaded that the 
adviser was asking the security questions to resolve the issue for Ms M, and be sure her 
account was safeguarded. It follows that I dont consider his conduct to be inappropriate.
Ive also thought about whether Lloyds acted unfairly by asking the police to carry out a 
welfare check after the call with the adviser ended. During the call, Ms M became 
increasingly upset and angry and explained the effect the conversation was having on her. 
Whilst its not completely clear, earlier in the call, Ms M seems to say that she is typing up 
details about the situation at hand to send a copy to her son and her GP. She then says that 
if something happened to her, her son would take action against the bank. Later in the call, 
amongst other points, as I understand it, Ms M says: Youre killing me...Im going to make 
you responsible if something happens to me. Matters then continued to escalate, and Ms M 
asked to be put through to someone else. The contact notes Lloyds provided suggest that 
Ms M hung up before this could happen. And, when a manager tried to call Ms M back, they 
were unable to get through as there was an engaged tone.
In conversations with our service, Ms M explained she wasnt intending on harming herself. 
She says she was talking about her physical health conditions and said that Lloyds would be 
responsible if she suffered another stroke. So, she thinks Lloyds shouldnt have arranged a 
welfare check for her and doing so caused her a lot of embarrassment. 
Ive thought very carefully about this, and I appreciate Ms Ms point here that the adviser 
misinterpreted what she said. However, Ive also considered that Lloyds has a duty of care 
towards its customers and Lloyds staff had to make a decision in the moment about how 
best to move forward with the information that had been heard. Having listened to the call, I 
think Ms M is clearly very upset and its difficult to hear some of what is being said. However, 
having considered the comments mentioned above, I can understand why what some of 
Ms M said made Lloyds genuinely concerned about her welfare, particularly considering how 
upset and distressed she was during the call. 
Overall, I dont think this is a decision that was taken lightly. And, whilst Lloyds said it can 
now see what Ms M meant by her comments, I think this is with the benefit of hindsight. And, 
on balance, I cant say Lloyds staff acted unreasonably at the time by making a judgement 
call, and subsequently taking action to ensure Ms M wasnt at any risk. I say this especially 
as the contact notes suggest Lloyds wasnt able to successfully contact Ms M when it tried to 
call her back. It follows that I dont think Lloyds treated Ms M unfairly here.
In summary then, whilst I acknowledge the distress Ms M was caused, I dont think Lloyds 
has acted unfairly by taking action to safeguard Ms Ms account and the decision it made to 
ensure she wasnt at any risk of harm. It follows that I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2023.
 
Hana Yousef
Ombudsman