DRN-4401567
The complaint
Mr S has complained about the length of time it took Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited 
(Aviva) to process his retirement claim. 
What happened
Mr S had a pension policy with Aviva. It had originally been with Friends Life but was taken 
over by Aviva. Mr Ss selected retirement date (SRD) was his 66th birthday in October 2017. 
Mr S says he first approached Aviva about his retirement in 2016 but it wasnt until 2019 that 
his tax free cash was paid and the remaining fund used to purchase a Lifetime Annuity. Mr S 
says Aviva should backdate payments to 2016. 
Ive seen that Mr S contacted us in July 2018 to lodge a complaint about delays by Aviva. On 
17 July 2018 we emailed him asking for a copy of Avivas final response. Despite reminders 
we didnt receive a reply from Mr S. But he contacted us on 8 January 2023 for an update. 
We explained, as we hadnt received a response to the emails in 2018 and 2019, his case 
was closed. Mr S explained his concerns in 2018 were never fully addressed by Aviva and 
hed raised another complaint with them more recently. 
On 18 May 2023 Aviva issued a final response to that later complaint, not upholding it. Aviva 
said theyd reviewed the history of the policy and they couldnt see theyd had any contact 
from Mr S previously in respect of the policy other than on a few occasions to ascertain 
values and servicing requests. In relation to the retirement claim, Aviva said they couldnt 
see there were any delays. 
Mr S asked us to look into things for him. When Aviva provided their file to us they said, after 
a further review, they could see thered been difficulties in locating Mr Ss pension which 
wouldve been inconvenient for him. Aviva offered Mr S £150 for any trouble and upset 
caused. Mr S didnt accept that. He said Aviva didnt send functioning attachments and then 
suggested that not being able to access these was his own fault. Mr S said the issues went 
on for years, hed made hundreds of calls, and had to go through the same process several 
times. £150 didnt even cover his call costs over that period. 
We relayed Mr Ss comments to Aviva who increased their offer to £250. Mr S rejected that 
and said he was looking for at least two years and two months of backdated pension 
payments.  
The complaint was investigated by one of our investigators. He thought the £250 offered by 
Aviva was fair. Ive summarised his main findings: 
The investigator was satisfied by the emails that Mr S had provided and which 
referred to him having made initial enquiries in October 2016 that Mr S had been 
trying to claim his pension benefits since then. 
Thered been difficulty locating Mr Ss policy. Without recordings it was difficult to be 
certain of the content of the calls. But from the emails Mr S had provided it seemed 
hed been dealing with the wrong department at Aviva. That department shouldve 
forwarded Mr Ss policy details to correct department. How things were dealt with 
wasnt good service. 
Aviva had provided copies of correspondence sent to Mr S on 1 November 2017 
confirming Mr S had opted for tax free cash and to use the remaining fund to buy an 
annuity. So it seemed by then Mr S had been able to contact the right department. 
The correspondence included, amongst other things, an application form which had 
to be returned to Aviva. Mr S was living abroad at the time but hed said if hed 
received the correspondence hed have replied. 
Mr S had produced an online article dated 20 September 2018 entitled Aviva 
customers hit by system glitch. It was difficult to say those issues wouldve definitely 
impacted on Mr S. 
Aside from the article, neither Mr S nor Aviva was able to produce anything for the 
period November 2017 to early January 2019. So it was unclear what had happened 
and if Aviva were responsible for any delay.
The next correspondence wed seen (at that stage) was on 18 January 2019. Aviva 
thanked Mr S for his recent communication and said, in order to deal with the 
pension benefit request, theyd need some outstanding information. So it was clear 
that there was some contact then or earlier about Mr S taking his pension benefits. 
Mr S had provided us with emails chains which began on 28 February 2019. Aviva 
said theyd get his quote drafted and arranged first thing the next day. When Mr S 
asked when the lump sum payment would be made, Aviva said as soon as they 
received his forms theyd begin processing them and payment should reach him a 
couple of a weeks later. 
On 11 March 2019 Mr S emailed Aviva expressing his dissatisfaction and saying hed 
been desperately trying to take his tax free lump sum cash for over 18 months. On 
the same day Aviva responded explaining that two pages from the personal 
information form theyd sent to Mr S were missing and were needed to progress 
matters. Mr S replied, saying the two pages had come out blank and asked for them 
to send it again but this time to his address in the UK. Aviva arranged for the form to 
re-sent. A copy of an application form that was completed by Mr S has been provided 
and was received by Aviva on 5 April 2019.
Confirmation that Mr Ss tax free cash had been paid was issued on 25 April 2019 
with the remaining £67,012.12 used to purchase an annuity  it appears that pays 
£854.54 on a quarterly basis.
Mr S had said that, by March 2019, hed begun borrowing money from friends and 
relatives and hed sold some shares at unfavourable prices. Hed also said his health 
had been impacted. Hed also had to top up his phone £20 a day as Avivas 
freephone number wasnt actually free.
The investigator accepted that Mr S had gone through a difficult time. And Avivas 
service couldve been better. In particular their departments should have liaised 
better, which wouldve meant Mr Ss policy couldve been located sooner. But, 
without evidence as to all the calls Mr S had said hed made to chase things up and 
significantly more evidence of the emails exchanged, it was difficult to definitively say 
Aviva were responsible for the delays Mr S has complained about. So it wouldnt be 
fair to ask Aviva to backdate Mr Ss annuity or hold Aviva responsible for any losses 
that Mr S may have incurred by borrowing or enchasing shares. 
Mr S didnt accept the investigators view and provided further information, including more 
emails. Amongst other things he said in 2018, instead of emailing, hed tried to speed things 
up by telephoning. Hed spent a lot of time on the phone but was passed from pillar to post 
with no one able to help him. The emails he provided included one from Aviva on 27 
December 2018, thanking Mr S for his email of 23 December 2018 and saying the 
completed forms could be scanned and sent to Aviva. There was also an email from Mr S to 
Aviva on 14 January 2019 saying hed filled in the forms on 29 December 2018 and asking if 
there was any news. But he didnt get his first pension payment until 5 July 2019, over six months later. He thought he shouldve had at least two payments by then. Mr S also 
supplied details of the renovations hed undertaken, the costs and how hed funded them. 
But the further information didnt change the investigators mind. So the complaint has been 
referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont doubt what Mr S has said about the difficulties hes encountered in trying to take his 
benefits from his Aviva policy. Its clear there were difficulties in locating the policy. Even if 
Mr S initially contacted the wrong department at Aviva, Im not sure why he wasnt quickly 
redirected to the appropriate one. Mr S has said hes made multiple telephone calls and sent 
many emails, some of which have been produced. 
But the central problem is, as the investigator highlighted, that a lot of the information is 
missing. To a certain extent thats understandable as the issues date back to 2016. But it 
makes it difficult to reach firm findings about the delays and whose responsibility they were. I 
have to look at what evidence there is in reaching my conclusions. That of course includes 
what Mr S says about what happened but I have to be fair to both parties. Sometimes just 
relying on what one party says wont be fair. 
We determine complaints on the basis of whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
of the particular complaint. As the investigator said, where the evidence is incomplete, 
unclear or contradictory we reach our decisions on the balance of probabilities, that is what 
we consider is likely to have happened. And, in some circumstances, there may not be 
sufficient evidence to come to a fair and reasonable conclusion about some aspects of the 
complaint.   
Having considered everything, my views are the same as the investigators. Some of what 
Ive said below echoes the investigators findings as Ive summarised above. 
Im satisfied that Mr S made initial enquiries in October 2016 about taking his pension 
benefits. Thats evidenced by the email chains Ive seen. Mr S was 65 then and his SRD on 
the policy was a year later in October 2017. So its logical that Mr S wouldve been starting to 
think about taking his benefits from the policy. 
Mr S has produced emails from Aviva in October 2017 which show that Aviva was having 
difficulty locating Mr Ss policy. But it seems the problem was resolved fairly quickly. By 
November 2017, as evidenced by the copy correspondence Aviva has produced, Mr S was 
looking to take tax free cash and buy an annuity with his remaining fund. That fits with the 
policy having matured a month or so earlier. And, although Mr S has said he was trying to 
take benefits from the policy in 2016 and it seems he did make some initial enquiries in 
October 2016, I dont think its unreasonable to assume hed have taken benefits at his SRD. 
So the earliest I think the benefits were likely to have been paid was October 2017. 
But although theres evidence to show that Mr S wanted to take his benefits around then or 
in November 2017, what happened after that isnt clear. The email trail goes cold until late 
2018. It seems that by 23 December 2018 Mr S was in contact with Aviva again and things 
had progressed to where forms had been sent to Mr S to complete and return to Aviva. 
 
To get to that point there must have been earlier contact. But nothing has been produced, by 
either Aviva or Mr S. So although it looks like Mr S wanted to take his benefits in November 
2017 its unclear why that didnt happen around that time and why things were only picked up again in late 2018. I know Mr S says that delay was down to Aviva but I cant just assume 
that was the case. There may have been difficulties at Mr Ss end. For example, he may not 
have received correspondence sent to him by Aviva. Assuming any letters were correctly 
addressed we wouldnt normally say postal delivery issues were Avivas fault. I think Mr S 
was living abroad at the time which can sometimes cause problems. 
I know Mr S has said he tried to speed things up by telephoning Aviva but, if that didnt work, 
wed probably expect to see evidence of attempts to progress things by email or post. I know 
Mr S might say that a customer shouldnt have to do that but sometimes its necessary, 
particularly if funds are needed urgently. 
Mr S did contact us in July 2018 seeking to complain about delays on Avivas part. I think 
that goes some way to evidence that Mr S was having problems. But he didnt respond to 
our requests for a copy of Avivas final response letter and so we were unable to take 
matters forward. Im not sure why Mr S didnt follow things up with us. If, at that stage, wed 
intervened that may have resulted in Mr Ss benefits being put into payment sooner. I know 
hes said his own efforts with Aviva continued, without success. But as we didnt look into his 
complaint and whether Aviva was delaying things, I cant now say Im satisfied that was the 
case and when Mr S, for whatever reason, chose not to pursue his complaint then.  
Mr S has also pointed to Avivas reported system problems in September 2018. I cant say if 
that mightve been a feature in the difficulties Mr S encountered. But I think the problem, 
even if perhaps more widespread than the investigator thought, wouldve been resolved 
relatively quickly. 
All in all, from what Ive seen (or perhaps more accurately not seen) I cant say Im satisfied 
(and in the absence of emails, letters or traceable telephone calls to show Mr S was chasing 
payment) that Aviva was responsible for the fact that payment of Mr Ss tax free cash and 
the setting up of his annuity werent progressed between November 2017 and December 
2018. 
Moving on to what happened after December 2018 it then wasnt until April 2019 that Mr Ss 
tax free cash was paid and his annuity didnt go into payment until July 2019. But it seems 
that information Aviva needed wasnt received until 5 April 2019. Again its unclear exactly 
what happened. According to Aviva some of the information was missing but I think Mr Ss 
position is that two of the pages were blank. From the emails Ive seen, including those Mr S 
has more recently produced, it seems Aviva was in contact with Mr S during February 2019 
as to Avivas administrative requirements for paying the policy benefits. Those werent met 
until April 2019, hence payments couldnt be made earlier. Taking benefits from a policy will 
usually involve a fair amount of form filling which will take some time, especially if there are 
any issues with documents being incomplete. 
Taking that into account I dont think there was any delay in paying the tax free cash, 
payment of which was confirmed to Mr S on 25 April 2019. Although he didnt receive his 
first annuity payment until July 2019 thats because his annuity is paid quarterly in arrears. If 
it was set up at about the same time as the tax free cash payment in April 2019, the first 
annuity payment wasnt due until three months later in July 2019. 
Although, by January 2019, Mr S was dealing with the correct Aviva department and 
arrangements were in hand to allow payment of his benefits, it seems another department of 
Aviva was apparently still trying to trace his policy. Mr S has supplied an email dated 24 
January 2019 from Avivas DBP (which I think refers to Defined Benefit Pension) 
Administration. So I think there was may have been some ongoing confusion. Mr S has provided evidence to show he was in financial difficulties in March 2019 and he 
had to borrow money. But, as the investigator noted, that didnt really explain the delay or 
provide definitive evidence as to who was responsible. Id only be able to consider making 
an award in respect of borrowing costs and any investment losses if I was satisfied that 
Aviva was responsible for Mr Ss tax free cash not being paid until April 2019 and/or his first 
annuity payment not being received until July 2019. 
Mr S says the fact that he tried to get his tax free cash and annuity payments as early as 
2017 (particularly the tax free cash which was required for much needed renovations) would 
suggest he needed the money desperately. But it comes down to whether Im satisfied there 
was delay on Avivas part. And, although Mr S may have factored into his renovations 
budget getting backdated payments from Aviva, I could only order those to be paid if I 
considered Aviva was responsible for the delay. 
To sum up, its clear there was some confusion in or around October 2017 in locating Mr Ss 
policy and which, as Ive noted above, may have continued even after Mr S was dealing with 
the correct department. And Aviva seems to accept there may have been some problem with 
email attachments sent to Mr S. I think £250 is fair and reasonable for any distress or 
inconvenience hes suffered in consequence of those issues. I know Mr S is likely to regard 
that as unsatisfactory. To some extent I can understand why. But I hope Ive explained why 
Im unable to uphold the complaint to the extent Mr S seeks. And why I cant say Aviva 
should pay more compensation for distress and inconvenience (including to reflect any 
impact on Mr Ss health) and/or backdate payment of his benefits to 2016.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint but only in part. Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited must pay Mr S 
£250 for distress and inconvenience caused by poor service. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2023.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman