DRN-3784360
The complaint
Mrs V and Mr V complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) sent them each different 
amounts relating to a retrospective business review HSBC had completed. They feel they 
should each receive the same amount.  
What happened
Mrs V and Mr V held a joint account with HSBC.
During March and April 2021, Mrs V and Mr V received various cheques from HSBC. These 
cheques were received by them individually as follows:
18 March 2021  Mrs V was sent a cheque for £50
22 April 2021  Mr V was sent a cheque for £50
The letters HSBC sent with these cheques said theyd completed a review of their account 
and found that the quality of service they received did not meet the standard expected by 
HSBC and they should be compensated for the experience.
22 March 2021  Mrs V was sent a cheque for £76.61
22 March 2021  Mrs V was sent a cheque for £76.61
The letters HSBC sent with these cheques said theyd completed a review of their account 
and found some of the charges theyd applied should be refunded.
Mrs V then discovered that Mr V had received a further cheque for an amount much higher 
than the previous cheques shed received. She didnt think this was fair as their account was 
a joint one. She thought she should also receive another cheque for the same higher amount 
received by Mr V.
In or around March 2022, Mrs V called HSBC to complain. HSBC told her each refund was 
dealt with based upon Mrs V and Mr Vs individual accounts. Mrs V didnt accept HSBCs 
explanation. So, HSBC sent her a summary resolution letter. But this didnt clearly explain 
what had happened and why.
Mrs V and Mr V referred their complaint to this service. While an investigator looked into 
their complaint, HSBC sent Mrs V and Mr V their final response. They said all their 
customers are treated equally and fairly. So, based upon the accounts Mrs V and Mr V held, 
the amounts theyd received were correct and they werent able to increase the amount paid 
to Mrs V. 
Having looked at all the information and evidence available, our investigator didnt think 
HSBC had made a mistake, so didnt need to do anything more. Mrs V and Mr V didnt agree 
with our investigators findings and asked that their complaint be reviewed again.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, Mrs V and Mr Vs complaint has been referred to me 
to consider further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC said that in 2021, they completed a historic business review for customers who had 
previously dealt with their Collections and Recovery Teams. As part of that review, they 
found that if the same circumstances occurred today, they wouldve treated affected 
customers differently. In particular, they may have issued default notice and final demand 
letters at a different stage. Because of this, they decided to send affected customer cheque 
payments as a gesture of goodwill.
Mrs V and Mr V each received a cheque for £50, reflecting this gesture of goodwill. These 
payments specifically related to the account theyd previously held in their joint names. They 
didnt relate to any other accounts they may have individually held with HSBC.
HSBC also identified there may have been occasions where they could have frozen interest 
and charges theyd applied to these accounts sooner than they did. So, to reflect that, HSBC 
sent Mrs V and Mr V each a cheque for £76.61. This represented a refund of interest and 
charges and included simple interest of 8% to reflect that Mrs V and Mr V wouldve been 
without the money theyd refunded.
The complaint raised relates to another much larger cheque Mrs V says Mr V received from 
HSBC. HSBC said this cheque does not relate to anything that happened with Mrs V and Mr 
Vs joint account. The was a completely separate matter relating to Mr V only. Because this 
is specific to Mr V, Im unable to provide more details in this decision.
During our review, HSBC did accept they couldve dealt with Mrs V and Mr Vs complaint 
better. They said they couldve done better with their complaint response letter. While they 
couldnt change the outcome of their complaint, they said theyd like to offer Mrs V a further 
payment of £50 for any inconvenience. I think this feels fair in all the circumstances. Should 
Mrs V wish to accept HSBCs offer here, I recommend she contact them directly.
I appreciate Mrs V and Mr V may be disappointed, but from the information Ive seen, Ive 
found nothing to suggest HSBC have done anything wrong here. The amounts received by 
Mrs V and Mr V relating to their joint account appear to be the same. So, I wont be asking 
them to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs V and Mr Vs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs V and Mr V to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 December 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman