DRN-2264124
The complaint
Mr W and Miss T have complained that TSB Bank plc (TSB) did not inform them that their 
Platinum account would continue after the split between Lloyds and TSB in 2013. This in 
turn led them to take out a further Platinum account, resulting in them paying duplicate 
account fees.
They are also unhappy that they were promised a refund from TSB of the duplicate account 
fees which they never received.
What happened
Prior to this complaint being brought to this service TSB paid £300 for the distress caused by 
this matter and offered to refund the duplicate fees that Mr W and Miss T have paid. Once 
the complaint was brought to this service, TSB withdrew its offer to refund the duplicate fees 
and it believes that this offer was made in error.
One of our adjudicators looked into this complaint already. He did not think that TSB misled 
Mr W and Miss T into thinking that their Platinum account would not be continuing. He also 
said that TSB were entitled to change its mind in relation to a refund of fees and that TSB did 
not need to do anything more than it had already done.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr W and Miss Ts complaint.
After carefully considering this complaint, I think that what TSB has already done is enough 
to put matters right. Let me explain why.
Firstly, I will address the issues relating to Mr W and Miss T saying that they were not told 
that their Platinum account would continue after the split between Lloyds and TSB. I 
understand that there is no documentation provided by either party in which TSB set out that 
Mr W and Miss Ts account would change from a Platinum account after the split in 2013.
Conversely, TSB has provided a sample of documents that were sent to all of its customers 
detailing that after the split, all accounts would carry on as normal. It has also explained that 
replacement debit cards rebranded TSB wouldve been issued, and these wouldve 
highlighted that the account was still a Platinum account. Finally, TSB has also said that it 
wouldve sent yearly Annual Eligibility Statements which wouldve set out that the account 
was, and remained, a Platinum account. I am satisfied that at the very least Mr W and Miss 
T wouldve had access to some of this information.
So overall I cant conclude that TSB ever said that the account would change from a 
Platinum account. And it seems that all of the documentation provided before and after the 
sale actually said that the account was a Platinum account. So given this I dont think that 
TSB did anything to mislead Mr W and Miss T into thinking that they would no longer have a 
Platinum account after the split.
I will now address TSB withdrawing its offer of refunding the duplicate fees that Mr W and 
Miss T paid. My understanding is that between its final response and the complaint being 
assessed by our adjudicator, TSB reinvestigated this complaint and in doing so it did not 
actually think that it made an error, so it withdrew its offer. 
I should explain that TSB was entitled to review its position once a complaint was brought to 
this service and I could only ask it to reinstate its offer if I was satisfied that it was 
responsible for the duplicate fees being charged. For the reasons set out above, I think that 
TSB sufficiently highlighted that Mr W and Miss Ts account would remain and continued to 
be a Platinum account and therefore I cannot ask it to reinstate the offer. I understand that 
this will be frustrating for Mr W and Miss T, but I think that the £300 that they were paid in 
relation to the service they received in relation to this matter is sufficient given all the 
circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 29 December 2020.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman