DRN-4233750
The complaint
Mrs K is complaining that shes out of pocket after she tried to contact Atlanta Insurance 
Intermediaries Limited (Atlanta) to claim through her car insurance policy after she was 
involved in a non-fault accident.
What happened
In May 2022 Mrs Ks car was damaged in a car park after being hit by a third partys car. So 
she contacted the telephone number in her car insurance documents that was arranged by 
Atlanta  to look to claim for the damage to her car. The claim was subsequently handled by 
a third-party accident management company (AMC).
Mrs K is unhappy with the way the AMC has handled the claim  in particular that it didnt 
obtain the CCTV of the carpark which she says was available. So she said this meant she 
hasnt been able to pursue the third party.
Our investigator partially upheld this complaint. She explained that, when Mrs K first called to 
report the incident, she was immediately put through to the AMC who handled the call on 
Atlantas behalf. However she explained that this Service didnt have jurisdiction to consider 
the AMCs actions in handling Mrs Ks claim as the type of agreement Mrs K entered into 
with the AMC wasnt a regulated agreement.
However, the investigator did explain that we could consider the actions of Atlanta. She said 
Atlanta were a broker, but also administered the policy on behalf of the insurer. She said 
Atlanta should have ensured that Mrs K was given a choice as to whether she wanted to 
claim on her insurance policy or to use the facilities the AMC provided. She also said that it 
should have considered whether the circumstances of the accident were suitable for 
referring to an AMC. 
The investigator explained that Atlanta had outsourced the handling of claim calls to the 
AMC. But she thought the AMC was essentially acting on behalf of Atlanta in handling the 
initial call when Mrs K called to report the claim. So the investigator thought Atlanta could be 
held responsible for anything the AMC did or didnt do during the call  including not 
assessing whether it was suitable to enter into an arrangement with the AMC.
The investigator didnt think Mrs K should have been referred to the AMC because her car 
was hit while parked, and by the time shed discovered the damage, the third party had 
already fled the scene. So, Mrs K had no information about the third party to share. So she 
didnt think there were details of who the AMC could have recovered any costs from.
The investigator thought more could have been done to manage Mrs Ks expectations at the 
beginning  such as explaining the time restraints on CCTV footage requests, and that there 
could also be a possibility the incident wasnt seen by the cameras. Meaning she may have 
to make a claim on her own policy and if costs couldnt be recovered it would be considered 
as a fault. And she said, had this been explained to Mrs K, she would have better 
understood all available options. 
The investigator further said that, given Mrs K was referred to the AMC, its possible it may 
look to recover these losses from Mrs K directly. She also said she understood Mrs K still 
hadnt had her car repaired. So she thought Atlanta should:
1. Pay £150 in compensation for the poor referral; and
2. If the AMC contacts Mrs K to recover any costs it incurred, Atlanta should indemnify her 
and cover these costs.
Mrs K responded to accept the investigators opinion, but also added that she was told her 
car was seen on the CCTV footage being hit. Atlanta didnt respond to the investigator, so 
the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive come to the same conclusion as the investigator and Ill now explain why.
I first need to make clear that, in this decision, Im only considering Atlantas liabilities 
towards Mrs K. Im aware that there have been other businesses involved in this incident  
including the AMC. But, apart from where the AMC could reasonably be held to be agents of 
Atlanta, Im not able to comment on anything it did or did not do.
Its important to set out that, when Mrs K first looked to contact Atlanta following the 
accident, she was doing so with the intention to claim for the damage to her car through her 
insurance policy. However, following the call, the AMC took over the handling of the claim. 
This was an arrangement outside of the terms of the insurance policy  i.e. no claim was 
ever made under the insurance policy and the insurer has confirmed this.
The AMC is not a party to this complaint, so I cannot comment on the way it has handled 
Mrs Ks claim. We also do not have jurisdiction over the way its handled the claim, as these 
are not regulated activities covered by our dispute resolution rules. As Mrs K entered into 
an entirely separate contract to her insurance policy, Atlanta isnt liable for anything the AMC 
did or did not do in the handling of the claim  including not obtaining the CCTV footage.
We can, however, look at how a consumer entered into such an arrangement instead of 
claiming through their insurance policy. In short, I need to think about whether Mrs K was 
given enough information to make an informed choice about whether she wanted to claim 
through her insurance policy or to have the repairs carried out through the use of credit hire 
and repair. In particular I would have expected, as a minimum, that Mrs K would have been 
told the following:
In entering into a credit hire agreement, she wasnt claiming through her insurance 
policy, but she had the option to do so. And she should have been given a clear choice 
about whether she wanted to claim through her insurance policy instead.
The credit hire provider was a separate business to the insurer.
She may be liable for any outlay  including hire charges  if theyre unable to recover 
the costs from the third party. And it should have explained the likelihood of being able to 
recover this outlay by assessing whether the circumstances of the incident were suitable 
for such a credit hire arrangement.
As she was stepping outside of her regulated insurance policy, she may not be able to 
refer any complaint she may have to this Service.In short, I would have expected Mrs K to have had explained to her what the benefits and 
risks of using credit hire were, as well as explaining her rights under the insurance policy.  
Atlanta hasnt given us a copy of the call recording for when Mrs K reported the claim, so I 
have to base my decision on what I thinks most likely to have happened. I think its clear 
from Mrs Ks testimony that she didnt understand the agreement she was entering into. Its 
widely agreed that she was immediately referred to the AMC when she first called and Im 
satisfied from what shes told us that she wasnt given the opportunity to discuss her claim 
with either Atlanta or the insurer before discussing the claim with the AMC. 
As the investigator pointed out, Mrs K explained that she didnt have the third partys details. 
So, it was clear from the start that there was a strong likelihood that it would not be possible 
to locate who was responsible for the damage. This should have been made clear to Mrs K 
at the time, explaining that it was possible the AMC may not be able to assist her and what 
the implications of this were. And I dont think this was done.
So I now need to think whether Mrs K has lost out because of what went wrong and, if so, to 
what extent I think Atlanta is required to compensate her for her losses. But I should reiterate 
again, that I can only consider any upset or losses that Atlanta (or any actions carried out by 
a separate business acting on Atlanta behalf) have caused  i.e. losses that are a direct 
consequence of her not being given an informed choice.
Ultimately, Mrs K has not been able to pursue the third party because the AMC wasnt able 
to obtain the CCTV footage. Mrs K has provided the AMCs explanation for why this 
happened. Ultimately, I think Mrs K has lost out here because of the challenges in obtaining 
CCTV footage as opposed to her being referred to the AMC in the way she was. And Im not 
persuaded the situation (regarding the CCTV) would have been any different whether shed 
claimed through her insurance policy, or the claim being handled by the AMC. So I cant hold 
Atlanta responsible for this.
But I do think Mrs K could have had a better understanding of what had happened. And its 
clear she was still confused about the situation when she referred her complaint to this 
Service. Had she been given clearer information at the start (about the risks of entering into 
such an arrangement with the AMC) I think its most likely she would have claimed directly 
through her insurance policy. This has prevented her from having the opportunity to get her 
car repaired. 
Putting things right
The investigator recommended that Atlanta pays Mrs K £150 in compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience she suffered in not being given a clear and informed choice. I 
think thats fair. 
I havent seen anything to show that the AMC is looking to recover any costs from Mrs K. But 
Atlanta should indemnify her if the AMC doesnt subsequently pursue Mrs K for any outlay it 
incurred in the handling of her claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and I 
require Atlanta Insurance Intermediaries Limited to compensate Mrs K in line with my 
instructions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2023. Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman