DRN-2714946
The complaint
Mr S is complaining that the car he bought through a hire purchase agreement from FCA
Automotive Services UK Ltd trading as Fiat Financial Services (FCA) was not of
satisfactory quality.
What happened
FCA supplied Mr S with his car in September 2019. The car was around 9 years old and had
covered around 68,000 miles. The cash price was around £5,500. Mr S has said he started
having problems with the car quite soon after taking delivery and had taken it back to the
selling broker in October 2019. They referred him to a specialist garage to diagnose the
problems. Mr S told us that they said the car may need repairs including a new ABS
modulator.
In December 2019 Mr S raised a complaint with FCA and arranged for the repair work to be
done himself at his own choice of garage. In January 2020, FCA replied to his complaint
saying they had received no evidence of the costs incurred or repairs carried out. They did
not uphold the complaint but made an offer as a gesture of goodwill to refund two monthly
payments.
Mr S then chose to bring his complaint to us.
I issued a provisional decision on 19 February 2021. My provisional findings were as follows:
When a view was issued by a colleague, it focused on some issues with the invoice Mr S
provided for the repair work he paid for. Whilst I understand the concerns about this, I dont
feel that we had answered the underlying issue, which is whether the car was of satisfactory
quality when it was supplied to Mr S.
To investigate this further, I requested information from the specialist garage where the car
was sent for diagnosis by the broker. This provided me with a clearer timeline, and more
details of what had happened and what was diagnosed.
They confirmed that Mr S was referred to them by the broker and they looked at the car in
October 2019. They provided me with the invoice for the work done. The invoice is dated 12
October 2019 and the car is logged as having done 70,000 miles at this point. It confirms
that the problem with the warning lights coming on appeared to have been caused by
incorrectly fitted wiring to the fuse box. When we spoke to the garage, they told us that
several cameras and accessories had been fitted to the vehicle by Mr S, and unfortunately,
they had not been wired in correctly. This had led to blown fuses and numerous warning
lights and faults being registered. They had to remove the faulty wiring and accessories and
replace the fuses, in order to make the car safe again and remove the warning lights.
The garage has noted on the invoice that if the warning light comes on again, it may be that
the wiring issues have damaged the ABS modulator. This is the part which Mr S eventually
arranged to have replaced through his own garage. The garage confirmed that the invoice
they sent us for the diagnostic work and repairs they undertook was paid for by the broker,
and that was the end of their involvement with the car.
We sent Mr S a copy of the invoice for this work, and he has told us that the car was fine
after this and passed its MOT before having problems, and before he had to get the repair
work done. So I think its important to note that the invoice confirmed it was possible that the
warning lights would come on again in the future, if the wiring had caused damage to the
ABS modulator.
The garage had replaced blown fuses, corrected the wiring and cleared down all the warning
lights. However, it states on the invoice dated 12 October 2019 that there had been an
incorrectly fitted wire to the fuse box, and if the (warning) light reappears, then it could be
possible it may have caused damage to the brake modulator assembly. The car passed its
MOT on 11 December 2019 and is logged as having done 72,700 miles. The invoice for the
ABS modulator replacement is dated 17 December 2019.
Whilst it is unfortunate that Mr S has had expensive problems with the car shortly after
purchasing it, I dont agree that the car was of unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied.
The specialist garage has confirmed that Mr S had told them he had installed cameras and
other accessories to the car as he intended to use it as a taxi. This matches with the
information Mr S told us, when he said he planned to use the car as a taxi.
The garage told us that they believe this work, carried out after the car had been supplied, is
what had caused the problems and ultimately might mean that the car would need the ABS
modulator replacing. I have seen no evidence of the car having this problem before these
accessories were fitted, so I think on balance the work carried out by Mr S to add the
accessories has caused the problems and the subsequent damage to the ABS modulator.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont intend to uphold Mr Ss complaint. I now invite both
parties to make any further comments and provide any further evidence by the deadline
date. I will then make my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to my provisional decision, Mr S responded. He believes that the warning light 
came on the dashboard very soon after buying the car, and it took 2 weeks to get an 
appointment with the dealer to look at it. He says that the specialist dealer he was referred to 
said there was a problem with the modulator and quoted him £3600 to replace it.
Whilst I sympathise with Mr S having to pay to have an expensive part replaced soon after 
buying the car, the evidence from the garage is that the problem was caused because Mr S 
or someone on his behalf wired in accessories incorrectly, which caused fuses to blow. As I 
describe above, the garage warned that this might lead to problems with the ABS modulator, 
and this is the part which has ultimately failed and had to be replaced.
Mr S believes that the car was not of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to him. On 
balance, I find that its most likely that the problem was in fact caused by the wiring Mr S 
arranged after purchasing the car, when he tried to have the accessories added. FCA arent 
responsible for this action taken by Mr S after buying the car. I am satisfied that on balance, 
it is most likely that the car was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr S, so I 
wont be asking FCA to do anything further here.   
My final decision
I am not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 April 2021.
 
Paul Cronin
Ombudsman