DRN-2399086
Complaint
 Miss D has complained about two unsecured personal loans which were provided to her by 
Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds). She says Lloyds didnt do take enough action to protect her 
after she asked for help in 2016 and this culminated in Lloyds providing these loans 
irresponsibly. 
 
Background to the complaint and my provisional decision of 9 November 2020
Miss D was provided with two personal loans by Lloyds in 2019. The first loan was for 
£10,000.00 and was provided in May 2019. This loan was due to be repaid in 84 instalments 
of £175.17. However, the loan was repaid in full a couple of days later. Miss D then made a 
further loan application in September 2019. This time the amount advanced was £15,000.00 
and the loan was due to be repaid in 48 instalments of £344.20. As I understand it, Miss D 
has found it increasingly difficult to make her monthly payments and she eventually 
complained to Lloyds saying the loan had been provided irresponsibly.
 
In its response to Miss Ds complaint, while not providing much in the way of detail, Lloyds 
didnt agree its enquiries into the affordability of the loan were inadequate. It says that it 
made every effort to ensure it didnt lend to customers who cant afford to repay. And it 
referred to the broad parameters of its lending criteria. It eventually concluded that while it 
could have done more to help Miss D in 2016, it didnt think that the loan had been provided 
irresponsibly.
One of our investigators looked at Miss Ds complaint and concluded that Lloyds hadnt 
acted unfairly towards Miss D when providing her with these loans. Miss D disagreed with 
our investigator and requested that the matter be considered by an ombudsman. As a result, 
the complaint was referred to me for a decision.
On 9 November 2020, I issued a provisional decision setting out my initial findings on      
Miss Ds complaint. I wont copy that decision in full, but I will instead provide a summary of 
my findings. 
I started out by setting out the regulatory framework and other relevant publications that I 
thought were important to my determination of Miss Ds complaint.  
The legal and regulatory framework
Lloyds was authorised by the FCA when it provided these loans to Miss D in May 2019 and 
September 2019 so it was subject to the FCAs rules in respect of consumer credit activities.
the FCA Principles for Business (PRIN)
The FCAs Principles for Business set out the overarching requirements which all authorised 
firms are required to comply with.
PRIN 1.1.1G, says
The Principles apply in whole or in part to every firm.
The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R. And the most relevant principles here 
are PRIN 2.1.1 R (2) which says: 
A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.
And PRIN 2.1.1 R (6) which says: 
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
the Consumer Credit sourcebook (CONC)
This sets out the rules which apply to firms specifically when carrying out credit related 
regulated activities. Bearing in mind the complaint before me, I think the most relevant 
section of CONC here is CONC 5 (and specifically CONC 5.2A) which sets out a firms 
obligations in relation to responsible lending.
Section 5.2A of CONC sets out what a lender needs to do in relation to a creditworthiness 
assessment before agreeing to give a consumer a loan of this type. 
CONC 5.2A.4R states:
A firm must undertake a reasonable assessment of the creditworthiness of a customer 
before:
1. entering into a regulated credit agreement
CONC 5.2A.5R states:
The firm must not take a step in CONC 5.2A.4R(1) to (3) unless it can demonstrate that it 
has, before doing so:
1. undertaken a creditworthiness assessment and, where relevant, the assessment 
under CONC 5.2A.31R(2) (guarantors) in accordance with the rules set out in this 
section; and
2. had proper regard to the outcome of that assessment in respect of affordability risk.
CONC 5.2A.7R goes on to state:
A firm must base its creditworthiness assessment on sufficient information:
1. of which it is aware at the time the creditworthiness assessment is carried out;
2. obtained, where appropriate, from the customer, and where necessary from a credit 
reference agency, and
the information must enable the firm to carry out a reasonable creditworthiness assessment.CONC 5.2A.10R sets out what should form part of the creditworthiness assessment and 
states:
The firm must consider:
1. the risk that the customer will not make repayments under the agreement by their 
due dates (this is sometimes referred to as credit risk); and
2. the risk to the customer of not being able to make repayments under the agreement 
in accordance with CONC 5.2A.12R (referred to as affordability risk in this section).
 
CONC 5.2A.12R provides more details regarding the considerations required in an 
affordability assessment and says:
The firm must consider the customers ability to make repayments under the agreement:
1. as they fall due over the life of the agreement and, where the agreement is an open-
end agreement, within a reasonable period;
2. out of, or using, one or more of the following:
a) the customers income;
b) income from savings or assets jointly held by the customer with another person, 
income received by the customer jointly with another person or income received 
by another person in so far as it is reasonable to expect such income to be 
available to the customer to make repayments under the agreement; and/or
c) savings or other assets where the customer has indicated clearly an intention to 
repay (wholly or partly) using them;
3. without the customer having to borrow to meet the repayments;
4. without failing to make any other payment the customer has a contractual or statutory 
obligation to make; and
5. without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on 
the customers financial situation.
CONC 5.2A.20R provides further detail on the proportionality of assessments and states:
1. The extent and scope of the creditworthiness assessment, and the steps that 
the firm must take to satisfy the requirement that the assessment is a reasonable 
one, based on sufficient information, are dependent upon, and proportionate to, the 
individual circumstances of each case.
2. The firm must consider:
a) the types of information to use in the creditworthiness assessment;b) the content and level of detail of the information to use;
c) whether the information in the firms possession is sufficient;
d) whether and to what extent to obtain additional information from the customer;
e) whether and to what extent to obtain information from a credit reference agency;
f) any other sources of information to use;
g) whether and to what extent to verify the accuracy of the information that is used;
h) the degree of evaluation and analysis of the information that is used; and
i) the steps to take to determine or estimate the customers income or non-
discretionary expenditure (where such a determination or estimate is required), 
having regard to the factors listed in (3) where applicable to the agreement.
3. The factors to which the firm must have regard when complying with (2) and deciding 
what steps are needed to make the creditworthiness assessment a reasonable one 
include each of the following where applicable to the agreement:
a) the type of credit;
b) the amount of the credit or, where applicable, the credit limit;
c) the duration (or likely duration) of the credit;
d) the frequency of the repayments;
e) the amounts of the repayments;
f) the total amount payable;
g) the total charge for credit;
h) the annual percentage rate of charge;
i) whether the rate of interest or any other charge (except any charge for non-
compliance with the agreement or any charge payable by the customer under 
a hire-purchase agreement in respect of an exercise of an option to purchase 
the goods to which the agreement relates) is fixed or variable;
j) any other costs which will or may be payable by or on behalf of the customer in 
connection with the agreement, including any charge for non-compliance with the 
agreement but excluding any charge payable by the customer under a hire-purchase agreement in respect of an exercise of an option to purchase 
the goods to which the agreement relates; and
k) any other potential adverse consequences for the customer arising under the 
agreement from a failure to make a repayment by the due date.
Further guidance on the proportionality of assessments and circumstances regarding the 
checking of information are contained in CONC 5.2A.24G and CONC 5.2A.25G, which state:
CONC 5.2A.24G
1. The volume and content of the information that must be taken into account, and the 
steps that must be taken (if any) to evaluate that information and confirm its validity, 
will depend on the level of affordability risk arising out of the agreement.
2. Factors that will affect that level of risk include the actual or potential cost of 
the credit and the total amount payable in absolute terms and relative to 
the customers financial circumstances, where known. So, if, for example, all other 
things being equal, the amounts of the repayments and the total charge for credit are 
low, the amount of information that is sufficient to support a reasonable 
creditworthiness assessment may be less than would be required:
a) in the case of more expensive credit or credit that is higher in amount; or
b) where it is known that the customers financial situation is such that 
the credit may be expected to have a more significant impact.
CONC 5.2A.25G  
1. In relation to CONC 5.2A.24G(1), potential indicators that the level of affordability risk 
arising out of the agreement may be high include circumstances where:
a) the total value of the customers outstanding debts relative to 
the customers income is high; or
b)  there is a high likelihood that the customer will not make repayments under the 
agreement by their due dates.
2. In relation to CONC 5.2A.25G(1)(b), it may be the case that a high risk that one 
repayment will be missed or will be late is, in the individual circumstances, indicative 
that the level of affordability risk arising out of the agreement is high.
Finally, CONC 5.2A.22G has examples of information a lender should pay attention to if 
aware of and it states:
The firm should also have regard to information of which it is aware at the time 
the creditworthiness assessment is carried out that may indicate that:1. the customer is in, has recently experienced, or is likely to experience, financial 
difficulties (see CONC 1.3); or
2. the customer is particularly vulnerable, for example because the customer has 
mental health difficulties or mental capacity limitations (see CONC 2.10 and CONC 
7.2).
Other relevant publications
CONC sets out the regulatory framework that firms carrying out consumer credit activities 
have to adhere to. But they represent a minimum standard for firms. And Im also required to 
take into account any other guidance, standards, relevant codes of practice, and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice.
Lloyds was a subscriber to the Lending Standard Boards Lending Code, which it referred to 
it its final response to Miss D and currently subscribes to the Standards of Lending Practice 
which replaced it in July 2016.
The Lending Code 
Section 4 of the Lending Code is concerned with Credit Assessments. It says:
Personal customers 
50. Before lending any money, granting or increasing an overdraft or other borrowing, 
subscribers should assess whether the customer will be able to repay it in a sustainable 
manner. They should do this by considering the potential for the borrowing to adversely 
impact the customers financial situation, information from CRAs, including existing financial 
commitments where provided, as well as the following, as appropriate: 
 The type and amount of credit being sought; 
 How the customer has handled their finances in the past; 
 Any known future financial commitments of the customer; 
 Any future changes in circumstances which could be reasonably expected to have 
a significant financial adverse impact on the customer; 
 Internal credit scoring techniques (if used by the subscriber); 
 The customers declared income; 
 Why the customer wants to borrow the money and for how long; and 
 Any security provided. 
51. Subscribers should take a view on which of the above factors it is appropriate to consider 
in any particular circumstance dependent on, for example, the type and amount of credit 
being sought and the potential risks to the borrower. 
52. Assessment may also include other checks that have not been listed above. 
53. The requirement to consider information from CRAs does not apply in specialist 
customer segments such as private banking where use of CRA data may not be appropriate. 
54. Where income is one of the factors considered when assessing ability to repay a 
personal loan and the loan is agreed only if the income of another person is taken into 
account, normally the loan should be provided on a joint and several basis. However there 
may be circumstances when it is appropriate to provide a loan on a sole basis. 55. Subscribers should ensure they are familiar with the requirements of the Code Sponsors 
Guide to Credit Scoring and the explanations that need to be given to customers if credit 
scoring is used. 
56. If a lending application is declined following credit assessment, the subscriber should 
explain the main reason why if asked by the customer. If the decline is as a result of 
information obtained from a CRA search, the subscriber should provide the customer with 
contact details for the CRA. 
The Standards of Lending Practice
The standards relating to assessing the affordability of credit are set out in the Product Sale 
section of the Standards of Lending Practice. The relevant section says:
5. Before providing any form of credit, granting or increasing an overdraft or other 
borrowing, Firms should assess, from the information available to the Firm at the time, 
whether the customer will be able to repay it in a sustainable manner without the customer 
incurring financial difficulty or experiencing significant adverse consequences. [CONC 5]  
There is also a section on Money Management and paragraph 3 of this section says:
3. Firms should monitor customers credit card and overdraft limits to ensure that the 
customer is not exhibiting signs of financial stress and where relevant, offer appropriate 
support.
I then confirmed that having taken into account the relevant rules, guidance, good industry 
practice and law, I thought there were two overarching questions which I needed to consider 
in order to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Miss Ds complaint. 
These questions were:
Did Lloyds, each time it lent, complete reasonable and proportionate checks to 
satisfy itself that Miss D would be able to repay her loan in a sustainable way?
oIf so, did it make a fair lending decision?
oIf not, would those checks have shown that Miss D wouldve been able to 
do so?
Did Lloyds act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I also said that if I determined that Lloyds didnt act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with 
Miss D and that she had lost out as a result, I would go on to consider what was fair 
compensation.
I started by considering the first of the questions. 
My consideration of this matter began by me explaining that the regulations in place when 
Lloyds lent to Miss D required it to carry out a reasonable assessment of whether Miss D 
could afford to repay her loans in a sustainable manner. This is sometimes referred to as an 
affordability assessment or affordability check. 
The affordability checks shouldve been borrower-focused  so Lloyds had to think about 
whether repaying the loan sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for 
Miss D. In other words, it wasnt enough for Lloyds to think only about the likelihood that it 
would get its money back, it also needed to consider the impact of repayment on Miss D 
herself.Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the borrower 
(e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability 
or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. Even for the 
same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different loan applications.
In light of this, I thought that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an 
extended period); and 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
I explained that there might also be other factors which could influence how detailed a 
proportionate check shouldve be for a given loan application  including (but not limited to) 
any indications of borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future 
circumstances. 
Were Lloyds checks reasonable and proportionate?
My response to this question started by saying that I found Lloyds response to Miss Ds 
complaint and what it provided us to support its position to be disappointing. Lloyds said its 
checks were adequate. But as far as I could see it simply regurgitated details of its generic 
loan approval process. It seemed, to me at least, as though Lloyds relied on the loan 
applications having taken place online and assumed Miss D considered how much she 
wished to borrow and how much she could afford to repay, which to me appeared a failure to 
recognise its regulatory obligation to assess whether the payments were affordable. 
Lloyds also said it used a process called credit scoring (which sounded no different to what 
Im familiar with and what most other firms carry out) to assess Miss Ds application. But 
there wasnt any explanation of what exactly these credit scoring checks revealed about 
Miss Ds financial circumstances at the respective times. Indeed it seemed to me that Lloyds 
simply expected us to accept both of Miss Ds loans were affordable because its systems 
approved them. 
Considering Lloyds said it gathered sufficient information, in line with its regulatory 
obligations, to inform its lending decisions, I considered it to be extremely disappointing that 
Lloyds hadnt seen fit to provide it. Equally it was also disappointing that Lloyds had been 
unable to tell me what it knew about Miss Ds circumstances when these loans were 
provided to her. I made it clear that this service cannot and will not look for evidence and construct an 
argument to support Lloyds defence of Miss Ds complaint. If Lloyds couldnt or wouldnt 
provide the information relied on and describe why it showed it was fair and reasonable to 
lend to Miss D on each occasion, then I couldnt and wouldnt reach the conclusion that its 
checks before providing these loans were proportionate. Without any explanation from 
Lloyds on this matter, I couldnt take it as read that its lending decisions were fair. I invited 
Lloyds to provide more detail on these points, its checks and what they showed, in its 
response to my provisional decision.
The circumstances as they stood at the time left me minded to find that Lloyds didnt carry 
out reasonable and proportionate checks before providing Miss D with either of her loans. 
As Id found that Lloyds hadnt completed proportionate checks before providing either of 
Miss Ds loans, I then proceeded to consider whether proportionate checks on Miss Ds 
loans would have indicated, to Lloyds, that she would have been unable to repay her loans 
in a sustainable manner.
I started my analysis by saying Miss D was provided with loans of not insubstantial amounts 
 £10,000 and £15,000 respectively.  So, in my view, this meant a proportionate check for 
Miss Ds loans wouldve involved finding out  for example  about Miss Ds normal monthly 
outgoings and regular financial commitments at the very least. 
As Lloyds couldnt show me that it carried out proportionate checks for these loans, I couldnt 
say for sure what proportionate checks would most likely have shown. This meant I needed 
to decide whether it was more likely than not that a reasonable and proportionate 
affordability check wouldve told Lloyds that it was unfair to offer these loans to Miss D.
Miss D had a current account with Lloyds. And to help us understand for ourselves what 
Lloyds would more likely than not have discovered if it had completed reasonable and 
proportionate checks prior to providing Miss Ds loans, we asked Lloyds to provide us with 
copies of her bank statements. 
Lloyds provided the statements for Miss Ds account. And even though I didnt know what 
Lloyds checks showed it at the time, in the absence of anything else and as Lloyds had this 
information available, I thought it was perfectly reasonable for me to rely on this to ascertain 
Miss Ds financial position at the time of the respective applications. I then looked at this 
information in order to determine Miss Ds financial position at the time she was provided 
with these loans.
Loan 1
Lloyds said it relied on the information Miss D provided during the online application. On the 
other hand, Miss D had said Lloyds failed to properly take into account that shed proactively 
been in contact to explain she had a problem with gambling back in 2015 and 2016 and 
asked for help at that stage. As I understood it, Lloyds did put some measures in place to 
block some gambling transactions on Miss Ds accounts. Although Lloyds agreed it could 
have done more and should have put a strict marker on Miss Ds accounts and also 
referred her to gambling charities. I considered all of this in the context that the monthly 
payments for this loan were around £175 albeit Miss D needed to make them for 7 years. 
Bearing all of this in mind, I didnt think it was unreasonable for Lloyds to have proceeded 
with this application. While I was concerned that there were a large amount of transfers 
going in and out of the account, which look to have been completed to get around any 
gambling restrictions on the account, I didnt think it was obvious this was the case at that 
stage. The proportion of Miss Ds income going to the loan repayments, the recorded loan purpose 
of buying a car and there not appearing to be anything else to suggest Miss D might not 
have the disposable income to make the payments (such as significant commitments to 
other creditors), led me to think it wouldnt have been proportionate to looked at these 
transfers in greater detail at this stage.  
So overall and having considered the information before me, although I had some concerns 
about the level of scrutiny Lloyds applied to the application for loan 1, I was satisfied that 
should a reasonable and proportionate check have been carried out before loan 1 was 
provided, this wouldnt have indicated that Miss D would more likely than not have had 
difficulty repaying this loan. And it followed that at that stage I was inclined to find that 
reasonable and proportionate checks would not have prevented Lloyds from providing loan 
one to Miss D. 
Loan 2
Id already made clear my thoughts about there being some clear warning signs Lloyds 
ought to have been alert to when it provided loan 1. Namely the unexplained transfers going 
in and out of Miss Ds account which involved significant sums of money well in excess of 
her monthly salary. That said, Id also explained the particular circumstances at the time 
meant I was currently prepared to give Lloyds the benefit of the doubt and find it wasnt 
unreasonable for it not to have scrutinised these transfers more closely. 
Looking at loan 2, though, I didnt think that Lloyds had any reasonable basis for not applying 
further scrutiny to these transfers. I thought that this was the case for a number of reasons. 
Firstly, the monthly repayments for loan 2 were significantly higher than those for loan 1  
almost double at approaching £350. This was a significant proportion of Miss Ds monthly 
income of around £1500 a month. I saw what Lloyds has said about it not being required to 
verify Miss Ds income. But I didnt understand the relevance of this argument given Lloyds 
had this information and there was no dispute regarding Miss Ds income. 
Secondly, the purpose of this loan was also recorded as purchasing a car. Given the loan 
purpose was asked for and recorded, I expected it to play some part in the decision on 
whether to lend. And, in these circumstances, Id also expected a lender to question how 
plausible it was for an individual, on Miss Ds salary, to require a second car loan for 
significantly more a mere matter of months after a first one. 
Of course, it might have been possible Miss D was going to use the funds for loan 2 to buy 
another car and I certainly wasnt suggesting that this, in itself, meant Miss Ds application 
should have been declined. But I did think this should have prompted Lloyds to have 
scrutinised the other information it had to hand in order to check how plausible this was 
rather than simply carry on with what - at face value at least  appeared questionable. 
Id already said that it wasnt immediately apparent where the transfers made prior to loan 1 
being provided, were going to. However, I didnt think I could reasonably say that this was 
the case afterwards. I say this because the entire amount of the funds advanced for loan 1 
were transferred to a betting company, which transactions to were supposed to be blocked, 
the day after the funds were provided. Lloyds said the use of a third-party service to make 
the transfers meant that any gambling block would have been negated. Although I wasnt 
entirely persuaded by this argument given the payments were made using a well-known 
third-party payment service to a highly recognisable high-street betting company, which  
Miss D had been told transactions to had been blocked, clearly appeared within the 
transaction. Nonetheless I said, even if I were to accept this might not have automatically been picked 
up, bearing in mind what Id already set about the circumstances of this application requiring 
closer scrutiny than that provided to loan 1, I would have expected these transactions to 
have been seen and then reviewed as part of the application process for loan 2. And if 
Lloyds had done this, as I thought that it ought fairly and reasonably to have done, it would 
have discovered Miss D was gambling significant sums of money.  
I was also mindful of the guidance within CONC (as per CONC 5.2A.22G) which states a 
lender should have regard of any information which may indicate that a prospective borrower 
is particularly vulnerable. In this case, it wasnt in dispute that Miss D contacted Lloyds in 
2015 and 2016 explaining she had a gambling problem and asking for help. Lloyds provided 
us with the details and records of these conversations as well as the actions taken as part of 
this complaint. 
As Lloyds was able to provide this now, I considered that this was information Lloyds must 
have had available when it decided to provide Miss D with loan 2 in September 2019. And 
bearing in mind I thought it ought to have applied further scrutiny to the transfers in and out 
of Miss Ds account in the period after loan 1 was provided, I also thought this was 
information indicating Miss D mightve been vulnerable which Lloyds ought to have had 
regard to when making its lending decision for loan 2. I hadnt seen anything to suggest that 
Lloyds did do this, in fact Lloyds arguments on this case suggested this had played no part 
at all in its lending decision notwithstanding everything else going on in Miss Ds account in 
the period leading up to September 2019.     
In my view, had a proportionate amount of scrutiny been applied to Miss Ds application for 
loan 2, Lloyds would have seen there was a high likelihood of any funds lent being gambled. 
And, in these circumstances, Miss Ds ability to make her loan payments was in large part 
dependent on her gambling successes. In these circumstances, I didnt think it could be 
reasonably concluded that Miss D would have been able to make her payments in a 
sustainable manner  especially bearing in mind the dissipation of the surplus funds (around 
£6000) Miss D won after taking loan 1 in the months leading up to loan 2.   
So given all of Lloyds obligations and what I thought was fair and reasonable taking into 
account the circumstances and everything Id covered, I thought proportionate checks would 
more likely than not have shown Lloyds that Miss D was unlikely to be able to make the 
payments to loan 2 in a sustainable manner. 
Finally, I then went on to consider the second of the overarching questions that I thought 
was relevant to my determination of Miss Ds complaint. By this point I had already 
highlighted that there were instances of Lloyds of not properly taking into account Miss Ds 
vulnerability. 
But while I had concerns with Lloyds actions in this regard, I thought these matters formed a 
large part of why I thought it unfairly provided loan 2 to Miss D, rather than it being an 
indication that it had additionally treated her unfairly in some other way. So at that point I 
didnt intend to find that Lloyds acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss D in some other 
way.  
All of this led to me issuing a provisional decision which found that:
Lloyds didnt complete reasonable and proportionate checks on Miss D to satisfy 
itself that she was able to repay either of these loans; it wasnt the case reasonable and proportionate checks would more likely than not 
have shown Miss D was unable to sustainably make the repayments for loan 1;
reasonable and proportionate checks would more likely than not have shown Miss D 
was unable to sustainably make the repayments for loan 2; 
Lloyds didnt additionally act unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss D in some other 
way.
These findings left me intending to conclude that Lloyds hadnt acted fairly and reasonably 
towards Miss D when it provided her with loan 2.
I then went on to consider whether Miss D suffered adverse consequences as a result of 
Lloyds unfairly providing her with loan 2. I thought that she had because she was being 
expected to pay interest and charges on a loan which she should never have been given. 
Miss D was also likely to have experienced distress and inconvenience as a result of Lloyds 
lending such a large amount of money to her after shed already notified of her gambling.
So overall and having carefully thought about everything provided and was what fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this case, I provisionally decided that Miss D lost out 
because Lloyds unfairly gave her loan 2, which it ought to have realised she wouldnt be able 
to sustainably repay. 
I finally set out a method of putting things right for Miss D, which I found addressed Lloyds 
failings and Miss Ds resulting loss.
Lloyds response to my provisional decision
Lloyds responded to my provisional decision. Its response said: 
It is comfortable its process for assessing creditworthiness and affordability is 
thorough, reasonable and proportionate and meets the CONC guidance. In order to 
qualify for lending, customers must pass credit assessments, indebtedness 
assessments, policy rules and an affordability assessment. It used a combination of 
credit reference agency data, models and customer stated data to assess the 
application from both a creditworthiness and affordability perspective, which is 
industry standard. Miss Ds data showed no issues and so her loans were approved.
For loan 1 Miss D was deemed to have a monthly disposable income of £529 and for 
loan 2 a monthly disposable income of £478. This meant that the monthly loan 
repayments for each of the loans were affordable.
Miss D was asked to provide truthful and accurate information and asked if she knew 
about any upcoming changes to her circumstances. So it was Miss Ds responsibility 
to ensure everything on her application was truthful and accurate including loan 
purpose, and income. It has checked under the CIFAS categories and providing false 
information would be classed as a category 3 Application Fraud, Facility Granted: 
Material falsehoods in the personal information provided in the application/proposal. 
This is also an act of criminal deception.
Checking an individuals bank statements is neither reasonable nor proportionate and 
CONC guidance means it is only expected to take into account non-discretionary 
expenditure. As per CONC 5.2A.19G (1) For the purpose of considering the 
customers non-discretionary expenditure under CONC 5.2A.17R, the firm may take into account statistical data unless it knows or has reasonable cause to suspect that 
the customers non-discretionary expenditure is significantly higher than that 
described in the data or that the data are unlikely to be reasonably representative of 
the customers situation., it is allowed to model this data which it did.
Gambling is not an allowable loan purpose. The transactions I referred to were to a 
third-party and it processed them not the betting company and that is why the block 
didnt work on these transactions. Furthermore, Miss D was fully aware she was 
using the third-party for this purpose and could have advised Lloyds at any point had 
she had concerns about this. It could then have looked to have blocked all 
transactions for the third-party. Miss D also had the option to self-exclude herself 
from all gambling sites.
It has since reviewed the transactions in April 19 and May 19 and can see Miss Ds 
account remained in a healthy credit balance. It isnt always clear there are gambling 
transactions except the ones mentioned in my provisional decision, just after loan 1 
was provided, when 2 £5,000 transactions took place. Miss D also received over 
£17,834.00 credits excluding £10,000.00 for loan 1. Miss D repaid loan 1 within 24 
hours which suggested loan 1 was no longer needed. 
Looking at the account around the time loan 2 was granted there was only one 
transaction, for £4,980, which suggested Miss D was gambling. The next gambling 
transactions took place after the loan was provided and it is unfair to expect it to 
foresee this. Lloyds doesnt include discretionary spend its affordability assessments 
and neither is it required to as it is deemed the customers decision to decide how 
they spend their money. It would not be reasonable and proportionate to expect it to 
manually check its own company current account transactions. Also if a customer 
has current accounts with other financial institutions, it cant check those current 
account transactions. 
It does have a gambling rule in place, and this looks at a number of different criteria 
which a customer has to fulfil in order for transactions to be blocked. Miss D didnt 
meet all the criteria thats why the transactions went through. In terms of the 
gambling spend it isnt able to dictate to customers what they spend their money on.
Miss Ds response to my provisional decision   
Miss D responded to confirm that she accepted my provisional decision and proposed 
settlement. And she made no further points for me to consider. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In reaching my decision, Ive taken into account the relevant law and regulations; relevant 
regulators rules, guidance and standards; and relevant codes of practice. 
Taking into account the relevant rules, law and publications, I remain of the view that the two 
overarching questions that I set out in my provisional decision are what I need to consider in 
deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. These are:
Did Lloyds, each time it lent, complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy 
itself that Miss D would be able to repay her loan in a sustainable way?oIf so, did it make a fair lending decision?
oIf not, would those checks have shown that Miss D wouldve been able to do so?
Did Lloyds act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Lloyds hasnt challenged my conclusion that these overarching questions are relevant to me 
deciding this complaint. Indeed the structure of its response  in terms of it directly 
responding to copied and pasted sections of my provisional decision - suggests its my 
findings on these questions that it disagrees with. 
For ease of reference, Ive addressed Lloyds points thematically.
The information Lloyds provided regarding its checks
I want to start by thanking Lloyds for the clarification it has provided on the general checks it 
carries out before approving an application. But while Lloyds has provided this clarification, I 
am however concerned that when taken to its logical conclusion its argument appears to be 
that the checks it conducts at the time of any application will always be proportionate. This is 
despite CONC requiring any assessment carried out to be dependent on what is appropriate 
for both the consumers circumstances and the particulars of the loan in question. 
In any event, I think that its important for me to set out that my role here isnt to determine 
whether Lloyds systems and processes meet the industry standard (as it says) or the 
regulators rules and guidance. I note Lloyds referred to CONC as guidance even though it 
contains rules as well as guidance and I consider it important to point this out. My role here 
is to determine whether Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably in its dealing with Miss D when 
providing her with these loans.    
It isnt unreasonable for standardisation and automation to play some part in the decision 
making process. But a lender needs to be mindful of the fact that such standardised and 
automated checks are, by their nature, not customer specific. So, a lender should be 
particularly keen to scrutinise discrepancies when they appear  particularly where other 
parts of the creditworthiness assessment highlight any other risk factors. 
In Miss Ds case, Lloyds still hasnt provided the output of the credit checks or the other 
third-party information gathered. It has simply focused on Miss Ds declarations (which Ill go 
on to consider further on) and hasnt provided what Miss Ds credit file showed in terms of 
existing commitments. I know these commitments exist because I can see payments going 
to a number of credit cards and a car finance agreement on Miss Ds current account 
statements. 
Bearing in mind the number of existing commitments she appears to have had, Im surprised 
at how Lloyds arrived at the conclusion Miss D was paying £197 and £198 a month towards 
her existing unsecured credit commitments, at the time of the respective loan applications, 
when she was paying around £155 a month towards her car finance agreement alone. 
So irrespective of my concerns regarding Lloyds arguments about its checks in general, it is 
in any event difficult for me to say that Lloyds checks went far enough when it still hasnt 
provided some of the information it has been asked for and when the rest of what it has 
provided doesnt stand up to scrutiny.  
In these circumstances, I cant reasonably say that any credit checks didnt reveal anything 
requiring further consideration or prompting further investigation, beyond standardised tools, 
sample data and declarations of income and expenditure. And as that is the case, the further information Lloyds has provided hasnt persuaded me that its checks were reasonable and 
proportionate in the circumstances of Miss Ds complaint. 
The income and expenditure information Miss D provided
Ive also considered what Lloyds has said about the accuracy of the information Miss D 
provided. Im assuming that Lloyds comments have been made in relation to Miss Ds 
income declaration, as there isnt any indication that the information provided in relation to 
housing was inaccurate and Lloyds appears to have estimated Miss Ds other monthly 
expenditure.
I think that it would be helpful for me to start by pointing out that CONC 5.2A.16G (3) states:  
For the purpose of considering the customers income under CONC 5.2A.15R, it is not 
generally sufficient to rely solely on a statement of current income made by 
the customer without independent evidence (for example, in the form of information supplied 
by a credit reference agency or documentation of a third party supplied by the third party or 
by the customer).
That said, CONC 5.2A.15R (1)(a) allows for CONC 5.2A.16G (3) not to apply when:
 the firm can demonstrate that it is obvious in the circumstances of the particular case that 
the customer is able to make repayments in accordance with CONC 5.2A.12R, so as to 
make the actions described in (2) to (4) disproportionate;.
Lloyds arguments suggest it relied solely on a statement of income from Miss D. This is 
despite the fact that there doesnt appear to be anything in what it has presented which 
suggests it was obvious in the particular circumstances of the case that Miss D was able to 
make her repayments. Indeed Miss Ds repayments approached 20% of her declared 
income and Lloyds calculation, which was based in large part on estimated expenditure, 
showed she only had around £130 a month or so left over once the monthly repayments for 
this loan were taken into account. 
Given Lloyds calculation was, in large part, based on estimates of Miss Ds non-
discretionary expenditure and may not have covered all of it, I dont think it was reasonable 
and proportionate to proceed on the basis that it was obvious Miss D would be able to make 
the payments such that it was disproportionate to have checked her income. Im even more 
concerned by Lloyds approach here as it would have known Miss D had a current account 
and so this information was readily available and could quite easily have played a part in the 
decision making process. 
Im also mindful that CONC 5.2A.36R says: 
A firm must not accept an application for credit under a regulated credit agreement where 
the firm knows or has reasonable cause to suspect that the customer has not been truthful in 
completing the application in relation to information relevant to the creditworthiness 
assessment.
And there is further guidance provided at CONC 5.2A.37G which says:  
An example of where a firm has reasonable cause to suspect that the customer has not 
been truthful may be where information supplied by the customer concerning income or 
employment status is clearly inconsistent with other information of which the firm is aware.The income information Lloyds proceeded with was inconsistent with other information 
regarding Miss Ds actual income which it had but chose to ignore. Its also important to note 
that while Lloyds chose to refer to CONC 5.2A.19G to support its use of statistical data to 
determine Miss Ds non-discretionary expenditure, it completely ignored the section of 
CONC relating to its obligations in relation to cross-referencing or verifying Miss Ds income.  
This is particularly important here because on my reading of the numbers had Lloyds 
deducted the monthly expenditure it arrived at, during the application for loan 2, from      
Miss Ds actual income at this time, it would clearly have seen that she didnt have sufficient 
disposable income to be able to make the monthly payments to this loan.
So I dont think that its fair and reasonable for Lloyds to claim it was misled by Miss D when 
it had sufficient information to have made an informed decision and it appears to have been 
selective in which CONC 5.2A obligations it chose to meet  especially as I dont know how 
the question regarding monthly income was even framed to Miss D. And I consider Lloyds 
use of inflammatory language such as CIFAS application fraud and criminal deception to be 
particularly unhelpful here.
Lloyds comments regarding Miss Ds gambling
Ive also given thought to what Lloyds has said about Miss Ds gambling and it not being 
unreasonable for it to have played a greater role in its decision to lend. It says gambling is 
not an allowable loan purpose. I take this to mean it wouldnt have advanced the funds had it 
known Miss D would gamble them as well as it not being an option which was available for 
selection as the loan purpose. I thank Lloyds for providing this clarification.   
Lloyds also says that Miss D was aware she was using a third-party payment mechanism to 
get around the block on transactions. And she could have advised Lloyds at any point if she 
had concerns and it could have blocked all transactions to the third-party. I find misses the 
points made in my provisional decision and it is extremely disappointing. 
I say this because Ive not considered and Im still not considering whether Lloyds acted 
fairly and reasonably when processing Miss Ds current account transactions to the third-
party payment processor. What Im considering here is what regard, if any, Lloyds ought 
fairly and reasonably to have had of these gambling transactions when making its lending 
decisions. And Im considering this matter in the light of Lloyds saying it wont lend in 
circumstances where it knows the funds will be gambled.
Lloyds says it says it had no reason to believe that the funds from Miss Ds loans would be 
gambled. It made some comments about it not being clear that Miss D was making gambling 
transactions prior to loan 1 and that Miss Ds account remained in a healthy credit balance. 
But I already explained, in my provisional decision, that while closer scrutiny of Miss Ds 
transactions in the period leading to loan 1 might have led to Lloyds realising Miss D was 
using a third-party payment provider to get round the restrictions on gambling transactions, it 
wasnt immediately apparent this was the case. 
Loan 1 being Miss Ds first with Lloyds, the proportion of her income going to the 
repayments, the recorded loan purpose and there not appearing to be anything else to 
suggest Miss D might not have the disposable income to make the payments, all led me to 
think it wouldnt have been proportionate to have applied the level of scrutiny required to 
have picked up these were gambling transactions. And so I didnt uphold the complaint 
about this loan on this basis.  
However, I did not and still do not think its fair and reasonable for Lloyds not to have applied 
further scrutiny and therefore discovered and factored in Miss Ds gambling into its lending decision for loan 2. Lloyds arguments suggest it is looking at each individual factor in 
isolation. In my view, this approach fails to take into account Miss D had an existing 
relationship with Lloyds and what it already knew about her by this stage, in favour of a 
narrower focus on the individual components of the application for loan two.  
 
Lloyds says there was only one transaction, for £4,980.00, which suggested Miss D was 
gambling in the lead up to loan 2 being provided. The next gambling transactions took place 
after loan 2 had already been provided and it is unfair to expect it to have foreseen Miss D 
would use the funds in this way. Ive considered what Lloyds has said. 
I agree that a single gambling transaction of £4,980.00, when taken in isolation, isnt in itself 
reason for Lloyds to reasonably have foreseen Miss D would gamble the funds advanced for 
loan 2. But Lloyds is overlooking the fact that this transaction was for approaching nearly 
three times Miss Ds declared (and more than three times her actual) monthly income. This 
was a huge sum bearing in mind Miss Ds means. Equally, Lloyds has also chosen to ignore 
the two £5,000.00 transactions which took place shortly after loan 1 was provided and which 
were clearly made using the funds advance for this loan. The cumulative amount of these 
transactions total around 9 months of Miss Ds salary and they were made within a 3 to 4 
month period. 
Furthermore, these transactions all took place against the backdrop of Miss D having 
contacted Lloyds in 2015 and 2016 to explain she had a gambling problem and asking for 
help. I set out my concerns about Lloyds apparent failure to have had regard of information 
which indicated that Miss D may have been particularly vulnerable when deciding to lend to 
her  after all Lloyds own records indicated she asked for gambling transactions to be 
blocked because she was a problem gambler. Lloyds response to my provisional decision 
chose not to address my concerns on this matter.  
Indeed Lloyds response leads me to think that Miss Ds request for help and her potential 
vulnerability played little, or no, part in its consideration of the September 2019 loan 
application. It merely said it has a gambling rule in place, which looks at a number of 
different criteria that a customer has to fulfil in order for transactions to be blocked. Miss D 
didnt meet all the criteria  presumably saying she had a problem and asking for 
transactions to be blocked still wasnt enough - thats why the transactions went through. It 
also said that Miss D could have asked for gambling transactions to be blocked if thats what 
she wanted, even though she asked for that to happen in 2015 and 2016. In any event, this 
is all to do with what happened when the funds for loan 2 were already in Miss Ds account 
and Ive already explained thats not what Im considering here.
Whats also concerning here is that not only did Lloyds fail to take into account Miss Ds 
potential vulnerability as well as everything else that terms of the gambling spend, which 
when taken together all pointed towards a high likelihood of any funds lent being gambled, 
Lloyds also completely missed the point of my provisional decision. By saying that it isnt 
able to dictate to customers what they spend their money on, Lloyds has completely missed 
the point that Miss D was borrowing money. So it wasnt a case of telling Miss D she couldnt 
spend or gamble her own money, it was taking this into account and Lloyds meeting its 
obligation not to lend money irresponsibly. 
Bearing in mind everything Lloyds knew or ought to have known by September 2019, Lloyds 
had a duty and obligation to consider the possibility and likelihood of any funds advanced 
being gambled when deciding whether to accept Miss Ds application. Lloyds failure to do 
this as well as its own checks suggesting Miss Ds existing committed expenditure, when 
deducted from her actual income, didnt leave her enough to make the repayments to loan 2, 
leave me concluding that not only did Lloyds fail to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks; but also that such checks would more likely than not have shown Miss D couldnt 
repay loan 2 without experiencing difficulty.      
In reaching this conclusion, Ive also taken into account what Lloyds said about it not being 
reasonable and proportionate to expect it to manually check the current account transactions 
for its existing account holders and that if a customer has an account with another financial 
institution, it cant check those transactions. But my conclusions here should not be taken as 
saying that a failure to look at a prospective borrowers bank statements, be it for the lender 
considering the application or a different bank, will result in the lender being responsible for 
any subsequent impecunious position a borrower may later find themselves in. 
Of course, it may be sensible for a lender to at least cross-reference any declarations made 
by a prospective borrower  certainly in terms of income bearing in mind CONC 5.2A.16G 
(3) - against any information it may already hold about the applicant. But thats not what Im 
saying here. After all its for a lender to decide what sources of information to consider 
provided it knows enough about the borrower to be able to reasonably say they could repay 
what theyre committing to. 
My conclusion here is that everything Lloyds knew about Miss D by the time of loan 2, her 
previous request for help because of her gambling; the significant sum of money being 
advanced with monthly repayments taking up a reasonable chunk of her monthly income; 
and this being a second application for credit within a short period, all point to it being 
reasonable and proportionate to have looked at Miss Ds current account activity before 
advancing £15,000.00 to her. Lloyds didnt do this here and in circumstances where I find it 
was reasonable and proportionate to do so.      
Conclusions
 
Having considered all of the points Lloyds made in response to my provisional decision, I 
find that:
Lloyds didnt complete reasonable and proportionate checks on Miss D to satisfy 
itself that she was able to repay either of these loans; 
it wasnt the case reasonable and proportionate checks would more likely than not 
have shown Miss D was unable to sustainably make the repayments for loan 1;
reasonable and proportionate checks would more likely than not have shown Miss D 
was unable to sustainably make the repayments for loan 2; 
Lloyds didnt additionally act unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss D in some other 
way.
Fair compensation  what Lloyds needs to do to put things right for Miss D
Ive thought about what amounts to fair compensation in this case. Where I find that a 
business has done something wrong, Id normally expect that business  in so far as is 
reasonably practicable  to put the consumer in the position they would be in now if that 
wrong hadnt taken place. In essence, in this case, this would mean Lloyds putting Miss D in 
the position shed now be in if she hadnt been provided with loan 2.
But when it comes to complaints about irresponsible lending this isnt straightforward. Miss D 
was given the loan in question and she used the funds  albeit Miss Ds statements show 
(and Lloyds appears to accept) that the funds for loan 2 may well have been lost gambling. So, in these circumstances, I cant undo whats already been done. And its simply not 
possible to put Miss D back in the position she would be in if she hadnt been given loans 2 
in the first place  even if a relatively short period of time has passed  because Miss D 
doesnt have the £15,000.00 available to return to Lloyds for the agreement to be 
immediately unwound.
As this is the case, I have to think about some other way of putting things right in a fair and 
reasonable way bearing in mind the particular circumstances of the case. And Id like to 
explain the reasons why I think that it would be fair and reasonable for Lloyds to put things 
right in the following way.
As we explain on our website where we find, or a lender agrees, credit was provided 
irresponsibly, wed typically say its fair reasonable to expect the borrower to repay the funds 
they were lent but not any associated interest, fees or charges. But having given careful 
thought to the matter before me and the circumstances of this particular case, I dont think 
that such an award goes far enough here. I think that this is the case for two reasons.  
Firstly, for the reasons I have in some detail already explained, Lloyds ought to have been 
aware there was a significant risk Miss D would gamble any funds lent to her in September 
2019. And in these circumstances, her ability to sustainably repay what she was being lent 
let alone the associated interest was in large part dependant on her success gambling. 
Lloyds chose to lend in these circumstances despite the reasonably foreseeable prospect of 
the funds dissipating as a result of being gambled away and being no longer available to 
repay any debt as a result. As I understand it, both parties are in agreement that the funds 
have dissipated as a result of gambling losses.
Its also my understanding that Miss D has lost her job in the past few months. So I think that 
things will clearly be difficult for her in these times given her current financial position. And 
its difficult to see how Miss D will be able to make payments to this loan going forward or 
repay the outstanding capital within a reasonable period of time, in these circumstances, 
without experiencing severe financial difficulty. 
Bearing in mind the circumstances in which Lloyds lent, Miss Ds current financial position 
and the amount of distress and inconvenience Lloyds unfairly providing this loan to Miss D, 
in the circumstances it did is likely to have caused, I dont think removing the interest fees 
and charges goes far enough. The circumstances of this case and in particular the financial 
hardship which is likely to be caused by requiring Miss D to pay funds she doesnt have and 
is unlikely to get, lead me to think that the fair and reasonable thing for Lloyds to do here, 
given all the circumstances, is write off the outstanding balance on loan 2.
As this will result in Miss D having repaid substantially less than the amount she was lent, 
Im satisfied that this also encompasses fair compensation for any distress and 
inconvenience Lloyds actions in relation to providing loan 2 caused her. So while Ive 
carefully thought about matters and I may have told Lloyds to pay a not insubstantial amount 
of compensation for the distress and inconvenience its actions caused Miss D were it not for 
my direction to write off the outstanding balance, Im not making an additional award for 
distress and inconvenience.
I turn now to Miss Ds credit file. Wed typically expect a lender to remove any adverse 
information on a loan, from the borrowers credit file, where a complaint is upheld for 
irresponsible lending. However, I dont think that doing this would be the fair and reasonable 
thing to do here given what Im asking Lloyds to do in terms of the loan balance. To explain, 
the basis for Miss Ds complaint was and is that she has a problem which was made worse 
by Lloyds decision to lend to her in September 2019. Ive accepted this is the case and this 
has played a large part in my intended decision to uphold Miss Ds complaint. In these circumstances, it seems to me removing adverse information from Miss Ds credit 
file, increasing the chances of her being able to borrow further would be counterproductive 
and arguably not in her best interests, or those of any potential lender. So I think its fair and 
reasonable for Lloyds to reflect what Im asking it to do in relation to the outstanding balance 
on the loan and record it wrote off a balance on this loan on Miss Ds credit file.
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, and in my provisional decision of 9 November 2020, Im 
upholding Miss Ds complaint. Lloyds Bank PLC should put things right in the way that Ive 
set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 March 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman