DRN-2036490
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain about delays on a claim they made on their home insurance with 
Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva).
What happened
Mr and Mrs C made a claim on their Aviva home insurance policy after their property was 
damaged due to subsidence. Aviva had originally declined cover for the claim but after Mr 
and Mrs C complained, they reviewed the matter further and agreed to cover the claim.
The neighbouring property to Mr and Mrs Cs had also been damaged, and the insurer for 
that property had appointed a loss adjuster. It was agreed that this loss adjuster would put 
together a schedule of works covering both properties and provide this to Avivas agents. 
Mr and Mrs C made a further complaint. They were unhappy that repair works hadnt started 
over 8 months after Aviva had agreed to cover the claim. Aviva said it didnt think it had done 
anything wrong. It said that the reason works hadnt started was because they had been 
waiting for the schedule of works, and when it had been received, there had been matters 
which needed clarification.
As Mr and Mrs C were dissatisfied with this outcome, they brought the complaint to our 
service. Our investigator thought that Aviva hadnt caused any unreasonable delays between 
September 2018 and July 2019, the period of time we were looking at. As Mr and Mrs C 
didnt agree, theyve asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive explained separately why Im only able to consider Avivas actions between September 
2018 and July 2019 in this decision, even though I know Mr and Mrs C are unhappy with 
Avivas handling of the claim before then.
In September 2018, Aviva agreed to review cover for the claim, having previously said that 
an exclusion in the policy applied. Its appointed loss adjuster referred the matter to an 
engineer and in November cover for the claim was confirmed.
The porch of Mr and Mrs Cs property had been damaged by the subsidence. The adjoining 
property had also sustained damage to the porch, and the insurer of the neighbouring 
property had appointed its own loss adjuster to assess that claim. It was agreed that the 
other insurers loss adjuster would put together a schedule of works which would be 
submitted to Avivas loss adjuster before any works were carried out.
The schedule of works was completed in April 2019, and I can see that during this period 
Avivas loss adjuster was updating Mr and Mrs C and chasing the other loss adjuster. I cant 
hold Aviva, or its loss adjuster, responsible for the time it took for the schedule of works to be 
completed and submitted to Avivas loss adjuster.
Having received the schedule, Avivas loss adjuster, having had comments from an 
appointed engineer, queried certain aspects of it. And by the end of June 2019, it was 
apparent that these hadnt been responded to sufficiently for Aviva to be in a position to 
agree to proceed with the works. I can see that an engineer wrote to Mr and Mrs C at that 
time, explaining why Avivas loss adjuster hadnt agreed to proceed with the repairs. It was 
explained that having queried the works, the next contact it had received was about quotes 
which had been given by contractors. These were also queried, as Avivas loss adjuster 
didnt think enough detail was in the quotes. 
The loss adjuster said the next contact they received was to say a specific contractor had 
been appointed. They said that their queries about the schedule and costs hadnt been 
responded to. An appointment was then made for Avivas loss adjuster and engineers to 
attend the properties with a view to progressing the matter.
It seems, based on when Mr and Mrs C made their complaint, that the refusal of Aviva to 
sign off the neighbours loss adjusters plans was what led to them complaining. I understand 
their frustration. The claim had originally been declined, then covered and over 2 years later, 
the repairs still hadnt started. They were being told that the reason the repairs hadnt started 
is that their own insurer hadnt agreed with the planned works. But I cant say that Aviva 
acted unreasonably here.
Ive considered whether Aviva or its agents gave an indication that once the schedule of 
works was received from the neighbours loss adjuster that it would approve the works and 
allow the repairs to proceed without any further clarification. I cant see that this happened. 
When it said it would wait for the loss adjusters schedule, Avivas agent said that once 
received it would be passed to an engineer. 
So I think Aviva had indicated that any schedule received would need to be reviewed and 
agreed before it approved any works. And its not unreasonable for it to do so. Not only was 
it going to be liable for a share of the costs, but an insurer has a general duty to ensure that 
a lasting and effective repair is carried out. 
It follows therefore that Aviva and its agents are entitled to review any works Aviva is being 
asked to cover so it can be satisfied a lasting and effective repair is being carried out, and 
that the costs its being asked to cover are reasonable. It had questions about what was 
being proposed, and had asked for clarification of this. 
At the time Mr and Mrs C complained, Aviva and its loss adjuster werent satisfied that they 
had received the necessary clarification and explanations. I cant say it acted unreasonably 
by not approving the works before July 2019.
Having considered all of this, Im not satisfied that Aviva and its agents were responsible for 
any unreasonable delays between September 2018 and July 2019, which is the time period 
Im able to consider for this complaint.
 
My final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 December 2020.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman