DRN-1020277
complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out with a credit 
card in 2002. Mr S says Canada Square Operations Limited, trading at the time as Egg, mis-
sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ss case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
When selling the PPI, Egg had to make it clear to Mr S that he had a choice about it. But 
Mr S says it wasnt made clear to him that the policy was optional.
Eggs record of Mr Ss application for the credit card shows it was done online. And Egg has 
sent us screenshots of what it says the online application form wouldve looked like at the 
time. These show a section on PPI, with yes and no options to be selected to show 
whether the customer wants to take it out. And Eggs record of Mr Ss application also shows 
he selected the yes option.
Based on this, I think Egg did make it clear to Mr S that he had a choice about the PPI. And 
that Mr S chose to take it, knowing he didnt have to.
Egg didnt recommend the PPI to Mr S, so it didnt have to check if it was right for him. But it 
did have to make sure he got the information he needed to decide if the PPI was right for 
him.
Its possible the information Egg gave Mr S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But, based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, it doesnt look like he 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. The policy couldve paid 
out for longer than hes told us he wouldve been entitled to full sick pay. And it wouldve 
meant he didnt need to rely on any savings or other means he had to make his repayments 
if he wasnt earning. So the PPI would have been useful for him if something went wrong.
Mr S has said he had life cover on his mortgage. But this covered different risks to the PPI 
and wouldnt have covered his credit card repayments. So I still think the PPI would have 
been useful to him. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information 
about the PPI would have put Mr S off taking it out.
 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2019.
Alan Millward
Ombudsman