DRN-3880352
The complaint
Mr H complains Sainsburys Bank Plc cancelled the promotional rate on his credit card 
account but didnt tell him why resulting in interest charges being applied.   
What happened
Mr H has held a credit card account with Sainsburys for a number of years. In or around 
February 2022, Sainsburys agreed a promotional interest rate on Mr Hs account meaning 
he would pay no interest for 24 months. The credit limit on Mr Hs account was £14,550.
When Mr H received his credit card statement dated 4 April 2022, he noticed Sainsburys 
had charged interest. Mr H called Sainsburys on 19 April 2022 to ask why it had removed 
the promotional rate from his account. Mr H says Sainsburys were unable to explain why 
this was and couldnt see that hed either exceeded his account limit or missed a payment. 
Sainsburys agreed to pass Mr Hs query to another department and return to him with an 
explanation. 
Mr H didnt hear any more from Sainsburys. But when he received his next statement dated 
3 May 2022, he noticed more interest had been charged to his account. So, he contacted 
Sainsburys again; this time to complain. He said Sainsburys hadnt got back to him as 
promised, so hed received no explanation of why the promotional rate had been removed 
from his account.
Sainsburys responded to Mr Hs complaint in a letter dated 6 May 2022. They said Mr H had 
exceeded his account limit on 24 March 2022, so the promotional rate was removed in line 
with their terms and conditions. They said they hadnt made an error. But they did accept Mr 
H was told they would call him back with their findings following his call in April 2022. They 
apologised they hadnt done that and paid compensation to Mr Hs credit card account of 
£25.
Unhappy with Sainsburys response, Mr H referred his complaint to this service. He said he 
wouldve repaid the entire balance owed had Sainsburys explained why the promotional rate 
had been removed. He said he incurred interest costs because they didnt get back to him 
and wanted Sainsburys to refund them. He also thought Sainsburys should pay him 
compensation for the distress caused. 
Having considered all the information available, our investigator didnt think Sainsburys had 
acted fairly. He accepted the decision to remove the promotional rate complied with their 
terms and conditions. But our investigator thought Sainsburys had failed to advise Mr H 
correctly which meant he didnt repay the outstanding balance and incurred interest charges 
as a result. Our investigator thought Sainsburys should refund any interest from the point Mr 
H called them in April to the point when he repaid the outstanding balance.
Sainsburys didnt agree with our investigators findings. While they accepted they hadnt 
provided Mr H with an explanation of why the promotional rate was removed, the interest 
had been charged correctly and no suggestion had been given the rate would be reinstated.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, Mr Hs complaint was passed to me to consider 
further. In doing so, I reached a different outcome to that of our investigator. Because of that, 
I issued a provisional decision, giving both Mr H and Sainsburys the opportunity to respond 
to my findings below before I reach a final decision.
In my provisional decision, I said:
The promotional offer made available on Mr Hs credit card account took effect from 
February 2022 and offered interest free balances on his credit card for a period of 24 
months. Ive looked closely at the agreement associated with Mr Hs credit card 
account. 
Section 11.1 of the agreement includes, 
You must not let your account go over your credit limit or use your account if it is 
already over your credit limit. 
Section 3.3 explains the interest rates that apply. It also goes on to say,
We may apply the standard interest rate to transactions before the end of the special 
promotion period if in any month you do not make at least your minimum monthly 
payment by the payment date or if you exceed your credit limit at any time. 
Critical here is the phrase at any time. So, any breach of the credit limit is not based 
upon the account balance on the date the statement is produced; rather the date any 
transaction results in the account balance exceeding the limit.
Responsibility for managing the use of and amount owed on a credit card account 
rests with the account holder rather than the lender. Mr H said he wasnt aware his 
balance had exceeded the limit agreed. And his month end statement also didnt 
show that. I understand Sainsburys online service was available to help Mr H 
monitor his account at any time.
Ive looked carefully at Mr Hs credit card statements and calculated the amount 
owed at close of business on 24 March 2022 appears to have been around £14,493. 
It then shows a further transaction of £114.99 applied on 25 March 2022 which took 
the balance owed above the agreed credit limit of £14,550. The balance remained in 
excess until Mr Hs monthly direct debit payment was received into the account on 28 
March 2022.  
I think its clear Mr Hs account balance did exceed the credit limit. So, given what 
Ive found, I cant reasonably say Sainsburys made a mistake or error when they 
cancelled the promotional rate on his account.
Ive gone on to consider what happened when Mr H called Sainsburys on 17 April 
2022. This was 13 days after his credit card statement was produced showing the 
interest charges. Our investigator asked Sainsburys to provide a recording of that 
telephone conversation. Unfortunately, it appears that isnt available. Sainsburys 
have no obligation to record or retain calls, but their records do show the call took 
place.
Sainsburys Records show their agent couldnt identify a reason why the promotional 
rate was removed. And they also show their agent raised a query for this to be 
investigated. Theres no evidence Mr H was told the promotional rate would be 
reinstated. Only that it had been removed, the reason wasnt clear and obvious, and 
Sainsburys would return to him with an explanation.
But that didnt happen, and Sainsburys accept they got this wrong. They agree they 
shouldve got back to Mr H as promised. Theyve apologised and paid Mr H 
compensation of £25. In these circumstances, this feels fair to me. But the question 
remains whether Mr H couldve safely assumed that Sainsburys had made a mistake 
when they removed the promotional rate and applied interest to what was owed. 
As Ive already concluded above, I think Mr H had a responsibility to ensure he 
monitored his own account usage. The credit limit was exceeded, and I believe there 
was sufficient information available for Mr H to have realised that. So, I dont believe 
he could safely assume the promotional rate would be reinstated. Mr H believes it was Sainsburys failure to provide an explanation that led to him not 
repaying the amount he owed sooner resulting in interest charges being applied. I 
realise Mr H will be disappointed, but I dont agree. I think Mr H shouldve been 
aware hed exceeded the limit and the potential consequences of this. And as I 
havent found anything to suggest Sainsburys told him the rate would be reinstated, I 
dont think it would be reasonable for me to ask them to refund the interest they 
charged. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Sainsburys responded and agreed with my provisional findings adding no new comments or 
evidence.
In Mr Hs response to my provisional findings, he accepted that the excess of the credit limit 
was his own fault. But said he thought Sainsburys wouldve contacted him to in some way to 
tell him the promotional interest rate had been cancelled. Even if this was in the form of a 
note on his statement. 
Ive considered Mr Hs comments here. As I explained in my provisional decision, the 
responsibility for managing the usage of his account lay with Mr H. And I think the terms and 
conditions that applied to the promotional rate were made clear at the outset. While I 
understand and appreciate why Mr H might think Sainsburys shouldve told him the 
promotional rate had been cancelled, I dont think they were obliged to do that. Once the 
agreed limit was breached, interest was calculated and applied in line with the agreement Mr 
H entered into. And that interest was clearly detailed on his credit card statement.
Mr H also believes it remains unacceptable that Sainsburys failed to call him back with 
information to confirm hed exceeded his credit limit. Ive covered this point in my provisional 
decision and believe Sainsburys have addressed this appropriately. So, while Mr H says he 
wants to appeal my provisional findings, I havent been provided with anything new that 
persuades me to vary my decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2023.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman