DRN-1902939
 
The complaint
Mr C has complained about Hastings Insurance Services Limiteds handling of his van 
insurance policies.
What happened
Mr C has been taking out van insurance through Hastings for a number of years. Hastings 
are not an insurer, they are a broker and they sold and administered Mr Cs policies. The 
policies Hastings sold to Mr C were underwritten by separate businesses, the insurers.
Another driver claimed that Mr C was responsible for an accident in January 2016. Mr Cs 
insurer at the time looked into the claim. That claim was closed in Mr Cs favour in 
December 2017. But before that Mr C had two policy renewals. One on 4 September 2016 
(the 2016 policy) and the other on 4 September 2017 (the 2017 policy). Both policies were 
arranged by Hastings but the insurers were different during those two policy years.
Mr C complained that Hastings mis-sold him those two policies. The premium Mr C paid for 
the policy before the claim (the 2015 policy) was under £600. The premium for the 2016 
policy almost doubled to just under £1,200. And the premium for the 2017 policy was almost 
£900, which was substantially higher than the 2015 policy. Mr C said that during the two-
year period the claim remained open and the two renewals took place, Hastings told him that 
if the claim closed in his favour he would be given premium refunds that would reduce the 
cost of his 2016 and 2017 policies to an amount similar to what he paid for the 2015 policy. 
But when the claim closed in his favour, despite being given premium refunds for those two 
policy years, the cost of his 2016 and 2017 policies didnt go down to an amount similar to 
his 2015 policy.
Hastings didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. They said they didnt tell him that in the event the 
claim closed in his favour his premium refunds for the 2016 and 2017 policies would reduce 
his premiums to the level of the 2015 policy. Mr C didn't think that was fair, so he brought his 
complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into it. She felt that Hastings hadnt done 
anything wrong. As Mr C didnt agree with our investigator, the complaint has been passed 
to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate this will be disappointing for Mr C, but Im not going to uphold his complaint. Ill 
explain why.
In his complaint, Mr C has made a number of detailed points and Ive considered all those 
carefully. But, in this decision, I will focus on what I consider to be the key issues. My role is 
to decide if Hastings have dealt with Mr C in a fair and reasonable way.
The policy renewal in September 2016 was a new contract of insurance between Mr C and 
the insurer. As was the September 2017 policy. Mr Cs complaint is that Hastings mis-sold 
him both those policies because they misinformed him.
the sale of the 2016 policy
The 2016 policy renewed on 4 September 2016. The claim by the other driver was still open 
and Mr Cs premium on renewal had almost doubled. Mr C felt that he was being penalised 
for something that wasnt his fault. The renewal premium was set by the insurer and not 
Hastings. I should mention that Mr C made a separate complaint about the insurer which has 
been dealt with under a separate case reference.
Ive listened to the call between Mr C and Hastings on 6 September 2016 in relation to the 
renewal. Mr C said the other drivers claim was a scam as no accident had taken place.   
Mr C and Hastings discussed the claims process and possible outcomes. Hastings call 
handler said the other driver had three years in which to start legal proceedings if he wanted 
to claim against Mr C. The call handler explained that the claim would have to remain open 
until it was closed, which meant it could potentially remain open for three years. 
Mr C was understandably upset by that as his premium had just increased. He asked the call 
handler if he would get a refund once the claim closed in his favour. He asked: am I going to 
get a refund for the three years of excessive premiums I paid? His question was based on 
the assumption that it was possibly going to take three years for the open claim to resolve in 
his favour and that, like the premium for the 2016 renewal policy, his future premiums would 
be higher because of the open claim. The call handler replied: yes and that if the claim 
closed in his favour his no claims bonus (NCB) would be reinstated and his premiums will 
be recalculated, theyll calculate what you paid against what you should have paid and that 
amount will be refunded to you.
I agree with Hastings and our investigator that the call handler didnt tell Mr C that if the 
claim closed in his favour that would reduce the premium to the 2015 level. The call handler 
said his premium would be recalculated. I think Mr Cs understanding was that the sole 
reason for the premium increase was the open claim. So he thought that if the claim closed 
in his favour the cost of the 2016 policy would go down from around £1,200 to under £600. 
But Mr C didnt say that or didnt question exactly what the call handler meant when they 
said the premium would be recalculated. And I don't think the call handler could have known 
that Mr C mistakenly expected the premium to reduce to its 2015 price. So, I dont find it 
unusual that the call handler didnt go onto expand or explain further other than to say the 
premium would be recalculated. 
Mr C said the context of that call has been overlooked. He said the sole purpose of the call 
was to discuss getting a refund in the event the claim closed in his favour. He said: it is 
abundantly clear from the context of the conversation that the advisor knew I would have 
been expecting a refund amount similar to the cost of my original premium cost. During the 
call Mr C and the call handler also discussed the claim and the process relating to that. I 
agree that the call handler was aware Mr C wanted a refund in the event the claim closed in 
his favour as thats what Mr C asked for. He had asked if he would get a refund of the 
excessive premiums. But I dont agree the call handler would have known Mr C was 
expecting a refund that would have brought the cost of the 2016 premium to an amount 
similar to the 2015 policy. The call handler would have been aware that part of the 2016 
policy premium increase was due to the open claim. But there may have been (and there 
were) other factors that influenced the cost and those were decided by the insurer not by 
Hastings. Thats why I think the call handler said the premium would be recalculated rather 
than say it would be reduced to the 2015 amount. Its also worth noting that this conversation 
took place after Mr S had already renewed his policy and paid the premium. Im therefore not 
upholding this part of the complaint.
the sale of the 2017 policyThe 2017 policy renewed on 4 September 2017. The claim by the other driver was still open, 
Mr Cs premium on renewal was around £900. So, while it was lower than the 2016 renewal 
it was still over £300 more than the 2015 policy.
Mr C spoke with Hastings on 14 July 2017, around seven weeks before the renewal date. 
Understandably the conversation involved the still open claim and Mr Cs concerns about the 
other drivers claim being a scam. The conversation then turned to the premiums and 
Mr Cs concerns about the increase.
Mr C asked the call handler about a premium refund. He said he was told before he would 
be refunded the difference. I think what Mr C meant by that was he was told by Hastings 
previously that he would be refunded the difference between the increased premiums for the 
2016 (and any future) policy and what he paid in 2015. For the reasons Ive explained 
above, I dont agree that Mr C was told that. But during the conversation on 14 July 2017, 
Mr C said that was his understanding.
The call handler told Mr C that if the claim closed in his favour there should be an 
adjustment but I wouldnt know how much Mr C said his premium should have been 
around £600 (the approximate 2015 amount) but because of the claim his premium almost 
doubled during the 2016 renewal. Mr C asked the call handler if he will get all of that 
increase refunded or, for example, will he get a percentage, say 30%. The call handler said 
he wasnt sure how much of a refund Mr C would get because the refund would be dealt with 
by a different department. But the call handler went onto say when that happens [the claim 
closing in Mr Cs favour] there is an adjustment that has to be made, obviously what youve 
paid, when we look into the fact of how they calculate the premium itself Im not privy to the 
parameters, but obviously that might change from year to year. 
Mr C explained again that his premiums increased. The call handler said hes not an 
underwriter and how they [premiums] are calculated is when, is proposed at that time in 
terms of price increase, price reduction, market rate or whatever in terms of the arrangement 
made, as Ive said Im not privy to that aspect of the insurance business as were dealing 
primarily with the claim In response Mr C didnt say he expected a refund of the difference 
between the increase and the 2015 premium nor did he ask to speak with the department 
that dealt with premiums.
So, again, like with the conversation Mr C had with Hastings at the time of the 2016 renewal 
Im satisfied that Hastings didnt tell Mr C during the 2017 renewal that he would get a refund 
that would take his premiums down to the level of the 2015 policy. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 August 2020.
 
Mehmet Osman
Ombudsman