DRN-1548568
 
The complaint
This complaint is about Xs mortgage with Paragon Bank Plc. He believes Paragon has 
varied the contract to remove his obligation to pay an early repayment charge (ERC) if he 
repays the mortgage. Paragon says thats not the case; X says Paragon is breaching rules 
requiring businesses to treat customers fairly.
What happened
In what follows, I have summarised events in rather less detail than theyve been presented, 
using my own words. No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal 
service we provide, and if I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll 
be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
This is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on 
the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters 
which, although presented as material, are, in my opinion peripheral.
X took the mortgage out in January 2017; its on fixed rate until June 2022, and subject to an 
ERC if repaid before then. The ERC is calculated on a sliding-scale basis, depending on 
repayment takes place causing it to fall due. The details are as follows:
5% of the amount repaid up to 31 May 2019;
4% of the amount repaid between 1 June 2019 and 31 May 2020;
3% of the amount repaid between 1 June 2020 and 31 May 2021; and
2% of the amount repaid between 1 June 2021 and 31 May 2022.
In the spring of 2019, X received a statement, which contained information saying that the 
ERC would end on 31 May 2019. He took this to mean no ERC was applicable after that 
date and that he was free to repay the mortgage without paying an ERC. Paragon said this 
wasnt the case; it just meant that the 5% ERC was coming to an end, but the 4% ERC 
would then take its place.  But it acknowledged the lack of clarity.
X complained, and in a phone call with Paragon, his case handler said the business may be 
willing to consider waiving the ERC, but I would require senior management approval. That 
approval wasnt forthcoming, but Paragon did offer X £1,000 compensation for his time, 
trouble and upset.
Our investigator didnt think Paragon had varied the contract or promised to waive the ERC. 
He thought the offer of £1,000 was more than generous, so didnt recommend the complaint 
be upheld. As is his right, X has asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
Hes also complained about how the investigator has handled his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill make some general observations before dealing with the complaint. 
Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and we dont police their internal processes 
or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority.  We deal 
with individual disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we dont 
replicate the work of the courts. Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions 
on how we investigate a complaint.
As I said earlier, if I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to 
consider it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is 
the right outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair 
in the round. And I reiterate that I have to be mindful that I dont include anything in this 
decision that might identify X.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. 
The starting point here is the mortgage agreement X and Paragon entered into in 2017; 
under that, X is liable to pay an ERC if he pays the debt back before 31 May 2022. The 
amount hell be liable to pay depends on when repayment takes place, as I summarised 
earlier in this decision. A contract is capable of being varied, but a mortgage statement 
containing less than clear information isnt a contract variation.
When a business gives misleading information, we dont put the consumer in the position 
theyd be in if the misleading information had been right; we put them in the position theyd 
be in if the right information had been given. Paragon gave X information that, whilst not 
incorrect or inaccurate, was incomplete; thats why it was potentially misleading. But it didnt 
put X in a different position from the one hed be in if the information had been clearer. 
The simple and unavoidable fact is that X, by virtue of the agreement he entered into in 
2017, remains liable for an ERC, but at a lower percentage due to the passage of time. All 
the misleading information did was temporarily raise Xs expectations. Those expectations 
may well have been raised further when Paragons call handler invoked the possibility of the 
ERC being waived in response to his complaint. 
But in that context, I have to say Paragon took steps to manage Xs expectations; there was 
no promise of a waiver, merely a commitment to refer it to senior management for 
consideration. I can appreciate X will have been disappointed when it wasnt approved, but I 
couldnt in any circumstances say the decision not to waive ERC amounted to unfair 
treatment.
As it stands, X has been put to a lot of trouble and upset by having his expectations raised 
unrealistically. Hes due fair compensation for that, and in that context, I note Paragon, in its 
final response, offered X £1,000. I have to say, taking all of the circumstances into account, 
thats a very generous offer and considerably more than I would have awarded if no offer 
had been made.
I said at the outset that I wouldnt be commenting on every single point, and I havent. I have 
to take a different approach. Im impartial and I have to look at things objectively, sometimes 
taking a step back and focussing on the broader picture. Thats what Ive done here.X doesnt have to accept my final decision, and if he doesnt neither he nor Paragon will be 
bound by it. Subject to any time limits or other restrictions a court might impose, Xs ability to 
take legal action in pursuit of his claim wont have been prejudiced by our consideration of 
his complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that that I dont uphold this complaint. My 
final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be 
engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2020.
 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman