DRN-3296008
The complaint
Mr B complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax didnt help recover money he 
lost as part of a scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything in 
detail again here. In summary, Mr B decided to invest in cryptocurrency after seeing an 
advertisement about a broker called RI Markets on social media. He left his contact details 
and was subsequently telephoned by an individual claiming to be a market expert and a 
financial adviser. 
Mr B set up an account with RI Markets (who subsequently turned out to be fraudulent) and 
his debit card details were used for transactions on The Change and Safe Currency  both 
legitimate cryptocurrency exchanges. He was persuaded by his account manager at RI 
Markets to invest more money after seeing the profits that were supposedly being made. 
Mr B also took out a loan to fund some of the payments. 
The following payments were made from Mr Bs Halifax debit card:
Date (on bank 
statement)Merchant Amount
8 October 2019 TheChange £630.00
15 October 2019 Rimarkets £1,000.00
25 October 2019 PSP*safecurrency.com £450.00
25 October 2019 TheChange £2,625.00
28 October 2019 TheChange £6,300.00
1 November 2019 TheChange £315.00
6 November 2019 bconvert*thechange.io £1,050.00
7 November 2019 PSP*safecurrency.com £70.08 (plus £2.09 non-sterling transaction 
fee and £0.50 non-sterling purchase fee)
7 November 2019 PSP*safecurrency.com £389.31 (plus £11.64 non-sterling 
transaction fee and £0.50 non-sterling 
purchase fee)
25 November 2019 PSP*safecurrency.com £546.09 (plus £16.32 non-sterling 
transaction fee and £0.50 non-sterling 
purchase fee)
25 November 2019 PSP*safecurrency.com £3,120.54 (plus £93.30 non-sterling 
transaction fee and £0.50 non-sterling 
purchase fee)
Total payments £16.496.02 (plus £125.35 non-sterling fee)
Total loss £16,621.37
Each time Mr B requested a withdrawal, RI Markets declined it on the grounds of bonus 
limitations and insufficient trades. He eventually realised he had been scammed when he 
discovered that the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) had published a warning about RI 
Markets. 
Mr B reported the matter to Halifax. However, it declined to refund the money he lost. It said 
it was unable to raise a chargeback against The Change and Safe Currency as these 
institutions provided a legitimate service. And Mr B was out of time to raise a chargeback 
against RI Markets for the payment made directly to it. Unhappy with this, Mr B referred his 
complaint to our service.
Our investigator concluded that Halifax hadnt acted unfairly in declining the chargeback 
request. But she thought that it ought to have intervened and asked suitably probing 
questions when Mr B authorised the fifth payment of £6,300 as it was unusual and out of 
character for him. It was the investigators view that had Halifax done this, it would have 
unravelled the scam and limited Mr Bs loss. She recommended Halifax to refund all the 
disputed transactions from and including the fifth payment, along with interest and fees.
Mr B agreed with the investigators recommendations, but Halifax didnt reply to her view 
despite several chasers. And it didnt respond to the notification that this complaint was 
being referred to an ombudsman. So, its now appropriate for the case to move to the 
ombudsman stage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its common ground that the disputed payments were authorised by Mr B for the purposes of 
the Payment Services Regulations 2017, in force at the time. This is because he had 
authorised RI Markets to make trades on his behalf and the payments were made using his 
legitimate security credentials. While Mr B didnt intend for his money to go to fraudsters, 
hes initially presumed liable for the loss. 
As a starting position, banks should execute an authorised payment instruction without 
undue delay. However, in accordance with the law, regulations and good industry practice, a 
bank has a duty to protect its customers against the risk of fraud and scams so far as is 
reasonably possible. If, in breach of that duty, a bank fails to act on information which ought 
reasonably to alert a prudent bank to potential fraud or financial crime, it might be liable for 
the losses incurred by its customer as a result.
So, Ive looked into what this means for this case and whether Halifax should have done 
more here to prevent the payments in dispute. 
Ive considered the operation of Mr Bs account in the months leading up to the disputed 
payments. Like the investigator, I dont consider the first four payments to be so unusual or 
uncharacteristic that I think Halifax ought to have intervened. But the fifth payment of £6,300 
was substantially higher than other transactions on Mr Bs account. The proximity and the 
substantial increase in value of the payment to a cryptocurrency exchange ought to have 
triggered Halifaxs systems. And I consider it would have been reasonable for Halifax to 
have properly questioned Mr B before processing this payment.    
Had Halifax contacted Mr B to ask relevant questions, Im satisfied it would have been 
apparent that he was falling victim to a scam. If Halifax had asked Mr B what the payment 
was for and the basic surrounding context, it is likely he would have fully explained what he was doing and that everything had originated from his broker i.e. the fraudsters. So, while 
Halifax may have known that Mr B was sending money to a legitimate cryptocurrency trader, 
I think it still should have provided a scam warning in light of all the information known to 
banks about the increasing number of scams associated with fraudsters selling what is made 
out to be cryptocurrency.
After all, at the time, there was information in the public domain  which a bank ought to 
have known even if a lay consumer ought not  about the very high risks associated with 
crypto trading, including many warnings of potential fraud. For example, the FCA and Action 
Fraud published warnings about cryptocurrency scams in mid-2018. Regulated businesses 
ought reasonably to take notice of such insight. 
By the time Mr B made these payments, cryptocurrency scams had risen greatly in 
frequency and it is reasonable to conclude that banks, such as Halifax, had also had time to 
digest these warnings and put mechanisms in place to detect and prevent this type of fraud. 
Even if an intervention by the bank would have identified that the payment was going to 
Mr Bs own account with the cryptocurrency exchange, the conversation should not have 
stopped only on the basis that the money appeared to be going somewhere safe and within 
Mr Bs control. 
I say this because, by the time Mr B made these payments, I think Halifax had or ought to 
have had a good enough understanding of how these scams worked to have been able to 
identify the risk of harm from fraud. Including, that a customer often first purchases the 
crypto asset and moves the money on to the fraudster under the assumption that theyre 
moving the money into their own wallet. 
With this in mind, I would have expected Halifax to have asked questions about the context 
and true purpose of the payment. While it is not up to our service to dictate which questions 
a bank should ask, Halifax could have, for example, asked how Mr B had been contacted, 
whether he had parted with personal details in order to open a trading account, whether the 
investment opportunity was linked to a prominent individual, or advertised on social media 
etc. These are all typical features of cryptocurrency scams  and form part of a reasonable 
line of enquiry to protect a consumer from the potential risk of a prominent type of scam.
Although there is no reason to doubt that Mr B would have explained what he was doing, 
I accept it was possible that he might not have revealed enough information to lead Halifax 
to understand whether he was at risk of financial harm from this particular type of fraud (or 
any type for that matter). I cant know for certain what would have happened. However, 
I reach my conclusions not based on mere possibilities, but rather on what I find most 
probable to have happened in the circumstances. And on balance, Im satisfied that Mr B 
would have likely shared information which aligned with the hallmarks of this type of scam, 
as he had been given no reason to think he had to hide this information from his bank, and 
neither had he been coached to tell them something different. 
In light of this, I think Mr Bs losses were foreseeable to Halifax despite the payment on the 
face of it not leaving his control. And Im satisfied that had Halifax, having identified the 
payment as unusual and suspicious, asked relevant questions of Mr B, it would have been 
apparent that he was falling victim to a cryptocurrency scam. 
Further, even if Halifax had not worked out that this was a scam, it is likely that a warning 
would have alerted Mr B to the common issues arising in relation to so-called cryptocurrency 
brokers. Had it indicated the potential for fraud and provided Mr B with a potential scam 
warning, Im satisfied he would have been concerned enough to have stopped in his tracks, and he likely would have found the on-line reviews which had referred to RI Markets being a 
scammer (as he did later on).
Finally, I accept that, when simply executing authorised payments, banks such as Halifax 
dont have to protect customers against the risk of bad bargains or give investment advice.
However, the FCA has confirmed that a fraud warning would not constitute unauthorised
investment advice  so I dont think Halifax would have acted out of line, had it warned Mr B
along the lines that Ive described.
Theres a general principle that consumers must take responsibility for their decisions. Ive 
duly considered whether Mr B should bear some responsibility by way of contributory 
negligence. However, in this case, I dont think he could have foreseen the risk that the 
company he was dealing with was a scam. He simply did not appreciate what he was doing 
or the consequences of his actions. 
All in all, Im satisfied there was no contributory negligence on this occasion and Mr B was 
simply the unwitting and blameless victim of a clever fraudster. The bank was the 
professional in financial matters; Mr B was a layperson.
Putting things right
To put things right, Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax needs to refund Mr B the stolen 
payments from the fifth payment  £6,300 made on 28 October 2019  onwards, including 
any non-sterling fees. That would mean an award of £11,916.37.
As this was a current account, Halifax should add simple interest at the rate of 8% per year 
(less any tax properly deductible), calculated from the respective date of loss to the date of 
refund.
 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Bank of Scotland plc 
trading as Halifax needs to put matters right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2022.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman