DRN-2913463
The complaint
Mr B complains Barclays Bank UK Plc trading as Barclaycard (Barclaycard) acted 
irresponsibly when increasing his credit card limit.
What happened
Mr B was accepted for a Barclaycard credit card in 2015, his agreed credit limit was £2,500.
In January 2017, following a request from Mr B, Barclaycard increased his credit limit to 
£3,000. In October 2017, Barclaycard offered Mr B a further increase to his credit limit. Mr B 
had the opportunity to refuse the increase, but he didnt so his limit was automatically 
increased to £4,500.
Mr B complained to Barclaycard that theyd acted irresponsibly by increasing his credit limit. 
He said he had multiple loans with other lenders and was borrowing from one lender to pay 
off other loans. He thinks they shouldve known hed be unable to repay additional credit.
Mr B told Barclaycard the availability of the additional credit had financially ruined his life, 
and hed since had to ask a debt management charity for help in addition to seeking help to 
battle a serious gambling problem.
Barclaycard investigated Mr Bs complaint, but they didnt think theyd acted irresponsibly, 
saying in the months leading up to his limit being increased hed managed his account very 
well and had even cleared his balance in full at times. Barclaycard also said whilst they 
appreciated Mr B may have had outstanding balances with other lenders at the time, there 
was no evidence to suggest he did not meet their lending criteria.
However, Barclaycard did acknowledge that Mr B exceeded his limit almost immediately 
after his limit was increased to £4,500, resulting in the loss of promotional rates active on his 
account at the time. Because of this, and as a gesture of goodwill, Barclaycard refunded 
interest, over limit charges and a late payment charge totalling £170.62 to Mr Bs account.
Mr B remained unhappy so brought his complaint to our service. One of our investigators 
looked into things but whilst he thought Barclaycard had carried out checks proportionate to 
the increases involved, he thought the information gathered as part of those checks 
shouldve prompted Barclaycard to have looked further into Mr Bs financial situation before 
agreeing further lending.
Our investigator said Barclaycard shouldnt have agreed the increases to Mr Bs limit. He 
said Mr B had taken out multiple payday loans and it was clear there were a high volume of 
gambling transactions. 
To put things right, our investigator said Barclaycard should refund all the interest, charges 
and fees charged to the card since the initial increased to Mr Bs limit in January 2017. He 
also said should those adjustments put Mr Bs account in credit, any additional amount 
should be refunded to Mr B plus 8% interest and Barclaycard should remove any adverse 
data recorded with credit reference agencies.
Barclaycard didnt agree with our investigator saying the external data they received from the 
checks completed prior to the limit increases, took into consideration the level of borrowing 
Mr B held, both internally and externally. And based on his income and expenditure, the 
checks showed both increases to be affordable.
Barclaycard also said they re-decision any proposed increases via their own internal records 
and whilst they acknowledge Mr Bs usage of payday loans, they consider these to have 
been well maintained and that Mr B was managing his payments.
Our investigator said he didnt fully agree Mr Bs credit report showed he was managing his 
borrowing well. He said the volume and frequency of the payday loans Mr B had taken out 
suggested he was borrowing to repay previous loans, and this shouldve alerted Barclaycard 
to ask further questions. Had they done, our investigator thought this wouldve shown Mr Bs 
income was being inflated by his borrowing, so his opinion remained unchanged.
Barclaycard said as it was Mr B thatd asked for the initial increase, theyd been provided 
with up to date information for him and both increases did not get to double Mr Bs original 
credit limit. So, they felt the increases were well within what theyd have considered to be 
affordable.
As Barclaycard remained dissatisfied with our investigators opinion, this case has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I appreciate itll be disappointing for Barclaycard, Ive decided to uphold Mr Bs 
complaint and for much the same reasons as our investigator. Ill explain why.
The FCA sets out the rules and guidance about what lenders need to do before lending to 
customers. Essentially, they need to make reasonable and proportionate checks to ensure 
that a customer will be able to repay the debt in a sustainable way. The lender has to take 
into account the potential for the debt to adversely impact a customers financial situation.
When considering increases to a consumers credit limit, Barclaycard say they decide if 
further lending is affordable based on how a consumer manages their account and on 
information obtained from a credit reference agency. They also conduct an internal review to 
assess the likelihood of a consumer defaulting upon their account.
Both when Mr B asked to increase his credit limit in January 2017, and when Barclaycard 
again increased his credit limit in October 2017, Barclaycard say there were no defaults 
upon his credit file, and on each occasion he held only three active payday loans at the time.
Barclaycard say Mr B fully met with their lending guidelines and when offered the second 
increase, Mr B was provided several opportunities to decline the limit increase, but he did 
not exercise his right to do so.
Mr B also held a current account with Barclays, and Barclaycard say they wouldve 
considered the management of that account, but not the individual transactions conducted 
on it.
I understand Barclaycard are satisfied the checks they conducted were both reasonable and 
proportionate and I would agree. But Im not satisfied it was fair for them to provide further 
lending based on what they knew about Mr B through those checks and the information 
about him available to them.
The FCA rules anticipate that if, based on the information available, there is any indication 
that the customer is experiencing financial difficulties or that they would not be able to afford 
the credit in a sustainable way, lenders will obtain more information and carry out further 
checks. Im satisfied Barclaycard shouldve obtained more information to understand Mr Bs 
income, expenditure and his pattern of debt. As a minimum, I think Barclaycard shouldve 
reviewed the statements they already had access to for Mr Bs current account held with 
Barclays.I say this, because in the months prior to Mr Bs first credit limit increase in January 2017, 
there were minimal transactions conducted through his Barclaycard account. However, the 
transactions that were made included four gambling transactions totalling £675 and a cash 
transfer for £1,400 to his Barclays current account. I acknowledge Barclaycard say gambling 
transactions are processed as cash and so there is no way of identifying if a customer is 
using a card for gambling, but I dont accept this. Its clear from Mr Bs statements which 
transactions relate to gambling from the merchants involved.
If Barclaycard had looked at Mr Bs current account statements, theyd have seen a high 
dependency on payday loans. From these he received credits of £4,320 from payday loans 
in the three months leading to January 2017, and that he also made a total of 28 payments 
back to payday lenders over the same period totalling £3,737.35. Mr B also conducted 40 
transactions to gambling companies over those three months, totalling £953.
Again, prior to increasing his limit in October 2017, Barclaycard could see hed used his 
credit card to conduct a further 14 gambling transactions totalling £543 and made two further 
cash transfers to his Barclays current account totalling £450. I think this expenditure is 
reason enough for Barclaycard to have, if not to obtain more information from Mr B, as a 
minimum to have looked more into the information already available to them. 
And like before, in the three months leading to the October 2017 increase, Barclaycard 
wouldve seen Mr B received total credits of £2,745 from payday loans, in turn making six 
payments back to payday lenders totalling £2,312.73. Barclaycard wouldve also seen Mr B 
had made a further 17 gambling transactions totalling £238.
Im satisfied that had Barclaycard reviewed Mr Bs statements, theyd have come to the 
conclusion that providing further lending to him would adversely impact his financial 
situation, and that he wouldnt be able to repay the debt in a sustainable way. So, I think they 
wouldve declined his request for an increase to his credit limit in January 2017 and I dont 
think they shouldve offered him further lending in October 2017.
Barclaycard say both Mr Bs bank account and his payday loans were well maintained, but I 
dont agree. I think its clear Mr B was repaying payday loans by taking further loans out and 
the turnover on the account was clearly inflated by this borrowing. So, Ive concluded, had 
Barclaycard requested further information or carried out suitable checks on the information 
they already had available to them, they wouldnt have increased Mr Bs borrowing  and 
they need to put things right.
Putting things right
In thinking about the fairest way to resolve this complaint for both parties, Ive taken into 
consideration that Mr B did use the credit both limit increases made available to him. But, for 
the reasons Ive explained above, as I dont think Barclaycard shouldve increased Mr Bs 
limit, it should refund all interest, charges and fees applied to his account from the date the 
first increase took place in January 2017.
Barclaycard should also remove any adverse data entries caused as a result of his limit 
being increased above £2,500.  
My final decision
Barclays Bank UK Plc trading as Barclaycard should:
Refund all interest, charges and fees applied to Mr Bs account from the date of 
the first credit limit increase in January 2017, excluding the amount of £170.62 
they have already refunded.
Should Mr Bs account go into a positive balance as a result of any refund, this 
should be paid to Mr B and 8% simple annual interest should be added on that amount.
Barclaycard have said they suspended all interest and charges on Mr Bs account 
when he entered a debt arrangement scheme (DAS). Im pleased to see interest 
and charges will continue to be suspended throughout the duration of the DAS 
however should a balance remain outstanding on Mr Bs account, Barclaycard 
should ensure interest and charges on the increased limits is suspended until 
cleared.
Finally, Barclaycard should remove any adverse entries caused as a result of the credit 
increased from Mr Bs credit file.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2021.
 
Sean Pyke-Milne
Ombudsman