DRN-3253463
The complaint
Mr G complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) failed to refund £3,000 he lost to a 
scammer posing as a binary options trader. 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons: 
It is not in dispute that Mr G authorised the following payments made to XtraderFX: 
£1,000 on 12 November 2018; £500 on 15 November 2018; £1,500 on 
16 November 2018. However, regulated firms ought reasonably to have taken notice 
of common types of scams and have paid attention to warnings issued by the 
regulator so as to prevent customers from falling victim to fraud. It is not 
unreasonable in my view to expect an international bank to update its watch-list and 
communicate internally to staff within, say, one month of an alert being posted by the 
FCA or IOSCO. Such alerts should automatically trigger alarm-bellsand lead to the 
payment being pausedpending further enquiries (and a possible scam warning) to 
the payer.
In Mr Gs case, warnings were placed about XtraderFX on the FCAs warning list on 
6 July 2018, which was more than a month before the first payment on 12 November 
2018. This warning was also placed on the International Organisation of Securities 
Commissions (IOSCO) website on 16 July 2018. 
Its not unreasonable to expect a large international bank that regularly updates its 
internal alerts to include information about payees who had tried to carry out 
regulated activities without permission. I accept the warning did not specifically relate 
to binary-options trading; and it did not necessarily follow from the nature of the 
warning in isolation that these were fraudsters. But given the timing of the alert 
relative to the first payment, I think Lloyds ought to have automatically blocked it; as it 
had a fair chance to update and communicate its watch-list between the warning 
being published and the payment being made. The bank had constructive if not 
actual notice that the payee might not be a legitimate merchant. Therefore, it would 
have been reasonable for it to have properly questioned Mr G before processing all 
three of his payments in order to satisfy itself that all was well.
If Lloyds had contacted Mr G to ask suitably probing questions about the nature of 
the payments, theres nothing to suggest that he would not have been forthcoming 
about what he was doing. It could have asked him whether he had checked if 
XtraderFX was registered with the FCA, which would have led him to discover that it 
wasnt authorised. Lloyds could have also warned Mr G about the high risks 
associated with binary options trading and also the not insignificant risk of falling 
victim to a scam through fraudulent traders. 
Im satisfied that Lloyds ought reasonably to have provided a scam warning in light of 
all the information then known to financial professionals about the risks associated 
with unregulated binary options. If it had given such a warning, I think its likely Mr G 
would have paused and looked further into XtraderFXs credentials before 
proceeding, where he would have discovered the warnings published about the 
trader. Ive seen nothing to suggest he would have ignored any such warnings and 
was set on placing the trade no matter what the risks were. And Im satisfied that a 
timely warning from his trusted bank would have probably exposed XtraderFXs false 
pretenses, causing him to stop trading and thereby preventing his losses. I also do 
not consider that Mr G was to blame for the payments he made to XtraderFX, as Im 
not persuaded he would have foreseen the risk of this sort of financial harm. So I 
dont think it would be fair to reduce compensation on the basis that Mr G should 
share blame for what happened.
As I think the Lloyds ought to have blocked all of the transactions, I dont need to 
conclude whether or not the bank did enough to attempt or pursue chargeback 
claims for Mr Gs payments. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Lloyds Bank PLC to   
Refund Mr G all the stolen payments totalling £3,000. As this was a current account, 
Lloyds should add interest to that sum (less any tax properly deductible) at 8% 
simple interest per year from the respective dates of loss to the date of refund.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2022.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman