DRN-3649646
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that TSB Bank plc closed their bank accounts. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs M held accounts with TSB for many years. The bank says that, in December 
2021, it tried to contact them in order to check that the details it held for them were up to 
date and, if necessary, to amend them. It was unable to contact them by telephone and so 
wrote to them. It did not receive a reply.
Mr and Mrs M say that they received phone calls and letters, but did not believe they were 
genuine. They thought they had been targeted by scammers, so did not respond or provide 
any details. Mrs M says she contacted her branch to check that the contacts had not come 
from TSB, and was reassured that was the case.
In January 2022 Mr and Mrs M received a letter saying that their accounts would be closed 
two months later, on 7 March 2022. Again, they did not believe the letter was genuine and so 
did not make any alternative banking arrangements, as the letter invited them to do.
In March 2022 TSB closed the accounts and sent Mr and Mrs M a cheque for the account 
balance. They have since opened an account elsewhere but say they were left without 
access to funds for a while. 
TSB said it did nothing wrong. It said that regulatory requirements meant it was required to 
ensure the information it held about Mr and Mrs M was up to date. When it was unable to 
verify that information, it was within its rights to close their accounts. It gave proper notice of 
its intention to do so. Nevertheless, it offered £150 in recognition of the inconvenience Mr 
and Mrs M suffered. 
Mr and Mrs M referred the matter to this service, where one of our investigators considered 
what had happened. She thought however that TSB had handled matters fairly and did not 
recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mr and Mrs M did not accept the investigators 
assessment and asked that an ombudsman review the complaint.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Banks are generally entitled to decide, as a matter of their own commercial judgment, 
whether or not to provide or to continue to provide banking facilities to any particular 
customer. They are also required by regulators to make sure that information they hold 
about customers is up to date and accurate. Sometimes, that will mean checking information 
they hold  even where that information has not changed for many years, as appears to be 
the case here.
I am satisfied therefore that TSB was withing its rights both to ask for updated information 
and, when it was not provided, to give notice of closure of the accounts. 
A bank should give reasonable notice before closing an account. What is reasonable 
depends on the circumstances, but two months is usually sufficient for an individual or joint 
account. That was what the account terms provided for in this case, and it was also the 
notice period given. I think it was reasonable to tell Mr and Mrs M in January that the 
accounts would be closed in March. 
Mrs M says however that she spoke with the branch manager and was given some 
assurance that there was no need to respond to the questions she and Mr M had been 
asked. TSBs notes say however that the manager recalled speaking to Mrs M. She said that 
she had received a call from someone claiming to be from TSB and asking for personal 
information, which she had not provided. He said that he would have checked if there was 
any fraud block on the account and, if there wasnt, would have said she was right not to 
disclose information. 
The two accounts of that call are not, in my view, inconsistent. There is no doubt that a call 
took place and that, as a result, Mrs M was satisfied that she had  as she suspected  been 
targeted by a fraudster. However, the reason she called was that she already believed that 
the call had not been from TSB. To some degree, therefore, she had already formed a view 
about the call. And it is not clear either that there was any discussion about the letters Mr 
and Mrs M had received. I do not believe that there can have been any meaningful 
discussion about them in any event, since the manager had not seen them. 
It might have been more helpful if the manager had said that TSB might in some 
circumstances need to check personal information, although I am not persuaded that would 
have made any difference here. 
In addition, there is no suggestion that, when they received the letter giving notice of closure 
of their accounts, Mr and Mrs M did anything to check its authenticity. They decided for 
themselves that it was not genuine and took no action. I do not believe that I can fairly hold 
TSB responsible for that decision.               
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not require TSB Bank plc to do anything 
more to resolve Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 November 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman