DRN-3154844
The complaint
Miss B and Mr B complain that HSBC UK Bank PLC treated them unfairly when they were
applying for a mortgage on their first property. They say that HSBC ignored the information
they provided to the bank about the short term that remained on this leasehold property and
then issued a mortgage offer which it subsequently withdrew when their solicitor confirmed
the term of the lease.
What happened
Miss B and Mr B saw a property that they liked and went to a broker who recommended a
mortgage with HSBC. Miss B and Mr B paid a deposit of £1,500 for the property on 23
October 2020. The property was leasehold and, on the application form to HSBC dated the
23 November 2020, the broker stated that the leasehold term was 99 years and the
remaining term was 52 years. During the course of this process the remaining term went
from 52 to 51 years. HSBC instructed a valuer but, on the instructions, stated that the
remaining term was 85 years. The valuer approved the property as good for HSBCs security
and, HSBC issued a full mortgage offer on 14 December 2020 which Miss B and Mr B
accepted and instructed solicitors.
But, later, on inspecting the deeds their solicitor noted that the remaining term was 51 years
and the solicitor wrote to HSBC on 27 January 2021 and asked the bank if they were content
with that. HSBC asked its valuer to comment and with this information the valuer wouldnt
approve the property as good security for the HSBC loan. HSBC withdrew its offer and Miss
B and Mr B were unable to complete this purchase. Miss B and Mr B lost their deposit of
£1,500 on the property. They would also like to recover their legal and brokers fees.
our investigators view
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld as he felt that in
applying for a mortgage, HSBC made clear that the application can be referred back to a
valuer at any time. Miss B and Mr B disagreed and asked for a review.
my provisional decision
I considered the matter and disagreed with the view of our investigator. So, I issued a 
Provisional Decision as follows:
Miss B and Mr B on their application form told HSBC the remaining term of years on this
lease but HSBC told the valuer something different. Its clear that if HSBC had told the valuer
what Miss B and Mr B had told them that no mortgage offer would have issued. I understand
the banks position as set out in its final response is that the term of years in the application
is only to determine if the term is more than 30 years and, so, if the bank could possibly lend
on it - subject to the valuer approving it. As the borrowers dont inspect the legal title, the
information provided may be inaccurate and can only be confirmed by the solicitor inspecting
the deeds. I understand that, but in this case the borrowers were bringing to HSBCs
attention an obvious problem that HSBC ignored. The borrowers told HSBC that this was a
short lease which I see is defined in HSBCs instructions to valuers as less than 85 years.
But HSBC didnt tell its valuer that but instructed the valuer to inspect the property as a
property with at least 85 years to run - contrary to the information in its possession. This
instruction is contrary to its terms of instructions to valuers which says enter term advised or
assume a minimum 85 years if not known I would have thought that even on its own
instruction it should have entered the date advised of 52 years.
In the event a mortgage offer was issued, Miss B and Mr B instructed a solicitor but were
then told the mortgage was being withdrawn because their solicitor confirmed to HSBC the
information that they had already provided to HSBC but which the bank chose to ignore. I
consider HSBCs actions unfair and I intend to uphold this complaint. In my view HSBC
should have passed on to its valuer the lease term advised to it by the borrowers. If that had
happened the valuer would have told HSBC that the property wasnt good security for their
loan and the mortgage offer wouldnt have issued in the first place.
Miss B and Mr B say they suffered a financial loss and asked me to consider the lost deposit
of £1,500 that they paid for the property, the brokers fee of £250 and the solicitors
instruction fee of £380. Im satisfied from information provided to me by Miss B and Mr B that
these fees were paid.
My view is that Miss B and Mr B were entitled to recover any costs or expenses they
incurred as a result of HSBC issuing the mortgage offer. Miss B and Mr B paid a deposit of
£1,500 on the property. The invoice for that is dated 23 October 2020 and the £1,500 was
paid on that date. The deposit was forfeited if the purchase didnt complete by 21 December
2020.This deposit was paid, and the contract entered into long before the mortgage offer
issued in December. HSBCs failure to instruct the valuer correctly didnt lead to this loss. If
HSBC had instructed the valuer correctly; the mortgage would have been refused and this
deposit lost in any case So, I cant fairly require HSBC to pay that.
The terms of the broker agreement were that it became payable if a mortgage offer issued.
The offer issued, Miss B and Mr B paid the brokers fee on 18 December 2020. Miss B and
Mr B should be reimbursed that fee.
Miss B and Mr B paid their solicitor £380 on18 December on account and I assume the
solicitor started work on their behalf thereafter. In order to confirm the fee, Ive asked Miss B
and Mr B to provide me with an invoice from the solicitor, but Ive got none to date. Im aware
that solicitors will accept payments on account but dont take a bill as payment without
issuing an invoice. If Miss B and Mr B provide me with an invoice for this £380 from the
solicitors, I shall require HSBC to reimburse it.
Apart from the financial expense, Miss B and Mr B will have encountered an amount of
distress and inconvenience. They were first time buyers whose hopes were built up when
getting a mortgage offer just before Christmas to be dashed in February as a result of
HSBCs error. Ive read Miss Bs comments as to how it affected them. In the circumstances
I consider an award of £500 is fair. So, subject to any further submissions or evidence I
receive from Miss B and Mr B my intention is to uphold this complaint and to require HSBC
to pay compensation of £500 and reimburse them the brokers fee of £250 and the solicitors
fee of £380 subject to the production of an invoice for that amount
Both Miss B and Mr B and HSBC responded to my provisional findings which Ive 
summarised below.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.HSBC makes the point in its response that in most cases the purchasers wont know the 
remaining term on the lease and sometimes when they believe they do they may be wrong. 
Therefore, it leaves it to the conveyancer to confirm. But I then question why would it include 
this question on the application? Clearly, its there because it assumes that in some cases 
the purchaser will know. In this case I assume he broker was told by the selling agent. Given 
that there was a short term remaining, there may well have been an issue with the sale of 
the property and the agent was alerting the purchaser to it who in turn alerted the bank. I 
dont consider it fair that the purchaser having alerted the bank to the issue that the bank 
then chose not to pass that information on to the valuer. If this information been passed to 
the valuer at the start, a mortgage offer wouldnt have issued, and Miss B and Mr B would 
have been saved the consequent distress and inconvenience and any resulting cost. So, Im 
still of the view as set out in my provisional decision to uphold this complaint.
Im also of the view that the compensation suggested in my provisional decision is fair for the 
reasons set out there. Mr and Mrs B should be refunded their costs incurred because HSBC 
issued a mortgage offer in error.  One issue remaining is that I said I required a solicitors 
invoice to confirm that when Miss B made a payment of £380 to her solicitors in December 
2020 that payment was for the aborted purchase of the property. Miss B has shown me that 
a payment was made on 18 December 2020 and received by her solicitors and I 
acknowledged that payment was made in my provisional decision. But thats not an invoice 
or confirmation that the money was used for the aborted purchase. Ive simply nothing to 
confirm what that money was spent on. I continued to ask for an invoice. Miss B replied to 
say that solicitors dont issue invoices for payments received. Her solicitors in 
correspondence refer to an invoice but I havent seen it. Miss B says that the £380 was used 
for payment to third parties for searches and disbursements but Ive no confirmation of that 
from the solicitors. 
I note that in her email of 15 November 2021 Miss B says that its misleading of me to say 
that I was satisfied with the fact that the fees were paid but then to ask for receipt/invoices. 
The issue here is simple. Its clear that the solicitors got £380 on account. Its not clear what 
the money was used for. If it was used for fees or costs on the aborted purchase of this 
property after the mortgage offer issued it should be refunded to Miss B and Mr B. But I 
require evidence of that. That could be solved by either an invoice from the solicitors or a 
statement of account from the solicitors indicating how the £380 was spent. I note that Miss 
B has recent emails from the solicitors so I expect that information could be produced fairly 
promptly and certainly within three weeks. In order to move on I will make an order for 
payment of that sum of £380 if I receive evidence from Miss B and Mr Bs solicitors to my 
satisfaction by 10 December 2021 that the £380 received by them was used for fees, 
expenses or costs in the aborted purchase of the property that was to be mortgaged by 
HSBC after the issue of the mortgage offer on 14 December 2020.  
     
Putting things right
HSBC UK Plc should pay Miss B and Mr B:
1. £500 for their distress and inconvenience
2. Reimburse the brokers fee of £250 together with interest at 8% pa from 18 December 
2020 to date of payment.
3. Subject to confirmation from me that I am satisfied that the evidence supports that 
£380 was used by Miss B and Mr Bs solicitors for fees, expenses or payments 
related to the aborted purchase after the issue of the mortgage offer, it should reimburse those fees together with interest at 8% pa from 18 December 2020 to date 
of payment 
My final decision:
I uphold this complaint and order HSBC UK PLC to pay the compensation set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 December 2021.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman