DRN-1665887
The complaint
Mr W's complaint is about spread bets he placed on 26 May 2019 in his Sporting Index 
Limited ('SIL') account. On the same date and prior to the underlying event (of the spread 
bets) taking place SIL gave him notice that his bets had been voided because there was a 
manifest error in the relevant spreads. Mr W disputes the alleged error and claims 
compensation for lost profit (from the spread bets).
What happened
SIL disputes the complaint. Its initial notice to Mr W referred to the spread on which Mr W's 
bets were placed as being inconsistent with the market at the time. Thereafter, and in 
response to his complaint, SIL explained further that the market had been made available for 
trading prematurely, before its market/price creation process had been completed; that the 
process first used a default price/spread which should then have been updated to properly 
reflect the market before being made available for trading; and that in Mr W's case the 
market had been made available for trading on the basis of the default price/spread, before 
the updating had been carried out.
Mr W disagrees and says his analysis of the underlying event at the time (and since) showed 
that the spread was broadly fair and accurate and that SIL only voided his bets because it 
had been influenced to do so by the price/spread of a competitor firm.
SIL provided this service with a copy of an internal email as evidence of internal 
communication which identified the price/spread creation error on 26 May 2019. It also refers 
to the terms for Mr W's account in which specific provisions address what constitutes a 
manifest price error and what SIL can do in response to such an error.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and concluded that it should not be 
upheld, for broadly the same reasons as those given by SIL. Mr W disagreed with this 
outcome and asked for a decision on the matter. He said SIL's present explanation was not 
mentioned to him at the time of the event and that it retained and continued to trade on the 
relevant price/spread online until the competitor firm issued its prices, then it sought to adjust 
its prices accordingly. He argues that if there had been a manifest error in pricing SIL would 
have suspended the market as soon as his bets were placed.
The matter was referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms for Mr W's account provide that a "... Manifest Pricing Error is a price quoted ... 
that, by reason of technical failure and/or malfunction and/or human error and/or oversight is 
materially different from the price that, but for the [error] ... [SIL] would have quoted ... in the 
ordinary course of [its] business" and that a material difference "... is equivalent to more than 
two times the normal Spread ... in relation to the Market in question ...".The terms also provide that in response to a manifest pricing error SIL is entitled to void bets 
based upon such an error. In Mr W's case, it did so - reasonably - before the underlying 
event took place and I have not seen evidence to support his argument that it ought to have 
done so at the same time as his bets were placed.
I note Mr W's doubt about SIL's claim of identifying a manifest pricing error related to his 
bets. However, I am satisfied with evidence of SIL's internal email - dated on the same date 
of his bets and timed around the same time of his bets - which expressly refers to the same 
underlying event and to the price/spread error.
I accept that there was a manifest pricing error related to Mr W's bets. I appreciate that 
SIL did not initially, on the date of the complaint event, give Mr W the fuller explanation it 
later provided but I do not accept any suggestion that its reasons are conflicted. Its initial 
reference to inconsistency with the market was in the context of the incomplete price/spread 
creation process, which it subsequently explained.
There is evidence that the spread Mr W placed his bets on was 0.9 - 1.20, whereas the 
correct spreads should have been 2.90 - 3.20 and 2.80 - 3.10. I have not ignored his 
argument that the spread on which his bets was based was fair and accurate, however it is 
an argument that does not appear to be supported by the balance of wider evidence.
Furthermore, and notably, SIL's position is not that it concluded a market price/spread and 
then had to amend it. Its position - supported by the email evidence I have mentioned - is 
that it had yet to conclude a market price/spread when the market (and default price/spread) 
was prematurely made available for trading. The technical failure and/or human 
error and/or oversight that caused this would have been captured in the definition of manifest 
pricing error quoted above. The difference between the prices/spreads was enough to make 
it a material  difference and the terms for Mr W's account entitled SIL to void his bets - due to 
the manifest pricing error and the material difference - as it did.
Overall and on balance, I do not consider that Mr W's complaint is supported by the balance 
of available evidence.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr W's complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 May 2020
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman