The complaint
Mr F is unhappy Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) wouldnt give him a 
money transfer offer on his credit card account when he asked for one.
What happened
Mr F has a credit card account with Barclays. He says he called Barclays in October 2019 to 
ask if he could have a money transfer offer but was told it had no offers for him at the 
moment.
Mr F thought this was unfair. He says hes managed his account well and has a very good 
credit record. He thought Barclays might not be providing him with offers because of his age, 
as he says it hadnt given him any offers since he turned 65.
So Mr F complained to Barclays, but it didnt uphold his complaint. In its final response, 
Barclays said its promotional offers werent guaranteed but were instead an additional 
feature of Mr Fs credit card account. It said it made offers sporadically to selected eligible 
accounts, and that Mr F could contact Barclays at any time to see what offers were available 
to him. And it said it did offer promotions to customers over 65 years of age.
Mr F remained unhappy so he asked our service to investigate. After looking into things, our 
investigator thought Barclays hadnt done anything wrong. She said Mr Fs account records 
showed he was currently eligible to receive promotional offers, but none were available at 
the moment. She said shed seen nothing to suggest Mr F wasnt receiving offers because of 
his age and that Barclays wasnt obliged to provide offers to Mr F whenever he wanted one.
Mr F disagreed as he still thought Barclays wasnt giving him offers because of his age. He 
said another lender gives him offers very regularly and he didnt trust what Barclays had told 
our service. Mr F said he thought Barclays saw customers over 65 as a bigger lending risk, 
and wanted Barclays to provide confirmation it gives money transfer offers to people over  
65 years old - our investigator arranged this.
Mr F also wanted his case to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so its been passed to me to 
make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im not upholding it.
DRN-1298425Ive seen that theres nothing in the terms and conditions of Mr Fs account that obliges 
Barclays to provide him with promotional offers. The terms only say We may also offer you 
promotions on your account, which might result in different interest rates on your 
promotional balance.
Therefore promotional offers, such as money transfers, are something Barclays can choose 
to offer Mr F at its discretion  they are not an entitlement. Whether and when it makes these 
offers will depend on a number of factors, not just how well Mr F has managed his account.
Im satisfied Barclays currently has Mr F recorded as eligible to receive promotional offers, 
as I've seen the account records to support this. Its unfortunate that Barclays doesnt have 
any offers for Mr F at the moment but as Ive said, its not obliged to provide him with offers.
I know Mr F thinks this is because of his age. But theres nothing in the evidence Ive been 
provided with to suggest this is anything to do with his age. And Barclays has twice 
confirmed it does offer promotions to customers over the age of 65.
Mr F has said another credit card lender regularly gives him promotional offers. That may be 
so, but the lender Mr F mentioned is a separate business to Barclays and so Barclays wont 
necessarily make offers in the same way or with the same frequency.
I know Mr F feels strongly about this but Im satisfied Barclays didnt treat Mr F unfairly when 
it wouldnt give him the money transfer offer he asked for in October 2019. So Im not asking 
it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 January 2020.
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman