DRN-4053456
The complaint
Mr E complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
MotoNovo Finance Limited (who Ill call MotoNovo).
What happened
Mr E has been represented at times by Ms L, but as the finance agreement is in Mr Es 
name I will refer only to him in this decision. I mean no disrespect to Ms L when doing so.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr E, but I dont think theres sufficient information to suggest this car 
was supplied in an unsatisfactory condition and Im therefore not asking MotoNovo to take 
any action. Ill explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr E acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation. It says that the car should have 
been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then MotoNovo, who are also the 
supplier of the car, are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is 
satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory 
taking into account any description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant 
circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr E. The car here was five 
years and nine months old and had already completed about 71,000 miles. So, Id expect it 
not to be in perfect condition as would perhaps be the case with a brand new car; I think its 
likely there would be some wear and tear present.
Mr E took receipt of the car in December 2021 and contacted MotoNovo in May 2022 to 
explain he was having problems; the car was overheating, losing power, and going into limp 
mode. As Mr E hadnt had the car for long it may have been a fair assumption that the 
problems he was experiencing were present or developing at the point the car was supplied 
to him; the point at which MotoNovo were responsible for the quality of the car.
MotoNovo therefore commissioned an independent inspection to confirm if that was likely. 
The inspector was eventually told that there had been previous electrical repairs (it seems to 
the ECU, although neither Mr E nor the dealership have been able to provide the job cards) 
and his final opinion was:
the vehicle has never had any faults repaired to the cooling system since purchase and 
that the previous repairs to the vehicle were to the ECU unit only.
With this in mind it is clear that the vehicle has not been subject to unsuccessful repairs and 
due to the distance, of which the vehicle has covered, we do consider that the fault would 
not have been present or in development at the point of vehicle sale. We would envisage a 
fault of this nature would realistically present itself when the 1,000 to 1,500 miles of current 
client ownership.
Conclude we do not consider the vehicle to have been subject to unsuccessful repairs nor 
do we consider the faults to have been present or in development at the point of finance 
inception and subsequently the selling agent does not have any responsibility in this matter.
Subsequent inspections show the cylinder head gasket has failed and the car will need a full 
carbon clean.
The independent inspector is an expert on these issues. He didnt feel the previous repairs 
could fairly be related to the overheating problem and he thought the overheating problem 
would have presented itself within Mr Es ownership and couldnt therefore be considered to 
be developing when the car was supplied. The AA inspection completed on the car around 
the time of sale didnt identify any issues with the car overheating, and it explains there was 
no exhaust smoke or leaks. There was also no evidence of overheating or leaks noted in the 
MOT completed before the car was supplied. Ive not seen any evidence that would suggest 
otherwise, and Im therefore not persuaded this car was of unsatisfactory quality or that 
MotoNovo are responsible for repairing it.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman