DRN-3829459
The complaint
Mr I is unhappy that Domestic & General Insurance PLC (D&G) declined his claim under his 
appliance protection policy.
What happened
Mr I took out appliance protection cover for his vacuum cleaner. Two weeks later, he claimed 
under the policy because his vacuum cleaner stopped working. D&G arranged a repair visit, 
and its engineer deemed the vacuum beyond economical repair (BER). Mr I was, therefore, 
expecting a replacement vacuum cleaner in line with the terms of the policy.
From here, there were several calls between Mr I and D&G during which he chased 
progress of the claim, and then raised a complaint. D&G gave differing reasons for not 
replacing the vacuum cleaner, including that the policy had been cancelled and it was 
waiting for a report. However, D&G then explained that because Mr I made the claim so 
soon after policy inception, it wanted evidence of purchase. D&G also pointed out that the 
vacuum cleaner shouldve still been covered under the manufacturers warranty.
Mr I complained. He said during the sales call hed told the agent the vacuum cleaner was a 
gift, so he didnt have a receipt. However, D&G said it listened to the sales call and Mr I told 
the agent he had the invoice, but he just didnt know where it was.
On 16 June, D&G sent its final response letter, in which it said that without evidence of 
purchase the claim was declined. So, Mr I brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator said D&G had declined the claim fairly for the reasons it gave. She agreed 
with D&G that Mr I hadnt said he didnt have the invoice, so our investigator didnt uphold Mr 
Is complaint.
Mr I didnt agree. He said he clearly told D&G that the vacuum cleaner was a gift so his claim 
should be fully covered. Mr I said D&G was simply trying to get out of replacing his vacuum 
cleaner.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise Mr I will be disappointed, Ive decided not to uphold his complaint. Ill explain 
why.
The overriding issue is that Mr I doesnt think its fair that D&G declined his claim because he 
couldnt provide proof of purchase. The reason he cant provide evidence is that the vacuum 
cleaner was a gift to him.
D&G said Mr I told its agent that he had an invoice but just didnt know where it was. In its 
final response to Mr I, D&G said it wanted the receipt so it could validate the claim.
Having considered the evidence, Ive decided that it was reasonable for D&G to ask Mr I for 
proof of purchase. The evidence Ive relied on is as follows:
In the policy sale call, I heard Mr I ask if D&G needed the invoice.
He told D&G he had the invoice, but he just didnt know where it was.
In the same call, Mr I said the vacuum cleaner was about two years old, then he said 
a year and a half, followed by confirmation that the vacuum cleaner would be a year 
old on 15 May. The sales call was on the 12 May.
During the sales call  which was for the vacuum cleaner and a cooker - Mr I also 
enquired about what would happen if, for example, the vacuum cleaner stopped 
working.
The reasons I think it was fair for D&G to ask for proof of purchase, which it explained to Mr I 
in the claim calls, are as follows:
D&G wasn't sure whether the vacuum cleaner might still have been covered under 
the manufacturer warranty for breakdown at the time Mr I made his claim.
D&G said the extensive nature of the damage, such that the vacuum cleaner was 
BER, indicated there was a fault at the time Mr I bought his policy.
Theres no dispute that the vacuum cleaner was broken beyond repair, but I think its 
reasonable that D&G wanted evidence of purchase so it could determine responsibility for 
the repair or replacement. 
For that reason, I see no reason to ask D&G to settle the claim.
If Mr I can obtain evidence of purchase, he may wish to provide that to D&G so it can 
consider his claim.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2023.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman