DRN-3138567
The complaint
Mr D has complained that UK Credit Limited (UK Credit) provided him with two 
unaffordable loans.
  
What happened
 UK Credit provided Mr D with two unsecured guarantor loans. The details are as follows:
Number Date taken Amount term Monthly repayment
1 09/05/2017 £6500 36 months £290.55
2 17/04/2019 £4838 48 months £185.78
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in September 2021. Both parties have 
received a copy of that provisional decision, but for completeness I include an extract from 
the decision below. I said;
Were the checks that UK Credit carried out for loan 1 proportionate? And did it make a fair 
lending decision?
UK credit says it conducted a telephone call with Mr D and asked him questions about his 
income and expenditure. It says it then verified his income using payslips and carried out a 
credit search. 
I can see that it assessed the loan as affordable based on its checks. I have looked through 
the credit search results and can see very little recorded other than a couple of credit card 
accounts and 3 current accounts. There are small balances. There isnt any impaired credit 
history. I think when I look at what UK Credit gathered and consider this alongside the fact 
that this was the first loan that Mr D had taken out with it, I think the checks it carried out in 
this instance were, on balance, proportionate and reasonable. I am also currently minded to 
conclude it then went on to make a fair lending decision based on what it had in front of it. 
Were the checks that UK Credit carried out for loan 2 reasonable and proportionate?
I can see from the documents UK Credit have submitted for the second loan, that it again 
verified Mr Ds income by asking his for payslips. It also asked Mr D about his expenses and 
used a credit search to check for his credit commitments. It says after it did this, it worked 
out that Mr D had enough disposable income to afford the repayments for loan 2 also. 
Ive carefully considered what UK Credit has said and on the surface of it, it had assessed 
Mr D to have enough of his monthly wages left over as disposable income to be able to 
afford the loan. But like our investigator, this assessment for me didnt correlate with what 
UK Credit would have seen in the credit search that it carried out. 
There was a significant increase in the amount of unsecured lending that Mr D had taken out 
from when he had taken out loan 1 to him asking for loan 2. His outstanding credit 
commitments had increased substantially from several hundred pounds to over £15,000. Mr 
D had 2 loan accounts (albeit one was with it), 5 credit card accounts and debt from his 3 
bank accounts. I think this ought to have given UK Credit concerns about Mr Ds finances, at 
least enough that it wouldve wanted to conduct more in depth checks to assure itself that he 
could sustainably repay the second loan over the extended terms. In addition, I can see that 
UK Credit entered into a payment arrangement with Mr D on loan 1. Although I acknowledge 
what UK Credit has said about this (that the arrangement had finished and reason given for 
this was plausible), I still think that Mr D didnt keep his contractual repayment amounts for 
loan 1 and so I think Credit UK ought to have also considered this when it received the 
application for loan 2 from him. 
When I think about what I have just concluded and also the amount Mr D was refinancing, 
the total cost and length of the loan (4 years), I think UK Credit should have carried out a 
complete review of his finances to see whether the loan repayments were sustainable over 
the life of the loan, this would include verifying his expenditure in more detail.  
As I cant see that this UK Credit did do this, I dont think that the checks it carried out before 
providing Mr D with his loan were reasonable and proportionate.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have indicated to UK Credit that Mr D would 
have been unable to repay loan 2?
As reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out before this loan was provided, I 
cant say for sure what they wouldve shown. So, I need to decide whether it is more likely 
than not that a proportionate check would have told UK Credit that Mr D would have been 
unable to sustainably repay loan 2.
Mr D has provided bank statements to our service from a short period of time leading up to 
when the loan was granted, and Ive carefully considered the information provided. Having 
looked through these statements, I can see that Mr D was repaying two short term lenders 
on a monthly basis (there were regular payments made to them both on 14/03 and 15/04) 
and then there is a £600 payment made into Mr Ds account on 25/03 from a third short term 
lender. The bank statements show that Mr D had 3 outstanding short-term loans as well as 
the credit commitments shown on the credit search and loan 1 from UK Credit. 
When I scrutinise the statements further, I can see that Mr D needed the short-term loans to 
meet his monthly expenditure. I am currently minded to conclude, after seeing this, that Mr D 
was reliant on short term lending to fill a gap in his finances. 
Bearing all this in mind, Im currently minded to conclude that reasonable and proportionate 
checks would more likely than not have shown UK Credit that Mr D would not have been 
able to repay this loan in a sustainable manner. The information he has provided shows he 
was having problems managing his finances and in particular that he had 3 outstanding 
short-term loans at the time he applied for his second loan with it. The spend on his 
statements also suggest he was using short term credit to bridge a gap in his finances. On 
balance, I think it would have become apparent to UK Credit that the loan repayments 
wouldnt have been sustainable over the life time of the loan. So, Im satisfied that its failure 
to carry out proportionate checks resulted in it unfairly providing loan 2 to Mr D.
So, it follows that UK Credit needs to put things right.
I asked both parties to let me have any comments, or additional evidence, in response to 
my provisional decision. Mr D responded and said he agrees with the provisional 
decision. UK Credit also responded and said it did not wish to add any final points. 
 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Both parties have not made any new points for me to respond to. So, as neither party has 
anything further to add that I feel I need to comment on or that will change the outcome of 
this complaint, I dont see any reason to depart from my findings within my provisional 
decision. With that being the case, I uphold Mr Ds complaint.  
 
Putting things right
  Having thought about everything, I think it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Ds complaint for UK Credit to put things right by:
removing all interest, fees and charges applied to loan 2 from the outset. The 
payments Mr D made, direct to UK Credit and any third-parties, should be deducted 
from the new starting balance  the £4,838 originally lent. 
If there is a balance still to be repaid, then UK Credit will need to exercise 
forbearance and arrange an affordable repayment plan with Mr D.
If Mr D has already repaid more than £4,838 then UK Credit should treat any extra as 
overpayments. And any overpayments should be refunded to Mr D;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments, if any, from the date 
they were made by Mr D to the date of settlement
 HM Revenue & Customs requires UK Credit to take off tax from this interest. UK Credit 
must give Mr D a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ds complaint and direct UK Credit Limited to put things 
right as described above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman