DRN-3907009
The complaint
Mr G and Ms S complain about how AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) handled a claim under 
their home insurance policy for damage to contents of their property from an escape of water 
from a neighbouring property.
References to AXA include their agents who handle claims.
What happened
In April 2022 Mr G and Ms S discovered a leak affecting a bedroom of their property (a flat in 
a block). The leak came from the flat above. They contacted the letting agency for the flat 
above, who arranged for a plumber to visit. The plumber identified a defective water pipe in 
the flat, which they fixed. The leak had left the carpet and underlay saturated, as well as 
damage to the furniture and other items in the bedroom. Because of the condition of the 
carpet and underlay, Mr G and Ms S disposed of them (being a flat, there was nowhere for 
them to be stored). Similarly, they also disposed of other items damaged by the leak.
Mr G and Ms S contacted AXA (through their broker, in June 2022) to tell them about the 
leak and lodge a claim for damage to the carpet and contents of the affected bedroom. AXA 
asked for proof of purchase of the items, a plumbers report about the leak and confirmation 
of where the damaged items were located (so they could validate them and the damage). 
However, because Mr G and Ms S had disposed of the damaged contents, AXA said this 
(together with the delay in notifying the incident) meant they werent able to validate the 
damage (and whether any of the items were potentially restorable) and assess the claim. So, 
AXA considered Mr G and Ms S had compromised their claim. AXA said that, as they 
couldnt validate the claim, they were declining it.
Unhappy at the decline of their claim, Mr G and Ms S complained to AXA But AXA didnt 
uphold the complaint, confirming their decision to decline the claim. AXA noted theyd asked 
for a plumber report, proof of ownership and where the damaged items were. While Mr G 
and Mr S had provided a plumbers report  and some proof of purchase for items, AXA said 
the policy terms and conditions required damaged items not to be disposed of, so AXA could 
validate them. However, AXA recognised delay in their considering Mr G and Ms Ss 
complaint, awarding £25 in compensation.
Mr G and Ms S then complained to this service. They said theyd only disposed of items due 
to their [saturated] condition and being unable to store them in the flat. Theyd also provided 
photographs of the undamaged items prior to the incident, along with other proofs of 
purchase and evidence theyd provided to AXA. They considered the leak causing the 
damage was outside their control and theyd acted reasonably in disposing of items that 
were unsanitary to retain. They wanted AXA to accept their claim and pay for replacement of 
the damaged contents.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, concluding AXA didnt need to take any further 
action. He thought Mr G and Ms S hadnt complied with the policy terms and conditions not 
to delay notification of a claim or to dispose of damaged items, so compromising their claim. 
Had the claim been notified sooner, he thought it likely AXA would have been able to 
validate the claim. 
Mr G and Ms S disagreed with the investigators conclusions and asked that an ombudsman 
review the complaint. They said it had been established there was a leak from the flat above 
their property and there was evidence of the leak and the damage caused. They had also 
provided receipts for half the items damaged and a photograph of the bedroom (including 
the contents) before the incident. On the time taken to notify the incident and lodge a claim 
with AXA, they believed the cost of the damage would be met by the owner of the flat above 
but didnt receive confirmation from the owner (that their insurance policy wouldnt cover the 
damage) until early June 2022. They also felt AXA had acted unfairly in declining the claim in 
full, rather than accepting part of it or reducing the claim. And they had to act quickly to 
prevent further damage to their flat (from the damaged items). 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether AXA have acted fairly towards Mr G and Ms S.
In considering the complaint, the key issue is whether AXA acted fairly in applying the policy 
terms and conditions to decline the claim because Mr G and Ms S didnt comply with the 
requirement not to dispose of damaged items (so AXA didnt have the opportunity to validate 
them (or determine whether they were restorative). Mr G and Ms S say AXAs decline of 
their claim is unfair, on the grounds set out in their response to our investigators view.
Ive considered AXA and Mr G and Ms Ss views carefully, together with the evidence and 
information both have provided. Having done so, Ive concluded AXA have acted in line with 
the policy terms and conditions, and so havent acted unfairly or unreasonably. I know this 
will be disappointing to Mr G and Ms S, so Ill set out why Ive come to this conclusion.
Given AXAs grounds for declining the claim centre on the policy terms and conditions, Ive 
first looked at the policy requirement to retain damaged items for validation (referred to by 
AXA in their final response). The policy terms and conditions state the following, under the 
heading Claims Conditions and sub-heading What you must not do:
Dispose of damaged items as We may need to see them.
Theres also the following reference in the Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) 
under the heading What are my obligations and sub-heading If you make a claim:
You must provide us with all relevant information about the claim to assist us 
in validating it.
You should take steps to prevent further damage and not dispose of any 
damaged items or conduct permanent repairs as we may need to inspect the 
damage.
Both references make it clear damaged items should not be disposed of, as AXA may need 
to see or inspect them. As the IPID is a summary of the important features of the policy, I 
think its reasonable that Mr G and Ms S should have been aware of the policy requirements. 
So, Ive concluded AXA have acted in line with the policy terms and conditions in saying Mr 
G and Ms S havent complied with the requirement not to dispose of damaged items. Having come to this conclusion, Ive also considered Mr G and Ms Ss point that AXA have 
acted unfairly in declining their claim in full (rather than accepting it in part or reducing it). Ive 
thought about this in the specific circumstances of the case, but concluded AXA havent 
acted unreasonably, as the policy wording provides them with the option of declining a claim 
in full, or in part, or reducing a claim. As it appears none of the damaged items were retained 
(being disposed of before the claim was notified to AXA) then AXA didnt have the 
opportunity to validate any of the damaged items, to see if any of them were restorable. 
While I understand why Mr G and Ms S think this was harsh, I dont think AXA have acted in 
such a way as to be unreasonable, as the policy provides for them to determine whether to: 
accept a claim in full; in part; to reduce it; or to decline it in full.
While AXAs final response referred principally to the requirement not to dispose of damaged 
items, in their case notes (and exchanges with Mr G and Ms Ss broker) AXA also refer to 
the policy requirement not to delay notification of an incident (loss or damage). 
The same Claims Conditions section of the policy includes the following wording under the 
sub-heading You should always:
Contact Us by telephone on the Helpline shown in Your Schedule and the 
Important Telephone Numbers on page 5 of Your Policy. You should not 
delay notification of the claim to Us for any reason.
I think this requirement is clear about the need to notify an incident (loss/damage) as soon 
as a policyholder becomes aware of it. While I appreciate the point made by Mr G and Ms S 
that they thought the damage would be covered by the owner of the flat above (or their 
insurer) this wouldnt have precluded their contacting AXA when they first became aware of 
the leak and the damage. This would have enabled AXA to advise them how to proceed 
(including not disposing of any damaged items and/or taking photographs). 
On Mr G and Ms Ss other points in response to our investigators view, it isnt disputed there 
was a leak from the flat above that found its way into Mr G and Ms Ss flat, causing damage. 
But the issue here is whether AXA have acted fairly and reasonably in applying the policy 
terms and conditions (not to dispose of damaged items, or to delay notification of an 
incident, loss or damage). 
Taking all these points into account, Ive concluded AXA havent acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in applying the policy terms and conditions (not to dispose of damaged items, 
or to delay notification of an incident, loss or damage) to decline Mr G and Ms Ss claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision not to uphold Mr G and Ms Ss 
complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Ms S to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 March 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman