DRN-4370527
The complaint
Miss N has complained Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund her for online transactions she 
didnt make.
What happened
In February and March 2023 Miss N lost her mobile phone and got replacements. Her new 
mobile was registered to her Barclays account in March after her second phone loss.
Miss N was away for a weekend with friends in April. The following day, Miss N realised 
£4,205 was missing from her Barclays savings account and asked Barclays to refund her.
They wouldnt agree to do so. Their evidence showed a new payee had been set up and the 
payments were all made using her current mobile device.
Miss N brought her complaint to the ombudsman service. Our investigator reviewed the 
evidence but felt this showed Miss N authorised the payments. 
Miss N still disagreed and asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. She 
said shed not been previously aware that it was possible to make payments to another 
account from her savings account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The regulations which are relevant to Miss Ns complaint are the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (PSRs). These primarily require banks and financial institutions to refund 
customers if they didnt make or authorise payments themselves. Other factors do apply but 
nothing else specific in Miss Ns case other than those factors I mention below.
So to help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transactions, as well 
as what Barclays and Miss N have told us.
I believe the evidence shows Miss N authorised the online transactions. I say this because:
Four payments were made from Miss Ns Barclays savings account totalling £4,205. 
The first payment was for only £5 which suggests someone was being careful to 
ensure money was going to the right account. I think its less likely this would be the 
case if an unknown fraudster was making these transactions.
The audit records provided to our service by Barclays indicate the mobile device 
used was registered to Miss Ns account, had been used previously to access her 
account and was used subsequently. I can see other transactions which have not 
been disputed were made before 16 April on this device ID. Miss N has suggested 
this could have been her stolen mobile but the ID for the device shows this was the 
device Miss N registered in March 2023 after her second mobile was lost.
The IP address related to the disputed transactions mirror an IP address Miss N used 
both before and after these transactions.
Miss N has confirmed she had her mobile with her over the weekend these 
transactions were made.
Miss N has provided us with evidence of her subsequently being a victim of ID fraud 
with a false credit application made in her name. Luckily the credit provider was alert 
to this. She believes this shows the disputed transactions were also done by a 
fraudster but I dont believe this is the case. The ID fraud, however, may be linked to 
her missing phones. I find the evidence supplied by Barclays convincing.
Barclays did look into where the money had gone. I believe there was no money left 
in the recipient account other than a minimal amount.
I am always wary of believing the customer must have made the transaction in the absence 
of any other explanation, but in this case Ive been presented with no reason why this didnt 
happen. The evidence points to Miss N making and authorising these payments herself. 
Whether Miss N regretted making these payments, I dont know. However I wont be asking 
Barclays to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is not to uphold Miss Ns complaint against Barclays 
Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 December 2023.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman