DRN-4154407
The complaint
Mrs C complains that the Co-operative Bank Plc has not met its obligations in regard to two 
transactions she made on her debit card to get out of a Timeshare type agreement.
What happened
In November 2020 Mrs C was talking with a company who said it provided Timeshare 
Relinquishment services (which I will call Firm A). Mrs C says Firm A told her it could get 
her out of her timeshare type agreement that shed previously entered into and get her 
compensation. And that if it didnt do so within twelve months, shed get a full refund. So Mrs 
C paid Firm A the total of £6895 in payments in November 2020 using her Co-op debit card 
to make these transactions.
Mrs C then says she spoke to an associate business of Firm A and it said that Firm A wasnt 
providing services anymore. So she engaged a different firm to get her out of her timeshare. 
She then complained to Co-op saying Firm A was a scam. Co-op looked into the matter and 
decided it hadnt done anything wrong. So Mrs C brought her complaint here.
Our Investigator considered the matter and felt that Co-op hadnt treated Mrs C unfairly. But 
Mrs C didnt agree so this decision comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the transaction
Mrs C and her representatives dont contest that she made the transactions originally, or that 
they were applied incorrectly to her account. But a significant time after making the 
transactions she said that Firm A was a scam. So she says the transactions shouldnt have 
been allowed by Co-op because it was a scam.
Mrs C accepts that at the time Co-op contacted her about these transactions after they were 
initially made, and she told it they were transactions she wanted to make. And that as a 
result of that information from Mrs C Co-op then completed these transactions. Mrs Cs 
representatives have made many general arguments around this issue, some of which have 
some relevance, but it hasnt pointed to Co-op being on notice that Firm A wasnt a 
legitimate business at the time Mrs C made the transactions. Or that there was anything in 
these specific transactions that put Co-op on notice that there was something wrong with 
these particular transactions after it had checked with Mrs C that they were legitimate. And it 
is of note that Firm A was a registered company in the country which it was resident. Mrs Cs 
representatives have argued that the amount paid was out of keeping with Mrs Cs spending. 
But Ive considered this and considered Mrs Cs transaction record with the Co-op and can 
see a number of significant transactions some of which Co-op checked with her at the time 
for their legitimacy. I can also see Mrs C contacting Co-op about other unrelated 
transactions so clearly Mrs C had an active banking relationship with the Co-op including 
significantly sized transactions.
So all in all Ive considered the transactions themselves and Im satisfied Co-op didnt do 
anything wrong in processing them or allocating those amounts to her account as Mrs C 
instructed it to.
could Co-op challenge the transaction through a chargeback?
 
In certain circumstances, when a cardholder has a dispute about a transaction, as Mrs C 
does here, Co-op can attempt to go through the chargeback process. Chargeback isnt a 
right, but this service does consider it good practice to raise a chargeback, if within the time 
limits and there is a reasonable prospect of success. I dont think Co-op couldve challenged 
the payments on the basis Mrs C didnt properly authorise the transactions, given what Ive 
already set out.
Within the card scheme rules there are time limits set out for when chargebacks can be 
raised by banks. These are timed from dates such as the transaction date or, pertinently in 
this case, from the last expected date of delivery of the good or service to be provided. The 
contract Mrs C signed here said shed get a refund twelve months after she entered the 
agreement if Firm A hadnt got her out of the timeshare agreement. So it was committed to 
getting her out of the timeshare or refunding her by November 2021. I can see Mrs C 
complained to Co-op in August 2022. So that is out of time according to the rules of the card 
scheme in relation to chargeback.
Mrs Cs representatives have argued it was in time but havent pointed to any evidence to 
substantiate this claim. But Ive considered Co-ops contact records from the date of the 
transactions in November 2020 onward. And Im not persuaded Mrs C, or her 
representatives brought her complaint about these transactions before August 2022. So Im 
satisfied Co-op hasnt treated her unfairly by not raising a chargeback. I say this because it 
was out of time to do so and thus didnt have a realistic prospect of success.
Mrs Cs representatives have said I feel that you are missing the fact that (Firm A) are 
scammers and not a legitimate firm. Mrs Cs representatives are missing the point that Co-
Op needs to know of reasons to not allow a transaction to go through, at the time, bearing in 
mind Mrs C had authorised it to consider blocking the transaction. Mrs Cs representatives 
have made numerous generic representations but have pointed to very little actual pertinent 
relevant evidence in this case to support its position. Its arguments are far from persuasive 
to me. Whether or not Firm A is legitimate is not central to this matter, for me to uphold this 
complaint against Co-op I need to be satisfied that it did something wrong or has treated Mrs 
C unfairly. Neither of which apply here to my mind.
All in all, having considered all of Mrs Cs arguments Im not persuaded shes lost out 
because of how Co-op treated her. And having considered everything here Im satisfied Co-
op hasnt treated Mrs C unfairly. So Mrs Cs complaint about Co-op is successful.
I do appreciate that this isnt the decision Mrs C wishes to read. And Im sorry she finds 
herself in this position and she clearly feels that Firm A hasnt treated her fairly. But this isnt 
Co-ops fault. And considering the obligations Co-op has, Im satisfied it hasnt treated her 
unfairly in not refunding her what she paid Firm A.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint against Co-operative Bank Plc. It has nothing further to do in 
relation to this case.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2023.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman