DRN-2406476
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Aviva Insurance Limited hasnt fairly compensated him after his 
commercial vehicle insurance policy accidentally lapsed.
What happened
Mr M followed the correct process to renew his policy in October 2019, but due to 
miscommunication between the broker and Aviva, the policy accidentally lapsed. Mr M found 
out he wasnt insured after being involved in an accident. 
Aviva accepted there had been an error. It backdated Mr Ms policy to October and offered 
him £200 compensation. Mr M didnt think this was enough and brought his complaint to us. 
He explained it had caused him unnecessary distress to find out he was uninsured. He also 
said hed not been able to use his van for three days while Aviva was looking into what 
happened. 
Our investigator felt that Avivas offer of £200 was fair and reasonable compensation. Mr M 
disagreed, as he didnt think it was enough. He said the third party involved in the accident 
was very upset when he found out Mr M wasnt insured. And hed lost work during the time 
he wasnt able to drive. He asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Aviva accepted there was an error and Im pleased to see it backdated the policy, so Mr M 
was covered. So, its left to me to decide if the amount of compensation Aviva offered is fair 
and reasonable. Having considered everything, I agree with our investigator and for the 
same reasons. 
Finding out he wasnt insured was clearly very distressing for Mr M and hes been concerned 
about what could have happened during that time. However, I can only award for the 
distress and inconvenience of what did happen and not what could have happened. 
Mr M wasnt aware he was driving uninsured until he was involved in the accident. I can 
understand why he was very distressed when he found out, as he realised hed been driving 
uninsured and had been involved in an accident. He also had the upset of the other driver in 
the accident knowing he wasnt insured. But Aviva looked into things quickly and reinstated 
the policy. I appreciate Mr M feels £200 isnt enough but I think its a fair and reasonable 
amount of compensation, so I wont be requiring Aviva to increase it. 
Mr M has also said that he lost work during the three days he was without a van. I havent 
seen any evidence of this other than Mr Ms comments. So, I havent seen enough to require 
Aviva to pay anything for loss of earnings. 
I appreciate my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr M, but Im satisfied Aviva has 
done enough to compensate for what went wrong. 
My final decision
Aviva Insurance Limited has offered Mr M £200 compensation. I think thats fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances so my final decision is that Aviva Insurance Limited 
should pay Mr M £200 if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman