DRN-2716008
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) declined his claim for theft.
What happened
Mr B had buildings and contents insurance with AXA. He made a claim under his contents 
insurance following a burglary at his home. AXA declined the claim because there was no 
evidence of damage, violence or deception used to gain entry.
Mr B complained to AXA. He said his wife was at home during the burglary and the thief 
gained entry to his home by climbing onto the flat roof and through the open bathroom 
window. While he agreed there wasnt any damage or violence, he felt the entry could be 
classed as deception. 
AXA didnt agree and restated its decision to decline the claim. Mr B remained unhappy and 
he complained further that AXA hadnt handled his claim well. He said the delay confirming 
its decision to decline, and its lack of response to his contacts were unacceptable. AXA 
acknowledged the delay and offered £25 by way of apology. Mr B declined its offer.
Our investigator didnt think AXA had done anything wrong. He explained that AXA had 
declined the claim in line with the policy terms and he thought the offer of £25 by way of 
apology was fair.
Mr B didnt agree. He repeated his view that the burglary should be classed as deception 
and AXA should settle his claim.
I issued a provisional decision in March 2021 explaining that I was intending to uphold Mr 
Bs complaint. Heres what I said in my provisional decision:
Firstly, the circumstances of the burglary are not disputed. The burglar climbed on the flat 
roof at the back of the house, through the open bathroom window and into the bedroom. Mr 
Bs wife was at home, but she was unaware of the burglary until later that evening. The 
burglar had taken several items, mainly jewellery, and left the bedroom in a state of disarray. 
The police found evidence of entry through the bathroom window, but no damage.
AXA declined the claim, stating:
We would direct you to page 6 of your policy schedule where it details the following policy 
endorsement;
Please note  theft of Contents or Specified Items from within a building (including the home) 
is only covered where there are signs of damage caused by the thief (or thieves) to get into 
the building, unless violence or deception was used to gain entry.
Having looked at the schedule, Ive seen this statement is provided under the Theft 
Explanation heading and the same information is given in the policy documents. On the 
face of it, AXA declined the claim under a valid endorsement. However, relying on it in the 
circumstances doesnt feel fair.
I can see that the endorsement reduces the insurers risk if a policyholder is careless about 
securing their home. While it doesnt specify that its only applicable when the home is 
unoccupied, I think thats a reasonable interpretation because the schedule also says:
1. Protections clause
For any claim caused by theft or attempted theft, no cover is provided under Buildings 
(Section 1) or Contents (Section 2) unless all security features listed within your statement of 
fact are:
- maintained in good working order; and,
- In full operation, whenever You are away from the Home.
This tells me that AXA doesnt expect the home to be fully secured (windows closed) when 
the home is occupied. Carrying this logic forward, Im satisfied that Mr B met the specified 
protections clause, so its not clear why the policy would exclude cover for theft which 
happens when the required standard of protection is met. I appreciate that damage would be 
caused if the window was forced open, but the policy doesnt require the window to be 
closed when someone is at home.
Ive thought carefully about this issue and its not a simple case of an opportunist reaching 
through an open window to steal something from the sill. The burglar took time to put on 
gloves, climb onto a 3-metre-high flat roof and through a window, progress into the bedroom 
to search for valuables and, I assume, leave by the same method. The burglars intent was 
clear and Mr B suffered a loss which I think he could reasonably expect his policy to cover.
Mr B felt that AXA should accept his claim as theft caused by deception. I dont agree that 
the circumstances meet the accepted definition of deception, so I think its fair that AXA 
didnt accept his argument. But, for the reasons Ive given, I dont think its fair that AXA 
declined Mr Bs claim just because no damage was caused. Im satisfied that AXA should 
settle Mr Bs claim for theft under the remaining terms of his policy.
Mr B was unhappy with the way AXA handled his claim. AXA acknowledged its delay 
confirming the decision and offered £25. During my review of the evidence, I noted several 
instances recorded in AXAs contact records which show that Mr Bs claim and subsequent 
complaint were passed from one part of the business to another, each saying that the other 
was responsible for the decision or response. During that time, no one kept Mr B informed, 
despite him making further requests for a response. AXA is entitled to operate in the way it 
does, but on this occasion I think each of the organisations party to the policy failed to take 
responsibility for properly explaining to Mr B why his claim was declined. The responses to 
Mr B were simply quoting the policy endorsement without further explanation, or saying 
another party had made the decision and the message was just being passed on to Mr B. I 
dont think it was acceptable that no one owned the claim and decision, especially at a time 
of significant upset for Mr B and his wife. Because of this shortfall, I think its appropriate for 
AXA to pay Mr B £100 by way of apology for failing to provide more considered responses to 
his contacts and for the delays communicating with him.
Overall, Mr B was unfortunate to have a burglar enter his home and steal from him but, 
because the burglar didnt cause any damage, AXA declined to cover the theft. Mr Bs wife 
was at home during the burglary and the policy doesnt require windows to be closed at all 
times, so there was no failure on Mr Bs part to meet the standard of protection. Damage 
isnt necessary to gain access under the standard of protection so its reasonable that the 
policy should cover the theft.I said I was intending to:
uphold Mr Bs complaint and I am minded to require AXA Insurance UK Plc to:
settle Mr Bs claim for theft under the remaining policy terms, and
pay him £100 by way of apology for the shortfalls in service when communicating its 
claim decision.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Mr B had nothing further to add.
AXA responded to say that we cant rely on the security endorsement when the policy 
repeatedly refers to:
For any claims caused by theft, or attempted theft, no cover is provided:
Unless there are signs of damage caused by the thief (or thieves) to get into Your 
Home or violence or deception was used to gain entry;
It says this supersedes any other element of the policy whether or not a policyholder is at 
home.
AXA also questioned my reference to the incident not being in dispute because it has no 
evidence on file that the theft took place.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I accept AXA didnt specifically say that there was no dispute about the incident. I 
made this assumption because AXA declined the claim under the policy endorsement, not 
because it thought Mr B hadnt demonstrated that an insured peril occurred. 
Im sorry for my misunderstanding, but it doesnt affect my decision. In his evidence, Mr B 
said he reported the matter to the police. The burglary information pack front cover shows 
the date of the incident, Mr Bs address, the crime reference number, and the details of the 
officers who attended. Mr B confirmed that the police found evidence of a glove print on the 
bathroom window where the burglar gained entry. Im not aware that AXA asked for any 
evidence of, or challenged the burglary, therefore I considered that the incident was not in 
dispute. The crime reference number and police contact details are available should AXA 
wish to seek further information. 
AXA doesnt think its appropriate to rely on the security endorsement, so Ive thought again 
about whether it was fair for AXA to decline Mr Bs claim for the reason it gave  that there 
was no evidence of damage, violence or deception used to gain entry. 
The security endorsement says there is no cover for theft unless all security features are in 
operation whenever the policyholder is away from home. There is no mention of the security 
features also being in operation when the policy holder is at home. So, I think this implies its 
acceptable to be at home with the windows open and have a reasonable expectation that 
cover for theft will be provided. As its not necessary for a burglar to cause damage to enter 
through an open window, I think the two parts of the policy, when considered together, provide an element of ambiguity. So, in the circumstances, I think its fair that AXA settles Mr 
Bs claim in line with the remaining terms of the policy.
Having reconsidered the evidence, my decision remains the same as that set out in my 
provisional decision and for the same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Bs 
complaint and AXA Insurance UK Plc must:
settle Mr Bs claim for theft under the remaining policy terms, and
pay him £100 by way of apology for the shortfalls in service when communicating its 
claim decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman