DRN-3865876
The complaint
Mr B complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) caused him to lose thousands of pounds 
when it did not contact him to discuss unusual activity on his current account.
What happened
Mr B holds a current account with HSBC. As at January 2021, the balance of his account 
was more than £8,000.
Mr B has a longstanding health condition. During the Covid-19 pandemic, he was deemed to 
be clinically extremely vulnerable and was required to shield. Mr B found the lockdowns very 
difficult and his health deteriorated to the point of crisis. Mr Bs health crisis culminated into 
what his representative described as an addiction to an online game.
Mr B had used the game in question for some time. However, in January 2021, he began to 
use his current account to make several in app purchases for the online game through a 
technology platform (Technology Platform). Between the end of January 2021 and the end 
of March 2021, the balance of Mr Bs current account had gone down from £8,470.81 to 
£188.72. Most of Mr Bs spending during that time was to the Technology Platform. In 
particular, on 22 February 2021, £2,329.70 was debited from Mr Bs account for 201 
transactions to the Technology Platform.
Through his representative, Mr B complained to HSBC. He said that the transactions to the 
Technology Platform amounted to unusual activity on Mr Bs account. He was concerned 
that the activity had not been flagged as suspicious. Mr B referred to the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys (the FCA) guidance in respect of vulnerable customers. He said that HSBC 
should have been looking out for unusual activity on Mr Bs account and should have 
recognised him as a vulnerable customer.
After receiving the complaint, HSBC got in touch with Mr B and his representative. HSBC 
offered support to Mr B in managing his account going forward. Mr B told HSBC that he had 
removed his debit card from the Technology Platform account and he discussed other 
preventative measures. 
Ultimately, HSBC did not uphold the complaint. It said it was not possible for it to individually 
monitor millions of transactions that were processed each day. It acknowledged that the 
transactions to the Technology Platform may not have been representative of Mr Bs usual 
account spending. However, it said the spending did not trigger any fraud detection 
concerns. It said the transactions were authorised by Mr B and that there wasnt a 
suggestion that Mr B hadnt been provided with the services hed paid for.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Through his representative, Mr 
B disagreed with that view and so the matter was passed to me for an ombudsmans 
decision. 
I issued a provisional decision because I intended to uphold the complaint in part. I said: 
I want to start by clarifying the role of this service. Mr B raised several wider 
concerns about HSBCs processes and procedures. I can see Mr B effectively said 
he does not want other vulnerable people to have the same experience with HSBC 
that he did. However, this service is not the industry regulator. That means I cannot 
make rules for financial businesses, nor can I tell a business how to run its day to day 
operations or to change its processes.
Instead my role is to resolve complaints brought by individuals about financial 
businesses and decide whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of an 
individual complaint.
Mr B told us that his addiction to the online game started to take hold at the end of 
January 2021. I can see in that month, there were 69 transactions to the Technology 
Platform. The most Mr B spent in one day was £99.89 across 11 transactions. 
However, in February 2021, his payments to the Technology Platform increased 
substantially. He spent almost £6,500 across almost 600 transactions. The most that 
was paid in one day was £2,621.91 across 201 transactions.
I know Mr Bs representative suggested that the transactions were such that HSBC 
should have been alert to the possibility that the account was being used 
fraudulently. However, Mr B had made numerous payments through the Technology 
Platform in the months before January 2021. I dont think HSBC would have 
necessarily been on notice that the payments Mr B made were fraudulent, given that 
such payments had been made in the past. And in any event, it is not suggested 
there was fraud in this case, nor is it suggested that Mr B had not authorised the 
payments. I cant say HSBC did something wrong in not recognising fraudulent 
activity on the account if there was no such fraudulent activity.
However, HSBC would have known how Mr B usually managed his current account. 
So Ive carefully considered whether the activity on his account should have 
prompted HSBC to realise there may be a problem with Mr Bs spending.
As I said above, Im provisionally satisfied Mr Bs payments to the Technology 
Platform increased significantly in February 2021. My provisional view is that it would 
have been clear to HSBC that and that this increased spending wasnt consistent 
with how his account was usually managed. Mr Bs payments to the Technology 
Platform went from 69 transactions in the whole month of January to 81 transactions 
in a single day on 1 February 2021. And certainly by 22 February 2021 when Mr B 
spent £2,621.91 across 201 transactions, it should have been clear to HSBC that Mr 
Bs spending activity was unusual.
So, the question for me now is what HSBC should have done from the point Mr Bs 
spending activity became unusual.
In this case, Mr B was effectively spending his own money. He wasnt using an 
overdraft or other credit facility provided by HSBC, so I dont need to think about 
whether it was irresponsible to provide any such credit.
Generally speaking, HSBC has to act on valid instructions from Mr B unless there are 
good reasons for it not to. In other words, it would generally be expected to process 
transactions that were authorised by him. Its not disputed that Mr B did authorise the 
transactions that are subject to this complaint. I cant say HSBC could have refused 
to pay the transactions that were validly authorised by Mr B, and there was no 
suggestion of any fraudulent activity.
However, my provisional view is that it would have been fair for HSBC to have 
stepped in to offer support to Mr B once there was a significant change in how he 
managed his account. For example, a referral to a third-party organisation for support 
could have been made. Or it could have made a referral to its own specialist team to 
offer Mr B assistance with managing money. I can see that such assistance was 
offered in April 2021 after HSBC became aware that there were issues with the 
account.With that in mind, the issue for me is then what would have happened differently if 
HSBC had done everything it should have done at the appropriate time. Mr Bs 
representative said that if HSBC had made such contact, it would have effectively 
been a wake up call to Mr B and he would have immediately sought help to stop 
playing the game.
When Im considering a complaint like this, I must apply the balance of probabilities. 
That means I have to decide what would have most likely happened based on the 
evidence before me. I know Mr Bs representative strongly believes that Mr B would 
have stopped using the game in question if he had been contacted by HSBC. But 
from the information before me, I cant reasonably say if or when he would have most 
likely stopped if HSBC had got in touch. That means I cant tell HSBC to refund the 
transactions to Mr B.
Having said that, I can see that in his complaint form, Mr B said that the issues hes 
complained about have affected his health. I can see how these events would have 
caused him some considerable stress. I cant say that HSBC is responsible for all of 
that. But it should have identified Mr B may have been having difficulties and support 
should have been offered before Mr Bs representative contacted HSBC in April 
2021. I can see how Mr B would be disappointed and upset that HSBC did not 
provide the service it should have done at the right time. And I can see how that 
disappointment and upset would have been exacerbated for Mr B in light of what we 
know about his health conditions.
With that in mind, my provisional view is that HSBC should pay £500 to Mr B to 
compensate him for its failures in that regard. I appreciate that this provisional 
amount is considerably less than the money Mr B spent on the Technology Platform 
from February 2021 onwards. But as I said above, I cant say HSBC is responsible 
for those losses.
I asked the parties to provide me with any further information or evidence they wanted me to 
consider by 4 January 2023. I also said if both parties responded in advance of that date, I 
may be able to issue a final decision sooner. 
HSBC responded to say it did not accept my provisional findings. However, it said it would 
agree to make the payment of £500 Id recommended as a gesture of goodwill. 
Through his representative, Mr B accepted what Id said about the activity on his account 
being unusual. However, he said that it was obvious from the manner in which he had 
operated his account since spring 2021 that any form of earlier intervention from HSBC 
would have resulted in a smaller financial loss. He did not think HSBC paying £500 to him 
was an equitable outcome. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have responded to my provisional decision in advance of the deadline, Im 
satisfied its fair for me to issue my final decision now. 
Ive thought carefully about the latest submissions made on behalf of Mr B. But Im afraid 
they dont persuade me to change my provisional view. In applying the balance of 
probabilities, I cant say its most likely that an earlier intervention from HSBC would have 
caused Mr B a smaller financial loss. It looks as though Mr B stopped using the game in 
question after his funds ran very low and with the extensive support of his family members. 
On balance, my view remains that I cant say if or when his use of the game would have 
stopped if HSBC had got in touch with him to suggest a third-party referral or a referral to its 
specialist team to discuss how to manage his money. I can see Mr B and his representative continue to feel strongly about the matters raised in 
their complaint. But after reconsidering all of the issues raised, I see no reason to depart 
from my provisional findings. 
So, for the reasons set out above in my provisional decision, Ive partly upheld this 
complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc must pay Mr B £500 for the reasons Ive set out 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2023.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman