DRN-3885081
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy with esure Insurance Limiteds handling of a claim he made on his motor 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr C phoned to make a claim when his car was hit by a third party. He says the claims 
handler he spoke to said that if the car was written off, he would be paid £3,000 for it. Mr C 
was unhappy when he then received a cheque for £1,200, so he complained to esure. He 
says he tried to find a car for this amount, but he couldnt, and he had to pay £4,000 for a 
replacement. He thinks esure is out of touch with the current market for second hand cars. 
Mr C says esure later paid him an additional £200 towards the value of his car, and it also 
paid £350 for his childrens car seats and pram. But he still wasnt happy with the valuation.
esure agreed the call handler had said she thought Mr C would get £3,000 for his car. 
However, it said she went on to say that would be if the engineer thought that was what the 
car was worth. It acknowledged Mr Cs expectations had been incorrectly managed, and it 
paid him £150 in compensation for the inconvenience. 
Mr C brought his complaint to us. He says he would like a fair price for his car. He thinks 
esure should pay him the £3,000, and he would also like an apology for the error. He also 
complains that he wasnt told he could claim for the car seats and pram in the initial phone 
call. Mr C told us he was injured in the accident and he was mis-informed that esure would 
arrange for an accident solicitor to contact him regarding making a claim for his injuries. 
esure said it took an average of four valuation guides, and then deducted £142 for pre-
existing damage to reach a final value of £1,400 for the car. 
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. After looking at the engineers 
report and the breakdown of costs, he thought esures valuation of £1,400 was fair. He 
agreed the call handler did say the value would be dependent on the engineers evaluation, 
but he thought this was said in a rushed way and wasnt stated clearly. Our investigator said 
that while we wouldnt expect esure to honour the £3,000 stated, he thought £200 would be 
more reasonable compensation. 
esure didnt accept our investigators opinion. As an agreement couldnt be reached, the 
complaint was passed to me to decide and I issued my provisional decision on 22 December 
2022 in which I said: 
esure acknowledges that the call handler didnt manage Mr Cs expectations when he 
phoned to log his claim. I understand Mr C would like esure to pay him the £3,000 the 
handler suggested he would receive for the car. When mistakes happen, we would expect 
esure to put Mr C back in the position he would have been in if it hadnt happened. So, I 
dont think esure needs to honour that amount. Rather, it needs to fairly compensate Mr C 
for the impact its mistake had on him. It should also pay him a fair value for his car.
Valuation
This services role isnt to work out exactly what the value of an individual vehicle is. We look 
at whether the insurer has applied the terms of a policy correctly and valued the vehicle 
fairly. Under the terms of Mr Cs policy, esure must pay him the market value of the car at 
the time of the loss.
The market value is defined in the policy as:
the amount you could reasonably have expected to sell your car for on the open market 
immediately before your accident or loss. Our assessment of the value is based on cars of 
the same make and model and of a similar age, condition and mileage at the time of 
accident or loss. This value is based on research from motor trade guides including: Glass's, 
Parkers and CAP...
Mr C says he couldnt replace his car for the amount esure paid him. He doesnt think esure 
has taken into account the changes in the used car market. The valuation of a used car isnt 
an exact science, and its standard practice for the industry to use valuation guides to work 
out the estimated market value of a car. And its not unreasonable that it does so as the 
valuation the guides give are based on national research on likely selling prices of similar 
cars with similar age and mileage for sale at the time of loss.
esure provided us with evidence of the valuations it obtained using the guides, these gave 
the following values:
Parkers £1,930
Glasss £1,535
Cazoo £1,095
CAP £1,608
Cazoo also gives examples of similar cars that have sold and their advertised prices. I can 
see from the evidence provided it shows cars which were sold both in the retail market and 
privately, all sold several months prior to the date of loss. All the cars were advertised for 
significantly less than Mr Cs car.
I also looked at current adverts for similar cars, and I found very few available of the same 
age as Mr Cs car. Most of the cars Ive seen were newer by two or three years. These cars 
were priced between £895 and £1,900. I find this is in line with the guide prices, so Im the 
valuations produced by the guides fairly reflect market prices for Mr Cs car.
esure said it took an average of the figures from the four guides to come to a valuation of 
£1,542. We often find a fair valuation would fall within the range of figures obtained from the 
guides. And in most cases I think its reasonable to exclude any values which are 
significantly out of line with the others. In this case, I find both Parkers and Cazoos 
valuations a significant amount higher or lower than the two figures in the middle of the 
range, so should be discounted. Leaving the Glass valuation of £1,535 and CAPs valuation 
of £1,608. esures base value is within this range, so I think its reasonable.
We usually think its fair for an insurer to make a deduction from a cars value for pre-existing
damage. This is because pre-existing damage can impact how much a car will sell for. esure 
provided a photograph of the damage on Mr Cs car, and its engineers estimated that it 
would cost £402 to repair. It deducted £142 from the total settlement. Considering that Mr 
Cs car is around 17 years old, I think the minor damage esure highlighted is unlikely to have 
a material impact on the cars value. So, I dont think its fair for it to make a deduction for 
this. Therefore, I think esure should pay Mr C the £142 it deducted and pay him a total of 
£1,542 (its base valuation) for his car.Claims handling
esure said Mr C didnt have personal legal protection. His policy documentation also shows 
the policy didnt include the personal injury benefit, therefore I dont think esure had to 
contact the accident solicitors on Mr Cs behalf. However, having listened to the initial phone 
call, I can understand why Mr C thought it would. During the phone call the call handler says 
she would ask the solicitors to contact Mr C regarding an injury claim, but I dont think she 
did. However, esure told us it put the request through to the solicitors a few days later. I find 
this was resolved in reasonable time, but I think it will have added to Mr Cs frustration.
Mr C also says he wasnt told he could claim for the car seats and pram until he complained 
about the valuation of his car. I find in the initial phone call he was told he was covered for 
up to £100 for each car seat, the pram would be covered under his personal belongings 
cover and esure would pay up to £150 towards it. However, he didnt receive the payment 
for these items until later, when he was paid the additional £200 for his car, so I think Mr C 
should be compensated for this.
Mr C told us this was his first time making a claim, so, I think the call handler needed to 
make the process clear to him. I accept it was later mentioned that Mr C would receive 
£3,000 if the engineer thought that was what the car was worth. I find his expectations had 
already been set, so I dont think it was enough for the handler to say this, without making it 
clear that this was different to what she had said previously.
Mr C states he was under financial stress and the errors caused him to struggle with his 
mental health. I think in the circumstances Mr C was unlikely to have been satisfied with the 
valuation even if he hadnt been told he would receive £3,000 for his car. However, had his 
expectations been properly managed, Mr C may have been better prepared for what he then 
received. Considering the amount he eventually received was significantly less than £3,000, 
I can understand why this will have been very upsetting for him.
esure already paid £150 in compensation, but in light of everything Ive said above, I think it 
should increase its compensation to £200 for the inconvenience and upset its caused Mr C.
Mr C accepted my provisional decision but esure didnt respond by the deadline given. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party provided additional comments for me to consider, I see no reason to depart 
from what I said in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and require esure Insurance Limited 
to:
increase its valuation to £1,542 and pay Mr C the difference between this figure and 
what its already paid him. It should also pay 8% simple interest per annum on the 
difference from the date it initially paid the settlement until it pays the additional sum.
It should also pay a total of £200 in compensation. Its already paid Mr C £150, so it 
should pay him an additional £50.
If esure Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from the interest, it should tell Mr C how much its taken off. It should also give Mr C a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim 
the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 February 2023.
 
Oluwatobi Balogun
Ombudsman