DRN-3389658
The complaint
Miss R complains that Monzo Bank Ltd has registered a fraud marker at CIFAS the national 
fraud database.
What happened
Miss R says that her account was hacked and that she wasnt responsible for payments to 
her account on 23 April 2021. She says that the CIFAS marker against her name is 
incorrect.
Monzo Bank said it hadnt made a mistake and wouldnt be removing the marker. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He explained that there was 
a high bar for a CIFAS marker to be registered. Here Monzo Bank had received a report 
from a third-party bank that five payments sent to Miss Rs account between 22:43 and 
22.48 hours on 23 April 2021 had been obtained fraudulently. The total of £2,400 had been 
paid out from the account within minutes to a payee Miss R had credited before.
He could see that all logins to the account that evening had been made using an IP address 
Miss R had used before. Her email address and a magic link sent to the email address 
were required to log in. Although the email address on the account had been changed at 
22:26 that day, this was to one Miss R had since used in her complaint correspondence with 
Monzo Bank. The faster payment from her account had been authenticated with an 
encrypted PIN. And it had been made as Monzo Bank said to a payee and with a reference 
Miss R had used before. He noted that Miss R said that this related to account shed opened 
that had been hacked too. But he didnt think that there was a plausible explanation of how 
Miss Rs Monzo Bank account had been accessed by a fraudster. Or why a fraudster would 
send money to another account of the person being hacked. He noted that Miss R said that 
Monzo Bank hadnt spoken to her about the marker, but he thought it had sufficient evidence 
to apply this.
Miss R didnt agree. She explained that she had mental health problems. She believed her 
account had been hacked and she wasnt aware of these transactions. This has led to her 
accounts at other financial businesses being closed too. This had caused her extreme stress 
and financial difficulty. She is unable to open an account elsewhere and this had ruined her 
life.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to consider whether the report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, Monzo Bank 
needs to have more than a suspicion or concern. It has to show it had reasonable grounds to 
believe that a fraud or financial crime had been committed or attempted and that the 
evidence would support this being reported to the authorities.
Ive reviewed the audit and systems evidence it has provided about the payments that day. 
Im satisfied that the log on to Miss Rs account came from a device that had previously been 
used to access the account. The email address used was one she had access to. And the 
payment out of the account required an encrypted PIN and so used strong customer 
authentication. The payment went to an account Miss R had set up. There is no evidence to 
support that the account the payment went to had been hacked. And I dont find it most likely 
that an unknown third party would have been able to access her Monzo Bank account in this 
way. I find it most likely she was complicit in these transactions.
Monzo Bank says that it applied the CIFAS marker because Miss R received fraudulent 
funds into her account. So, Ive looked at whether Monzo Bank was fair to apply the marker, 
based on the evidence it had, and the investigation it carried out. CIFAS guidance says the 
business must have carried out checks of sufficient depth to meet the standard of proof set 
by CIFAS. This essentially means that it needs to have enough information to make a formal 
report to the police. And that any filing should be for cases where there are reasonable 
grounds to believe fraud or financial crime has been committed, rather than mere suspicion. 
Having reviewed Miss Rs account of events and the evidence Monzo Bank has provided, 
Im satisfied that Monzo Bank had sufficient evidence for the CIFAS marker to be recorded. 
In coming to this view, Ive taken into account the following reasons:
- Miss R received fraudulent funds into her account. 
- She was in control of who had the benefit of this money.
- Monzo Bank had grounds to believe that Miss R had used fraudulently obtained 
funds based on the evidence it had.
Im sorry to hear about the difficult circumstances Miss R has described and how what 
happened has affected her. But Im afraid that I dont have a reasonable basis to find that 
Monzo Bank has made a mistake in applying the CIFAS marker or should do anything 
further. I know she will be very disappointed by what Ive said about her complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 June 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman