DRN-1724131
The complaint
Mr W complains that Prudential Pensions Ltd gave him unsuitable advice to take out an 
annuity with it. He thinks he shouldve been advised to transfer his Prudential pension to his 
occupational pension scheme. 
What happened
Mr W says that he took out a personal pension plan with Prudential in April 1984. He also 
says that in 1996 he decided to stop payments into it as hed been offered full-time 
employment that provided an occupational pension. Prudential visited his home and he took 
out an annuity with the money in his personal pension.
In 2019, Mr W contacted Prudential to complain that the annuity was mis-sold. Prudential 
replied in June 2019, saying that details were limited due to the passage of time. It said that 
it couldnt see it had offered him financial advice at the time. It said it would have provided a 
key features document that showed the choice of an open market option which couldve 
been used to buy benefits with another provider, so that option was given. 
Mr W brought his complaint to us. He said he hadnt been given the opportunity to properly 
set out why he thought his annuity was mis-sold. The reason was that hed only recently 
realised that he shouldve transferred his personal pension pot into his employers final 
salary pension scheme. He thinks he wouldve received a greater amount of pension income 
than he received through the annuity if hed done so.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ws complaint. Mr W told her that Prudential did advise him 
that an annuity was his best option and that he felt pressured to sign the paperwork on the 
day during the home visit. He gave her some information from the occupational pension 
scheme from some years after he began employment that he said showed transfers were 
possible. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She didnt think Prudential had advised Mr W or 
that it was obliged to mention a possible transfer to the occupational pension scheme. She 
considered the Key Features document or factsheet Prudential said it wouldve given Mr W 
and noted that it said he might want to take advice from a financial adviser.
Mr W asked for a decision from an ombudsman. He said at the time in the mid-90s he and 
others implicitly trusted reps like the man from Prudential. Mr W wouldnt have dreamed of 
saying that he needed to consult his financial adviser. He said if this trusted agent had 
mentioned transferring to his occupational pension scheme that is what he wouldve done. 
He also said that he wrongly assumed that the Prudential agent was a regulated and 
authorised adviser, who would at least give some guidance. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mr W feels strongly that Prudential shouldve advised him that he could transfer his 
pension pot to his employers pension scheme. Thats understandable. But Im afraid Im 
going to have to disappoint him, as Im not going to uphold his complaint. Ill explain why. 
It may be the case that Mr W wouldve been able to transfer his pension pot with Prudential 
to buy additional benefits in his occupational pension scheme. But I cant be certain of that, 
as the information about transfer rights that Mr W provided to us is not specific to Mr W and 
is from 2009, a very considerable time after he started his employment. And Mr Ws offer of 
employment was for a one-year contract, which may not have allowed transfers in of 
pensions pots. Even if it was possible, Im not persuaded Mr W wouldve done so, given that 
his offer of employment was for one year. Its unlikely that he wouldve considered it 
worthwhile to join the pension scheme. This is because quite often such schemes only 
allowed a member to keep pension benefits if employment was more than two years. If a 
member left before that time the contributions were refunded. I think its likely Mr W wouldve 
been advised of this at the time he began his employment. As it turns out, Mr W worked in 
that employment for many years, but he couldnt have known that at the time in 1996. 
There is also very little information in general about the sale of this annuity, given the sale 
took place 24 years ago. Mr Ws annuity began payment in early May 1996, which was 
before his formal offer of employment in June 1996, so its also possible Mr Ws recollection 
of the timing of events isnt completely accurate, although I dont doubt his sincerity. The 
significance of the timing is that Mr W mayve decided to take out an annuity before the job 
offer was made, so the two events might not be related. 
Taking all of these factors together, Im not persuaded that Mr W could, or would, have 
transferred his pension pot to his occupational pension scheme in 1996. But even if Mr W 
was able to transfer his pension pot, I dont think Prudential was under any obligation to 
advise Mr W about his best course of action.  Mr W says that the Prudential representative 
did provide advice at a meeting at his home, Prudential said that it couldnt see that it did. 
Its very hard to determine what happened at a meeting over 24 years ago. It is at least 
possible that either the Prudential representative did give advice on Mr Ws annuity options, 
or Mr W understood his conversations with the Prudential representative to be advice. But 
even if that is the case, there was no regulatory or other obligation that required the 
Prudential representative to advise on annuity options other than those provided by 
Prudential. The Prudential representative wasnt an independent financial adviser. And I 
think Mr W ought reasonably to have known that, since the individual was a Prudential 
representative. 
I might have expected the Prudential representative to point out that he potentially had other 
options and might want to seek independent advice elsewhere. Prudential has said that it 
wouldve provided Mr W with a Key Features document setting out options for taking his 
annuity which also mentioned the possibility of taking financial advice. Prudential has 
provided me with a copy of this document and Mr W says he remembers being given a 
factsheet which set out various options, so I think its likely he was provided with the Key 
Features document Prudential has provided me with.
So, I think Mr W was at least alerted to the possibility of obtaining independent advice. I 
understand that Mr W says that this was something that wasnt dreamed of at the time, but I 
dont think I can fairly hold Prudential responsible for that since it did make him aware of the 
possibility of obtaining independent financial advice.
For the reasons Ive given, Im not going to uphold this complaint. Im sorry to disappoint Mr 
W. My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2020.
 
Helen Wheatley
Ombudsman