DRN-2567088
The complaint
Mr C complains MBNA has charged an unfair amount of interest on his credit card account 
when he didnt clear the balance in full. He thinks the relevant terms and conditions are 
unclear. 
What happened
Mr C has a credit card account with MBNA. In April 2020 he made a transaction on the 
account for around £119 and in May 2020 he made a further transaction for £2,000. Around 
8 June 2020 Mr Cs payment of £2,100 was credited to his account. This meant he still had 
an outstanding balance of about £19. 
MBNA says Mr C was charged interest on the full statement balance from the day after the 
date of the statement (21 May 2020) until the date he made the payment. And its told us he 
was charged interest on the remaining balance until the next statement on 21 June 2020. Its 
said for Mr C not to be charged interest, hed needed to have cleared his balance in full for 
two consecutive months. In total, Mr C was charged around £27.65 in interest. 
Mr C accepts the terms and conditions say interest would be applied in the way MBNA has 
done. But he thinks the amount of interest charged is unfair as its charged on the full 
statement balance rather than just the amount thats outstanding. So he thinks MBNA should 
refund the interest on his account and explain the terms and conditions in a clearer way. 
As things werent resolved, Mr C asked our service to look into his complaint. Our 
investigator didnt uphold his complaint. She thought the interest was charged in line with the 
terms and conditions  and this had been communicated to Mr C clearly. She said our 
service cant require a business to change its terms. And she highlighted that Mr C had 
raised several queries about the interest charged on his account to MBNA in the past and it 
had refunded it previously as a good will gesture. Mr C didnt agree with our investigators 
opinion so the complaints been passed to me to decide. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint, I know Mr C will be very disappointed. Ill explain 
why. 
It seems from Mr Cs response to our investigators assessment that he accepts the interest 
was charged in line with the terms and conditions. But he doesnt think those terms are fair. 
Hes worked things out on the basis that the interest he was charged was only to cover the 
outstanding balance of £19 and only for the days his account was underpaid. But I dont 
agree thats how the interest has been calculated. 
The terms of the credit card account say interest is charged on a daily basis on the full 
statement balance from the date the transactions are applied. And I think thats reasonable 
in this case as thats when Mr C borrowed the funds. Mr C made the transactions he was 
charged interest on in April and May 2020. Whilst I appreciate it was in June 2020 that he 
underpaid the outstanding balance, I dont agree the interest was or  shouldve been  only 
applied from that point under the terms and conditions. And Im satisfied the terms say itll be 
applied to the full statement balance  and not just the amount outstanding. 
I appreciate Mr C feels the amount he was charged in interest was very high when 
compared to the actual amount he underpaid by. But Im not in a position to direct MBNA to 
change its terms and conditions. And I dont think the way the interest has been calculated in 
this case is unusual for this type of account. 
Mr C doesnt think the relevant terms were clear enough. MBNAs said its previously shared 
information with Mr C about the terms and conditions of his account when hes raised 
queries in the past. And from the contact notes on the account I can see hes questioned the 
interest applied a number of times and its been explained he needs to clear his balance in 
full to avoid being charged any interest. So I think he was on notice of this at the time he 
made the payment in June 2020 which didnt clear the balance in full. And Im satisfied 
Mr Cs had the opportunity to question anything he didnt understand at those times. 
Ive looked at the copies of the statements and the terms and conditions weve been given. 
Under Interest charging Information the statements say MBNA calculates interest on the 
total amount owed  which Im satisfied in this case, means the total outstanding balance. 
As Ive explained, it seems more likely to me Mr C wouldve been made aware of how his 
account works in relation to this previously. But in any event, Im not persuaded the relevant 
terms in this case are misleading or unfair. 
I know it must be disappointing for Mr C to have been charged interest when it seems from 
his statements that he manages his account carefully so he wont accrue interest. But in this 
case, I dont think MBNA has done anything wrong. 
 
My final decision
Its my decision that I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2021.
 
Nadya Neve
Ombudsman