DRN-1204290
 
The complaint
Mr E complains that Co-operative Bank plc (trading as Britannia) mis-sold him two mortgage 
payment protection insurance (MPPI) policies. 
What happened
This complaint is about two monthly premium MPPI policies taken out by Mr E in 2005 and 
again in 2007. 
The first policy was taken out on 6th October 2005 during a meeting when Mr E was 
arranging a mortgage. The first 6 months premiums were free. The policy covered him 
against accidents, sickness and unemployment. 
Mr E then took out a second MPPI policy, most likely on 24th February 2007, when 
he arranged a new mortgage. He did this during a telephone call. Again the first 6 months 
premiums were free and the policy provided similar cover as his first policy.
Mr E had ended his first mortgage in 2007 at the same time he took out a new one, but he 
was still paying the premium for his first policy until he cancelled it in 2011. Britannia have 
repaid the premiums from the month the first mortgage ended until the date he had 
cancelled it. The second policy was cancelled in 2015.
Mr E thinks Britannia mis-sold the MPPI policies. He says he is not 100% sure that he was 
made aware of them. He says they were both added without his knowledge.
Our adjudicator did not uphold Mr E's complaint. Mr E disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Es case. 
Was Mr E given a choice to have MPPI in 2005?
Mr E first approached Britannia for a mortgage on 6th October 2005. I cant be sure how the 
policy was presented to Mr E during the meeting when it was sold. But Ive looked at what 
Mr E has said about how the policy was sold, that he is not sure he was made aware of the 
MPPI policy when it was added. I have also taken into consideration the sales 
documentation used at the time.
The sales forms used suggest to me that the policy was presented as optional. Britannia has 
provided a separate MPPI application form that Mr E has signed. It looks most likely when I see the details given on this form that he was given a choice by a representative from 
Britannia in the meeting. Although I do have regard for what Mr E has said, recollections do 
fade over time, especially as this sale took place over 14 years ago. Based on the 
documentation I have seen, I am persuaded he was given a choice during the meeting. 
Was Mr E given a choice to have MPPI in 2007?
Mr E arranged a new mortgage on 24th February 2007 during a phone call. I have seen the 
mortgage application form that was generated after this phone call that was sent to Mr E to 
sign. MPPI was mentioned on this form as something that Mr E wanted. So as this is the 
case I think it is more likely than not that the MPPI policy was sold to him on the phone when 
he also discussed his new mortgage.
I cant be sure how the policy was presented to Mr E during the phone call when it was sold. 
But Ive looked at what Mr E have said about how the policy was sold  including that it was 
added without his knowledge. But I think, after considering the original sales documentation 
provided (the mortgage application form), it is likely he was advised it was a good idea to 
have the insurance to protect his mortgage repayments, and he took the policy on that 
advice. 
I say this because the documentation I do have suggests to me that the policy was 
presented as optional. On the application form under the section for MPPI, a box has been 
pre populated to reflect what Mr E and Britannia more than likely agreed during the phone 
call. Underneath this, is a box that Mr E could sign if he didn't want the cover provided. Mr 
E's name has been written here but then has been crossed out. So on seeing this I can't 
fairly say that Mr E wasn't aware of the MPPI policy when he arranged his mortgage.
Although I do have regard for what Mr E has said, recollections do fade over time. Based on 
the documentation, I am persuaded he was made aware of MPPI and he chose it during the 
call in 2007. 
Were the policies in 2005 and 2007 suitable for Mr E?
As I have already mentioned, I think Britannia recommended the MPPI policies to Mr E in 
2005 and 2007, but it doesnt look as if either policy was unsuitable for him based on what 
Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. He says he received six months sick pay with 
his employer but I consider the policy would have been useful in any extended period of 
sickness or if needed in unemployment. He could have made a claim in addition to using the 
provisions he held at that time. I am persuaded he would have found the benefit provided 
useful if he needed it. I also couldnt find anything else within the policy terms of either policy 
that would have made it unsuitable for him such as a restrictive or significant term.
Britannia has provided some information about the costs relating to the MPPI  policies 
that Mr E took out and although I dont know for sure if these were disclosed clearly in the 
meeting in 2005 or the phone call in 2007, I dont think it would have made any difference to 
the choice Mr E made even if it had for the reasons I have already given. The 
policies were reasonably priced compared to similar policies available at the time and to the 
monthly mortgage repayment and Mr E could have cancelled the MPPI policies if it did 
become unaffordable.
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr E, but in conclusion I do not uphold 
his complaint for the reasons that I have given.
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above i do not uphold Mr E's complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 February 2020.
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman