DRN-3170969
The complaint
Mr D complains Admiral Insurance Company Limited have delayed handling his motor 
insurance claim and is unhappy with the timing of them asking for repayment of costs 
theyve incurred.
Mr Ds Father is representing him in this complaint, but for simplicity Ive just referred to Mr D 
in this decision. 
What happened
In May 2018 Mr D was involved in an accident, damaging other cars along with his own and 
was arrested by the Police for driving under the influence of alcohol. He was later suspended 
from driving for three years. Because of this, Admiral said they wouldnt be offering Mr D any 
cover under his insurance policy due to exclusions in their terms relating to driving under the 
influence of alcohol.
In March 2019 one of the other insurers got in touch with Mr D, asking for repayment of the 
claim amount, and said theyd been in touch with Admiral and hadnt heard anything. The 
other insurer said theyd take the matter to court if there was no reply. Mr D believed Admiral 
had given the other insurer his details for them to get in touch.
In April 2020 Admiral contacted Mr D, saying theyd now settled the claim and asked for 
repayment of the amount theyd paid out to the other party. The amount Admiral asked Mr D 
to pay was just over £20,000.
Mr D wasnt happy with the other insurer getting in touch, thinking that Admiral had passed 
over his details. He was also unhappy with how long it took for the claim to be settled, 
thinking itd been resolved without him needing to pay anything  and he was unhappy with 
the timing of the demand for repayment of the claim amount, coming during the pandemic.
In response to these issues, Admiral said they couldnt control the actions of the other 
insurer and hadnt received anything from them to say they were going to contact Mr D 
directly  but did accept they could have acted quicker which might have prevented this 
contact. In respect of the length of time taken for the claim, they said it could take a long time 
to finalise, but they could have acted earlier. And Admiral accepted the communication in 
April 2020 wasnt ideal due to the pandemic  and even though the claim had been finalised 
in 2019, the reason for the delay was due to a backlog internally with them. For this last 
issue, Admiral paid £100 compensation. 
Unhappy with this, Mr D asked us to look into things. He also raised a number of concerns 
thatd previously been considered by Admiral in 2018. Another Ombudsman decided we 
couldnt consider those points, so Ive not mentioned them further.
One of our Investigators considered the three issues, and overall felt Admiral had acted 
fairly, so didnt require them to offer more compensation.
Mr D provided a letter he said showed the other insurer had been in touch because Admiral 
hadnt replied to them  he felt this was important. Our Investigator said he couldnt see that 
Admiral had asked the other insurer to contact Mr D. As he wasnt happy with the outcome 
of his complaint, its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the notes Admiral have provided Ive not seen anything to suggest they did 
tell the other insurer to get in touch  or provide Mr Ds details to the other insurer with the 
intention of them getting in touch with him. Ive also not seen anything to show Admiral 
received contact from the other insurer before Mr D received that letter. So, although I do 
agree Admiral could have prevented this by acting quicker, I dont think theyre directly 
responsible for Mr D receiving that letter  it could be the other insurer didnt contact 
Admiral, even though they told Mr D they did.
In relation to the time taken on the claim I do think it was a long time. The accident 
happened in May 2018, and it seems the claim itself was finalised around March 2019. I 
think given the other parties involved its somewhat inevitable itd take a fair amount of time. 
But I think Mr D is linking the time it took to settle his claim, to when he was asked to pay it. 
Admiral eventually told Mr D in April 2020 the total amount he owed them was just over 
£20,000. Due to the timing, specifically in relation to the pandemic, Mr D wasnt happy about 
this. I can completely understand why  its a significant amount to have to pay at an already 
very challenging time. Their explanation for this delay is due to internal backlogs. Its not 
very clear to me exactly why these internal backlogs caused over a years worth of delay  
but Ive also not seen anything to suggest this was malicious on the part of Admiral. 
And, on reading all of the submissions from Mr D, although hes unhappy about the timing of 
the request for payment, I think its reasonable to say hes also very unhappy at the amount 
hes being asked to pay. I think its fair for me to say that, whenever this payment request 
was made, itd have been distressing for Mr D. So, although not great timing, I cant see this 
was done intentionally by Admiral. I also cant ignore that Mr D had been told previously by 
Admiral hed be required to refund any outlay due to him not having cover with them for this 
accident.
Overall, I do think Admiral could have handled things better, and progressed things quicker, 
but in offering £100 compensation Im satisfied thats a fair way to put matters right. My 
understanding is this £100 has already been paid to Mr D.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2022.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman