DRN-3632039
The Complaint
Mrs L says that Bank of Ireland (UK) PLC (the BoI) didnt fairly or reasonably deal with a
claim under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the CCA) in relation to a holiday
product that she and her husband bought on 26 July 2011 (the Time of Sale).
The claim, which is the subject of this complaint, is Mrs Ls because it relates to a credit card
in her sole name. But as the transaction in question relates to a contract entered into by both 
her and her husband, Ill refer to Mr and Mrs L throughout much of this decision.
Background to the Complaint
Mr and Mrs L bought a holiday product from a supplier (the Supplier) at the Time of Sale 
and used Mrs Ls credit card to help finance the purchase.
Unhappy with what had happened at the Time of Sale, Mrs L  using a professional 
representative (LF)  made a claim under Section 75 of the CCA for misrepresentation (the 
Letter of Claim) on 12 November 2018.
As it doesnt look like the BoI got the Letter of Claim, it didnt provide Mrs L with an answer to 
it. So, on 26 March 2019, LF made a complaint about that. In response, the BoI wrote to 
Mrs L directly to ask for more information  which was a request that doesnt appear to have 
been answered. And as a result, no further action was taken in relation to Mrs Ls Section 75
claim.
A complaint was then referred to the Financial Ombudsman Service by both Mr and Mrs L
on 23 August 2019  using LF as their representative.
A request for the BoIs case file was made. And in the BoIs response, it said that it could 
demonstrate that Mrs Ls credit card account was closed on 25 April 2014. However, it 
couldnt obtain a copy of the credit card statement on which the purchase in question 
appears. So, it couldnt establish who the payment was made to and, in turn, determine 
whether there was a relevant debtor-creditor-supplier agreement.
The BoI also argued that Mrs Ls Section 75 claim was out of time under the Limitation Act 
1980 (the LA). And, in addition, it thought that this complaint was made out of time under 
the Financial Conduct Authoritys six and three-year time limit.
The complaint was looked at by an investigator who, having considered everything that had 
been said and/or provided to date, rejected the complaint on its merits.
M, a professional representative now representing Mrs L, disagreed with the investigators
assessment and asked for an ombudsmans decision without giving any immediate reasons 
why. Instead, it said that it would speak to Mrs L before submitting a substantive response.
The investigator started the process of referring the complaint for an ombudsmans decision
and gave both sides until 2 June 2022 to make further submissions.
As that deadline had been and gone without either side adding to what had already been 
said and/or provided, the complaint was passed to me for a decision.
I issued a Provisional Decision (PD) on 27 June 2022. And, in summary, I concluded that 
this complaint had been made in time under the Financial Conduct Authoritys six and three-
year time limit. I thought the substance of this complaint was confined to a Section 75 claim 
for misrepresentation. And I concluded that the claim had been made out of time under the 
LA  such that the complaint should be rejected.
Neither side had anything to add in response to my PD. And as the deadline for responses 
has now passed, Ive considered the complaint for a Final Decision.
What Ive Decided  and Why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done that, I still dont think this complaint should be upheld  which I realise will 
be disappointing for Mrs L.
On what remains my reading of this complaint, I still cant see an allegation that the 
relationship between Mrs L and the BoI was rendered unfair because of its own acts and/or 
omissions or those of the Supplier. And as neither Mrs L nor M have suggested otherwise in 
response to my PD, I still think the substance of this complaint is confined to the claim for 
misrepresentation and the reasons for it.
Under Section 75 of the CCA, a relevant debtor-creditor-supplier agreement is a
precondition to claims under that provision. And the BoI says that it cant establish whether
such an arrangement was in place.
Based on whats been said and/or provided, I still havent seen anything to persuade me
that Section 75 doesnt apply to the purchase in question. But, as I said in my PD, even if Im 
wrong about that, I dont think it really matters as far as the overall outcome of this complaint 
is concerned because, for reasons I get on to below, I think the BoI has a defence to Mrs Ls 
Section 75 claim under the LA.
Under the relevant provision of the LA, a claimant has a period of six years to make a claim
for misrepresentation  starting from the date on which the cause of action accrued, which is
the point at which a claimant had everything they needed to make a legal claim.
As the Letter of Claims says that Mr and Mrs L entered into an agreement to purchase a
holiday product from the Supplier at the Time of Sale because of misrepresentations that the
Letter suggests they relied on, Mrs L had six years from when she entered into that
agreement to make that claim as it was when she used her credit card to help finance the
purchase that she suffered a loss.
As Mrs L entered into the purchase agreement on 26 July 2011, but didnt submit her
Section 75 claim for misrepresentation to the BoI until November 2018, it fell outside of the
relevant time limit set out in the LA. And as I still cant see a reason why that time limit 
should be extended, I think the BoI would have been entitled to rely on the LA as a defence 
to the claim  which means Im not persuaded that I need to ask the BoI to do something to 
put things right.My Final Decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2022.
 
Morgan Rees
Ombudsman