DRN-3923830
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain about the settlement for an insurance claim by esure Insurance 
Limited. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs L discovered water below flooring and their underfloor heating stopped working. 
A claim was made in late October 2020 and esure dealt with the claim in so far as sending 
out loss adjusters and eventually making a cash settlement. 
It became apparent that drains and pipes falling under the responsibility of a local authority 
and a utility company were the cause of water escaping into Mr and Mrs Ls property. They 
were responsible for fixing the cause and so works at Mr and Mrs Ls were effectively on hold 
until the cause of the water leaks had been repaired. 
It appears the cause was repaired by mid-March 2021 but in November 2021 it was found 
that problems in local authority drains remained an issue and causing elevated moisture 
levels in Mr and Mrs Ls home. Its at this point that esure, on the advice of its loss adjusters, 
decided to offer a cash settlement on the basis that further repairs couldnt occur while 
moisture issues persisted, which Mr and Mrs L were unhappy with. And new leaks were 
found requiring a separate claim to be pursued.
In short, at the time Mr and Mrs L brought their complaint they had spent over £10,500 more 
than the settlement esure had paid them. And they felt esure should pay them this money.
One of our investigators explained a cash settlement was reasonable as it wasnt possible 
for esure to complete repairs and the policy terms permitted this. She thought esure should 
have considered a disturbance allowance as there were no cooking and washing facilities. 
She recommended that esure review the outstanding costs in line with the policy terms and 
evidence of payment from Mr and Mrs L. She said esure should add 8% interest on any 
refunded amounts from the date paid and compensate Mr and Mrs L £200 for costs not 
being considered earlier and the distress and inconvenience this had caused.
esure disagreed with the investigator saying it had paid alternative accommodation and 
disturbance allowance costs and had adequately considered all costs incurred while out of 
the property.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of what is outstanding concerns costs Mr and Mrs L have detailed in a spreadsheet 
and to which esure has based its response. The outstanding costs were set out as follows:
Item Expense Detail Mr and Mrs L 
say esures comments
outstanding
A Council tax Oct  Jan £610.34 Mr and Mrs L remain 
responsible and can ask 
Council to apply a discount
B Rent WR Jan  May £2,850 Have paid the maximum for 
Accommodation
C Council tax Jan  May £800 Mr and Mrs L remain 
responsible and can ask 
Council to apply a discount
D Total removal costs (£3,720) £180 Costs were agreed and have 
paid what we can for AA
E Gas SR £400.46 Need to know what was paid 
normally and how much out 
of pocket
F Electric SR £540.39 Need to know what was paid 
normally and how much out 
of pocket
G Drying costs (£1,546.78) £753.78 Paid settlement based on 
amount recommended by its 
contractor
H Remedial work (£17,523.60) £4,202.56 Paid settlement based on 
amount recommended by its 
contractor
I Floor sanding/staining TBC Need evidence of cost
J Wi-Fi Dongle £49.99 Need to know what was paid 
normally and how much out 
of pocket
K 2nd Wi-Fi Dongle contract £191.88 Need to know what was paid 
normally and how much out 
of pocket
L Baby Belling cooker £65.00 Not sure what this was
The starting point for my consideration is ICOBs 8 which, in summary, requires esure to 
settle claims promptly and fairly and includes providing reasonable guidance to help Mr and 
Mrs L make a claim and appropriate information on its progress.
The policy permits cash settlement and as there appeared to be ongoing leak issues from 
local authority pipes, I can understand why esure wanted to cash settle. esure couldnt repair 
those pipes and giving cash would enable Mr and Mrs L to start putting things right, although 
that might not be considered wise in circumstances where repairs could quickly become 
compromised by ongoing water ingress that Mr and Mrs L had no control over. However, in circumstances where esure isnt repairing the damage itself and chooses to make a cash 
settlement then Im satisfied its fair that esure pays the actual cost rather than any 
discounted rate it may usually benefit from. 
The specific items
On the repair works done at item H, the onus here lies with Mr and Mrs L to provide 
evidence of the cost incurred for the insured work such that esure can make a refund of the 
cost paid. Once that information has been provided esure will need to consider the 
information and pay for insured works. 
While the insured home was uninhabitable the policy covers Alternative Accommodation 
and rent (AA). esures liability is to pay this for the period until the insured works are 
complete. As esure wasnt conducting the repairs it paid based on how long it thought the 
repairs would take. But as it wasnt taking responsibility to provide the repairers, Im satisfied 
it should pay for how long it took. But this is subject to their being no unreasonable delays, 
such as Mr and Mrs Ls contractors not turning up on site. The relevant cost here is item B  
the policy limit for AA is £75,000 and that limit has not been used in this claim. esure will 
need to assess what a reasonable time was for being out of the home such that insured 
works could be completed to make the insured home habitable. Theyll need to factor in what 
occurred and any impact of the availability of materials or other extraneous factors that 
reasonable prevented works continuing in the expected timeline.  
In terms of Council tax and utilities (e.g. gas, electricity, broadband etc Items A, C, E, F, J 
and K) the policy as far as I can see is silent. I think its reasonable to cover the additional 
amounts Mr and Mrs L are paying over and above what they ordinarily would in keeping one 
home. But again, they bear responsibility to demonstrate how much theyre out of pocket. Its 
likely that utility consumption amounts in their insured home are lower than they ordinarily 
would be if not living there. So, theyre not simply entitled to receive the full costs of what 
they pay, rather they must show what they ordinarily would have paid and claim the 
difference. And while esure thinks that the Council will waive or discount tax on a second 
property, theres no information to support that. It may be a discretion but unless esure can 
demonstrate that Mr and Mrs L are in fact entitled then esure will need to pay for the Council 
tax Mr and Mrs L paid for the AA properties. Mr and Mrs L will need to provide evidence of 
payment across all properties to demonstrate they didnt receive a discount on the insured 
home. 
I dont think its fair that esure simply reduces drying costs at Item G to its contractors 
estimate. If esure had been drying the property, then it would pay until dry and thats what it 
should do here as it chose to pay a cash settlement. Its appropriate to recognise that the 
property was declared dry in April 2021 and so its the drying costs up to this point that esure 
should pay. Mr and Mrs L will need to provide esure of evidence of the costs up to this point. 
I appreciate there were further issues with water ingress later in 2021 but this is the subject 
of a separate claim and indeed potential litigation with the Council. These are separate 
issues to the ones Mr and Mrs L originally brought to us.
On moving costs at Item D, it seems the only issue is the correct amount that should be 
paid. Mr and Mrs L should provide esure with evidence of the total costs paid, which they 
claim are £3,720, and esure should pay this. I note the outstanding amount is said to be 
£180.
Mr and Mrs L will need to provide esure with evidence of the cost of sanding and staining the 
floor at Item I. If they havent yet had this done, and so havent incurred the cost yet, then 
they should provide a detailed estimate to esure such that the parties can agree a settlement 
based on the estimate. Finally, Item L was something Mr and Mrs L apparently purchased for the second AA 
property which didnt have cooking facilities. Provided Mr and Mrs L provide evidence of the 
purchase to esure I think its fair that this sum is refunded.
The situation was something that understandably caused Mr and Mrs L distress and 
inconvenience. Repairing the leak was not something under esures control given that lay 
with the local Council. From looking at everything esure has sent I can see there were clear 
challenges in Mr and Mrs L getting sufficient information and explanation from esures 
agents about the detail and progress of the claim. And I dont think esure has fairly reviewed 
the costs of the claim Mr and Mrs L have incurred over and above the cash settlement. This 
could and should have been reviewed more fully and earlier such that costs related to the 
claim could be paid in full and at the earliest point. So, I think £200 is a fair reflection. 
Putting things right
1. esure needs to review all costs at items A to L above taking into account the findings 
in this decision and evidence that Mr and Mrs L provide to substantiate their losses:
a. esure must add simple interest at 8% per year on any amounts it pays from 
the date Mr and Mrs L paid the cost until the date esure sends its payment
2. esure must pay £200 compensation for distress and inconvenience:
a. esure must pay this amount within 28 days of the date on which we advise it 
that Mr and Mrs L have accepted this decision. If esure does not, then it must 
add simple interest at 8% per year from the date of this decision to the date it 
sends payment.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require esure Insurance Limited to put things right in the way 
detailed above Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 May 2023.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman