DRN-1924443
The complaint
Miss M complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt provide her with the information she 
needed when she was considering making an international transfer. She complains that she 
wasnt provided the service she shouldve in relation to her subsequent complaint.
What happened
Miss M contacted HSBC to discuss its international transfer process. She said she had to 
make several calls because the information she received wasnt sufficient and she had to 
seek further clarification. Following the calls, she says she was given an indicative rate for 
her transfer which would result in receiving just under £45,000 minus the receiving fee.
The transfer was made from overseas into Miss Ms sisters account and the money arrived 
on 19 June 2019. She said the amount received was £2,000 less than expected. She 
contacted HSBC and asked again about what would be received when the transfer was 
made and said she was again told a rate that would result in just under £45,000. She asked 
why the amount received was £2,000 less and was told that the rate was indictive. Miss M 
said that the rates hadnt changed by an amount that would reflect the loss. 
Miss M visited her local bank branch and said she was told the notes from the transfer 
suggested the payment was being sent overseas rather than being received from overseas 
and that she may have been given the wrong exchange rate. 
Miss M said that the payment was made to her sisters account and she was given incorrect 
advice about how the complaints needed to be made resulting in her spending time trying to 
set up a joint complaint when separate complaints were required.
Miss M wants to receive the difference between the amount she expected to be received into 
her sisters account, and the amount received. She also wants compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience she has been caused.
HSBC said that Miss M was correctly told that the rates she was being given were indicative 
and that the only way to confirm the amount that would be received would be for the rate to 
be booked by the originator when they sent the money.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint regarding the exchange rate difference. She did 
say that HSBC didnt provide the service it should have meaning that Miss M had to make 
several calls before she received all the information she needed. Because of this she 
recommended that HSBC pay Miss M £100 compensation. 
HSBC agreed with our investigators recommendation. Miss M didnt. She reiterated her 
concerns that there was a difference between indicative and live rates and that meant she 
received misleading information. She also reiterated her comments about the level of service 
received. She didnt think that £100 was enough to address the issues she had experienced.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss M has complained about the shortfall she says occurred when money was transferred 
from an overseas account. The recipient of the money was not Miss M, but her sister, and so 
I cannot say that Miss M suffered a financial loss. However, Miss M was the person who 
contacted HSBC about how an international transfer would work and to understand the costs 
and process involved so that she could determine the best way to have the funds transferred 
from overseas. Based on the information she received she decided to have the funds 
transferred to her sisters account. 
I have listened to calls that took place before the transfer and can understand why Miss M 
was frustrated by the service she received. She had to make multiple calls to get a clear 
understanding of the process and during the calls she was put on hold, had to wait while the 
information was received, and had to repeat her requests.
Miss M has said that the rates provided were misleading as they didnt change that much 
from when they were quoted to when the transfer took place yet there was a large difference 
in the amount received. She said that based on the information she had received from HSBC 
the money received by her sister was around £2,000 less than expected. 
I have listened to the calls and Miss M was given the exchange rate on some of these. The 
transaction was discussed, and it was understood that the transfer was from an overseas 
account to a UK account. When rates were given it was made clear that the rates were 
indicative, and Miss M was told that the rate couldnt be confirmed unless it was booked with 
the sending bank. Miss M didnt challenge the rates on the calls but instead focused on 
trying to understand how much the charges would be so she could identify the best 
approach to receiving the money. She was told about a charge that would be applied by 
HSBC and it was also said that an intermediary bank could be used and that the charges for 
that bank couldnt be provided. Based on what I have received, I do not find that I have 
enough to say that Miss M was given misleading information about the exchange rate. 
Miss M also complained about the information she was given regarding setting up a 
complaint with her sister. Given the issues that have been raised, and the process that was 
undertaken, I find it reasonable that a separate complaint was needed to be set up regarding 
Miss Ms sisters account. I havent received any information to suggest that Miss M was 
given misleading information regarding the complaint process.
This decision is about the service Miss M received when trying to understand the process of 
the international transfer. Overall, I understand why Miss M is upset by the experience she 
has had, but I do not find that I have enough evidence to say the exchange rates provided 
were misleading. Therefore, I agree with our investigators recommendation that she be paid 
£100 compensation.My final decision
My final decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc should, as it has agreed, pay Miss M £100 to 
compensate her for the service provided when she was asking about an international 
transfer.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 September 2020.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman