DRN-2794933
The complaint
This complaint is about a secured loan Mr A and Ms B took out in May 2008. The loan was 
originally taken out with a business I will call F, and ownership of the loan was passed to 
Elderbridge Limited in January 2016. Mr A and Ms B are unhappy that they still owe so much 
on the loan after they thought it had been repaid. 
What happened
On 23 February 2007 Mr A and Ms B took out a secured loan with F. They borrowed 
£48,000 over a period of 15 years. The account went into arrears in 2012 and in July 2015 F 
suspended the interest on the account, at which time the arrears stood at around £3,850, 
and the balance at around £35,850.
Since then Mr A and Ms B have paid around £35,850 to the account, and in March 2020 
believed theyd repaid it. In June 2020 Elderbridge notified then there was around £7,600 still 
outstanding due to the interest that had been supressed since July 2015.
Mr A and Ms B complained to Elderbridge that there was still a debt outstanding, and about 
collections activities Elderbridge had been undertaking. Elderbridge had the phone number 
for an elderly relative of Ms B on file and had been phoning that number even after saying it 
would delete the number from its records. Elderbridge didnt uphold the main thrust of the 
complaint, but apologised for not deleting the number when it said it would. It initially offered 
£25 compensation for that error, which it later offered to increase to £50.
Unhappy with Elderbridges response, Mr A and Ms B brought their complaint to us. An 
investigator looked at it but he didnt think it should be upheld. Mr A and Ms B disagreed with 
the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. 
All I can consider here is Elderbridges actions since it took over the loan. I understand Mr A 
and Ms B also want to complain about what happened when F supressed the interest but 
that doesnt form part of this complaint. Our investigator will discuss with Mr A and Ms B 
what needs to be done to move that separate complaint forward.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file, Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. This 
service is impartial between, and independent from, consumers and businesses. What this 
means is that we dont represent either party, and I dont act under eithers instructions or 
take directions on how a complaint will be looked at or what questions should be asked or 
answered.
Mr A and Ms B had been struggling to pay their loan. One particular thing that was done to 
help them was to stop adding interest onto the loan account as otherwise theyd be paying 
interest on interest - known as compound interest - if they didnt keep up their payments. 
Instead F carried on calculating the interest in the background, as it was still due, but as it 
wasnt applied to the account it didnt attract interest itself. This is known as simple interest. 
In effect, in order to prevent interest accruing on unpaid interest, F ring-fenced the interest 
in a separate account, so that it didnt attract further compound interest.
This also meant any payments Mr A and Ms B made after that point went towards reducing 
their arrears, and then repaying the capital. Ultimately, it meant Mr A and Ms B were 
charged less interest than they would have been otherwise. 
The figures on the loan agreement are based on a person paying all of the contractual 
monthly repayments in full and on time and no fees or charges being added. Clearly that 
didnt happen here as Mr A and Ms B have been in arrears. The contract Mr A and Ms B 
entered into required each contractual monthly payment to be made in full and on time in the 
month it was due. As interest is constantly being charged this means its not as simple as 
making up a missed payment, theres also the extra interest incurred for every day that 
payment is overdue. This interest can add up significantly as for each delayed payment extra 
interest will be charged on the unpaid capital for every day it is late. 
Im not making any findings here about the decision by F to suppress interest on the 
account, merely explaining how it worked. I can only consider the complaint against 
Elderbridge in relation to what happened after it took over the loan in January 2016.
We dont provide an auditing service or carry out a forensic analysis of loan records. But Ive 
looked at the transaction history and theres nothing on there that appears unusual or 
incorrect since Elderbridge took over the loan (which, as I said above, is all Im considering 
here). Of course, its open to Mr A and Ms B to instruct an independent and suitably-qualified 
professional to audit their account. But that would have to be at their expense - though if 
errors were found to their financial detriment, they could complain about them and their costs 
in discovering them could be taken into account in putting matters right.
Mr A and Ms B have said the fact Elderbridge didnt tell them about the separate suppressed 
interest account denied them the opportunity to pay enough to also clear that amount by 
September 2020, which was the point they were going to have other increased expenditure 
elsewhere so was when they wanted to clear this loan by. Ive considered this point very 
carefully but Im not persuaded by it.
Having reviewed the transactions since January 2016 I can see Mr A and Ms B started off by 
paying around £625 a month, then that changed to an amount that varied month on month 
between £600 and £700 until February 2019 when Ms B contacted Elderbridge to say they 
could only pay £10 that month. The reasons given were that they had a tax bill and car tax to 
pay. The notes indicate Ms B said shed overpay to clear the arrears as quickly as possible, 
but that she didnt work (being in receipt of carers allowance for looking after an older family 
member).
It took them around two and a half years to clear the arrears that were present in July 2015, 
and in all that time the arrears would have been showing on their credit files and affecting 
their credit records. It seems likely that if theyd comfortably been able to afford more each 
month then Mr A and Ms B would have paid more to get the arrears cleared as quickly as 
they could.
When considering any complaint like this, as Mr A and Ms B are the ones bringing the 
complaint against Elderbridge, to uphold the complaint Mr A and Ms Bs version needs to be more likely than Elderbridges version; not just as likely. Taking everything into account - 
including their variable payment history indicating they were already paying the most they 
were comfortable with each month, the February 2019 note which indicates they had no 
buffer available to cover those bills, and their statement that the payments theyd made were 
After concerted effort and much sacrifice - it seems unlikely that Mr A and Ms B could have 
sustainably managed to have paid extra each month such that they would have been able to 
repay the additional £7,600 if theyd been aware of it.
It isnt in dispute that the letters issued by Elderbridge didnt mention the supressed interest, 
and the word balance simply referred to the main account without separately listing the 
account that held the supressed interest. This is what we refer to as a mis-representation.
When were looking at complaints about mis-representations we consider the appropriate 
remedy is to place the consumer in the position they would be in if the incorrect information 
hadnt been given. We dont put them in the position they would be in if it had been correct. If 
the correct information had been given, Mr A and Ms B would have been told there was the 
separate supressed interest account. They could never have been in the position where they 
dont have to repay that amount. 
On balance, Im not persuaded that Mr A and Ms B would have been able to pay more 
overall than they were already paying towards their loan so Im satisfied that they havent 
been financially disadvantaged by Elderbridge not telling them about the separate 
suppressed interest account. Thats because, even if theyd known about it I dont think Mr A 
and Ms B could have been able to comfortably pay more each month to the level theyd 
need to have done to also clear the full balance on that account by their intended date.
Were not able to get involved in what happens now. If Mr A and Ms B cant afford to make 
the full payment going forward then they need to contact Elderbridge to discuss their options, 
either directly or with the help of someone trained to give them free debt advice - such as 
StepChange or Citizens Advice. If Mr A and Ms B were unhappy with the outcome of those 
discussions with Elderbridge then that could be a new complaint they could refer to us at the 
time (subject to our rules, of course). But we cant get involved unless Elderbridge has had a 
chance to discuss the options with Mr A and Ms B, and then had the opportunity to deal with 
a complaint from Mr A and Ms B about those discussions. 
Id encourage Mr A and Ms B to contact Elderbridge (either directly, or via an agency as Ive 
explained above) and have an open and honest conversation about their circumstances and 
worries for both now and the future. Theyll need to work together and that means Mr A and 
Ms B will need to be frank about their situation. And Elderbridge will need to listen to what 
they have to say and, fairly and sympathetically, see if theres a way to work with them to 
agree a way forward. 
Finally, Ive considered the fact Elderbridge didnt delete the phone number it held on file 
when asked to do so. Whilst Im sorry to hear about the impact the calls from Elderbridge 
had on Ms Bs relative thats not something Im able to consider here. Thats because that 
relative isnt Elderbridges customer in this transaction, and under our rules I can only 
consider complaints from a customer of the business. So whilst I can award compensation 
for the inconvenience caused to Mr A and Ms B for having to ask again for the phone 
number to be removed after theyd been told it had been deleted, I cant take into account 
the impact the fact it wasnt removed had on the relative. Having considered everything Im 
satisfied the £50 already offered by Elderbridge is fair for that mistake, so I make no further 
order or award.
I understand Mr A and Ms B feel Elderbridges contact to be harassment, and intimidatory. 
How a business chooses to engage when a debt is owed to it is generally a matter of its commercial judgement, as long as it doesnt breach any rules or regulations. Were not the 
regulator so it isnt our role to monitor that. Ive looked at the level of contact on the account  
and the wording on the letters  and I cant say that Elderbridge treated Mr A and Ms B 
unfairly  or harassed them  when making contact.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint in the sense Im satisfied the offer of £50 made by Elderbridge 
Limited is fair and reasonable. I leave it to Mr A and Ms B to decide if now, on reflection, they 
want to contact Elderbridge directly to accept that sum.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Ms B to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 July 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman