DRN-3087470
The complaint
A complaint has been brought by the estate of the late Mrs C about poor communication and 
unclear documentation in relation to her lifetime equity release mortgage, originally taken out 
with Northern Rock but which is now owned by Pearl Group Management Services Limited 
(trading as Phoenix Group and referred to here as Phoenix).  The estate is represented 
by the executor of Mrs Cs estate. As they have the same initial for their surnames, I will 
refer to the executor as Ms C.
What happened
In August 1999 Mrs C and her husband, Mr C took out an equity release mortgage, 
borrowing £29,950. In December 2003 they took out a further advance of £20,800. 
The mortgage was subsequently transferred to Papilio UK Equity Release Mortgages 
Limited, but on 31 January 2018 the mortgage was transferred to Phoenix, which has 
been responsible for administering the account in line with the original terms and 
conditions since that date.
In common with this type of mortgage, no monthly repayments are required; instead 
interest rolls up into the account balance. The total debt is repayable on the death of the 
last surviving borrower, or if they go into long-term nursing care or on voluntary sale of 
the property. 
I am sorry to note that Mr C passed away in May 2019, and after that the mortgage was 
held in the sole name of Mrs C.
In February 2020 Mrs C contacted Phoenix with a complaint about the mortgage. Mrs C 
was unhappy that shed not been properly informed of her choices over the years since 
she took out the mortgage, specifically in relation to transferring the mortgage onto 
another property, or advising her when the early repayment charge (ERC) period had 
expired. Mrs C thought the tariff was unclear, with no explanation of the scenarios in 
which fees would be applied. As a result of all this, Mrs C thought she was paying a 
higher rate of interest than she needed.
Phoenix didnt uphold the complaint, explaining in its final response letter that it wasnt 
qualified to provide financial advice. Phoenix explained that the original mortgage offer 
and terms and conditions set out the details of the ERC and about transferring the 
mortgage. 
Dissatisfied with Phoenixs response, Ms C, on behalf of Mrs C, complained to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service about the lack of information given to her since the 
mortgage had been taken out. Mrs C was also unhappy about the information requested 
by Phoenix after Mr C had passed away.
Mrs C said that she thought the mortgage hadnt been properly explained to her and 
Mr C at the time they took it out and that the lending was irresponsible. She confirmed 
she wanted us to consider all the issues shed raised with Phoenix. Mrs C believed this 
lack of clarity would deter customers from daring to ask questions.
An investigator looked at the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He explained 
that Phoenix wasnt responsible either for the sale of the mortgage or the original lending 
decision. The investigator was also satisfied that Phoenix wasnt under any obligation to 
tell customers about other equity release products that might have become available 
since this mortgage had been taken out. He was also satisfied that the tariff of charges 
was clear in that it explained the charges Phoenix could make and the circumstances in 
which they would apply.
In relation to the documentation requested after Mr C had died, the investigator thought 
it was reasonable for Phoenix to confirm that Mrs C was still living in the property, as this 
affected whether or not the mortgage would need to be repaid. Phoenix hadnt receiving 
the documents requested. Although Ms C had said that her mother had been asked to 
provide proof of income, the investigator found no evidence Phoenix had requested this.
Overall, the investigator didnt think Phoenix had done anything wrong.
Mrs C asked for an ombudsman to issue a final decision.
Before a decision could be issued, sadly Mrs C passed away, in February 2021. Ms C, 
as Executor of Mrs Cs estate, has now take over the complaint. I understand Mrs Cs 
house has now been sold and the mortgage has been repaid in full.
Ms C has also raised some further concerns relating to the way Phoenix has dealt with 
her in her role as Executor, and is unhappy about the correspondence Phoenix sent to 
her about dealing with the mortgage following Mrs Cs death.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am very sorry to note that Mrs C has passed away, and I would like to offer my sincere 
condolences to Ms C. 
Ive taken careful note of everything Ms C has said about the complaint. Ill start by 
explaining the scope of my powers and what I am able to consider in this final decision.
Phoenix wasnt the original lender, nor did it arrange or sell the mortgage in 1999. I can only 
consider a complaint against Phoenix in relation to its own actions since it took over the 
mortgage on 31 January 2018, and not the actions of other businesses that were involved in 
the sale and lending in 1999 or the administration of the mortgage account before Phoenix 
took it over. 
So although Ive read whats been said about the sale of the mortgage, and about the 
original lending decision, those arent issues I can consider here. If Ms C is unhappy about 
the sale of the mortgage in 1999, she will need to raise a complaint on behalf of the estate to 
the broker responsible for this. Any complaints about the lending decision or administration 
of the mortgage prior to 31 January 2018 will need to be referred to the relevant businesses.Ms C has also complained about the way Phoenix has dealt with her as Executor since 
Mrs C passed away, and the distress and inconvenience its correspondence has caused 
her. But Im afraid I cant look at those issues either.
Ive no doubt Ms C has been caused upset by having to deal with Phoenix after Mrs C 
passed away. However, under our rules, I cant consider Ms Cs complaint about this. Our 
rules state that we can consider a complaint brought by an eligible complainant (generally, 
the customer of the business concerned). In this case, Phoenixs customer was Mrs C. In the 
case of a deceased customer, our rules say we can consider the complaint if it is brought by 
a party authorised by law to represent the estate, in other words, the executor, Ms C. 
Because Ms C is not Phoenixs customer, I cant consider a complaint from her about the 
impact this matter has had on her. Ms C is not an eligible complainant in her own right in 
relation to the mortgage with Phoenix. In this case, the eligible complainant is the estate of 
the late Mrs C, and an estate cannot suffer distress and inconvenience. I appreciate this will 
be unwelcome news for Ms C, but I am bound by our rules.
Turning now to the issues I can consider, I dont think Phoenix has done anything wrong. Ill 
explain why.
First of all, Im satisfied the tariff of charges is clear about the charges that Phoenix is 
allowed to apply, and the circumstances in which those charges would arise. I dont think the 
charges are deliberately obtuse in order to deter customers from asking questions about 
them. I can find no ambiguity in the list of charges, and Im satisfied the explanations for the 
charges  including what they are for and when they might be applied  are clear.
An equity release mortgage is a long-term product, intended to last for the lifetime of the 
borrower  or until the borrower needs long-term care. Phoenix was under no obligation to 
carry out a regular financial review of the product to ascertain whether or not Mr and Mrs C 
(and later Mrs C alone) were still happy with it or to suggest alternatives. There is nothing in 
Phoenixs records to show that Mr C or Mrs C contacted Phoenix to ask about moving their 
mortgage or refinancing onto a better interest rate. Im satisfied that if Mr C or Mrs C had 
asked Phoenix about this, they would have been referred to their own financial adviser.
There was also no requirement for Phoenix to explain the terms and conditions relating to 
porting the mortgage in the annual statements; those terms were covered in the point of sale 
documentation from 1999. Regulations require Phoenix to set out in the annual statements 
any early repayment charge. The annual statements I have seen from the point Phoenix took 
over the mortgage in 2018 show that there was no early repayment charge.
Ms C says that, after Mr C passed away, Mrs C was asked at least five times by Phoenix to 
provide proof of identity and proof of income. Ive looked at what happened here. There is no 
evidence to suggest Phoenix ever asked for proof of income. 
Im satisfied that the information Phoenix requested relating to Mrs Cs continuing occupation 
of the property was reasonable. If Mrs C was no longer in occupation, then the property 
would have to be sold. Phoenixs records show that it had to chase this information several 
times over a six-month period, and was told by Ms C in December 2019 that Mrs C didnt 
want to send in any documentation. Overall, I dont think Phoenix did anything wrong here.
Having given careful consideration to everything Ms C has told us, and after reviewing the 
file in detail, I dont think Phoenix has done anything wrong. I know this wasnt the outcome 
Ms C was hoping for  and I am truly sorry if my decision adds to her distress.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs C 
to accept or reject my decision before 8 November 2021.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman