DRN-2364424
The complaint
Mr I has complained about the way Covea Insurance plc handled a claim he made against 
his commercial van policy.
All references to the underwriter Covea in my decision includes its agents.
What happened
In November 2019 Mr I was involved in an incident with another vehicle. Having obtained 
details of what happened from Mr I and the other driver, Covea decided Mr I was at fault for 
the incident. Mr I doesnt dispute Coveas decision about liability. 
The excess under Mr Is policy was £600. This happens to be the approximate value of Mr 
Is van. As Mr I was deemed to be at fault for the incident, Covea settle the other drivers 
claim for their damage against Mr Is policy. 
Mr I initially told Covea he hadnt yet decided whether to claim against the policy. When he 
spoke to Covea later in December 2019, he told it hed arranged for his van to be scrapped. 
Mr I complained to Covea. He wanted to claim for the value of his van. He was unhappy that 
he owed the remaining yearly premium when his policy cancelled. Mr I said he was injured in 
the incident and wanted to claim under the policy for his personal injury and loss of earnings. 
Mr I said since the incident he hasnt been able to work properly. 
Covea said when Mr I scrapped his van, he hadnt followed the claims process. Once a 
vehicle is involved in an incident  and if Mr I wanted to make a claim  Covea would have 
arranged an inspection of the van to evaluate it. But Covea wasnt given this opportunity. 
Covea told Mr I there would be no claim to be made, given the estimated value of his van 
(£600), its age and the fact that it would have deducted £600 (policy excess) from any 
settlement made. In other words, the excess Mr I would owe would cancel any settlement 
Covea made for his van. 
If Mr I still wished to pursue a claim, Covea said it would consider. But it said Covea would 
deduct the excess and any salvage fee Mr I received from any settlement. And it said it 
would have to evaluate the van without inspection. 
Under the terms of Mr Is policy Covea said he correctly owed the full years premium as it 
had received a claim. As Mr I was at fault for the incident, Covea said it couldnt recover his 
uninsured losses from the other drivers insurer. 
Mr I remained unhappy and asked us to look at his complaint. Hes unhappy that because he 
hasnt paid the balance of the premium, the debt has been passed to a debt recovery 
company. Mr I doesnt believe he should have to pay this.
Our investigator thought Covea had acted correctly and in line with the policy. So he didnt 
recommend the complaint should be upheld.
Mr I didnt agree. He says hes unhappy with the behaviour of Covea, rather than the 
decision to settle the claim as a fault claim. He says he can provide evidence he didnt 
receive a payment for scrapping his van. He still wants Covea to deal with his claim.
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In October 2019 Mr Is policy schedule lists the value he gave for his van at £600. Covea set 
out the excess payable in the event of a claim was £600.
Mr Is policy says the most it will pay in the event of a claim is the market value of his van 
minus the excess payable under the policy. So Covea told Mr I that where the market value 
of Mr Is van at the time of loss is the same (or less) than the excess payable under the 
policy, then there is no settlement payable as the excess he would owe Covea is the same 
(or more) than the value of his van. I dont think there was anything wrong with the 
information Covea gave Mr I. 
Mr I says he can provide evidence that he didnt receive a payment for the salvage of his 
van. So if he still wants to pursue his claim, he can provide this to Covea. 
Covea cannot claim for Mr Is personal injury costs or other uninsured losses against the 
other driver as they arent the at fault party for the incident. 
Mr Is policy provides indemnity not just for his claim, but for any potential claim from a third 
party. As Covea has met a third party claim under the policy, it has met its obligations under 
the policy to provide indemnity. The contract Mr I holds with Covea for insurance is for a 
year. As Mr I scrapped his van, the item Covea insured under the policy no longer exists  
and so Covea correctly cancelled the policy. This means that Mr I correctly owes the full 
yearly premium. This is explained under the policy:
If your Policy is cancelled your Insurer wont refund the Premium for your Vehicle 
where a non-recoverable claim has been made during the Period of Cover. In this 
case, if youre paying by instalments under a loan arrangement, youll have to pay 
the balance of the loan agreement and our cancellation fee (if its 14 days or more 
since your Policy started). Youll also have to pay any interest and fees due under 
your Consumer Credit Agreement.
I understand Mr I will be disappointed with my decision. And I know hes upset at being 
pursued by a debt recovery agent for the balance he owes. But Covea has provided cover 
under the policy as it set out to do  and met the costs of a third party claim. I think its 
handling of Mr Is claim is fair and in line with the policy terms. So this means Im not asking 
it to do any more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2021.
 Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman