DRN-3222365
The complaint
Mr G complains that Zurich Insurance PLC (Zurich) avoided his motor insurance policy 
(treated it like it never existed) and refused to pay his claim.
What happened
Mr G took out a private clients motor insurance policy with Zurich through a broker over the 
telephone. The broker was acting on behalf of Mr G and not on behalf of Zurich in this 
transaction. The policy began on 27 November 2019, a few days later Mr G's car was the 
subject of an arson attack and he tried to make a claim.
Zurich said when purchasing the policy Mr G had incorrectly answered two questions that 
hed been asked on the phone, by the broker. It also said he hadnt corrected the answers 
when the information had been presented on the statement of fact document Zurich had 
provided to him via the broker. The questions were:
1. Has any driver or anyone to be insured had any insurance cancelled, declined, 
or refused, had any bankruptcies, CCJ's, financial restrictions or criminal 
convictions?
Mr G answered No to this question, but Zurich said Mr G had:
two County Court Judgements (CCJ) , one from 2014 and one from 2019
A criminal conviction
been refused renewal, by an insurer, on a motor insurance policy due to his 
claims history
been refused renewal, by an insurer, where he was not the policy holder (his 
wife was) but was a named driver and the owner of the car, due to the policy 
premiums being in arrears.
A home insurance policy avoided due to non-disclosure of a criminal 
conviction
2. Had any accidents or claims in the last five years?
Mr G disclosed he had the following:
13 November 2015  Theft  Fault £35,000
15 November 2017  accident  non-fault - £110,000
1 May 2018 - accident  non-fault £152,500
Zurich says the insurer that dealt with the 2018 accident has confirmed it has not 
been able to make a recovery for this claim and so it has not been recorded as a 
non-fault claim. 
Zurich also says there were four other claims that should have been disclosed:
two claims from 2015 on a commercial policy
two claims from 2015 where Mr G was not the policy holder (his wife was) but he was 
the named driver and owner of the vehicle
Zurich considered Mr G had deliberately made qualify misrepresentations, which entitled it to 
avoid his policy (treat it like it never existed) and decline his claim. 
Mr G sent an email to Zurich confirming that he was withdrawing the claim as the third party 
had accepted liability and was dealing with things through their insurers.
Mr G then brought his complaint to this service, asking for his policy to be reinstated and his 
claim to be paid. Our investigator initially upheld Mr G's complaint, but following further 
information being provided by Zurich, he changed his opinion and thought it should not be 
upheld. He thought there had been a qualifying misrepresentation which was deliberate or 
reckless and that Zurich were entitled to avoid Mr Gs policy and decline his claim.
Mr G doesn't agree with the investigator and has asked for an ombudsman's decision. He 
argued:
he has never had a CCJ
his criminal conviction is spent and so he did not have to declare it
he has never been refused insurance in his own name
policies where his wife was the policy holder should not be counted regarding refusal 
to renew
he has not had a policy cancelled or avoided previously
he believed the 2018 accident to be non-fault and so this was not a 
misrepresentation
he doesn't feel he needed to disclose the two claims on the commercial policy
he doesn't feel he needed to disclose the two claims where his wife was the policy 
holder and he was the named driver and owner of the vehicle.
Mr G has also made a point that he never received the statement of fact which Zurich sent to 
his broker. However, he says he did receive a statement of insurance from his broker which 
limits each of the questions he was asked to a five-year timeframe. He says this means 
taking into account the five-year time frame he answered all of the questions correctly.
The matter has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer.
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is  what CIDRA describes as  a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to 
be a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadn't made the misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualify misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Zurich thinks Mr G failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
answered the questions noted above.
I've looked at the questions as Mr G was asked them, on the telephone by his broker, these 
are the same questions that were contained in the statement of fact the broker was sent by 
Zurich. I'm satisfied the questions were clear and the only one that was limited to a 
timeframe was the question about his claims history. 
I thought about the evidence, for each alleged misrepresentation, that both Zurich and Mr G 
have provided in support of their versions of events:
Mr G has said he has never had a CCJ, but Zurich has provided evidence showing a 
CCJ was entered against Mr G on 16 September 2014. I haven't seen any evidence 
of the later 2019 CCJ. But I'm satisfied at least one existed at the time the policy 
began.
Zurich has contacted Mr G's previous insurers who have in turn provided information 
showing they declined to offer renewal terms due to Mr G's previous claims history. 
I'm satisfied this constitutes a refusal to insure, however I can't be sure that Mr G was 
aware of this and so can't fairly say he misrepresented the facts about this.
The only evidence I've seen regarding Mr G's criminal convictions, show one 
conviction that was spent in May 2015. So, I'm satisfied he didn't have to disclose 
this when taking out the policy.
Mr G's previous insurer has provided to Zurich, and in turn Zurich to us, evidence in 
the form of an insurance investigation report. Where Mr G told the investigator, who 
was looking into a claim for him, he has previously had a policy avoided for the non-
disclosure of his conviction.
 Mr G has contacted the insurer directly and asked for evidence of the avoidance, 
that insurer has told Mr G it has no record of an avoided policy for him on its system. 
He feels this proves there was no avoidance. But I don't agree it proves this, as the 
insurer has said the lack of evidence is due to the information no longer being on its 
system due to the passage of time, rather than it never existing. Based on this and 
evidence it provided when the information was still available, I'm satisfied Mr G has 
previously had an insurance policy avoided. And so misrepresented when he 
answered this questionMr G says he did not know the insurer of the 2018 claim had not been able to recover 
the costs from it. That insurer has provided evidence to Zurich, and in turn us, that it 
confirmed in an email to Mr G in January 2019 that the claim was still open, and no 
recovery had been made. It also has system notes saying Mr G was told in a 
telephone conversation on 29 July 2019 they would not be able to make a recovery. 
So, Im satisfied he should have known this wasnt a non-fault claim, and 
misrepresented the facts of this.
I haven't made a finding on if Mr G needed to disclose claims that were made under either 
his commercial policy or his wife's policies. Nor have I made a finding on if he should have to 
declare cancellations or refusals to renew that related to his wife's policy. Because I don't 
think I need to do so in order to reach the right outcome here.
While I don't agree that Mr G has misrepresented in every point, overall, I do agree he failed 
to take reasonable care not to make misrepresentations when taking out the insurance 
policy with Zurich.
Zurich has provided evidence, in the form of a statement from its underwriter confirming that 
had Mr G answered the questions correctly, as he should have, it would never have entered 
into the contract of insurance with him. This means I'm satisfied Mr G's misrepresentation 
was a qualifying one.
Zurich has classified Mr G's misrepresentations as deliberate, based on both the number of 
misrepresentations and the broad variety of the questions that were answered incorrectly. 
And I'm satisfied, based on the evidence I've seen and mentioned above, he should have 
known he wasn't answering some of those questions correctly. So, it follows, I agree they 
should be treated as deliberate misrepresentations.
As I'm satisfied Mr G's misrepresentations should be treated as deliberate, I've looked at the 
actions Zurich can take in accordance with CIDRA.
Where there has been a deliberate misrepresentation CIDRA allows an insurer to apply the 
following remedies:
avoid the policy and keep the premiums
refuse to cover any claim as effectively the policy never existed
look to recover any costs it's paid to a third-party on any claim after the 
misrepresentation
In Mr G's case, Zurich has avoided the policy and refused to cover the claim. And I'm 
satisfied it has done so fairly.
I understand Mr G's strength of feeling about the fact he did not receive the statement of 
fact Zurich provided to his broker. But this doesn't change things for me as Mr G was asked 
clear questions on the phone and provided incorrect answers in the moment. If Mr G feels 
his broker has disadvantaged him by not forwarding information from Zurich this is 
something, he would need to take up with them, as they were not acting on behalf of Zurich 
but on behalf of him.
I know this isn't the outcome Mr G was hoping for and he will be disappointed by it. But my 
decision ends what we  in trying to resolve his dispute with Zurich  can do for him.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2022.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman