DRN-3455974
The complaint
Mr W, a sole trader, has complained about his commercial motor trade insurer, Aviva 
Insurance Limited, because it has declined his claim made for damage to his property 
caused by corroded fuel lines (for vehicle fuel pumps), which he believes resulted from 
leaking sewage water.
What happened
Mr W had a policy with Aviva in 2013, through 2014 and into 2015. It lapsed at the end of 
August 2015.
In late 2014, following some work in the area by the local council in 2013/early 2014, Mr W 
was notified by his neighbour that they could smell fuel. Mr W completed some initial checks 
and couldnt identify a leak but the council required, and/or did, further checks. In 2017, 
following soil sampling, which identified fuel contaminants in the soil, and some excavation 
works, damage was found to the fuel lines that serviced the pumps at Mr Ws property. He 
made a claim to Aviva as he felt the leak dated back to the time of the Aviva policy in 2014 
when his neighbour had first smelt fuel. Mr W also obtained two forensic reports from an 
engineer which concluded the councils work had likely exposed the pipes to sewage leaking 
from council water pipes, and this had cause accelerated corrosion to occur, damaging the 
pipes in a way that wouldnt be, and hadnt been, caused without that exposure.  
Aviva didnt accept the findings of the engineer. Aviva thought the engineers conclusions 
were somewhat inconclusive. And, in any event, it noted the reference to corrosion, feeling 
this was likely something which had occurred gradually. It referred Mr W to the policy 
exclusion for gradual damage. It said it was also unclear, whilst a suspected date of loss had 
been given as 2014, when the damage had first started occurring. During continued 
investigations into the claim in 2019 Mr W told Aviva that it was estimated that work to 
resolve the contamination at his property would likely cost £83,700 plus VAT. But Aviva 
wasnt prepared to accept any liability for the loss. Ultimately the council took over the 
remediation works and told Mr W it would bill him once it is all completed.
When Mr W complained to this service he said he wanted Aviva to cover the cost of 
remediation work at his property and his legal fees  at that time around £70,000, as well as 
paying compensation for the upset caused by its delay and mis-application of the policy 
wording. Our Investigator noted the nature of the pipes in question. That being they were 
underground and at least topped by concrete. He thought it wasnt reasonable for Aviva to 
rely on the gradually operating cause exclusion to decline the claim. He said it should pay 
the claim, plus interest. He didnt recommend payment of legal fees or compensation.
Mr W was satisfied by the findings. Aviva said it disagreed with them. Aviva explained its 
general dissatisfaction with this services approach on gradual cause exclusions. But said 
that, in any event, it disagrees that the fuel pipe was damaged solely by exposure to leaking 
water. And, even if it was, that happened gradually and by a process of corrosion, with both 
corrosion and gradual cause damage being excluded under the cover. Aviva also pointed 
out that it was only on risk until 2015, and the leak, and damage, had continued well past 
that date. The complaint was passed to me for consideration.
I felt it should be upheld in that I thought Aviva should be paying towards the councils 
charges to Mr W, but not the full amount. Nor did I think it should have to reimburse Mr Ws 
legal fees, nor pay compensation. I issued a provisional decision the findings of which were:
the damage in question
The ground around, and the buildings of the garage have been polluted and contaminated 
by leaking fuel. I think its fair to say that both parties seem to agree that the leak came from 
a particular section of pipe, servicing the garages forecourt petrol pump. And that the pipe 
had leaked because it had become corroded. I think its further fair to say that both parties 
accept that corrosion does occur gradually but that, in this case, the process had likely 
occurred more quickly than normal. With the accelerated period likely starting in 2013 when 
the council exposed the pipe. The damaged pipe having been removed in 2017.
policy cover
The policy was in place in 2013, 2014 and through to the end of August 2015. The policy 
offers cover for damage occurring during the period of cover. The policy says it will pay to 
repair a property to the condition it was in immediately before the loss.
The policy is one known in the industry as all risks. Essentially damage howsoever 
caused is covered. But like all insurance policies there are exclusions to the cover  so if 
damage is caused in a way the policy specifically excludes, there wont be any cover for it. 
policy exclusions
The policy does exclude gradual deterioration and wear and tear. It also separately excludes 
damage caused by corrosion (although corrosion is, in itself, a gradual process of 
deterioration).
The policy also excludes damage caused by pollution and contamination  unless that is to 
vehicles. But, that exclusion continues to explain that, unless otherwise excluded, there will 
be cover for pollution and contamination where that is caused by a defined contingency. 
The policy says that escape of water is a defined contingency.
gradual cause exclusions
As noted by our Investigator, this service has an established approach to gradual cause 
exclusions. And this approach isnt restricted to just exclusions which specifically refer to 
something like damage occurring gradually. Rather our approach applies to any exclusion 
that seeks to limit an insurers liability for any type of gradual damage. As I noted above, 
corrosion, by its nature, occurs gradually. So the corrosion exclusion falls for consideration 
under our gradual cause approach just as equally as the specific exclusion for gradual 
deterioration does. 
Essentially our approach notes that the policy allows for damage like this to be excluded. But 
we consider whether its fair for an insurer to rely on that term to decline liability. In short we 
consider whether a policyholder, where damage is occurring out of sight, acted reasonably 
during the period in question, given what they knew or reasonably should have known, to 
prevent and forestall damage occurring. If we think they acted reasonably then we usually 
wont find it fair for an insurer to rely on the exclusion to decline the claim.
the cause of the damage in question
The most persuasive evidence Ive seen are the two reports from the engineer. I say that not 
least as, as far Ive seen, he seems the most appropriately qualified person to give a view on 
the damage. But I also find his first report completed in 2018 to be sufficiently detailed and 
reasoned to be compelling. He doesnt (as Aviva has noted) use phrases such as I think this 
is what most likely happened. But the thrust of the report overall leads me to think that the pipes exposure to sewage water was most likely a dominant cause of the leak. And his 
finding in that report is supported by the further report completed in 2021, after hed been 
able to examine sections of pipe that had not been exposed to sewage water and compare 
their condition to the section of pipe which had (and had leaked). Im satisfied that, but for 
the fact the pipe was exposed to sewage water, it wouldnt have leaked causing damage, in 
the form of pollution and contamination, to Mr Ws property, including its surrounding land.
As noted above, the policy offers cover for pollution and contamination where that is caused 
by a defined contingency. Sewage water should not have been in the ground around the 
pipe. It had escaped its confines of the nearby drains. Escape of water is a defined 
contingency. So unless I think Aviva can reasonably rely on the gradual deterioration or 
corrosion exclusion (gradual damage exclusions) to decline the claim, it will have to cover 
the damage which occurred during its period of cover.
can Aviva fairly and reasonably rely on the gradual damage exclusions? 
I think Mr W acted reasonably during the period of cover. Ive not seen that the council 
consulted him on work it was intending to do in 2013 such that he was remiss for not 
ensuring he oversaw that work. I dont think he had any cause, before his neighbour alerted 
him to a smell of fuel in later 2014, to think that any damage might have occurred or any leak 
was in progress. Mr W says that once he was contacted by his neighbour, he checked his 
fuel level carefully and didnt detect a leak. I accept his word in this respect. I dont think its 
likely hed have ignored that, or that when he did checks hed have ignored an identifiable 
loss of fuel. From a business income perspective alone that just wouldnt make sense. So 
I think he most likely acted reasonably to follow up on the report of a smell of fuel and found 
nothing to alarm him or make him think there was a leak in progress.
Seemingly though the smell of fuel hadnt gone away, and it worried the neighbour so much 
that in around early 2015 they contacted the council. From there, from what I have seen, the 
council dictated what tests and enquiries were needed. And also from what I have seen, 
Mr W complied with those requests, seeming to work with the council to assist it in 
establishing the cause of the smell. At the time Aviva came off risk in late summer 2015, the 
leak had yet to be found. And no damage and/or loss, or liability for the same had yet been 
established. So I dont think if Mr W had contacted Aviva at any time before 2015, anything 
different would have happened. I think enquiries would have remained on-going and the 
damage would have continued as it did. In the circumstances I dont think it would be fair or 
reasonable for Aviva to be able to decline liability based on the gradual cause exclusions. 
how should this be settled
But damage was continuing in 2015, and it didnt stop occurring until summer 2017. Water 
was continuing to affect and further corrode the pipe and/or further fuel was leaking out 
causing damage. So damage was occurring after Avivas policy ended. And that policy only 
offered cover against damage occurring during its term. So, whilst it wasnt Mr Ws fault that 
damage continued to occur after the policy ended, it wasnt Avivas fault either. And I cant 
say it would be fair or reasonable for it to be made liable for damage that so clearly sits 
outside the scope of the cover of the policy (because it covers damage occurring during its 
term). 
Mr W has shown a repair estimate completed for him by a remediation company. The 
company had confirmed that the work required to reinstate Mr Ws property would likely cost 
£83,700 plus VAT. But this company is not doing the work on behalf of the council and the 
council will be billing Mr W for work done once the programme of work has completed. And 
I see that the council has recently written to Mr W to advise that the cost of necessary works 
(not just those at Mr Ws property) has increased by up to £100,000 (although from its letter 
it isnt clear how the cost for work is split between Mr Ws property and any other works necessary in its vicinity). As the council have taken over the works, I have no way to 
reasonably question or challenge the scope or its cost.
But, that said, I think I have to have regard to whether all the work detailed fairly falls for 
cover under the policy. And I dont think it does. My concern in this respect is the work to 
decontaminate and decommission the underground fuel storage tanks. I see that, in 2017, 
due to the leak, Mr W stopped being licensed for selling fuel. The council also clearly had 
environmental concerns, and it wanted to mitigate the future risk of contamination in the area 
around the garage. It seems most likely to me those two factors are the main reasons for the 
tanks needing to be removed. In any event the tanks are not damage to the property 
caused by the leak resulting from the escape of water. And they werent the cause of the 
damage which occurred during the period of cover. As Ive said, its damage to the property, 
occurring during the period of cover that the policy promises to repair. So I intend to discount 
any liability for Aviva for the cost of this work, along with the associated VAT.
As Ive explained, Im satisfied that Aviva has some liability for the other work to remediate 
Mr Ws property and its cost. Ive no real way to know how much damage occurred during 
Avivas time on risk. So Im going to take a broad brush approach to this in order to reach 
what I think is a fair outcome. I think the damage was most likely going on for no more than 
four years  2013 to 2017. And Aviva came off risk roughly half-way through that four-year 
period. So as it was on risk for roughly half the time, I think it fair to say its reasonably liable 
to Mr W for half the cost charged to him by the council, inclusive of VAT, for the work to 
remediate his property, not including any costs associated with decontaminating and 
decommissioning the fuel tanks. As Mr W hasnt paid the council yet, I wont be requiring 
Aviva to add interest to any settlement made. 
legal fees
It is not this services usual approach to require a respondent to a complaint to reimburse 
legal fees incurred by the complainant. That is because we are a free service. Put simply, 
when Mr W approached Aviva in 2017, and became unhappy with how it was handling his 
claim, with further disappointment occurring when it declined all liability for it, he could have 
complained to us directly. He did not need legal support for that. And if, during the claim with 
Aviva, he felt that a legal representative would be better placed to argue his claim for him, 
that was his choice to make. The policy didnt require it, and whilst I think Aviva was wrong 
to decline all liability for this claim, an insurer disputing and challenging a policyholder on 
liability is often a natural part of the claim process. So with regret for any worry this will 
cause Mr W, I dont intend to require Aviva to reimburse his legal fees.
compensation
I dont think this was a straightforward claim. Whilst I think Avivas ultimate decline of it was 
wrong I can see why, along the way, it had concerns about its liability for the reported loss. 
And I bear in mind that Ive not found it is liable for the loss in its entirety. I also bear in mind 
that much of Mr Ws worry has been caused by accruing legal fees, as well as his liability for 
damage to other properties (which are not the subject of the claim being considered under 
this complaint). Taking everything into account, Im not persuaded that an award of 
compensation, on this occasion, is fairly and reasonably due.  
Aviva said it generally accepted my findings  but it wanted to be clear that was on a without 
prejudice basis to any public liability claim. And it also said it wouldnt pay VAT to Mr W as 
he/the business is VAT registered (meaning he can claim any VAT for works back from 
HMRC).
Mr W said he was also generally pleased by my decision. But he said: he feels it doesnt account for Avivas loss adjuster having exacerbated the leak when 
investigating matters. 
my approach to the legal fees sits in contradiction of my comment that this was not a 
straight-forward claim which Aviva had rightly had liability concerns for. 
its not reasonable to think that he, as a layperson could have developed the technical 
arguments on cover without legal support. 
additional cover under trace and access and debris removal covers should be available.
interest should be awarded  if some payment had been made earlier, he could have 
done some remediation work himself, but as it was the council took over and it is likely it 
will charge him interest from the date it served notice on him.
a lot of time was spent getting answers from Aviva, this was a source of distress.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted Avivas comment regarding its wider liability. But Im only assessing its liability for 
the damage claim.  
I know Aviva would usually not pay VAT where a policyholder is VAT registered. But here 
I think it is fair to say Aviva should pay half the VAT charged by the council for works. Mr W 
is already facing a large bill outside of the scope of what Im asking Aviva to pay. Whilst he 
can claim VAT back, to do so he would still have to first find the money to discharge the 
councils bill, and then go through the reclaiming process. In the circumstances I dont think 
its reasonable to make him do that for the entire VAT cost. 
Mr W is right in that my provisional findings havent specifically accounted for Avivas loss 
adjuster allowing more fuel to leak into the environment when completing investigations. But 
I did explain provisionally that I have no way of knowing how much fuel leaked, in what 
proportions and when during 2013 to 2017. Likewise, I cant know how much more damage 
to the area the loss adjuster caused  or how his actions affected the bill for the clean up 
work. Im satisfied that a straight split of half liability is a fair and reasonable outcome.  
Ive not made any contradiction. This was not a straightforward claim for Aviva to deal with. 
And it clearly was never going to be simple for Mr W to navigate. But his having legal 
assistance and the arguments created didnt cause Aviva to accept the claim. And this 
service sees many complaints about complicated claims bought by complainants with no 
representation. Our service is free to any eligible complainant and doesnt require a 
complainant to use legal representation to bring a complaint. I wont award legal fees. 
This complaint focused on the cost of remediation work. If Mr W thinks he has a valid claim 
for trace and access under the policy, he is free to approach Aviva in that respect. But he 
may wish to refer to his policy before doing so to see if, in the circumstances here, where 
fuel has leaked from a petrol pump supply pipe  the policy would cover for that. 
In respect of debris, the policy does offer separate cover. But, as I understand it, the council 
is completing all work, including debris removal. And Ive given my view on Avivas liability 
for the costs the council will charge for its work. Portioning or separating out the liability under separate covers of the policy wont change the level of liability against which I think its 
reasonable to make Aviva pay.
Costs havent yet been levied by the council. But my provisional decision was that Aviva was 
liable for half of the cost charged by the council. So if it charges interest then Aviva will have 
to pay half of that cost too. But Im satisfied Aviva didnt have total liability for this loss. So 
the best position Mr W might have been in, if Aviva had agreed some liability earlier on, 
would have been for it to have paid him half the likely clean-up cost. If he had used that to do 
some work (assuming the council would have let him go ahead and only do part of the work), 
the council would still have had to pick up the rest  with costs such as interest attaching to 
that portion and being levied against Mr W. And, in any event, Im not persuaded that the 
council would have let only part of the work be done. So I dont think it would be fair or 
reasonable for me to make any additional award.  
I can understand that Mr W would, at times during the claim, have liked answers from Aviva 
sooner. But I remain of the view, as stated provisionally, and for the same reasons, that my 
awarding compensation here would not be fair or reasonable. 
Putting things right
I require Aviva, upon sight of charges levied against him by the council, to pay Mr W, having 
subtracted the cost of decontamination and decommissioning work to the fuel tanks, half of 
the cost charged by the council, including any VAT, for the work it undertook at his property 
to remediate the pollution and contamination. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Aviva Insurance Limited to provide the redress set out 
above at putting things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2022.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman