DRN-4045987
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy Aviva Insurance Limited will no longer fund a claim on a legal expenses 
insurance policy. 
Aviva are the underwriters of this policy i.e., the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of the agent. As Aviva have accepted, they are accountable for the actions of the 
agent, in my decision, any reference to Aviva includes the actions of the agent.
What happened
What follows is only intended to be a summary of the events that happened. It does 
therefore include all of the detail or list the events in strict date order.
Mr G has a legal expenses policy included with his Aviva Commercial Property Owners 
policy. Mr G used this to pursue a legal claim against the owner of a neighbouring property. 
Originally the claim started as scaffolding had been erected on behalf of the neighbour which 
caused damage to the roof of Mr Gs property. Additionally, water was discharging, at 
volume, from broken pipes onto the roof causing further issues. As time went on, the 
neighbours roof fell more into disrepair with falling tiles etc causing more damage, so Mr G 
wanted to obtain an injunction against the neighbour to force them to make good their roof 
and pursue other losses.
Aviva accepted the claim and appointed panel solicitors to conduct the legal claim. Reports 
were obtained from experts and a barristers opinion was obtained on the merits of the legal 
claim and how the matter should progress. Attempts were made to mediate a settlement with 
the neighbour, but these were unsuccessful. This happened over the course of around 
seven years and because of that, loss of rent for Mr Gs property became an issue and 
something that was brought into the claim to pursue against the neighbour.
At this point the relationship between Mr G and the first solicitor broke down and both parties 
wrote to Aviva saying it would be best if the claim was reassigned. Aviva was unable to find 
a panel solicitor to take on the case so asked Mr G to provide details of one he was happy to 
use, which he did. However, this solicitor firm later merged with a third firm. 
The legal claim continued, with updated expert reports being obtained both on the damage 
caused to the property and rental valuations. And a further opinion from a barrister was 
sought. Another attempt was also made to mediate a settlement with the neighbour on the 
outstanding issues, but again this was unsuccessful.
The solicitors looked to issue proceedings against the third party but let Aviva know the 
costs to do so would likely exceed the limit of indemnity on the policy, £50,000. Aviva asked 
the solicitor to explore whether Mr G could privately fund legal costs above the indemnity 
limit or whether a further insurance policy could be put into place, however it appears neither 
of these options were viable for Mr G.
Mr G is unhappy as he feels after 16 years there has been no resolution to the underlying 
legal claim. He believes Aviva should have taken a more active role in managing the costs 
the solicitors were incurring. He thinks the solicitors have delayed the claim unreasonably 
and run up inappropriate costs meaning there is now little, if any, money left to pursue the 
action in court. Mr G complained to Aviva and asked it to intervene and fund the legal claim 
further because of the alleged mismanagement.
Aviva considered Mr Gs complaint but said it didnt think it had done anything wrong. It 
explained that if Mr G was unhappy with the actions of the solicitors, he would need to make 
a complaint directly to them. It explained, as the insurer, it was not responsible for the day to 
day running of the legal claim and it had done what it could over the years to assist him with 
the progression of the claim when he was unhappy with lack of contact from the solicitors. It 
also pointed out it agreed to change the firm of solicitors when there was a relationship 
breakdown. It acknowledged the legal claim had taken a considerable amount of time but 
said this was not due to any action or inaction by it. Mr G disagreed and brought the 
complaint to this service.
Our investigator looked at the complaint and let Mr G know he didnt think Aviva had done 
anything wrong. He explained that Avivas role wasnt to oversee the day-to-day 
management of the legal claim and if Mr G had concerns about the solicitors actions, he 
would need to make a complaint to them directly.
Mr G disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. He says he doesnt believe Aviva 
made its role clear at the start. And had it of done so he may have acted differently over the 
years. Had he been aware Aviva wasnt managing and checking on the solicitors he would 
have done so. He believes that the legal claim was simple and if managed correctly should 
have been brought to a conclusion within a short period of time. Mr G asked that this service 
direct Aviva to reconsider its funding position and the proposals Mr G has put forward which 
would enable the legal claim to continue.
The case has been passed to me to decide.
My provisional findings
I issued my provisional findings on 9 March 2023. In it I explained that I wasnt minded to 
uphold the complaint for the following reasons:
I understand Mr G has strong views about what has happened. The matter has been going 
on for many years and hes outlined the impact this has had on him and his family. I can 
therefore understand why he has pursued this matter so vigorously.
I want to assure him Ive read and considered carefully everything hes said. However, my 
findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not all the points raised. This 
isnt meant as a discourtesy. But the purpose of my decision isnt to address every single 
point the parties have raised or to answer every question asked. My role is to consider the 
evidence presented by Mr G, and by Aviva, to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable 
decision based on the facts of the case.
Where information may be missing or incomplete, I make my decision on the balance of 
probabilities, therefore I what believe more likely than not happened.
Having reviewed everything, I dont intend to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Most of the points Mr G has raised in his complaint to Aviva concern the specific actions of 
the solicitors involved in his legal claim. Solicitors are regulated separately and therefore 
Aviva would not be held accountable for their actions. If Mr G believes they acted incorrectly, 
including delaying the claim and running up unnecessary legal costs, he would need to raise this as a complaint with them directly and take it to the appropriate authority that oversees 
them.
I understand Mr G thinks Aviva should be held accountable as it ultimately put him in contact 
with the solicitors and paid the bills associated with the legal action. So, he believes they 
should have taken a more active role in monitoring the actions of the solicitors and the costs 
they were incurring.
Aviva however are insurers; they have no legal knowledge and that is why legal matters are 
passed over to solicitors to deal with. Aside from asking for updates to ensure the legal claim 
remains valid for cover under the policy or assisting a consumer if they are having difficulty 
in contacting a solicitor, its role is minimal.
As I mentioned above, solicitors are the experts in legal matters, and I wouldnt expect an 
insurer to question their actions unless it can see something is obviously wrong. And even 
then, it wouldnt be Avivas position to intervene or provide its opinion on what it thinks 
should happen, as it wouldnt have the knowledge to do so. I would simply expect it to raise 
any concerns it has. Having reviewed the information available to me, I dont think it was 
necessary for Aviva to do this in this case.
Here Aviva kept in contact with the solicitors and obtained updates on the action being taken 
and the costs incurred. It was advised by the solicitors the case continued to have prospects 
of success (as required by the policy) and occasionally updates were provided regarding the 
fees that were being incurred.
The solicitors also got in contact to ask for approval to incur certain costs such as expert 
reports. This isnt itself unusual as insurers may have access to a variety of preferred 
professionals across different areas that may act at reduced rates. So an insurer wont 
necessarily allow a cost to be incurred it may otherwise be able to fund at a cheaper rate. 
The solicitors however remained responsible for acting in the best interests of Mr G in any of 
the actions they undertook.
I can see from the file that when Mr G did have issues with contacting the solicitors, he 
raised this with Aviva. And, I can see it did what I would have expected it to and put those 
concerns to the solicitors, It also provided updates to Mr G and let him know when the 
solicitors had responded and that he should then expect direct contact from the solicitors.
It also agreed to change the solicitor firm on the case when there was a breakdown of the 
relationship between the parties. While costs would have been incurred here to allow the 
new solicitors to become familiar with the file, this was unavoidable.
Generally, solicitors work under specific fee arrangements with insurers which set out what 
they will and wont be paid for. So to a certain extent there are some safeguards in place 
from the insurers point of view to ensure that only reasonable and necessary costs are 
funded by the insurance policy. Mr G has pointed out the solicitor in charge changed a few 
times, however as I have mentioned the costs that would have been claimable for this would, 
more likely than not, have been limited.
Here Mr G alleges the solicitors carried out unnecessary and incorrect work to maximise 
their income. However, he has not provided any comparable evidence from a similarly 
qualified individual to show more likely than not this was the case or more importantly, that 
Aviva had this knowledge and did nothing about it while the legal claim was ongoing.
Mr G suggested that Aviva didnt make him aware of its role at the start of the initial claim 
and when it passed the matter over to solicitors. Mr G has suggested he is of the impression it was actually his role to manage the solicitors and their costs, and he believes this wasnt 
explained by Aviva, however this isnt the position. The solicitors are held to their own 
professional standards and should not act to the detriment of the client. So, it wouldnt have 
been for Aviva or for Mr G to manage the solicitors, it was for them to ensure they acted in 
line with their own professional standards.
Mr G said he believes this was a straightforward matter, but it doesnt appear the solicitors or 
barristers shared that view. I realise Mr G feels the claim could have been managed better 
and that in hindsight he could have acted differently; however, it may have always been the 
case the indemnity limit would have been exceeded. The case changed and developed as 
time passed, with heads of claim being removed from the action and added. The loss of 
rental opportunity for example was added which increased the associated cost of running the 
case to trial.
Having considered everything, I dont think Aviva acted incorrectly here. The policy only 
provides coverage for costs up to £50,000 so I wouldnt be able to direct Aviva to exceed 
this.
Similarly, while I appreciate Mr G would like the underlying legal claim to continue, I wont be 
directing Aviva to do this. Aviva itself may choose to consider any proposals Mr G puts 
forward however this isnt something I will be considering or making a direction on here.
Responses to my provisional decision
Aviva didnt provide any further comments for me to consider.
Mr G responded in detail explaining why he didnt agree with my provisional findings: I can 
assure him I have read everything he has said but I will only provide a summary of his points 
here:
He doesnt think Ive understood his complaint as it wasnt about Aviva refusing to 
fund his claim further, it is about Avivas mismanagement and negligence towards his 
claim and that it has allowed the solicitors to waste funds on unnecessary work.
I have incorrectly stated a timeframe of seven years as being when loss of rent was 
claimed for as this was part of the claim from the start.
I was wrong to say the relationship between him and the first solicitor had broken 
down.
Aviva should have told him of his role and responsibilities at the start of the claim
It should have been explained at the start of the claim what role Aviva would 
undertake in terms of the management of the claim and that it had no role in the day-
to-day management of solicitors and their actions/decisions
Aviva should have told him that he could complain about the actions of the solicitors
He disagrees with my statement that it was for the responsibility of the solicitors to 
act in line with their own professional standards. He says this is not logical and 
practically unreal. He says it would have been beneficial for Aviva or himself to have 
at least assisted in parallel project managing the legal claim and had this of 
happened, the current situation would have presented itself. 
He believes this was a straightforward case and disagrees solicitors and barristers thought otherwise. 
It is wrong for me to say that a claim taking as long as it has without any real 
achievement is normal 
He considers the funding to be currently frozen rather than Aviva has refused to fund 
any further work
Mr G asks that Aviva be directed to examine the costs claimed by each set of 
solicitors and remove costs that he believes are for duplicated and unnecessary 
work. It should then recalculate the indemnity limit left and allow the claim to 
continue. 
He also asks that Aviva be directed to increase the indemnity limit of £50,00 as this 
has not increased with inflation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Again, Id like to reassure Mr G that I have read and considered everything he has said. 
However, like in my provisional decision, my findings will focus on what I consider to be the 
central issues, and not all the points raised.
I can assure Mr G that I have understood his complaint. My summary at the start reflects the 
fact the complaint came to us at the point Aviva indicated it would stop funding the claim. 
And I have considered why Mr G believes that has happened and whether I think on the 
balance of probabilities Aviva has acted unfairly or unreasonably during the course of the 
clam. And having re reviewed everything, alongside Mr Gs additional comments, I remain of 
the opinion set out in my provisional decision for the same reasons. 
My reference to a timescale of seven years reflects the fact there is correspondence from 
solicitors on file referring to loss of rent being added as a separate head of claim at that 
point. It may well be, as Mr G has said, the loss was a consequential loss which was always 
intended to be claimed however it appears it was formally added as a separate head of claim 
at a later date. 
As I have explained in my provisional decision, the evidence on file suggests that both 
parties asked for the claim to be reassigned to a different solicitor. Mr G raising concerns 
about the solicitors actions and the solicitors writing to Mr G saying that as he is not taking 
the advice provided and has raised various complaints against them, they feel there may 
well be a breakdown in relationship between them meaning the solicitor will no longer be 
able to act for him. I am therefore satisfied with my assessment that there had been a 
breakdown in the relationship between the parties.  
I remain of the opinion Aviva hasnt misled Mr G with regard to what he sees his role to have 
been or what Avivas role has been. And to answer Mr Gs specific question I dont think it 
needed to or was there any requirement, on Aviva to set this out from the start in the way he 
has suggested. As I set out in my provisional decision, Aviva, as well every other legal 
expenses insurer, pass over the handling of the legal claims to solicitor firms and they are 
held to their own professional standards. 
It wouldnt have been for Aviva to set out the solicitors regulatory position with regard to 
complaint processes or rights of escalation. This again, would have been for the solicitor to do in line with their own requirements. Aviva did what I would have expected it to do and 
passed any concerns on that Mr G had as the claim progressed. 
I can see from the file that at least on one occasion, Mr G did pursue a complaint against the 
solicitors via their internal process which was responded to. So, I dont agree with Mr Gs 
position that he was completely unaware of his ability to take this course of action.  And, 
while I appreciate, given what has happened. Mr G strongly believes it would have been 
beneficial for Aviva or himself to have taken a more active role in managing the actions of 
the solicitors, this isnt what happens in practice.
Mr G himself in correspondence with this service referred to this as being a complicated 
legal claim. And from what I have seen on file Im satisfied this was a multi layered claim 
which required a significant amount of consideration and input. Counsels opinion was also 
detailed as to the amount of work required on the claim even at the later stages. I am 
therefore satisfied my statement that solicitors and barristers didnt share Mr Gs view that 
the claim was a straightforward one, is reflective of the information made available to me 
about the claim and its journey.
I cant see in my provisional decision that I said or implied it is normal for legal claims to go 
on as long as the one Mr G made has. However, as I mentioned in my provisional decision, 
Im satisfied that Aviva was entitled to rely on the advice it received from solicitors regarding 
the progression of the underlying legal claim, and it did what it needed to do in asking for 
updates throughout the claim journey. 
Overall, for the same reasons as set out in my provisional decision, and those referred to 
above, Im satisfied Aviva has acted in line with the policy terms when dealing with this 
claim. And Im also satisfied it has acted in a fair and reasonable manner towards Mr G. 
It therefore follows that I do not uphold this complaint and I will not be making any 
recommendations or suggestions about what Aviva should do now as Mr G has requested. I 
will also not be asking Aviva to increase the policy limit as this is what was set in the policy 
terms Mr G claimed on. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Gs complaint against Aviva Insurance Limited
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman