DRN-1473203
 
complaint
Mrs P complains that Canada Square Operations Limited, trading as Egg, mis-sold her a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mrs P applied online for a credit card in 2001. At the same time she bought a PPI policy 
which would have helped cover the repayments on her card for up to 12 months at a time if 
she couldnt work.
Mrs P says she wasnt aware of the PPI. She says it was added to her account without her 
agreement and that she wouldnt have bought it if shed had a choice.
The adjudicator thought that Mrs Ps complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mrs P disagrees, so her 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ps case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
 
I think Egg made it clear that Mrs P didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to 
take it out  although I can understand why she cant remember this now. Mrs P 
completed her credit card application online and Egg has provided screenshots of 
what she would have seen. Mrs P had a clear choice about whether to take the PPI 
and could not have progressed through her application without making a decision 
about it. The boxes were not pre-populated to select PPI.
 
Mrs P says that she wasnt aware of the PPI. But it appeared each month on her 
credit card statement, so if she hadnt agreed to take it I think shed have queried 
this. And Egg has provided evidence that in 2004 Mrs P called from hospital and was 
provided with details about how to make a claim on the policy. So I think Mrs P must 
have been aware of the policy.
 Egg didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs P so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
her. But it did have to make sure Mrs P got the information she needed to decide if it 
was right for her. 
 
Its possible the information Egg gave Mrs P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this 
type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of Mrs Ps circumstances at the time it 
doesnt look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover - so it would have been useful for her if something went wrong. I also havent 
seen anything to suggest it was unaffordable for Mrs P. So I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover. 
 
So, I dont think Mrs P lost out because of anything Egg might have done wrong.
 
my final decision
Im not upholding Mrs Ps complaint, so it follows that Canada Square Operations Limited, 
trading as Egg, doesnt have to pay any compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2020.
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman