DRN-3119483
The complaint
Ms H has complained about Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limiteds decision to decline a 
claim she made under her home insurance policy following the theft of her sons bicycle. 
What happened
In February 2021 Ms Hs sons bicycle was stolen outside their home. A couple of weeks 
later Ms H contacted Lloyds to make a claim. 
Lloyds asked Ms H a series of questions to establish the circumstances of the theft. As Ms H 
said her sons bike wasnt chained to a fixed structure  and this was a condition under the 
policy  Lloyds said it wouldnt be able to meet the claim. 
Ms H discussed the circumstances again with her son and told Lloyds the bike had been 
chained to a drainpipe. Lloyds said it intended to rely on the initial account Ms H gave and 
maintained its decision to decline the claim. 
Ms H complained to Lloyds but it said its decision was correct. So Ms H asked us to look at 
her complaint. 
Our investigator didnt think Lloyds had acted unreasonably. So he didnt recommend the 
complaint should be upheld. 
Ms H didnt agree. So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms Hs policy with Lloyds provides cover in the event of theft. Like most other insurers, 
Lloyds has conditions and exclusions so that it doesnt cover every eventuality. Exclusions 
tend to apply if the circumstances increased the risk of an insured event happening. In this 
case, Lloyds excludes cover for the following: 
Theft of a pedal cycle from an unlocked outbuilding, or in the open when it is not 
securely locked to a permanent fixed structure.
When Ms H called Lloyds to make a claim, she was clear about the circumstances and said 
her sons bike had been left with the chain attached to the bike. So it wasnt locked to a fixed 
structure. 
When Lloyds explained that  for this reason  the claim wouldnt be covered, Ms H spoke to 
her son and provided new information. She told Lloyds that the bike had been chained to a 
drainpipe and the chain had been cut. Lloyds asked for further details including a photo of 
the cut chain. Ms H said they had disposed of it. 
I understand Ms H is very upset with Lloyds decision. She says the only reason for the 
change in account was because she hadnt obtained the full details from her son before 
contacting Lloyds. But I think it was fair and reasonable for Lloyds to give more weight to the 
first account of the circumstances of the theft. And having done so, I think it reasonably 
applied its exclusion. So I think Lloyds treated Ms H fairly and as it would any other customer 
in the same circumstances. This means Im not asking Lloyds to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman