DRN-2675201
The complaint
Miss Es complaint is about the sale under-possession of a property she had a mortgage on 
with Bank of Scotland plc (BoS). She believes BoS owes her money from the sale and she 
wants it paid to her with interest.
What happened
Miss E took out a mortgage of £161,000 with BoS in early 2003. However, it was not long 
before the account went into arrears and legal action was started in early 2005. The 
possession order was granted in February 2006, when the outstanding debt was 
£175,473.34. The repossession happened in June 2006 and BoS marketed the property for 
sale. BOS records show the property was sold in October 2006 for £156,500.
Miss E says she recently viewed Land Registry records and noted the publicly available 
information doesnt detail the 2006 sale. It only has a sale in June 2007 for £205,000 
recorded. Based on this figure, and some documentation shes obtained from BoS, Miss E 
believes BoS owes her money as £205,000 was more than she owed on the mortgage. 
BoS responded to Miss Es complaint. It said the property was repossessed in June 2006 
and sold by BoS in October of that year for £156,500. This was over £33,000 less than the 
debt owed to BoS. It said it was unable to comment on the sale Miss E had said occurred in 
June 2007, because it was not involved in it. 
Miss E didnt accept BoS response. She said there was a discrepancy and fraudulent act 
during the repossession and sale. She asked this service to consider her complaint.
One of our investigators looked at whether the complaint was one we could consider. She 
didnt think that it was. This was because the repossession Miss E was complaining about 
had happened in February 2006 and the sale in October 2006  more than 13 years before 
the complaint was made. In addition, she believed that Miss E would have been provided 
with a mortgage redemption statement at that time, so the complaint needed to have been 
made by 2012 at the latest. She wasnt persuaded the delay in referring the complaint was 
due to exceptional circumstances. 
Miss E was not happy with the investigators conclusions. She explained her circumstances 
at the time and confirmed she and her family were homeless after the eviction. She stated 
she doesnt remember BoS sending her a letter, and even if it did, it probably got lost in the 
post as she was moving from one place to another. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to consider. 
I asked BoS to confirm what it sent to Miss E at what address. Unfortunately, due to the 
passage of time BoS confirmed it no longer had any details. 
In light of this, we completed some research into Land Registry records. This brought to light 
that the 2006 sale was not detailed on the publicly available prices paid records. However, 
the 2006 sale is registered against the individual title - a sale on 11 November 2006 of 
£156,500.  
I issued a provisional decision on 9 February 2021 in which I set out my conclusions and 
reasons for reaching them. Below is an excerpt.
We dont have a free hand to consider all complaints that are referred to this service. There 
are rules in place that determine what complaints we can consider, about what issues, 
businesses and from whom. There are also timescales that need to be adhered to, for both 
when a complaint has to be raised in the first place and for when it needs to be referred to 
this service. In this case, its the first of those requirements that I need to consider. So I must 
establish whether Miss E made her complaint to BoS within six years of the event 
complained about or, if later, within three years of when she knew, or ought to have known, 
she had cause for complaint.
The event complained about relates to the sale of the property  Miss E believes this took 
place in 2007 rather than 2006. So the complaint made in 2019 was more than six years 
after the event complained about. 
As such, I need to consider when Miss E ought to have known she had cause for complaint. 
She has said she didnt get any correspondence following the sale of the property because 
she didnt have a permanent address and moved around a lot. BoS doesnt know what it 
sent to Miss E or where it sent it. This means that I cant establish what Miss E knew about 
the sale of the property or when. So I dont consider that I can say with any certainty that 
Miss E knew any details about the sale of the property more than three years before her 
complaint was made in 2019. As such, this is a complaint I can consider. 
However, having considered the information we now have, I dont think it is one that I can 
uphold. Miss E doesnt believe BoS sold her former home in 2006 and, based on the sale 
priced from 2007, thinks it owes her some money. Whilst I can understand why Miss E thinks 
this, I am satisfied the 2006 sale did happen and the details BoS has given are accurate. So 
the 2007 sale is not relevant to Miss Es mortgage and repossession and BoS doesnt owe 
her any money. 
Lloyds confirmed it had received my provisional decision and had nothing further to add.
Miss E didnt accept my conclusion about the merits of her complaint. She said it was not 
acceptable that Lloyds didnt have documentation from the time her home was sold. She 
also questioned a reference to an insurance policy in some documentation she was sent by 
Lloyds, which detailed it had paid the shortfall on the sale. She wanted to know what 
insurance this was and with what company.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has commented further on our jurisdiction to consider the complaint, but I have 
again reviewed this issue, as we do at all stages. I remain satisfied this is a complaint we 
can consider the merits of.
Miss E has asked about an insurance policy she believes that paid the shortfall following the 
sale of her home. Some lenders will arrange what is called a mortgage indemnity (or 
guarantee) policy to protect themselves in situations where a sale in possession doesnt 
raise enough money to clear the debt owed. If Lloyds arranged such a policy it was in its 
name and arranged for its protection, as such Miss E wouldnt have been given any details 
of the policy and would not now be entitled to any such details.As for Lloyds not having retained many of the documents relating to her mortgage, I am not 
surprised there is limited information. Miss Es mortgage ended over 14 years ago and 
Lloyds was only required by the regulator to keep records for six years. I would also 
comment that data protection legislation thats been put in place since that time also 
encourages businesses not to continue to hold information any longer than absolutely 
necessary. So I cant criticise Lloyds for not having much information about Miss Es 
mortgage and the sale of her property.
As neither party has provided any further information about the merits of the complaint, I see 
no reason to alter my conclusions. I remain satisfied that Lloyds did sell Miss Es property in 
2006 for a sum less than she owed it under the mortgage, so it didnt then, nor does it now, 
owe her any money.
My final decision
My decision is that, whilst this complaint is one we can consider the merits of, I dont uphold 
it on its merits. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask 
Miss E to accept or reject my decision before 12 April 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman