DRN-2891419
The complaint
Mr A complains that he was supplied with a faulty car under a Hire Agreement with 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Audi Financial Services (VWFS).
What happened
In March 2019 Mr A entered into a three-year hire agreement with VWFS for the rental of a 
car.
In August 2019 he complained the car had a number of issues, with the driver assist and 
lane assist functions, and with the Engine Management Light.
VWFS told him there was no defect, and a software update could fix the issue with the 
engine management light. They did say he could end the agreement early. They also offered 
to write off the arrears owed on the account.
Mr A asked VWFS if they could reduce his monthly payments, or provide him with a similar 
car under the same terms. As they couldnt agree on an acceptable monthly payment 
suitable to both parties, Mr A brought his complaint to this service.
Mr A also complained that VWFS had recorded a missed payment on his credit file. He felt 
this shouldnt have been done as he says he wasnt told about the need to make an initial 
payment at the time he took out the agreement.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and issued his first view in January 2020.
He felt VWFS hadnt acted unfairly by recording the missed payment on his credit file. He 
didnt think the car was of a satisfactory quality, and felt that VWFS should end the 
agreement with nothing further to pay. He also said that VWFS should refund Mr A five of 
the monthly payments hed made. This was because hed only done 12,000 miles in the ten 
months hed had the car. Hed expected to do 30,000 miles very year, but his use was 
limited due to the issues, and the times the car was with the dealer for repairs.
He also suggested VWFS pay £300 to Mr A for the trouble upset caused, including the 
repeated visits to the dealer.
Mr A accepted the view, and said he would take up the credit marking issue direct with 
VWFS. He said he was ready to hand the car back in the next seven days, and wanted this 
to happen before his next payment was due on the 3 February 2020.
VWFS said they were happy for Mr A to return the car but disagreed with the amount of the 
refund suggested by our investigator.
Mr A said he would continue to make the monthly payments due, but said hed want all of 
the payments to be refunded when VWFS collected the car. He also told our investigator 
hed agreed a new lease with another provider, and said if he lost out on this offer, hed 
expect VWFS cover any price difference and any costs hed incurred.
On 12 February 2020 our investigator issued another view. He confirmed what hed said 
initially  that VWFS should refund five monthly payments. He also said VWFS were entitled 
to charge for any damage that exceeded normal wear and tear, and that VWFS werent 
liable for any losses Mr A might incur if he lost out another lease deal.
Mr A was happy with the outcome. VWFS were happy for Mr A to return the car, but they 
didnt think it was reasonable for him to receive a full refund of five monthly rentals as he 
was still able to use the car. Instead they offered 50% of the five monthly rentals. Our 
investigator disagreed for the reasons hed set out in his initial view.
So the case was referred for an ombudsmans decision on the matter.
Mr A said he now wanted all his extra costs covered. This included the insurance he now 
had to take out, the full monthly payments from the date of the investigators view, and an 
extra £700 for the trouble and upset caused. He said this was because he was still reluctant 
to use the car because of the various faults, and he felt VWFS had the opportunity to resolve 
this fairly.
But in April 2020 VWFS accepted our investigators view. They agreed to refund the five 
monthly payments and to pay Mr A £300 for the trouble and upset caused. They said they 
would arrange the collection of the car but this would be delayed because the firm that 
collects the cars was closed due to the pandemic.
Mr A then objected. He felt that VWFS had only accepted what had been agreed in January 
2020, and hadnt taken account of the extra costs he said hed incurred, including the full 
monthly payments hed made since January 2020. Our investigator explained how hed 
agreed with VWFS to block future payments, but he couldnt agree to the extra costs Mr A 
had asked to be paid.
Our investigator asked VWFS to refund the equivalent of an additional one and a half 
monthly payments to reflect Mr As limited use of the car since January 2020. But Mr A 
wasnt happy with this  he felt the delays were caused by VWFS and he wanted the full 
monthly payments refunded. He said he would consider the refund offered if the trouble and 
upset award was increased to £600.
Our investigator told Mr A that VWFS had confirmed they would cease taking payments and 
would arrange for the collection of the car and refunds to be made when lockdown 
restrictions were lifted. But he had to accept the view for this to happen.
Mr A agreed but only if the payments were made to him before he returned the car. Our 
investigator explained to Mr A why he felt it was reasonable for the business to collect the 
car before issuing the refunds.
Mr A explained he needed the refund so that he could source another car and pay any 
upfront payments. He said hed accept if VWFS agreed to make the payments within two 
weeks of VWFS collecting the car. Our investigator explained why he wouldnt impose the 
timescales on VWFS but would expect them to act within a reasonable timescale.
Mr A said he needed defined timescales and without them he wanted the case to be 
considered by an ombudsman. He said he expected a higher payment due to VWFSs delay. 
He said he wanted the full monthly payments made plus his insurance costs to be paid.
Our investigator then asked VWFS if theyd increase their offer from six and a half to seven 
months rental, as that was what Mr A indicated hed be prepared to accept. VWFS said they 
were prepared to do this to bring the matter to a conclusion.Mr A said he wasnt prepared to accept the outcome, as he was still unhappy that he now 
had more than six negative marks on his credit file. He said he understood some of these 
were due to him withholding payments, but he said others were due to mis-management by 
VWFS.
Our investigator confirmed what he felt was a reasonable settlement:
End the hire agreement with nothing further to pay and ensure the agreement is 
recorded as settled on Mr A's credit file
Collect the car from Mr A at no cost to him
VWFS don't need to refund the initial rental as this was already written off
VWFS is to refund Mr A seven of the monthly payments he's made towards the 
agreement
Pay Mr A £300 for the trouble and upset.
He also said that VWFS were entitled to charge for any damage on the vehicle that 
exceeded fair wear and tear.
He explained how the business had an obligation to record information correctly on the credit 
file. Mr A remained unhappy with the credit marks on his file. So the matter was referred for 
an ombudsman decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 1 April 2021, where I explained my intention to uphold the 
complaint, but with a different remedy to that recommended by the investigator. In that 
decision I said:
Our investigator didnt think the car was of satisfactory quality, he felt it wasnt durable based 
on the number of faults it had. I agree  the car was new but Mr A had to take it back to the 
dealer on several occasions to have the faults fixed. When considering the quality of goods, 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says goods should be free from minor defects  this 
wasnt the case with the new car supplied to Mr A.
VWFS have agreed the car can be returned and the agreement ended. Theyve accepted 
the resolution suggested by our investigator, but Mr A says its not sufficient. So I need to 
consider whats fair in these circumstances. And I agree with our investigator. Ill explain 
why.
When considering redress, I need to consider financial loss, and compensation for trouble 
and upset caused.
Our investigator suggested VWFS refund Mr A five of the monthly payments he'd made 
towards the agreement. He said this was because Mr A had been in possession of the car 
for 10 months and had only covered 12,000 miles, when the agreement had permitted 
30,000 miles a year. He felt that Mr A hadnt used the car due to concerns with the issues on
the car and for the amount of times he'd had to take the car to the dealership for repairs.
In January 2020 VWFS agreed to refund five monthly payments. This took account of Mr As 
impaired use of the car from March 2019 up to January 2020. In June 2020 they agreed to 
increase the refund to seven months. I think this fairly reflects the impaired usage hed had 
up to that point, because of the issues he faced up to the time the offer was made.Since then Mr A continued to have use of the car, so I think its reasonable that he pays for 
that usage. He says he hasnt been using the car, and hes provided a mileage reading that 
confirms this is the case. He says he hasnt used the car because he wasnt comfortable 
using it, and because the pandemic had limited his use of the car. But he has been able to 
use the car, and he hasnt incurred any extra costs such as hiring an alternative vehicle.
Im also aware that in January 2020 the car had a software update that would have fixed the 
safety issues. Mr A said they didnt. But when I review the job cards for the initial repairs, the 
faults were with the warning lights, not the driver assist technology. I understand why Mr A 
wouldve been anxious at the appearance of warning lights, but Im satisfied that the service 
technicians at the dealer adequately explained to him the extent of the problem.
I think a refund of 10% of each monthly payment hes made from July 2020 to the date the 
agreement is terminated is a fair reflection of the impaired usage Mr As had.
I dont consider hes suffered a financial loss. Hes told us hes looking for another 
agreement, for the same car, and he told us that he found it difficult to find a similar lease 
deal. The lower cost lease offers hes shared with us are for a different model of car. So I 
think he was likely to have taken out a similar deal at a similar price so I dont think hes 
incurred extra costs.
Mr A wants VWFS to cover the insurance he had to take out after the delay to their response 
to our investigators opinion. Mr As told us he would have obtained a car from elsewhere, so 
he would always have had to pay the necessary expenses that come with driving a car, such 
as car insurance. So I dont think VWFS should repay this to Mr A.
Ive also considered the £300 our investigator offered for the trouble and upset caused to be 
a fair and reasonable offer. This was initially suggested in January 2020. Mr A said VWFS 
have unnecessarily delayed things, and he thinks he should be compensated for the extra 
stress this has caused him. But both parties have raised new issues for consideration, and 
our investigator considered these, and invited comments  this is part of any dispute 
process, so I dont consider it fair for VWFS to pay a financial penalty for the way its 
considered and responded to this matter.
I also agree with our Investigator that it was fair and reasonable for VWFS to record missed 
payments on Mr A's credit file. This is because it was correctly recording the status of the 
accounts to the credit reference agencies. I won't be asking them to do anything further in 
relation to this element of the complaint.
Putting things right
To put things right Im proposing VWFS should do the following:
end the hire agreement with nothing further to pay and ensure the agreement is 
recorded as settled on Mr A's credit file.
collect the car from Mr A at no cost to him.
VWFS don't need to refund the initial rental as this was written off.
VWFS refund Mr A seven of the monthly payments he's made towards the 
Agreement.
Refund 10% of each monthly payment made by Mr A from July 2020 to the date the 
agreement is ended.Pay Mr A £300 for the trouble and upset caused.
Responses
VWFS accepted my provisional decision, but they asked for confirmation that Mr A would still 
be liable for end of contract charges.
Mr A didnt accept my decision. He said the software update in January 2020 hadnt fixed the 
issue. And he supplied photographs of the warnings displayed on the dashboard. He 
remains unhappy that he will be out of pocket for a car that is faulty. He didnt agree that a 
refund of 10% of each monthly payment was fair. He says his monthly payment reflects the 
higher monthly mileage in the original agreement. He feels VWFS will benefit as the car will 
be of a higher value, because hes only done about 30% of the agreed mileage allowance. 
He felt that VWFS should refund 70% of the payments made from the start of the 
agreement.
He also invited me to consider the service costs he paid whilst waiting for this matter to be 
resolved.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Mr As comments and what he described as his counter offer. The only issue 
to be resolved is the amount of refund to reflect his impaired usage of the car. I suggested a 
refund of 10% of the monthly payment and hes suggested 70%. 
He based that on the reduced mileage hes done, and the increased value of the car 
because it has a lower mileage than anticipated at the time he entered into the agreement.
I explained in my provisional decision that Mr A was still able to use the car, although I did 
note his concern that he wasnt comfortable using it because of the problems with the driver 
assist technology. And hes provided photographs that show warnings related to the sensor 
view and the automatic main beam assist function.
In my provisional decision I said I was satisfied that the service technicians at the dealer had 
explained to Mr A that the problems didnt related to the driver assist technology, only to the 
warning lights. And the photographs of the warning lights hes provided appear to me to be 
warnings rather than safety features not working appropriately. 
VWFS told me they contacted the dealer and they werent aware of any outstanding 
problems. And the service invoice Mr A provided doesnt show any issues with the driver 
assist technology. Id expect any problems to have been highlighted by the service 
technicians.
 
I also have to consider Mr As testimony that the global pandemic has meant hes not using 
the car as much as he originally intended. 
So I dont think its fair or reasonable to ask VWFS to refund more than the 10% I suggested 
in my provisional decision. I say this because Ive seen no evidence that the driver assist 
functions are not working, and Mr A has been given this assurance by the service 
technicians. Hes been able to use the car but has chosen not to. I think a refund of 10% of 
each monthly payment hes made from July 2020 to the date the agreement is terminated is 
a fair reflection of the impaired usage Mr As had.I wont be asking VWFS to reimburse the cost of the service as this is a cost that comes with 
the car. Mr A told us hell be replacing this car with another, on a similar type of agreement, 
so its a cost he wouldve incurred.
And for the reasons given in my provisional decision Im satisfied it was fair and reasonable 
for VWFS to record missed payments on Mr A's credit file. So I won't be asking them to do 
anything further in relation to this element of his complaint.
 
So, for the reasons stated, Mr As comments dont change my provisional view.
Putting things right
To put things right Im proposing VWFS should do as I said in my provisional decision. That 
is:
 end the hire agreement with nothing further to pay and ensure the agreement 
is recorded as settled on Mr A's credit file.
 collect the car from Mr A at no cost to him.
 VWFS don't need to refund the initial rental as this was written off.
 VWFS refund Mr A seven of the monthly payments he's made towards the 
Agreement*
 Refund 10% of each monthly payment made by Mr A from July 2020 to the 
date the agreement is ended*.
 Pay Mr A £300 for the trouble and upset caused 
*VWFS should pay simple interest at 8% a year, from the dates each of the monthly 
payments was paid until the date of settlement. If VWFS considers that its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr A how much its 
taken off. It should also give Mr A a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I uphold Mr As complaint. Volkswagen Financial Services 
(UK) Limited  trading as Audi Financial Services should follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2021.
 
Gordon Ramsay
Ombudsman