DRN-3866880
Complaint
Mr and Mrs Y complain about investments they made in three bonds issued by Basset & 
Gold Plc (B&G plc). In short, they say the bonds were mis-sold to them. They say they 
were misled about the level of regulatory and Financial Services Compensation Scheme 
(FSCS) protection associated with the bonds. And they say they were also misled about how 
the money they invested in the bonds would be used. They say most of the misleading 
information was given to them during phone conversations with a representative of Basset 
Gold Limited (BG Ltd) but also in the Investor Terms and Conditions for the bonds and an 
online advert, which described the bonds as pensioner bonds.
Background
The B&G Plc Bond
Mr and Mrs Y invested in a B&G Plc Fixed Monthly Income IFISA Bond (3 years) and Fixed 
Monthly Income Bond (5 years). Sales of the bonds were dealt with by BG Ltd, a separate 
business from B&G Plc, the issuer of the bonds. BG Ltd arranged applications for 
investments in the bond. And it was responsible for advertising/marketing the bond. Potential 
investors were also able to call BG Ltd, to discuss the bond.
The bonds were non-readily realisable and therefore there were rules restricting who they 
could be promoted to and on how to test whether the investment was appropriate for the 
potential investor. BG Ltds online application process took steps to meet the obligations 
created by these rules. I have set out details of the application process below and will set 
out, and consider, the relevant rules in my findings.
Neither B&G Plc nor BG Ltd was authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) in its 
own right at the time of Mr and Mrs Ys investment. But both were appointed representatives 
of Gallium Fund Solutions Limited (Gallium), which was an FCA authorised business.
B&G Plc and BG Ltd were appointed representatives of Gallium from 17 February 2017 to 
28 February 2018. As such, Gallium is responsible for a complaint about either business 
which is about the acts and omissions which took place during this time, for which Gallium 
accepted responsibility.
Gallium also played a role in relation to the bond in its own right  it was responsible for 
approving BG Ltds marketing and promotional material relating to the bond. Gallium has 
confirmed that the promotional material included the Invitation Document (which was the 
formal financial promotion document for the purposes of Section 21 of the Financial Services
and Markets Act 2000), bassetgold.co.uk, and online advertising material (such as Google 
and Facebook adverts) issued by BG Ltd.
Gallium has, at times, been represented by its legal representative. For simplicity, I will refer 
to Gallium throughout and any such reference should be taken to mean Gallium or its legal 
representative.
Mr and Mrs Ys investments in the bonds
The complaint concerns two £20,000 investments Mr and Mrs Y made in a 3 Year Fixed 
Monthly Income IFISA Bond and a £50,000 investment they made in a 5 Year Fixed Monthly 
Income Bond. The certificates issued for these bonds were dated 15 June 2017 and 16 June 
2017 respectively. 
I understand Mr and Mrs Y had previously made a £50,000 investment in a bond a few 
months earlier, but this is not part of their complaint as they surrendered this bond after one 
year and received a return on their invested capital. 
Mr and Mrs Y say, before making the investments subject to complaint, Mr Y I spoke to a 
sales agent at BG Ltd after seeing an advert on social media. They say Mr Y questioned 
the agent at length, as they were nervous about scams. They say the agent told Mr Y B&G 
Plc invested in peer to peer loans and SME companies. They say Mr Y was also told B&G 
Plc/BG Ltd was regulated by the FCA and protected by the FSCS in the event of B&G Plc 
being unable to repay their investment, and this was also stated in the Investor Terms and 
Conditions. 
Mr and Mrs Y say Mr Y checked and found out that B&G were indeed an appointed 
representative of Gallium and they were happy to invest thinking their money was being 
looked after in a responsible manner and duly regulated. And they never received or indeed 
had heard of the Invitation Document Gallium refers to.
Mr and Mrs Y were both retired at the time of investment and their total income of around 
£1700 per month came from pensions. They say they were having to dip into savings each 
month to pay bills and all of the money they invested in the bonds was from a recent 
inheritance, and their investment objective was to get extra income to supplement their 
pensions.
Mr and Mrs Y say their existing investments were £100,000 in Premium Bonds, £130,000 in 
fixed deposits and £15,000 in shares ISAs (which they say were invested in bonds) and two 
ISAs with National Savings and Insurance of £20,000 each  so around £285,000 in total. 
The certificates for the three bond investments Mr and Mrs Y made were issued to them by 
BG Ltd on 17 July 2017. 
On 8 January 2019, B&G Finance Limited (which by that point had taken on the role of BG 
Ltd), sent an email to all investors then holding B&G Plc bonds. That email included the 
following:
To date the vast majority of lending has been to an FCA regulated lender that currently 
holds approximately 36,000 consumer loans. We are happy with the way that investment is 
performing, and the underlying spread of loans across tens of thousands of borrowers 
provides strong levels of predictability and resilience.
As Basset & Gold Plc is currently predominantly invested in a single lender, it is our 
responsibility to ensure that you are aware of the associated risk, known as Concentration
Risk. It might help to explain this risk if you think of the goose that laid the golden egg. It 
was a great asset, but it only took one goose to die for the asset to dry up. Basset & Golds 
investment team has performed due diligence on more than 40 opportunities over the past 
year. Its investment philosophy has been to accept the risk of holding one good asset, rather 
than diluting quality in order to improve diversification. We hope that this will translate into 
improved diversification over time, but as an investor you should be aware that Basset & Gold will only proceed with an investment when they are happy with it, even if that prolongs 
the Concentration Risk.
This refers to the fact that nearly all the money invested in B&G Plc bonds had been lent to 
one short term and pay day lender, called Uncle Buck. Following action by the FCA, Uncle 
Buck went into administration in March 2020 - and B&G Plc went into administration shortly 
afterwards. As a result, Mr and Mrs Y have not had their invested capital returned to them 
(although they did receive the interest payments on the bond up until B&G Plc went into 
administration).
The application process
I have not seen any contemporaneous evidence relating to Mr and Mrs Ys application(s). 
Gallium says applications could only be made online, by following the process on BG Ltds 
website. However, it has not provided us with any detail about Mr and Mrs Ys application 
other than a spreadsheet recording information held on BG Ltds system as follows: 
High Net Worth Investor            2017-06-25 14:03:52
Completed Investor Questionnaire   2017-06-25 14:03:40
B&G T&C Confirmed                        2017-06-25 14:01:39
KYC Completed                       2017-06-25 14:03:05
When Mr and Mrs Y referred their complaint to us we asked for copies of any call recordings 
BG Ltd held, but we have not been provided with recordings of any conversations Mr and 
Mrs Y had with BG Ltd before or during the bond applications.
Mr and Mrs Y say they dont think that there was any application procedure  they just sent 
cheques to BG Ltd. They also say they were not asked what type of investor they were when 
they first made their investments  but they were asked about this around 12 months later. 
And at that time they said they were high net worth investors, but were in this category only 
because of the inheritance they had received (which, as mentioned, was the source of the 
money they invested in the bonds).
I have seen screen prints of each stage of the application process for those who made 
applications online, using BG Ltds website. 
Certification
Potential investors would first have arrived at a page titled APPLY NOW TO BECOME AN 
INVESTOR which asks the consumer to provide some basic details. The next page is titled 
PLEASE SELECT THE MOST ACCURATE INVESTOR PROFILE FROM THE LIST 
BELOW and in this case asked Mr and Mrs Y to select from EVERYDAY INVESTOR, 
SELF CERTIFIED SOPHISTICATED INVESTOR, ADVISED INVESTOR or HIGH NET 
WORTH INVESTOR.
Mr and Mrs Y say that, at some point, they said they were high net worth investors. On the 
online application HIGH NET WORTH INVESTOR was described as follows:
What Is A High Net Worth Investor?
If you have earned more than £100,000 a year consistently for the past 12 months or have 
net assets of more than £250,000, this category may be applicable to you.Having selected this profile, potential investors were then asked to make a statement and 
declaration as follows:
High Net Worth Investor Statement
I make this statement so that I can receive promotional communications which are exempt 
from the restriction on promotion of non-readily realisable securities and investments 
because at least one of the following applies to me:
I had, throughout the immediately preceding financial year, an annual income to the value of 
£100,000 or more;
I held, throughout the immediately preceding financial year, net assets to the value of 
£250,000 or more.
Net assets for these purposes do not include:
(a) the property which is my primary residence or any money raised through a loan secured 
on that property;
(b) any rights of mine under a qualifying contract of insurance;
(c) any benefit (in the form of pensions or otherwise) which are payable on the termination of 
my service or on my death or retirement and to which I am (or my dependants are), or may 
be, entitled.
Investment Duration
I confirm that I am aware that the minimum duration of the current bonds on offer are as 
follows:
Cash Bond: 30 business days.
3 Year Monthly Income Bond: 3 years.
5 Year Monthly Income Bond: 5 years.
Compounding High-Yield Bond: 5 years.
Pensioner Bonds: 1 year extendable up to 5 years.
Declaration
I accept that the investments to which the promotions will relate may expose me to a 
significant risk of losing all of the money or other property invested.
I am aware that it is open to me to seek advice from an authorised person who specialises in 
advising on non-readily realisable securities.
I have made investments in similar products in the last 30 months and/or I am familiar with 
this type of investment. I am not planning on borrowing, remortgaging or liquidating assets to 
invest into a Non-readily Realisable Security. I am not investing via a SIPP/SSAS created 
specifically for investment in a Non-readily Realisable Security. I will retain access to 
sufficient liquid resources following investment. I am aware the Bond is intended to be an 
income producing product and not a product that provides capital growth.I agree to Basset & Gold Plc and Gallium Fund Solutions Limited keeping a record of this 
declaration and providing them to the FCA in event of an investigation.
At the bottom of the page it said: 
By clicking NEXT you acknowledge, understand, and agree with the investor declaration.
The appropriateness test
If they completed the certification, potential investors would then have arrived at a page titled 
JUST A FEW MORE QUESTIONS (REQUIRED BY LAW) which included the following 
multiple choice questions and answers, and a concluding confirmation:
These questions are designed to check that this type of investment is appropriate for you. 
Please read each question carefully and select the answer that you believe is correct.
1) AFTER YOU INVEST IN THIS OFFER CAN YOU TRANSFER YOUR BASSET & 
GOLD BONDS?
The bonds are not transferable except in the case of the IFISA Bonds Yes I can transfer 
them as a listed share
2) THE EXPECTED RETURN FROM BASSET AND GOLD BONDS?
is the fixed interest rate per annum paid over the term (plus my Money back at the end). is 
dependent on movements in the financial bond and equity markets.
3) IS YOUR CAPITAL SECURE?
No, my capital is at risk and I might not get back all that I invested. Yes, my capital is secure 
and I have no risk of losing.
4) CAN THE BASSET & GOLD BONDS BE CONVERTED TO BASSET & GOLD 
SHARES?
Yes No
5) DIVERSIFICATION IS A COMMON WAY TO HELP MANAGE RISK WHEN 
INVESTING; WHAT DOES THIS MEAN?
That you should invest all of your money into a single bond.
That you should invest your money in a range of different bonds as well as other less risky 
investments.
I confirm that I have read, understood and agree to Basset Gold Ltds terms and conditions 
of service and confirm that I would like to become a client of Basset Gold Ltd and receive 
financial promotions from time to time.
If any question was answered incorrectly the website displayed the following message (at 
the point of the particular question being answered incorrectly):
You have selected an incorrect answer. If this was an error please correct your answer, 
however please consider that if you are unfamiliar with the features of this investment then it 
might not be suitable for you.As mentioned, I have seen no evidence Mr and Mrs Y completed this process, so do not 
know if they answered the questions correctly  and, if so, whether they answered any 
questions incorrectly initially and changed their answers, having seen this message.
Answering the questions correctly allowed potential investors to move the to the final stages, 
which involved selecting an ISA or bond, selecting which of the products they wanted to 
invest in, and how much they wanted to invest. After completing these final stages 
consumers were able to click on a box to open the Invitation Document for the bond. 
However, it was not mandatory to do this  consumers were able to proceed without opening 
the Invitation Document. 
Galliums response to Mr and Mrs Ys complaint
Gallium did not uphold Mr and Mrs Ys complaint. It said, in summary:
Gallium is not able to pay compensation in respect of B&G plc's failure to repay the 
Bonds. This is because issuing the Bonds and the subsequent performance of B&G 
plc's business and lending activities were not regulated activities and were not 
matters for which Gallium assumed any responsibility.
The Invitation Document stated that B&G plc was an unlisted company, the bonds 
were unlisted and that investing in an unlisted company carries substantial risk. The 
Invitation Document also stated that neither B&G plc nor Gallium were providing 
investment advice. 
The Invitation Document said B&G plc was committing its funds to investment in 
peer-to-peer (P2P) and marketplace lending markets which contain certain risks 
described in the Invitation Document. It is satisfied that the arrangements with the 
pay day lender Uncle Buck fall within the categories of lending activity stated in the 
Invitation Document. Uncle Buck was involved in FCA-regulated online lending to 
borrowers in the high cost short-term credit sector.
It understands that B&G plc intended to diversify its lending activities to include 
lending to other borrowers and that the statements to that effect in the Invitation 
Document were accurate at the time they were made.
It is not clear what documents or information Mr and Mrs Y had regard to when 
deciding to invest. However, it notes that the various financial promotions at the time, 
including the B&G plc website and the Invitation Document, contained appropriate 
risk warnings for potential investors including that an individual may be exposed to a 
significant risk of losing all of the money invested.
After Mr and Mrs Y referred their complaint to us, Gallium sent us submissions. In those 
submissions it said, in summary:
All sales of the bond were completed on an execution only basis. No advice was 
given, by Gallium or BG Ltd to potential investors. The Invitation Document set out 
that Gallium was not providing any advice.
Further, the Invitation Document made clear to potential investors that no one from 
BG Ltd was authorised to give advice or information outside of that contained in the 
Invitation Document.
The Invitation Document gave extensive information and warnings about the bonds 
and the risks of investing. Having confirmed that they read and understood that information as part of agreeing to invest, Mr and Mrs Y cannot fairly be said to have 
been mis-sold their investment by Gallium.
I have considered the submissions in full. I have also seen a copy of what Gallium described 
as its position statement, which sets out general information on the background to 
complaints about B&G Plc bonds, and have considered this when reaching my decision.
Our investigators view
One of our investigators considered Mr and Mrs Ys complaint and concluded it should be 
upheld. She said, in summary:
It appears Mr and Mrs Y were certified as High Net Worth Investors. But there is no 
evidence B&G Ltd asked any further questions or obtained any evidence to check Mr 
and Mrs Y were indeed high net worth investors.
However, Mr Y has explained that they selected this category as they had recently 
received some inheritance. He has also said they held existing investments totalling 
approximately £245,000.
Taking this into account, even though B&G Ltd asked no further questions, it seems 
Mr and Mrs Y may have met the requirements of the first condition to be an eligible 
investor for the bonds, as high net worth investors.
However, the appropriateness assessment didnt fairly meet the requirements under 
COBS 10. The outcome of the questions asked would not have enabled B&G Ltd to 
come to a safe conclusion on whether the investment was appropriate for Mr and Mrs 
Y.
Had a fair and reasonable appropriateness assessment been carried out in line with 
the rules, its likely this wouldve concluded the investment was inappropriate for Mr 
and Mrs Y due to a lack of knowledge and experience in the relevant investment field 
and appreciation of the risks involved.
She also thought the promotional material for the Bonds was misleading. 
She did not think Mr and Mrs Y would have proceeded to invest in the bonds, had an 
adequate appropriateness test been carried out, and the promotional material not 
been misleading. 
Galliums response to the view
Gallium did not accept the investigators view. It said, in summary:
Mr and Mrs Y had not explained why they thought the bonds had been mis-sold. It 
appreciated our inquisitorial remit, but it felt we had gone significantly beyond the 
scope of the complaint made. It thought the case ought to have been dismissed as 
Mr and Mrs Y had not established a proper basis for a complaint.
It is important to recognise when appropriateness testing or suitability testing is 
required. As businesses structure their approach based on this, any incorrect 
application can wholly undermine their business model. There is significant cost to 
designing and implementing the approach. Our investigator had not applied the 
requirements correctly.COBS 10.2.6G allowed BG Ltd to have relied on knowledge when assessing whether 
Mr and Mrs Y understood the risks in relation to the product.
COBS 10.2.2R says it may be appropriate to ask about similar investment 
experience but there is no requirement to do that in each case. And the regulator 
provided guidance to the crowdfunding industry allowing firms to satisfy themselves 
of what information was pertinent to their investment process  this meant the 
regulator did not insist on questions about education or prior investment experience 
had to be included. This was confirmed in the regulators 2014 policy statement (PS 
14/4) too.
The FCA has provided guidance on its expectations around appropriateness since 
Mr and Mrs Y made their investments, and the regulatory environment has changed. 
At the time of the investment, however, the FCA had publicly articulated different 
expectations. We must apply regulatory expectations as they existed at the relevant 
time and not seek to apply the different standards that exist today in a retrospective 
manner.
In 2014 there had been discussions between the FCA and crowdfunding industry as 
to what the FCA expected businesses to do to ensure investments were appropriate 
for investors. The guidance took the form of two question and answer sessions with 
the FCAs Head of Investment Policy and UK Crowdfunding Association (UKCFA). 
These sessions addressed, in particular, the question of whether investor experience 
and education needed to form part of an appropriateness assessment. Gallium had 
regard to this guidance when considering BG Ltds appropriateness testing.
It understands that guidance provided by the FCA in those industry meetings clarified 
that firms were able to satisfy themselves of what information was pertinent to their 
investment process. Importantly, in appropriate circumstances, the FCA would not 
insist on an appropriateness test containing questions about education or prior 
investment experience.
BG Ltds appropriateness test (this refers to the JUST A FEW MORE QUESTIONS 
(REQUIRED BY LAW) set out above) was adequate  information was obtained 
about an investors knowledge and experience of the key characteristics of the 
bonds.
Mr and Mrs Y confirmed they had invested in similar products within the last 30 
months, that they were familiar with the type of investment, and had accepted other 
confirmations along the lines that bond might expose them to significant risk of losing 
all their money.
Mr and Mrs Y also confirmed they had read and understood the Invitation Document, 
inclusive of the risk warnings on pages 27  31 of that document.
If Mr and Mrs Y got any of the appropriateness questions wrong, they would have 
been presented with a warning. If they then changed an answer to the correct one, 
they would have been considered as correcting their knowledge.
BG Ltd was entitled to rely on the answers Mr and Mrs Y gave. It would not be fair or 
reasonable to expect Mr and Mrs Y to have given misleading answers. Had they 
done so, there is no basis to suppose they would have given accurate information 
had further questions been asked.
Mr and Mrs Y had already invested in a Basset & Gold bond in April 2017. When Mr and Mrs Y invested in the bonds in June 2017 they did in fact have prior experience 
of investing in the same type of product. That fact would have been known to 
Gallium. COBS 10.2.5G permits a firm to use information already in its possession 
when assessing appropriateness.
Ultimately, BG Ltd was entitled to conclude Mr and Mrs Y had sufficient knowledge 
and experience of the same or similar products to understand the risks involved such 
that the investment was appropriate for them. The investigator had disregarded the 
confirmations and appropriateness test responses given  and had reached a wholly 
irrational and unsupported conclusion.
The available evidence demonstrated that being notified of any lack of diversification 
of B&G Plcs lending activities would not have deterred Mr and Mrs Y from investing, 
as it did not cause them to disinvest when they became aware of it following the 
January 2019 update email.
The view suggests Mr and Mrs Y decided to invest because of extra-layers of 
security, in particular, FCA authorisation, potential recourse to the FSCS. The 
view does not suggest that the promotional material on these points was anything 
other than fair, clear, and not misleading. For the avoidance of doubt, the Invitation 
Document provided the correct information on these issues, which was presented in 
a way which was fair, clear and not misleading.
Though our investigator said Mr and Mrs Y wanted to achieve a reasonable return 
without taking any risk, the evidence does not support this. Mr and Mrs Y expressly 
acknowledged on numerous occasions that by proceeding with the investment they 
were at risk of losing the capital invested.
The view also indicates that Mr and Mrs Y had investments in other products where 
their capital was at risk. It says Mr and Mrs Y hold £15,000 in shares. It is therefore 
incorrect to conclude that Mr and Mrs Y would not have invested in a product which 
put their capital at risk.
The 6.12% and 7.46% interest rates evidences Mr and Mrs Y knew the investment 
was not risk free  the Bank of England Base Rate was only 0.25% so its not 
realistic to suggest they did not appreciate or accept the risk. Our investigator had 
misunderstood the risk-reward nature of securities markets and if every investor who 
had acknowledged their capital was at risk were to become entitled to capital 
protection this would bring about the end of retail participation in investment markets.
My provisional decision 
I recently issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded Mr and Mrs Ys 
complaint should be upheld. 
Gallium asked for an extension of time to respond to the provisional decision, but did not 
respond by the extended deadline. Mr and Mrs Y responded to say they accepted the 
provisional decision. 
As I have not received any further submissions from either party, and have not been 
persuaded to depart from my provisional findings, I have repeated my provisional findings 
below  and have not therefore included any further detail of them in this background 
summary.
My findings As a preliminary point, I note there is some dispute from Gallium about what we should be 
looking at when considering Mr and Mrs Ys complaint. Gallium says our investigator made 
findings on matters significantly beyond the scope of the complaint Mr and Mrs Y made. It 
also says complainants must establish a proper basis for a complaint about Gallium to be 
upheld and Mr and Mrs Ys complaint did not do that.
The Financial Ombudsman Service is an informal dispute resolution forum. A complaint 
made to us need not be, and rarely is, made out with the clarity of formal legal pleadings. As 
recognised by the High Court in R (Williams) v Financial Ombudsman Service [2008] EWHC 
2142, our service deals with complaints, not causes of action. Our jurisdiction is inquisitorial, 
not adversarial. 
Mr and Mrs Ys complaint concerns what they consider to be a mis-sale of the bonds by BG 
Ltd. They refer, primarily, to phone conversations they had with a representative of BG Ltd 
before applying to invest in the bonds. And they refer to an advert they saw before they 
spoke to BG Ltd and to a document given to them before they applied - the Investor Terms 
and Conditions. In short, their complaint is about events which led to them investing in the 
bond. In my view the points the investigator considered are within the scope of Mr and Mrs 
Ys complaint and are, in any event, points which it is appropriate for me to consider 
inquisitorially, given the nature of Mr and Mrs Ys complaint. 
For completeness, I have first considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide 
whether we can consider Mrs Ms complaint.  
Rule DISP 2.3.1R says we can;
consider a complaint under the Compulsory Jurisdiction if it relates to an act or omission by 
a firm in carrying onregulated activitiesor any ancillary activities, including advice, 
carried on by the firm in connection with them. 
And the guidance at DISP 2.3.3G says:
complaints about acts or omissions include those in respect of activities for which the 
firmis responsible (including business of any appointed representative or agent for which 
the firmhas accepted responsibility). 
The bond was a security or contractually based investment specified in the Financial 
Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 2001 (RAO). At the time Mr 
and Mrs Y made their investment, the RAO said regulated activities include arranging deals 
in investments. Acts such as obtaining and assisting in the completion of an application form 
and sending it off, with the clients payment, to the investment issuer would come within the 
scope of Article 25(1), when the arrangements have the direct effect of bringing about the 
transaction. So I am satisfied the online application process falls within the scope of Article 
25(1). These all involved making arrangements for Mr and Mrs Y to invest in the bond, and 
had the direct effect of bringing about the transaction. 
So I am satisfied Mr and Mrs Ys complaint is about regulated activities. I am also satisfied 
this part of the complaint is about acts for which Gallium accepted responsibility. They are 
therefore acts of Gallium and can be considered in a complaint against it. 
In this case I think the focus is on the acts or omissions of BG Ltd, as it was BG Ltd which 
was responsible for the sale of the bond. So, in the circumstances  keeping in mind what I 
say above about our jurisdiction being inquisitorial - I think it is appropriate to consider all the acts or omissions which relate to the sale of the bond. Although I only need to make findings 
on these to the extent it is necessary to reach a decision on what is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this case. 
The merits of Mr and Mrs Ys complaint
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
I have carefully taken account of the relevant considerations to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. In considering what is fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances of this complaint, I have taken into account relevant law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
In my view the key consideration as to what is fair and reasonable in this case is whether 
Gallium met its regulatory obligations when BG Ltd, acting on its behalf, carried out the acts 
the complaint relates to. I consider the following regulatory obligations to be of particular 
relevance here.
The Principles for Businesses
The Principles for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs Handbook are a general 
statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system (PRIN 
1.1.2G). I think Principles 6 and 7 are relevant here. They provide:
Principle 6  Customers interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its 
customers and treat them fairly.
Principle 7 - Communications with clients - A firm must pay due regard to the information 
needs of its clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and 
not misleading
COBS 4  Communicating with clients, including financial promotions
Principle 7 overlaps with COBS 4.2 - Fair, clear and not misleading communications, which I 
also consider to be relevant here:
COBS 4.2.1R:
(1) A firm must ensure that a communication or a financial promotion is fair, clear and not 
misleading.
As mentioned, the bond was non-readily realisable and therefore there were rules restricting 
who it could be promoted to and how to test whether the investment was appropriate for the 
potential investor. These rules were set out in COBS 4.7 and COBS 10. I have set out below 
what I consider to be the relevant rules, in the form they existed at the time.
COBS 4.7 - Direct offer financial promotions
At the time, COBS 4.7.7R said:
(1) Unless permitted by COBS 4.7.8 R, a firm must not communicate or approve a direct- 
offer financial promotion relating to a non-readily realisable security to or for communication to a retail client without the conditions in (2) and (3) being satisfied.
(2) The first condition is that the retail client recipient of the direct-offer financial promotion is 
one of the following:
(a) certified as a high net worth investor in accordance with COBS 4.7.9 R;
(b) certified as a sophisticated investor in accordance with COBS 4.7.9 R;
(c) self-certified as a sophisticated investor in accordance with COBS 4.7.9 R;
(d) certified as a restricted investor in accordance with COBS 4.7.10 R.
(3) The second condition is that firm itself or the person who will arrange or deal in relation to 
the non-readily realisable security will comply with the rules on appropriateness (see 
COBS
10) or equivalent requirements for any application or order that the person is aware, or ought 
reasonably to be aware, is in response to the direct offer financial promotion.
On High Net Worth Investors COBS 4.12.6R said:
A certified high net worth investor is an individual who has signed, within the period of twelve 
months ending with the day on which the communication is made, a statement in the 
following terms (as per 4.7.9R (2) (a) any references to non-mainstream pooled 
investments must be replaced with references to non-readily realisable securities in this 
case):
HIGH NET WORTH INVESTOR STATEMENT
I make this statement so that I can receive promotional communications which are exempt 
from the restriction on promotion of non-mainstream pooled investments. The exemption 
relates to certified high net worth investors and I declare that I qualify as such because at 
least one of the following applies to me:
I had, throughout the financial year immediately preceding the date below, an annual income 
to the value of £100,000 or more. Annual income for these purposes does not include money 
withdrawn from my pension savings (except where the withdrawals are used directly for 
income in retirement).
I held, throughout the financial year immediately preceding the date below, net assets to the 
value of £250,000 or more. Net assets for these purposes do not include:
(a) the property which is my primary residence or any money raised through a loan secured 
on that property; or
(b) any rights of mine under a qualifying contract of insurance; or
(c) any benefits (in the form of pensions or otherwise) which are payable on the termination 
of my service or on my death or retirement and to which I am (or my dependants are), or 
may be, entitled; or
(d) any withdrawals from my pension savings (except where the withdrawals are used 
directly for income in retirement).
I accept that the investments to which the promotions will relate may expose me to a significant risk of losing all of the money or other property invested. I am aware that it is open 
to me to seek advice from an authorised person who specialises in advising on non-
mainstream pooled investments.
Signature:
Date: 
And the guidance at COBS 4.12.9G said:
(1) A firm which wishes to rely on any of the certified high net worth investor exemptions 
(see Part I of the Schedule to the Promotion of Collective Investment Schemes Order, Part I 
of Schedule 5 to the Financial Promotions Order and COBS 4.12.6 R) should have regard to 
its duties under the Principles and the client's best interests rule. In particular, the firm 
should take reasonable steps to ascertain that the retail client does, in fact, meet the income 
and net assets criteria set out in the relevant statement for certified high net worth investors.
(2) In addition, the firm should consider whether the promotion of the non-mainstream 
pooled investment is in the interests of the retail client and whether it is fair to make the 
promotion to that client on the basis that the client is a certified high net worth investor, 
having regard to the generally complex nature of non-mainstream pooled investments. A 
retail client who meets the criteria for a certified high net worth investor but not for a certified 
sophisticated investor may be unable to properly understand and evaluate the risks of the 
non-mainstream pooled investment in question.
COBS 10  Appropriateness (for non-advised services)
At the time COBS 10.1.2 R said:
This chapter applies to a firm which arranges or deals in relation to a non-readily realisable 
security, derivative or a warrant with or for a retail client and the firm is aware, or ought 
reasonably to be aware, that the application or order is in response to a direct offer financial 
promotion.
COBS 10.2.1R:
(1) When providing a service to which this chapter applies, a firm must ask the client to 
provide information regarding her knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant 
to the specific type of product or service offered or demanded so as to enable the firm to 
assess whether the service or product envisaged is appropriate for the client.
(2) When assessing appropriateness, a firm:
(a) must determine whether the client has the necessary experience and knowledge in order 
to understand the risks involved in relation to the product or service offered or  
demanded;
COBS 10.2.2 R:
The information regarding a client's knowledge and experience in the investment field 
includes, to the extent appropriate to the nature of the client, the nature and extent of the 
service to be provided and the type of product or transaction envisaged, including their 
complexity and the risks involved, information on:
(1) the types of service, transaction and designated investment with which the client is familiar;
(2) the nature, volume, frequency of the client's transactions in designated investments and 
the period over which they have been carried out;
(3) the level of education, profession or relevant former profession of the client
COBS 10.2.6G  Knowledge and experience:
Depending on the circumstances, a firm may be satisfied that the client's knowledge alone 
is sufficient for her to understand the risks involved in a product or service. Where 
reasonable, a firm may infer knowledge from experience.
COBS 10.3 Warning the client COBS 10.3.1R
(1) If a firm considers, on the basis of the information received to enable it to assess 
appropriateness, that the product or service is not appropriate to the client, the firm must 
warn the client.
COBS 10.3.2R
(1) If the client elects not to provide the information to enable the firm to assess 
appropriateness, or if she provides insufficient information regarding her knowledge and 
experience, the firm must warn the client that such a decision will not allow the firm to 
determine whether the service or product envisaged is appropriate for her.
COBS 10.3.3G
If a client asks a firm to go ahead with a transaction, despite being given a warning by the 
firm, it is for the firm to consider whether to do so having regard to the circumstances.
I note Gallium has referred to the FCAs policy statement PS14/4, and to question and 
answer sessions with the FCAs Head of Investment Policy and UKCFA. I have had regard 
to the policy statement, and to Galliums recollections of the two question and answer 
sessions.
Having taken careful account of these relevant considerations, to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances, and given careful consideration to all Gallium has said, I 
have concluded Mr and Mrs Ys complaint should be upheld. 
My decision, in summary:
I think it is more likely than not Mr and Mrs Y did complete at least one online 
application process. 
However, Mr and Mrs Y did not meet the income and net assets criteria set out in the 
relevant statements for certified high net worth investors and, had Gallium 
undertaken the classification properly and taken reasonable steps to check Mr and 
Mrs Y met the criteria, it ought to have known this. 
Mr and Mrs Y could not have fallen under any of the alternative categories either. 
The appropriateness test carried out by BG Ltd, on behalf of Gallium, did not meet 
the requirements of the rules. And, had it done so, it would have been apparent the 
bonds were not an appropriate investment for Mr and Mrs Y. In the circumstances Mr and Mrs Y would either not have proceeded or, acting fairly and reasonably, BG Ltd 
should have concluded it should not promote the bond to Mr and Mrs Y.
I am satisfied Mr and Mrs Y would either not have proceeded to make the investment 
or would not have been able to proceed, had Gallium acted fairly and reasonably to 
meet its regulatory obligations. 
And so I am satisfied it is fair to ask Gallium to compensate Mr and Mrs Y for their 
loss.
The promotion of the bonds to Mr and Mrs Y 
There were a number of regulatory obligations which applied to the sale of the B&G Plc 
bonds. The bonds were non-readily realisable and therefore there were rules restricting who 
they could be promoted to and on how to test whether the investment was appropriate for 
the potential investor. These are the two conditions set out in COBS 4.7.7R which must be 
satisfied before a business such as BG Ltd (here acting on Galliums behalf) could 
communicate or approve a direct-offer financial promotion relating to a non-readily realisable 
security such as the bonds issued by B&G Plc.
At the outset I think it is important to emphasise the bonds Mr and Mrs Y invested in were 
not straightforward products. Risk factors associated with the bonds included the track 
record of B&G Plc, the detail of its due diligence on the businesses it would be lending to, 
the criteria B&G Plc applied to its lending and the conditions on which the loan was made. 
The credit history of the business the loan was made to would also need to be considered, 
its capacity to repay, and its capital position. Furthermore, as the business B&G Plc was 
lending to was itself lending, the lending criteria it applied, the default rate and the success 
of its past lending would need to be considered. All of these points (and this is not an 
exhaustive list) would need to be considered in order to understand the investment.
In the market for corporate bonds listed on the main exchanges, institutions  ratings 
agencies  carry out analysis work to assess the risk associated with a bond and express a 
view (a rating), and investment managers often carry out further credit analysis before 
deciding to invest in a bond. Here there were no such aids to a consumers understanding of 
the product. There was also a liquidity risk. The bonds were not listed on a recognised 
exchange, and so could not be readily sold (in fact it seems to have been a condition of the 
investment that it could not be transferred). And, as Gallium has pointed out, the Invitation 
Document which set out the details of the bond was over 40 pages long. I have read the 
document and it contains a lot of complex technical information which may not be readily 
understood by the average investor.
So the bonds were complex, risky and specialist and this is why they fell into a category of 
investment on which the FCA puts restrictions as to who it could be promoted. And an 
obvious risk of consumer detriment arises if the rules relating to this are not properly applied. 
The importance of Gallium fully meeting its regulatory obligations here was therefore high. 
Its responsibility was significant. And the steps it took to meet its regulatory obligations need 
to be considered with that in mind.
Mr and Mrs Ys applications
In this case there is limited contemporaneous evidence of Mr and Mrs Ys applications. 
Neither Galliums response to the complaint nor the information provided to us by the 
administrators of BG Ltd have any detail of applications beyond what is recorded on a 
spreadsheet, set out above, which only appears to refer to one application. It is Mr Ys recollection that he and Mrs Y were categorised a High Net Worth Investors  
albeit after they had invested. That recollection is partly consistent with the information which 
has been provided to us, which suggests Mr and Mrs Y were each categorised as High Net 
Worth Investors on 25 June 2017, around ten days after the investments were made (based 
on the dates shown on the bond certificates). I say partly consistent because Mr and Mrs Ys 
recollection is of a much longer gap (12 months). 
Mr and Mrs Y also say they dont think that there was any application procedure  they just 
sent cheques to BG Ltd.
While I appreciate Mr Ys recollection differs I think it more likely than not Mr and Mrs Y did 
complete at least one online application process on BG Ltds website. That would be 
consistent with Galliums general explanation of how investments were made and what we 
have seen in practice in the large number of complaints we have seen about Gallium and 
these bonds. So I have considered the complaint on that basis. 
The evidence does suggest the online application process(es) might have been done 
retrospectively i.e. after the investment had been made. But I do not think this, in itself, is 
material to the outcome of this complaint, even though it is not consistent with what the rules 
require, as if Mr and Mrs Y did (by assessments and processes which met the requirements 
of the relevant rules) meet the two conditions set out in COBS 4.7.7R I do not think the short 
delay impacts this.
Certification
The first condition set out in COBS 4.7.7R required a retail client, such as Mr and Mrs Y, to 
be certified as being in one of four categories of investor in order to receive promotional 
communications relating to the bond. 
The wording used by BG Ltd for the High Net Worth Investor category mirrors the wording 
set out at 4.12.6R and therefore rightly asks about individual circumstances. However, as I 
have no evidence of what was done at the time I do not know if both Mr and Mrs Y were 
asked individually to make the High Net Worth certification and therefore each gave a 
statement and declaration. Or whether they gave the statement and declaration jointly, or 
made joint and individual statements and declarations. But, in any event, the rules required 
assessment of their individual positions. And this is something which should have been 
understood by BG Ltd and it, in turn, should have ensured it was understood by Mr and Mrs 
Y. It should also have informed the reasonable checks BG Ltd should have made to ensure 
Mr and Mrs Y each met the definition of High Net Worth Investor. 
Had Gallium correctly explained the position  and ensured Mr and Mrs Y understood it  I 
think it would have been apparent neither Mr nor Mrs Y could meet the High Net Worth 
Investor definition as the total of their qualifying assets was around £285,000 and their 
incomes were significantly less than £100,000. The inheritance they had received was not 
large enough to change this position and had not in any event been held for all of the 
previous financial year  it was a recent inheritance. 
In these circumstances I think it unlikely Mr and Mrs Y would have given the statement and 
declaration as they would have realised they could not meet the High Net Worth Investor 
definition.  
In the (in my view) unlikely event Mr and Mrs Y still gave the statement and declaration with 
a full understanding of the position (i.e. that they each had to individually meet the definition 
of High Net Worth Investor) Gallium should still have carried out reasonable checks to 
ensure they did meet the definition. And such checks would have quickly revealed they did not. Even a cursory check would have revealed they did not each have net assets to the 
value of £250,000 or more or income in excess of £100,000 throughout the previous 
financial year. 
So there should have been no basis on which Mr and Mrs Y could proceed as High Net 
Worth Investors. 
I note there was additional wording (to the High Net Worth statement set out at 4.12.6R) in 
the statement and declaration, as follows:
I have made investments in similar products in the last 30 months and/or I am familiar with 
this type of investment. I am not planning on borrowing, remortgaging or liquidating assets to 
invest into a Non-readily Realisable Security. I am not investing via a SIPP/SSAS created 
specifically for investment in a Non-readily Realisable Security. I will retain access to 
sufficient liquid resources following investment. I am aware the Bond is intended to be an 
income producing product and not a product that provides capital growth.
I agree to Basset & Gold Plc and Gallium Fund Solutions Limited keeping a record of this 
declaration and providing them to the FCA in event of an investigation.
If Mr and Mrs Y completed the online application process it is reasonable to assume they 
clicked next to acknowledge, understand, and agree with the investor declaration. But I do 
not think this offers a basis on which things could have proceeded  this additional wording 
does nothing to satisfy the High Net Worth Investor definition. 
I note Galliums reference to case law relating to circumstances where someone is seeking 
to take a position contrary to an earlier representation. The law is a relevant consideration 
which I need to take into account. But in my view the case law Gallium has referred to is 
quite different to the facts of this case. The Bank of Leumi v Wachner case, for example, 
relates to circumstances where Ms Wachner was clearly a wealthy, sophisticated investor 
with lots of experience of previous similar investments - and in that situation the court 
decided that it was fair for the business to rely on the professional client declaration made 
and that it was likely Ms Wachner did understand the papers she signed. The situation is 
quite different here, where Mr and Mrs Y have limited investment experience and were 
investing in what they appear to have understood was a pensioner bond, to supplement 
thier pension income.  
In my view  - notwithstanding what I say about neither Mr nor Mrs Y meeting the definition of 
High Net Worth Investor - Gallium should also have considered whether the promotion of the 
bonds was in the interests Mr and Mrs Y and whether it is fair to make the promotion to them 
on the basis they were certified high net worth investors. That would have been a fair and 
reasonable step to take, consistent with the regulatory guidance at COBS 4.12.9 G (2). And 
had such a step been taken the only reasonable conclusion that could have been reached 
would be that it was not fair or in the interests Mr and Mrs Y to make the promotion based on 
them being certified high net worth investors. Such a step, if taken reasonably, would have 
revealed Mr and Mrs Y may have been unable to properly understand and evaluate the risks 
of the bonds. 
This is a further basis on which things should not have proceeded based on Mr and Mrs Y 
being certified high net worth investors. 
I think it unlikely Mr and Mrs Y would have described either of themselves as a self-certified 
sophisticated investor, advised investor or restricted investor as it would have been clear 
from the descriptions of those categories (if given in a way which reflected how they are set 
out in the FCA rules) that they did not fit into them either.So I am satisfied if BG Ltd, acting on behalf of Gallium, had acted fairly and reasonably to 
meet Galliums regulatory obligations Mr and Mrs Y would not have got beyond this stage. 
The first condition set out in COBS 4.7.7R could not be met and things could not have 
proceeded beyond this. And I think it would be fair and reasonable to uphold Mr and Mrs Ys 
complaint on this basis alone. I have however, for completeness, gone on to consider the 
appropriateness test.
Appropriateness
The second condition set out in COBS 4.7.7R required BG Ltd to comply with the rules on 
appropriateness, set out in COBS 10 and quoted in the relevant considerations section 
above. 
The rules at the time (COBS 10.2.1R) required BG Ltd, acting on behalf of Gallium, to ask 
Mr and Mrs Y to provide information regarding their knowledge and experience  and for this 
information to be relevant to the product offered (the first limb of the rule). The rules required 
that information to then be assessed, to determine whether Mr and Mrs Y did have the 
necessary experience and knowledge in order to understand the risks involved (the second 
limb of the rule). As with the High Net Worth Investor category considered above this is an 
individual test and so should have been applied to Mr and Mrs Y individually. 
As set out above, COBS 10.2.2 R required BG Ltd, acting on behalf of Gallium, when 
considering what information to ask for, to consider the nature of the service provided, the 
type of product (including its complexity and risks) and for it to include, to the extent 
appropriate to the nature of the client:
(1) the types of service, transaction and designated investment with which the client is 
familiar;
(2) the nature, volume, frequency of the client's transactions in designated investments and 
the period over which they have been carried out;
(3) the level of education, profession or relevant former profession of the client
In my view BG Ltd failed to ask for an appropriate amount of information about Mr and Mrs 
Ys knowledge and experience, as required by COBS 10.2.1R and COBS 10.2.2 R.
BG Ltd did not refer to an appropriateness test on the website  it instead referred to just a 
few more questions (required by law). Under this section BG Ltd asked five questions which 
tested knowledge. These questions asked whether Mr or Mrs Y knew if the bonds were 
transferable, if the return was fixed, if their capital was secure, if the bonds could be 
converted to shares and the meaning of diversification. Nothing was asked about Mr or Mrs 
Ys experience. And if Mr or Mrs Y got a question wrong, they would be told their answer 
was wrong and prompted to reconsider it.
Even if Mr or Mrs Y did know the correct answer to all five questions without prompting this 
only showed they understood the bonds were not transferrable, the return was fixed, capital 
was at risk, whether the bonds could be converted into shares and were able to select a 
correct answer from two options as to what the definition of diversification was.
Gallium says if Mr or Mrs Y answered all these questions correctly that demonstrates that 
they did understand the investment. I do not agree. This falls a long way short of adequately 
testing whether Mr or Mrs Y had the knowledge to understand the risk associated with the 
bonds  particularly in circumstances where the multiple-choice options were limited to two 
and Mr or Mrs Y were allowed repeated efforts to get them right. The risks, as I set out earlier, were complex and multifactorial. It was not, for example, a question of whether Mr or 
Mrs Y simply understood money could be lost  but whether they were able to understand 
how likely that might be and what factors might lead to it happening.
Nor do I think it was reasonable to rely on the statement and declaration given during the 
previous stage of Mr and Mrs Ys application. I acknowledge BG Ltd asked Mr and Mrs Y to 
declare, at the previous stage I am familiar with this type of investment. and I have made 
investments in similar products in the last 30 months. But, even accounting for the 
declaration, an appropriate level of information was not asked for. 
As the first limb of COBS 10.2.1R was not met, BG Ltd was unable to carry out the 
assessment required under the second limb. BG Ltd should have been confident, from the 
information it asked for, that it was able to assess if Mr or Mrs Y had the necessary 
experience and knowledge in order to understand the risks involved with investment in the 
bond. But it was not in a position to make such an assessment, based on the information it 
obtained.
Gallium has referred to 10.2.6G which says there may be circumstances in which a firm may 
be satisfied that the client's knowledge alone is sufficient for him to understand the risks 
involved in a product or service.
In my view these were not such circumstances  not least because BG Ltd did not ask for an 
appropriate amount of information about Mr or Mrs Ys knowledge. The guidance in any 
event does not supplant the rules and in my view it is clearly meant to apply where the client 
has been asked about both knowledge and experience, as the rules require, and the 
information obtained shows knowledge is high and experience is low. It does not say a 
business can ask only about knowledge when conducting an appropriateness test.
Gallium has referred to industry conferences with the FCA and to the FCAs policy statement 
PS14/04. This relates to the regulation of firms operating online crowdfunding platforms or 
conducting other similar activities. But I have seen no evidence to show any guidance 
provided to Gallium implied that it did not have to ask about Mr and Mrs Ys experience at 
all. 
I have read the policy statement. And in my view it simply confirms the rules on 
appropriateness apply and must be followed. I note, for example, the statement confirms, at 
4.24, that firms are required to assess whether the client has the necessary experience and 
knowledge to understand the risk involved. In relation to the crowdfunding coming under its 
regulation the FCAs proposal (which was adopted), summarised at 4.6, was:
where no advice was provided, that all firms (MiFID and non-MiFID) must check that clients 
have the knowledge and experience needed to understand the risks involved before being 
invited to respond to an offer
The policy statement does not therefore change my view that BG Ltd, acting on behalf of 
Gallium, did not meet its regulatory obligations. And I have seen no evidence to show the 
FCA gave guidance to Gallium otherwise which would have led it to conclude its 
appropriateness test was adequate. 
In any event  and notwithstanding what I say above about COBS 10.2.1R and 10.2.6G  as 
Gallium did not ask for sufficient information about Mr and Mrs Ys knowledge, it was not in a 
position to assess whether their knowledge alone was sufficient.
Gallium also suggests the FCA has provided guidance on its expectations around 
appropriateness since Mr and Mrs Y made their investments in 2017, and the regulatory environment has changed since then. To be clear, my findings are based on the rules that 
existed at the time.
Had the process been consistent with what the rules required - had Mr or Mrs Y been asked 
for appropriate information about their knowledge and experience - the only reasonable 
conclusion BG Ltd could have reached, having assessed this, was that neither Mr or Mrs Y 
had the necessary experience and knowledge to understand the risks involved with the 
bonds.
Mr and Mrs Y did not have any experience of investments like the bonds and I have seen no 
evidence to show they had anything other than a limited knowledge of investments. 
Gallium says the fact Mr and Mrs Y had already invested in a bond a few months earlier 
meant they did in fact have prior experience of investing in the same type of product and 
COBS 10.2.5G permitted it to use information already in its possession when assessing 
appropriateness. I have however seen no evidence to show Gallium did use information 
already in its possession (the online application process makes no provision for this) and, in 
any event, having held another bond for a few months prior to investing in the bonds subject 
to complaint cannot reasonably be considered meaningful experience, insofar as it would 
enable them to understand the risks involved. 
If BG Ltd assessed that the bond was not appropriate, COBS 10.3.1 R said a warning must 
be given and the guidance at COBS 10.3.3G said a business could consider whether in the 
circumstances to go ahead with the transaction if the client wished to proceed, despite the 
warning.
If a warning was given, it was not given in a way which met COBS 10.3.1 R. This envisages 
the test being completed, and a result determined, before the warning was given. As BG Ltd 
designed the test the only warning was in response to incorrect answers and simply said if 
you are unfamiliar with the features of this investment then it might not be suitable for you. 
In my view this does not meet what is required by COBS 10.3.1R, which is a warning that 
the product is not appropriate. And, by allowing Mr or Mrs Y the opportunity to effectively 
silence the warning through selecting a different answer, the impact of it was reduced in any 
event. 
The process also did not give BG Ltd the opportunity to consider whether in the 
circumstances to go ahead with the transaction if Mr or Mrs Y wished to proceed, despite the 
warning.
A warning which told Mr or Mrs Y clearly an investment in the bonds was not appropriate for 
them would likely have put them off proceeding further. That is a clear, emphatic statement 
which would have left them in no doubt the bonds were not an appropriate investment for 
them. And they both ought to have been privy to such a warning, had an appropriateness 
test consistent with the requirements of the rules been conducted.
Furthermore  and separately from any acceptance of a warning by Mr and Mrs Y - had BG 
Ltd given itself the opportunity to consider in the circumstances whether to go ahead with the 
transaction if Mr and Mrs Y wished to proceed, having asked for appropriate information 
about Mr and Mrs Ys knowledge and experience, it would have been fair and reasonable for 
BG Ltd to conclude it should not allow Mr and Mrs Y to proceed. Had Mr and Mrs Y been 
asked for appropriate information about their knowledge and experience this would have 
shown they may not have the capacity to fully understand the risk associated with the bond. 
As mentioned, I have seen no evidence to show Mr and Mrs Y had anything other than a 
very basic knowledge of investments. In these circumstances, it would not have been fair 
and reasonable for BG Ltd to conclude it should proceed if Mr and Mrs Y wanted to, despite a warning (which, as noted, was not in any event given in the required terms or required 
way).
All in all, I remain satisfied BG Ltd, acting on behalf of Gallium, did not act fairly and 
reasonably when assessing appropriateness. By assessing appropriateness in the way it did 
it was not treating Mr and Mrs Y fairly or acting in their best interests. If it had acted fairly and 
reasonably to meet the relevant regulatory obligations when assessing appropriateness, Mr 
and Mrs Y would not have got beyond this stage. And I think it would be fair and reasonable 
to uphold Mr and Mrs Ys complaint on this basis alone. Even if I am wrong to say Mr and 
Mrs Y would not have said they were each High Net Worth Investor and given the statement 
and declaration relating to this (or that reasonable checks by BG Ltd would have revealed 
they were not High Net Worth Investors) if BG Ltd, on behalf of Gallium, had acted differently 
Mr and Mrs Y would not have got beyond this second stage. The second condition set out in 
COBS 4.7.7R could not be met and things could not have proceeded beyond this.
Invitation Document
Gallium has again referred to the explanation of risks set out in the Invitation Document. 
However, I remain of the view things need to be considered in the order in which Mr and Mrs 
Y would have been privy to them. Mr and Mrs Y could only have been privy to the Invitation 
Document after having completed the certification and appropriateness test. And, as I set out 
above, I do not think Mr and Mrs Y should have reached this point.
I acknowledge that Mr and Mrs Y may have seen the Invitation Document, although they do 
not recall seeing it, as they were (incorrectly) assessed as being eligible to receive it. 
However, considering the available evidence, I think it unlikely Mr and Mrs Y looked at the 
Invitation Document in any detail if they did see it and did not have the capacity to fully 
understand it even if they did look at it in detail.
I think it is also important to say that an objective of the appropriateness test was to protect 
consumers such as Mr and Mrs Y from receiving communications about investments which 
were not appropriate for them. One obvious reason for this being that such consumers may 
not be able to fully understand these communications. So it would not be fair and reasonable 
to say, where the test has not been applied as set out in the rules and an incorrect 
conclusion reached on appropriateness as a result, that any knowledge subsequently 
acquired from the Invitation Document can be used in an effort to retrospectively satisfy the 
test.
So in my view Gallium cannot reasonably rely on the Invitation Document to say Mr and Mrs 
Y had an understanding of the bond and proceeded on that basis.
The website and any other marketing material
For similar reasons to those given above, I remain of the view I do not need to consider 
anything else (i.e. other than the application stages set out) Mr and Mrs Y may have been 
privy to before making the investment. I say this because nothing else that could have been 
conceivably shown on the website or elsewhere changes the position that Mr and Mrs Y 
would not  and could not - have satisfied the first or second conditions in COBS 4.7.7R and 
therefore could not receive promotional communications relating to the bond.
I have noted the point Mr and Mrs Y have made about the Terms and Conditions and their 
view these misled them as to the level of regulatory protection available to investors in the 
bond. However, I do not think it is necessary to consider this either, for the same reason.
Is it fair to ask Gallium to compensate Mr and Mrs Y?I am satisfied that if BG Ltd, on behalf of Gallium, had acted fairly and reasonably to meet its 
regulatory obligations Mr and Mrs Y could not  or would not - have proceeded to invest in 
the bonds. 
Mr and Mrs Y could not have satisfied the first or second conditions in COBS 4.7.7R in order 
to receive promotional communications relating to the bond. And even if I am wrong about 
the first condition Mr and Mrs Y could not have passed an appropriateness test which met 
the requirements of the rules and so could not have met the second condition, in any event. 
And even if they had said they wanted to proceed following a warning (and such a warning 
had been given in a way which was consistent with the rules) I do not think, as I set out 
above, that it would have been fair and reasonable for BG Ltd to conclude it should allow 
them to proceed.
So Mr and Mrs Y should not have been able to proceed, had Gallium acted fairly and 
reasonably to meet its regulatory obligations. The starting point is therefore that it is fair to 
ask Gallium to compensate Mr and Mrs Y for the loss they have suffered as a result of 
making the investment. 
Gallium says Mr and Mrs Y expressly acknowledged on numerous occasions that by 
proceeding with the investment they were at risk of losing the capital invested, and this is 
evidence Mr and Mrs Y would have proceeded to invest in the bond regardless of what it did. 
It adds that the high return offered reflected the fact capital was at risk and it is unrealistic to 
think that Mr and Mrs Y were not aware of this and prepared to take a risk with their capital. 
Gallium also refers to Mr and Mrs Y holding investments in shares as evidence they were 
willing to take risk. 
I do not think it would be fair to say Mr and Mrs Y should not be compensated on this basis. 
Firstly, they should not have been able to proceed, had Gallium acted fairly and reasonably 
to meet its regulatory obligations. Going beyond that, I understand what Mr and Mrs Y 
described as shares ISAs were in fact invested in bonds. And, in any event, if they were 
willing to take risks with that sum of money (£15,000) it does not follow they were willing to 
take those risks with a much larger sum, which was being invested to increase their income. 
There is no evidence they were willing to accept significant risk in order to achieve this  in 
fact they say they were concerned about risk when discussing the bonds with BG Ltd. 
Given what Mr and Mrs Y have said about their understanding of the bonds, and their limited 
investment experience, I am persuaded by their testimony they relied on assurances from 
BG Ltds representative that the investment did not involve significant risk. In these 
circumstances, I am not persuaded they understood from the relatively high return on offer  
or otherwise  that the investment involved significant risk. 
Gallium has also referred to the January 2019 update email. 
I think the wording of this email was largely reassuring and it is fair to consider that it had 
very little impact (Gallium says that only one of 1,700 investors who received this email took 
any action). And I do not think it would be fair to ask Gallium to pay no, or less, 
compensation in circumstances such as those in this complaint. I am not persuaded Mr and 
Mrs Y had the capacity to fully understand the risks associated with the bonds  and they 
were in this position because BG Ltd, acting on behalf of Gallium, did not act fairly and 
reasonably to meet its regulatory obligations at the outset. 
I am therefore satisfied it is fair to ask Gallium to compensate Mr and Mrs Y.
In conclusionTaking all of the above into consideration  individually and cumulatively  I think in the 
circumstances it is fair and reasonable to uphold the complaint. I am satisfied, for all the 
reasons given, that Mr and Mrs Y would not have invested in the bonds had BG Ltd, on 
behalf of Gallium, acted fairly and reasonably to meet its regulatory obligations. And I think it 
is fair to ask Gallium to compensate Mr and Mrs Y for the loss they have suffered.
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr 
and Mrs Y in as close to the position they would probably now be in if they had not invested 
in the bonds.
I think Mr and Mrs Y would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely what 
they would have done, but I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and 
reasonable given Mr and Mrs Y's circumstances and objectives when they invested.
What should Gallium do?
To compensate Mr and Mrs Y fairly, Gallium must:
Compare the performance of Mr and Mrs Y's investments with that of the benchmark 
shown below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of 
the investment. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Gallium should also pay interest as set out below.
It is also clear that Mr and Mrs Y have been caused some distress and 
inconvenience by the loss of their investment. Given their circumstances, this is 
money Mr and Mrs Y cannot afford to lose, nor is it money they are able to replace. I 
do not believe Mr and Mrs Y foresaw such a drastic loss and I recognise the 
considerable worry they will have felt when B&G Plc failed. I consider a payment of 
£500 is fair compensation for the upset caused.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Investment 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end date) Additional 
interest
8% simple per
year from final
decision to
B&G Plc 
bond x 3Still exists but 
illiquidAverage rate 
from fixed rate 
bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my final 
decisionsettlement (if not 
settled within 28 
days of the 
business
receiving the
complainant's
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.If at the end date the investment is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open 
market), it may be difficult to work out what the actual value is. In such a case the actual 
value should be assumed to be zero. This is provided Mr and Mrs Y agree to Gallium taking 
ownership of the investment, if it wishes to. If it is not possible for Gallium to take ownership, 
then it may request an undertaking from Mr and Mrs Y that they repay to Gallium any 
amount they may receive from the investment in future.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
Any withdrawal, income or other distributions paid out of the investments should be 
deducted from the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to 
accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular 
payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if Gallium totals all those payments and 
deducts that figure at the end to determine the fair value instead of deducting periodically. If 
any distributions or income were automatically paid out into a portfolio and left uninvested, 
they must be deducted at the end to determine the fair value, and not periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr and Mrs Y wanted to achieve a reasonable return without any significant risk to 
their capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure given Mr and Mrs 
Y's circumstances and objectives. It does not mean that Mr and Mrs Y would have 
invested only in a fixed rate bond. It is the sort of investment return a consumer could 
have obtained with little risk to their capital.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I uphold the complaint. Gallium Fund Solutions should calculate and 
pay compensation as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Y and Mr Y to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 January 2023.
 
John Pattinson
Ombudsman