DRN-2119143
The complaint
Mr A and Mr D complain about Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limiteds (LV) 
decision to decline their claim for damage to a retaining wall on their property.
What happened
The history of this complaint is well known to all parties so Ive summarised events below.
Mr A and Mr D made a claim for subsidence damage caused to their property.
As part of that claim, LV repaired damaged underground pipes and removed the 
trees that had caused damage to the underground pipes through their roots.
Several months after the trees were removed, Mr A and Mr D claimed for damage to 
the retaining wall of the property (wall 1).
LV declined the claim for damage to wall 1 as it said tree roots were responsible for 
the damage, and this had occurred over a long period of time. It said this wasnt 
covered under the policy nor was it caused by subsidence or any other insured peril.
Following some back and forth, LV agreed to investigate the cause of damage and 
produce a report but by this time, Mr A and Mr D had removed and replaced it with a 
new wall (wall 2).
Several months later wall 2 collapsed and another claim was made. LV treated this 
as a further claim and declined it as it said the damage was due to defective design 
and not caused by an insured peril under the policy.
Mr A and Mr D challenged LVs decision for both claims, saying wall 1 should have 
been considered as part of the previous subsidence claim, and wall 2s design had 
not been defective. They also said damage was caused as a result of LVs repairs.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint  he felt it was more likely wall 1 was 
damaged due to gradual deterioration from tree roots acting on the wall and this was 
excluded under the terms of the policy. For wall 2, he felt it was damaged as a result 
of poor design, and not an insured event. He also wasnt persuaded the damage was 
caused as a result of any of LVs previous repairs.
Mr A and Mr D didnt agree with our investigator, saying LV hadnt informed them 
wall 1 was a retaining wall, nor that any rebuild should be structurally engineered. 
They also said wall 2 was damaged due to regular sun and then rainy weather which 
caused voids in the earth which filled with water. 
The investigator acknowledged LV couldve clarified the wall was retaining but said 
the responsibility for the design would fall to Mr A and Mr Ds builder. And he said a 
wall should be designed to hold back day to day weather  which this hadnt.
So this complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions on this complaint as our investigator. 
Ive summarised my reasons below.
Wall 1
Trees impacting the property were removed around May 2018. The damage to wall 1 
was raised with LV around August 2018. 
From what Ive seen, LV removed these tree roots as they were damaging the 
underground drains (causing subsidence). This isnt unusual in a claim such as this, 
and I dont agree its accurate to say LV acted negligently or did something wrong by 
removing the offending trees.
Mr A and Mr D argue it is contradictory for LV to say the wall 1 wasnt damaged by 
subsidence caused by tree roots, when maintaining the wall damage was caused by 
tree roots. 
Subsidence is described under the policy as downward movement of the ground. 
This may or may not be caused by tree roots. And it is different to damage caused 
directly by tree roots. And LV is saying it was the latter (direct tree root action) which 
caused the damage to wall 1, as opposed to the tree roots causing subsidence which 
affected the ground which in turn caused damage to wall 1.
LV was prepared to carry out a second investigation of wall 1 but by that time the wall 
had been replaced. While I acknowledge LV hadnt carried out thorough investigation 
into the cause of damage to wall 1, in this case Im not persuaded this means the 
conclusions it drew were wrong.
LVs loss adjuster concluded damage to wall 1 was due to tree roots applying 
pressure and causing it to weaken and crack. I accept their view was based on a 
limited consideration, but this is still the view of a qualified and expert party. They 
said this had occurred over a long period of time and it couldnt have been 
hydrostatic pressure following the tree removal given this was a relatively dry period. 
Mr A and Mr D havent provided any expert evidence to the contrary or anything that 
undermines LVs findings. And having reviewed the available evidence, Im more 
persuaded by what LV has said on the basis of the loss adjusters comments. 
On balance, I think it was more likely that the damage was caused directly by tree 
roots over time, as opposed to an insured event such as subsidence. I think this is 
also supported by Mr A and Mr Ds comments that wall 1 did not collapse, but was 
falling over time.
The policy terms dont cover damage caused directly by tree roots and this type of 
damage doesnt meet the definition of subsidence. This is the case regardless of 
whether a wall is considered retaining or not. Furthermore, the policy also excludes 
anything that doesnt meet the definition of subsidence but that happens gradually, 
which seems in Mr A and Mr Ds description of the damage to the wall..
For these reasons I dont think LV is responsible for the damage to Mr A and Mr Ds 
wall 1, and Im satisfied it fairly declined the claim in line with the policy terms. 
Wall 2
The inspection of and reports for this wall involve a different loss adjuster and a 
surveyor. The loss adjusters determined wall 2 collapsed around three months after it 
was constructed.
Wall 2 was built by a friend, albeit a qualified builder, of Mr A and Mr D. Theyve said 
there is no formal documentation to demonstrate design and specification of the wall.
I think a wall that was properly designed and built, taking into account the site 
conditions and circumstances, would be expected last longer than three months. 
Mr A and Mr D have not provided any expert evidence to demonstrate what the likely 
cause of damage to the second wall was. So Ive considered theirs and their builders 
comments alongside the reports and comments from LVs loss adjuster and 
appointed surveyor.The surveyor has said that a lack of weep holes on the second wall, coupled with the 
likely type of mortar used could have meant the wall was acting as a moisture barrier 
and this could have contributed to the damage.
Mr A and Mr D have provided evidence to show there was a drainage system on the 
second wall and LV accepts that this form of drainage (perforated pipe with gravel) 
could provide drainage and assist with hydrostatic pressure. So it seems there was a 
drainage system on the wall. But this doesnt answer why a wall would then fail in 
such a short period of time despite having an adequate drainage system. 
LVs loss adjusters said there was a lack of lateral support to the wall, taking into 
account the heavily sloped site and poor ground conditions. And they determined 
wall 2 fell due to lateral pressure from the bank and failed as a retaining wall.
Mr A and Mr Ds policy only provides cover for a specified number of events. These 
are outlined in the policy terms and include storm, subsidence and landslip. Ive not 
seen sufficient evidence to show the damage to wall 2 was as a result of any 
particular insured event, as outlined under the policy terms. 
Ive considered Mr A and Mr Ds alternative explanations for the damage, but these 
arent supported by expert evidence and Im more persuaded by LVs evidence.
Given wall 2 was constructed without a formal design and failed within a short period, 
and in the absence of any expert evidence to the contrary, Im satisfied LVs 
conclusion the wall fell due to its design was reasonable in the circumstances.
The policy terms specifically exclude cover for damage caused by faulty design and 
workmanship. It follows I think its decision to decline the claim was fair. 
Mr A and Mr D also said LV hadnt told them of what work would need to go into the 
rebuild of the wall. Im not persuaded this was LVs responsibility and instead Id 
expect this to fall to the builder as our investigator has said previously. 
For these reasons Im not directing LV to make any payment towards any of the 
damaged or subsequently constructed walls.
My final decision
For the above reasons Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 March 2021.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman