DRN-3053710
The complaint
Ms M says Oakam Ltd lent to her irresponsibly. She said she had financial problems when 
Oakam lent to her and this led her to struggle to repay the loans. 
What happened
This complaint is about four loans Oakam provided to Ms M between August 2015 and 
August 2017. Some of the information I have been provided about the lending is in the table 
below. 
loan 
numberdate startedamount 
borrowedterm 
(months)date ended
1 24/08/2015 £1,000 24 09/01/2016
2 09/01/2016 £1,342 36 28/05/2016
3 28/05/2016 £1,822 104 07/05/2017
4 02/08/2017 £5,000 104 27/08/2019
The most recent adjudicator to look at the complaint upheld it in full. He thought that it was 
evident that Ms M was having problems managing her money right from the start. This was 
because she had existing County Court Judgements (CCJ) which were for significant 
amounts. And she also had arrears on some of her other credit. And Oakam was aware of 
this. And when her income was properly considered the loans werent affordable.  
Oakam disagreed with the adjudicators opinion in part. It agreed it shouldnt have approved 
loan 1. But it didnt agree that it should pay compensation for loans 2 to 4. This was 
because: 
The adverse information on Ms Ms credit file was historic. 
Ms Ms situation improved over time and no further adverse information was 
recorded. 
It discussed the CCJs with Ms M and she confirmed she was repaying these without 
issue. 
She repaid these loans without any problems, she only had two late repayments. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Oakam needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms M 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Oakam should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive decided to uphold Ms Ms complaint and Ive explained why below.
Whilst Oakam has accepted what our adjudicator said in respect of loan 1, its worth looking 
at why its now been agreed that Oakam shouldnt have approved this loan. As has been 
established, Ms M had three CCJs outstanding when she took this loan, she owed about 
£22,000 towards these. The most recent CCJ was added in 2014 which was relatively close 
to the start of the first loan. And Ms M also had arrears of over £800 on some of her other 
credit. In my view these are very significant indicators of current financial difficulties. 
And as our adjudicator said, loan 1 wasnt affordable. Miss M had been paid a higher than 
usual salary in the month before this loan started. So Oakam increased the salary it used to 
assess the affordability of this lending. But this increase wasnt permanent. And so, it wasnt 
right for Oakam to do this. Ms Ms recorded income shouldve been nearer £1,550 than the 
around £1,900 it recorded. And this would correspond with the usual pay amount on the 
bank statements it saw. 
Oakam recorded Ms Ms expenditure as being about £1,450 for loan 1. This didnt include 
other credit expenditure which Oakam recorded as being £12 a month. I dont know exactly 
what her other credit expenditure was, but given the size of her CCJs, and the arears on her 
other accounts, its likely to have been significantly higher than £12.
The repayments for loan 1 were just over £160 a month and even based on the lower 
expenditure her outgoings were greater than her income. So, its clear, and is now agreed, 
that this loan wasnt affordable for Ms M and Oakam shouldnt have approved it. 
The crux of what Oakam has said in response to our adjudicators opinion is that it thinks 
Ms Ms situation improved after loan 1 and so it was reasonable to continue to lend to her. 
Ive looked to see if this is the case. 
Ms Ms income remained the same at £1,550 for loans 2 and 3, it increased to about £1,775 
for loan 4. Oakams records show Ms Ms expenditure decreased to around £1,100. But it shows her mortgage repayment decreasing which is unlikely.  And her expenditure on 
household and shopping, which I take to be food and so on, is very low at between £100 and 
£200 month. And the recorded amount for her credit expenditure again seems to 
underestimate her actual likely outgoings for this. So, Im not persuaded that Oakams 
checks demonstrate that the loans had become affordable. 
And a key part of sustainable borrowing is being able to borrow, and make the repayments, 
without borrowing further. I dont think this is happening here. Ms M doesnt fully repay loans 
1 and 2. She adds on the outstanding amounts to loans 2 and 3 respectively. And whilst she 
does repay loan 3 fully, she borrows a significantly greater amount for loan 4. This suggests 
to me that Ms M wasnt on top of her finances. And it looks like her borrowing was 
unsustainable, she was borrowing to pay existing loans, or to make ends meet. Neither of 
which is sustainable. 
And, taking a step back from the detail of the credit checks and the other information I have, 
I have to consider if its credible that Ms M was able to repay the debts she already had, such 
as the CCJs, and her mortgage. And sustainably repay this £8,000 of new borrowing which 
she took over two years. I think I would need to see some evidence of far reaching changes 
in her circumstances for me to be able to say this was likely. I dont have this evidence.  
What Ive seen is a customer that borrowed increasingly larger amounts, over longer terms, 
without, at times, being able to fully repay this borrowing. This is in itself evidence that Ms 
Ms circumstances hadnt improved. 
Overall, I dont think Ms M could repay these loans in a sustainable way. So, I think that 
Oakam shouldnt have given loans 1 to 4 to Ms M and I think shes lost out as a result of this. 
So, Im upholding Ms Ms complaint about these loans.
  
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Oakam should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it not lent to Ms M, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Ms M may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, they may 
have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Ms M in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Ms M would more likely than not have taken up any one of 
these options. So it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Oakams liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Oakam shouldnt have given Ms M loans 1 to 4.A) Oakam should add together the total of the repayments made by Ms M towards interest, 
fees and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party where 
applicable, but not including anything it has already refunded.
B) Oakam should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Ms M 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Ms M originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Oakam should pay Ms M the total of A plus B.
D) Oakam should remove any adverse information it has recorded on Ms Ms credit file in 
relation to loans 1 to 4. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Oakam to deduct tax from this interest. Oakam should 
give Ms M a certificate showing how much tax Oakam has deducted, if she asks for one.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Ms Ms complaint.
Oaham Ltd should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman