DRN-3335766
The complaint
Mr C complains that Paragon Bank Plc misled him about an account interest rate.
What happened
Mr C says he wished to transfer his ISA to Paragon and it told him the relevant interest rate 
was 1.65%. He says that information was repeated, and he proceeded with the transfer. But 
was later told a mistake had been made and the interest rate was 1.31%. Mr C says that 
mistake caused distress and inconvenience and says Paragon should honour that rate.
Paragon accepts it made a mistake, has apologised and paid £30 compensation. It says it 
allowed Mr C 30 days to transfer his ISA without charge. Paragon says Mr C tried to transfer 
his ISA to it when the interest rate was 1.25% but the transfer could not be proceeded with. It 
says Mr C was advised the relevant interest rate would be when the money was received 
and says the rate had increased when Mr C made the transfer. It also says it gave Mr C the 
option of withdrawing his money without penalty but cant honour the rate given in mistake.
Mr C brought his complaint to us and our investigator thought Paragon had dealt fairly with it. 
The investigator thought Mr C originally applied to transfer his ISA when the rate was 1.25% 
but for what ever reason that did not go through. He thought it likely Mr C would still have 
transferred his ISA even if given the correct information and thought Paragon had fairly given 
him 30 days to transfer his money to a different provider. The investigator thought the 
compensation offer appropriate.
Mr C doesnt accept that view and says he transferred his money to an account paying 0.4% 
as he was concerned about the time period, he had to transfer the ISA which was not 30 
days as the complaint was ongoing. He says the error with the original transfer was not his.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that Paragon has dealt fairly with this 
complaint. I appreciate Mr C will be disappointed by my decision and I appreciate how 
strongly he feels about what took place.
There is no question here that Paragon made a mistake on two occasions by telling Mr C the 
interest rate was 1.65%. I appreciate Mr Cs frustration in those circumstances to find out the 
rate was in fact 1.31% and that the mistake had been repeated. But Im satisfied Paragon 
has fairly apologised for the mistake and has provided feedback to its staff members. Im 
also satisfied that it has offered a fair and reasonable compensation amount which I think 
reflects the fact that I dont think Mr C suffered a financial loss and fairly reflects the level of 
inconvenience caused.
I have looked carefully at the history of the ISA transfer and can see Mr C tried to transfer his 
ISA to Paragon when the interest rate was 1.25%. It is not clear why that transfer was not 
completed but I think it provides evidence that Mr Cs intention was to transfer his ISA to 
Paragon. And I can see he was told the applicable interest rate would be the rate in force 
when the money was received. So, Im satisfied that Mr C wished to transfer his ISA to 
Paragon and that he was told that the interest rate could change.
Im satisfied that Mr C then tried to transfer the ISA a second time and asked what the 
interest rate was. I accept he was given incorrect information, but I think on balance its likely 
Mr Cs intention was to continue with the transfer he had previously tried to make. And that 
although the quoted interest rate was incorrect it had increased from 1.25% to 1.31%.
I have made clear that I appreciate Mr Cs frustration in being told the incorrect rate, but Im 
satisfied Paragon acted fairly by allowing Mr C the option of withdrawing his money. I can 
see that Mr C identified an account paying just over 1.50% interest which I think he could 
have transferred his money to if he wished. I appreciate Mr C says he wasnt given a full 30 
days to make a transfer. But Im satisfied that he could have used that 30-day period and 
that it was his choice to transfer his money to an account paying 0.40% interest when he 
could have received 1.31% interest with Paragon.
Overall, Im satisfied that Paragon has fairly paid appropriate compensation and that it gave 
Mr C the option of transferring his money. I cant fairly order Paragon to honour an interest 
rate clearly given by mistake.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman