DRN-2276081
The complaint
Mr J complains that The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited trading 
as NFU Mutual (NFU Mutual) didnt add business interruption insurance cover to a policy 
when requested.
 
What happened
Mr J is a farmer and held an insurance policy with NFU Mutual. In 2017, a representative 
from NFU Mutual met with Mr J to discuss the insurance policy and Mr Js needs.
As a result of this meeting, Mr J was provided with quotations to add two extra sections to 
the policy, bull cover and business interruption cover.
Mr J had purchased a bull and when its cows failed to come into calf, sought to claim on the 
policy. NFU Mutual initially said he hadnt taken the bull cover but after investigating, 
established this had been requested and so agreed to cover a claim under the relevant 
cover.
Mr J subsequently sought to make a claim under the business interruption section of the 
policy, saying that the financial situation of the farm had been seriously affected by the 
failure of the bull. 
NFU Mutual said it wouldnt cover a claim under this section of the policy. It had no record of 
Mr J adding the business interruption cover to the policy in the relevant time period, and in 
any case, the policy didnt provide cover under the business interruption for these 
circumstances.
Mr J complained to NFU Mutual who rejected the complaint. It was referred to our service, 
and our investigator didnt think NFU Mutual had done anything wrong. She thought that the 
evidence available didnt support that Mr J had requested business interruption insurance to 
be added before 2019. And in any case, she considered that the policys terms and 
conditions didnt provide cover for the claim he was making. Mr J didnt accept this and 
asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It doesnt seem to be disputed that business interruption cover wasnt added to Mr Js policy 
until 2019, or that the incident which gives rise to this claim occurred before this. Mr Js 
position, however, is that he asked to add business interruption cover in 2017, at the same 
time that cover for the bull was discussed.
It also isnt disputed that in 2017, the possibility of adding business interruption was 
discussed with Mr J. But all of the evidence available to me is that this wasnt taken up. A 
quotation for how much extra this would cost was provided, with an action for Mr J to then 
say whether he want to take it up, but it doesnt seem to have been accepted. 
In this regard, I think its particularly significant that in November 2017, after the bull cover 
was confirmed, a letter was sent to Mr J, which included that You do not wish to add the 
business interruption cover. I think its safe to say that if Mr J had wanted to add business 
interruption cover at that point, or believed it was already in place, then contact would have 
been made with NFU Mutual to that effect. Theres no record of this happening until Mr J 
wanted to make a claim under the business interruption section of cover. 
A further review of Mr Js policy occurred in 2018. And as part of that, a quotation was 
provided to add business interruption cover. Again the evidence is that this wasnt taken up. 
If Mr J believed that it had been added in 2017, as is now suggested, then Id have expected 
to have seen this queried at that point. Or, if business interruption cover was wanted at that 
point, it would have been open to him to take this up in 2018.
So Im satisfied there isnt evidence to show that its more likely than not that Mr J requested 
business interruption insurance to be added to the policy. While he had made enquiries 
about this cover, and the cost of it, I cant say that he had taken up the additional cover. 
NFU Mutual, and our investigator, thought that even if the business interruption cover had 
been in place, the circumstances leading to the claim werent covered by the policy terms 
and conditions.
In order for a claim under the business interruption section of the policy to be accepted, 
damage needs to occur following an insured peril. These are listed in the policy schedule. 
Mr Js claim for lost income arose from cows not coming into calf. This situation isnt 
included in this list of insured perils. And so it follows that where the lost income doesnt 
occur because of an insured peril, there would be no cover for the claim Mr J made.
My final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2021.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman