DRN-2013625
The complaint
Mr S complains that British Gas Insurance Limited is responsible for causing damage in 
connection with a home emergency insurance policy.
What happened
Where I refer to British Gas, I refer to the insurance company of that name and I include its 
plumbing and drainage company and others insofar as I hold that insurance company 
responsible for their actions.
Mr S had a British Gas Homecare policy that included cover for plumbing and drainage.
In 2018 and 2019, Mr S and his water supplier thought there was a leak on his metered 
water supply.
British Gas made several visits. On 26 October 2019 Mr S again called for help. But British 
Gas said his roof was leaking. Within a few days, a bedroom ceiling collapsed and there was 
water damage below.
On 30 October 2019, British Gas found a leak from the cold water storage tank  which it 
drained and arranged to replace.
Mr S complained to British Gas that its failure to trace and fix the leak had resulted in 
significant damage, upset and inconvenience. He said hed had to claim on his home 
insurance policy which involved payment of an excess and increased premiums.
British Gas didnt send a final response. But it did inform Mr S of his right to bring his 
complaint to us, which he did in January 2020.
British Gas sent a final response dated 13 March 2020. It said it wasnt responsible for 
causing the leak. British Gas said it was sending a cheque for £600.00 compensation for 
delay.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought that 
there was a delay in fixing the leak from the cold-water storage tank (around four days) in 
which time the ceiling fell down. However, she didnt think a delay of this length was likely to 
have resulted in such a high level of damage. She thought this was typical of a leak which 
had been ongoing over a longer period.
Mr S disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that:
The damage could have been prevented by a more timely and diligent approach by 
British Gas. 
There were several conversations (recorded) and it is unfortunate that they have 
lost the recordings. He had to insist over several months that there was a leak 
despite their denials.
The water supply company came several times and insisted that the leak was within 
the house and the British Gas engineers were wrong.
It is their repeated failure to diagnose and rectify the problem that has led to 
significant damage to the property and contents (sofa, carpet, bed, decorations, 
laminate floors, walls and ceiling).
He is now having to pay increased insurance costs.
The main issue ss not the money but that their engineers did not find a leak in a 
timely manner and were trying to put the blame on his roof.
He is prepared to spend a significant amount of money and time on legal costs so 
that British Gas dont feel that they can simply walk on consumers and try and make 
up their version of the evidence. 
British Gas have said that they repaired the leak and it is clear that they did not.
The leak and problems with the water only stopped after the damage which is when 
the tank was replaced.
It is the damage to the tank that caused the leak and subsequent damage.
British Gas failed to identify the leaking tank on numerous occasions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Escapes of water are usually covered by home buildings insurance  subject to a policy 
excess.
Since at least 2018, the British Gas Homecare policy terms have excluded the following:
Any damage thats covered by other kinds of insurance
Your product doesnt include repairing or replacing any damage caused by 
extreme weather, flooding, structural issues, fire or explosions  or any other kind of 
damage thats normally covered by household insurance  unless your product 
specifically includes it
Any other loss or damage
Were not responsible for any loss of or damage to, or cleaning of property, furniture 
or fixtures as a result of your boiler, appliance or system breaking or failing unless we 
caused it. For example damage caused by water leaks.
Mr S had British Gas products including plumbing and drainage cover. None of his 
products specifically included repairing damage caused by an escape of water.As escapes of water are normally covered by home buildings insurance, the British Gas 
policy excluded damage caused by escape of water  unless British Gas caused it. And in 
my view, causing damage is not the same as delay in identifying and fixing the cause of 
damage.
There were several issues at Mr Ss property. Call recordings might have helped but none 
are available to me.
Some of the issues were leaks outside or downstairs  and so didnt cause ceiling damage. 
Another issue was that in April 2018 the ball valve on the cold-water storage tank was letting 
water by. That usually means water runs out of an overflow pipe rather than onto a ceiling. 
British Gas says it fixed that problem and theres no reason to think it caused ceiling 
damage.
Another leak was found on 26 August 2018 when water from the bathroom was leaking into 
the kitchen below. British Gas repaired the leaking mains pipe and replaced the toilet inlet 
valve.
Over a year later, on 29 August 2019 there was another problem with a ball-valve and 
overflow pipe. As Ive said, that usually means water runs out of an overflow pipe rather than 
onto a ceiling. British Gas says it fixed that problem and theres no reason to think it caused 
ceiling damage.
On 4 October 2019 there was a leak from the water supply. British Gas didnt find its source 
then - or on 14 October 2019. But  from what happened on 1 November  I think it was an 
underground leak - and so didnt cause ceiling damage.
On 26 October 2019 there was a leak through the ceiling. British Gas said there was 
rainwater coming through roof.
After the ceiling collapsed, British Gas found on 30 October 2019 a pin-hole leak on the cold-
water storage tank, drained it and arranged replacement on 5 November 2019. And Mr S 
says he had no more problems with water. So I can see why he thinks British Gas shouldve 
found the leak and replaced the tank sooner.
But theres not enough evidence of when the pin-hole leak had started. And I dont find 
enough evidence that British Gas caused that leak. So I dont find that British Gas caused 
damage to Mr Ss property. 
Therefore the damage is excluded by the policy terms. In view of the availability of other 
insurance (albeit subject to an excess) I dont find that exclusion unfair or unreasonable in 
Mr Ss case. So I dont find it fair and reasonable to uphold his complaint.
On 1 November 2019 British Gas found an external leak and made access through concrete 
to repair it. I find it likely that this leak  as well as the pinhole leak in the tank  had been 
causing a loss of metered water.
British Gas sent Mr S a cheque for £600.00 compensation for the delays. Thats more than I 
would otherwise have found fair. So I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct British Gas to 
pay any more.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct British Gas Insurance Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 September 2020.
 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman