DRN-2523942
The complaint
Mrs and Mr T say Santander UK Plc mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. 
 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in 2005. The PPI offered cover in case of 
unemployment. 
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld. Santander disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive considered what Santander has said, but Ive still decided to uphold Mrs and Mr Ts 
complaint. This is because Santander recommended the policy to Mrs and Mr T, but I dont 
think it was suitable for them. Im satisfied that Mrs T, who was jointly covered by the PPI, 
worked fewer than 16 hours a week and so wouldnt have been able to make a claim for 
unemployment cover.  
I dont think they would have bought the PPI, if Santander had made it clear it wasnt suitable 
for Mrs T. So, I think Mrs and Mr T have lost out because of what the business did wrong. 
Mrs and Mr T provided copies of Mrs Ts payslips from the period, to show that shed 
consistently worked 11.5 hours a week. Santander however says that the payslips show that 
Mrs T worked 11.5 hours a week, but also on top of that 2.88 hours on Saturdays and 5.75 
hours each Sunday  that is she worked regularly more than 16 hours a week. 
I looked at the payslips, and I dont agree with how Santander has interpreted them. I am 
satisfied that the most likely interpretation is that they show Mrs T worked fewer than 16 
hours a week  and this is what Mrs and Mr T have consistently asserted. The confusion is 
because Mrs Ts employer paid a higher hourly rate for Saturdays and Sundays, which are 
the two days Mrs T worked each week. 
In the public sector employment Mrs T had, and the role she had, it wouldnt be surprising to 
find Saturday work paid at time and a half, and Sunday work at double time. 
I accept that the way the payslips are laid out makes them difficult to interpret by themselves 
without the context. It sets out a line for the standard hours, and then a line each for 
Saturday rates and Sunday rates, and another line for performance-related pay. 
The most likely interpretation is that the employer, for accounting reasons, is listing out how 
many hours were worked at the basic pay rate (11.5 hours) and then is notionally adding 
hours to make sure Mrs T gets a 50% enhancement for Saturday and 100% enhancement 
for Sunday hours. So, 2.88 extra hours on top of the 5.75 hours she actually worked on 
Saturdays; and 5.75 extra hours on top of the 5.75 she actually worked on Sundays. 
It does not mean that Mrs T actually worked those extra hours  it was just a mechanism on 
the payslip for making sure she got the correct hourly rate. 
Santander says the line called PERFORM.PAY 10.00%, and which lists a 10% 
enhancement for 11.5 hours, represents a bonus paid on the 5.75 hours listed for Sunday 
and double the 2.88 hours listed as Saturday hours. Santander says that consequently the 
customer got 20% extra pay on Saturday but only 10% on Sundays. 
In my view, it is highly improbable that someone would get a higher enhancement for 
Saturday work than for Sunday work. 
It also wouldnt make sense for the payslip to say SATURDAY ENH, but then, as 
Santander points out, to pay the same hourly rate. 
The more likely interpretation is that the employer gave a quite separate 10% performance-
related enhancement on the 11.5 hours Mrs T worked. It expressed this as in increase in 
hours worked of an additional 1.15 hours  which fits in with my view that the payslip 
records enhancements to hourly rates in the form of extra hours worked. It then separately 
listed the enhancements for Saturday and Sunday working. This was probably the most 
straightforward way of separating out the performance related pay, to avoid double counting, 
and the differing enhancements for Saturday working (plus 25%) and for Sunday working 
(plus 50%). 
This interpretation also conforms with the account Mr and Mrs T have consistently given  
which is that Mrs T worked less than 16 hours each week. 
Im satisfied the PPI was mis-sold in the way Ive described. 
  
Putting things right
Santander should put Mrs and Mr T in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out 
PPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Santander 
should:
Pay Mrs and Mr T the amount they paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mrs and Mr T made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Santander can take 
off what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.   HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander UK Plc to take off tax from this interest. 
Santander must give Mrs and Mr T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if 
they ask for one.
 
My final decision
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 March 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman