DRN-2829931
The complaint
Mrs U complains, on behalf of the estate of Mr U, about the customer service that Aviva Life 
& Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) provided in relation to the level term assurance policy Mr U 
held.
For the purposes of this complaint, the estate of Mr U had legal representation. But for ease, 
in my decision I will refer to their actions and comments as those of Mrs U.
What happened
In 2003 Mr U took out a £250,000 level term life assurance policy with Friends Provident 
International (FPI). This was later taken over by Aviva and so for ease in this decision Ill 
refer to Aviva.
At the beginning of June 2018 Aviva wrote to Mr U because it had attempted to collect his 
monthly premium via direct debit but this had been declined. The letter invited him to get in 
touch to arrange payment and explained that his benefits may cease if his payments werent 
maintained.
It then sent Mr U a further two letters notifying him he was in arrears in mid-June and early 
July 2018. The letters explained he had 60 days to pay the outstanding premium before his 
policy would be cancelled. In late July 2018 Aviva notified Mr U by letter that his policy had 
been cancelled.
Sadly, a year later Mr U passed away. In August 2019 Mrs U contacted Aviva to make a 
claim on behalf of the estate. It was at this time she was told the policy had lapsed in 2018. 
Mrs U was unhappy Aviva hadnt told her this in 2018 and so she complained. Mrs U also 
felt Aviva should have questioned why Mr U would let his policy lapse after paying into it for 
so long. Aviva looked into things and issued a final response letter (FRL) in December 2019.
It didnt uphold Mrs Us complaint, explaining it had made Mr U aware of the consequences 
of cancelling the policy. It noted that whilst Mrs U may have wished to keep the policy going, 
because it was solely in Mr Us name this wouldnt have been possible without Mr Us 
consent.
Mrs U remained unhappy and brought the complaint to our service. An investigator looked 
into things but didnt uphold the complaint. He felt Aviva had done enough to make Mr U 
aware of the missed payments. He also said that because Mrs U wasnt named on the 
policy, he wouldnt reasonably expect Aviva to contact Mrs U about the policy.
After receiving this view, Mrs U put together further information about Mr Us mental health 
at the time the policy lapsed, which she felt evidenced the fact Mr U wasnt able to make 
sound financial decisions at that time. Mrs U noted Mr U also held an income protection 
policy with Aviva at that time which he was receiving payments from following a successful 
claim due to his mental ill health. She said this showed Aviva was aware of Mr Us 
difficulties. And in light of this, it should have offered Mr U support, questioned his decision 
to let the term assurance policy lapse and/or contacted Mrs U about the missed payments. 
Our investigator explained this was new evidence and a new complaint issue that Aviva 
should be given the opportunity to comment on before our service could consider this.
Aviva was provided with this information and it issued a further FRL in October 2020. In this 
it explained it had warned Mr U, in a series of letters, of the consequences of not paying his 
premiums. It also said it couldnt have contacted Mrs U about Mr Us policy for data 
protection reasons. It acknowledged the concerns Mrs U had over Mr Us ability to manage 
his financial affairs at that time but said it couldnt take instructions from anyone else without 
a Power of Attorney or Court Protection order.
Mrs U didnt agree so she asked our service to also consider this part of the complaint. 
Our investigator was of the view Aviva had acted fairly in the circumstances as they didnt 
think Aviva had any reason to question Mr Us ability to manage his financial affairs.
Mrs U disagreed. She noted that she also purchased a life policy at the same time as Mr U 
and both policies were paid for from a joint account. She felt Aviva ought to have understood 
she had an interest in the policy. She maintained that Mr Us sudden change in behaviour 
ought to have been a warning sign to Aviva and that it lacked due care in not questioning 
this. So, Mrs U asked for an ombudsman to look again at everything and make a final 
decision.
After reviewing the evidence, I felt it was likely Id reach the same outcome as the 
investigator but for slightly different reasons. So, I shared my provisional findings with Aviva 
and the estate of Mr U so they both had the opportunity to make any comments or provide 
further evidence before a final decision was issued. My provisional findings were:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to hear of Mr Us passing and his mental ill health in the years leading up to his 
death. This must have been incredibly difficult for both him and his family.
Although a number of issues have been raised by both parties, this decision only addresses 
those issues I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given 
careful consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
I can see that after it was unable to collect the monthly premium, Aviva wrote to Mr U to 
advise him of this. And this was what Id expect it to do. Aviva did so on multiple occasions, 
outlining the consequences of failing to meet the 60-day payment deadline. Im also satisfied 
the grace period for missed premiums it allowed was fair, taking into account the terms and 
conditions of the policy. So, I think the cancellation was in line with the terms and conditions 
of the policy.
I appreciate Mrs U felt she had an interest in the policy and thinks Aviva should have let her 
know about the missed payments. But as Aviva has explained, this was a single policy which 
had nothing to do with Mrs U, even if it was paid for from a joint account. Whilst I appreciate 
Mrs U has said Mr U intended the policy to benefit Mrs U and his children, noting she took 
out a policy at the same time, this isnt part of the contract Mr U made with Aviva. So, the 
only person Aviva could communicate with about the policy was Mr U. To do otherwise 
wouldnt be appropriate unless it had Mr Us permission or legal paperwork demonstrating 
that Mr U was incapable of managing his own financial affairs. But it had neither.
Mrs U has told us that Mr U was mentally ill at that time and vulnerable, so he didnt fully 
understand the consequences of what he was doing. I have seen evidence to show that 
Mr U had a severe mental disorder and had periods of treatment as an inpatient and a day patient, and his condition was being managed by a combination of anti-depressants and 
anti-psychotic medication.
Ive seen two letters from a treating consultant in late 2017 and early 2018 which were sent 
to Aviva in relation to another policy Mr U held. The consultant made it clear that Mr U was 
highly vulnerable to stress and had limited resilience. The letters identified high levels of 
financial pressure. There was reference, amongst other things, to Mr U struggling to cope on 
a day to day basis and with work.
Given this, I can understand Mrs Us concerns. It would appear Mr U was struggling to 
manage his own wellbeing and finances at this time. The FCA defines vulnerable customers 
as ...someone who, due to their personal circumstances, is especially susceptible to 
detriment, particularly when a firm is not acting with appropriate levels of care. And I think 
Aviva had evidence Mr U was vulnerable.
So, Ive thought about whether I think Avivas actions were reasonable in light of this and 
whether it had appropriate levels of care in place.
Whilst the medical letters Aviva was sent indicate Mr U was struggling, I dont think Aviva 
had any reason to question Mr Us capacity to decide not to continue paying his term 
assurance premiums - Ive seen a letter from Mr Us consultant to another medical 
professional involved in Mr Us care in March 2018 which said there was no obvious 
evidence that he lacked capacity.
Mr U was also able to engage with Aviva as needed from May 2018 onwards in order to 
manage his payments in relation to his income protection claim. Having listened to some of 
the calls Mr U had with Aviva around this time, Mr U was able to ask practical questions 
about timescales and how to send in the relevant information that Aviva needed. 
Something which he later did, accompanied by a letter thanking the Aviva team for its help 
and support. So, Ive also seen no evidence that persuades me Aviva ought to have known 
to adapt or change its communications in order to assist Mr U as a vulnerable consumer with 
his decision to allow his term assurance policy to lapse.
I also note that in the letters Aviva sent Mr U about the missed payments, it signposted him 
to speak to his financial advisor if he wanted to discuss whether the policy still met his 
needs. It also provided various methods of contact if Mr U wanted more information from it 
directly. So, I do think Aviva offered some support here and also some time for Mr U to 
change his mind and reinstate the policy if hed wanted.
Im aware Mrs U has also said that due to Mr Us change of address in 2018, he may not 
have received Avivas letters about the missed payments. Ive seen evidence Mr U was 
moving around a lot in 2018 and had been staying with family after separating from Mrs U. 
Mr U did tell Aviva about this. But I dont think Mr U gave Aviva any reason to think he wasnt 
continuing to use the address it held for his correspondence. Given Mr U was in contact with 
Aviva in May, June and July 2018 about changing his bank details, I think Mr U had the 
opportunity to change his address and/or raise any concerns he had about receiving his 
post. But he didnt do so. In fact, he sent Aviva a bank statement in August 2018 evidencing 
his new bank details, and this statement still had the same address used by Aviva. So, I 
dont think Aviva had any reason to believe Mr Us address should be changed or that he 
wouldnt receive the letters it sent.
Overall, whilst I recognise that Mr U was a vulnerable individual and that Aviva was aware of 
that, I dont think Aviva had reason to think that Mr U lacked capacity to decide to allow his 
term assurance policy to lapse, or any grounds on which to notify a third party about his non-payment of premiums. Having considered Mr Us interactions with Aviva, Im satisfied it 
acted reasonably in the circumstances and that its cancellation of the policy was fair.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both the estate of Mr U and Aviva confirmed they had nothing further to add following receipt 
of my provisional decision. So, having carefully considered the evidence, I see no reason to 
depart from my provisional findings.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr U 
to accept or reject my decision before 24 December 2021.
 
Jade Cunningham
Ombudsman