DRN-3589978
The complaint
S, a limited company complains that Barclays Bank Plc wont refund money its director lost 
to an investment scam. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. S director (Mr A) made payments towards 
an investment using both his personal and S commercial Barclaycard. Ill refer to the 
company Mr A was paying as T. 
Mr A later claimed that he had been scammed by T. He contacted Barclays to try to get his 
money back. I understand that the spending on Mr As personal card was recovered through 
the chargeback scheme. But S werent reimbursed for the spending on the business 
Barclaycard. 
Mr A complained and the matter was referred to our service. One of our Investigators 
ultimately didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She wasnt persuaded that 
S had suffered a loss in these circumstances. Mr A on behalf of S disagreed and asked for 
an Ombudsman to make a decision.
In September 2022 I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to clarify that this decision is solely in relation to S payments on its Barclaycard. In 
these circumstances S are the eligible complainant. As the director Mr A can represent S, 
but personally he is considered a separate legal entity, distinct from S. It isnt in dispute that 
Mr A authorised the payments on S Barclaycard that went to T. So the starting position here 
is that Barclays ought to have followed the instructions it was provided with and to have 
processed the payments. 
In this case, the money being paid from S account was for a personal investment being 
made by Mr A. He hasnt provided any evidence to demonstrate or suggest that the 
investment was being made by S. Indeed, the evidence of deposits to T are in Mr As 
personal name and were sent to what appears to be a personal email address. Based on 
this, Im satisfied that, on balance, the spending on S card was for the purposes of Mr As 
own personal gain, rather than for any business-related purposes. 
Broadly speaking there are two potential scenarios in relation to the debt created by the 
spending on S Barclaycard. Firstly, that this was, in effect, S lending money to Mr A 
personally. If Mr A had borrowed money in this way from S for personal gain, then he would 
be liable to repay that debt to the company. In this situation S cant fairly be considered to 
have suffered a loss, as it is still owed the money by Mr A as the debtor in these 
circumstances. 
The second potential scenario is that by spending on S card in this way, S was discharging 
some debt owed to Mr A. Be that a dividend payment, wages or similar. But in this situation, 
again, S hasnt suffered a loss. The debt has been discharged and Mr A was provided with 
what he was owed (which he paid to T). 
Barclays do have obligations to be alert to fraud and scams. But setting all those obligations 
aside (and making no finding as to whether T were in fact operating a scam as there is some 
information to suggest they were a firm regulated outside of the UK), I dont think the fair and 
reasonable outcome here is to tell Barclays it needs to do more. Whichever approach I take 
to the spending on S card, Im not persuaded that S itself has suffered a loss. So even if I 
were to conclude that there had been a clear and obvious failing by Barclays in its handling 
of matters, it wouldnt be fair and reasonable for me to ask it to do more. This is because any 
failures that might have occurred didnt cause a loss to S. As such, Im not intending to direct 
Barclays to do anything further to resolve this complaint. 
Barclays responded and said it had no further information to provide. Mr A provided a brief 
response that Ill address below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A provided some further evidence which included online reviews of T to support his 
allegation that it was operating a scam. Ive considered these, but for the reasons Ive set out 
above, I dont need to make a finding as to whether T were operating a scam to decide this 
complaint. 
Mr A has questioned whether he could raise another complaint in his own name. If Mr A 
believes he has personally suffered a loss in relation to the spending on S card, this may be 
something he could take up with Barclays in the first instance. But it isnt something I can 
comment on in this decision. The complainant for the purposes of this complaint is S. And 
here, Im not persuaded S has suffered a loss.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2022.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman