DRN-4008390
The complaint
Miss Z complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) has failed to refund money that she 
lost as part of an investment scam.
What happened
Miss Z was following an investment influencer online. After being contacted by someone 
who was pretending to be this investment influencer, who we will call C, Miss Z says she 
was persuaded to carry out the following transfers to a cryptocurrency (crypto) exchange.
Transaction 
NumberDate Merchant Amount Running Total
1 14/04/2021 TO BINANCE £500.00 £500
2 14/04/2021 TO BINANCE £1000.00 £1,500
3 19/04/2021 TO BINANCE £1,500.00 £3,000
4 19/04/2021 TO BINANCE £1,500.00 £4,500
5 21/04/2021 TO BINANCE £5,000.00 £9,500
6 23/04/2021 TO BINANCE £5,500.00 £15,000
7 23/04/2021 TO BINANCE £5,000.00 £20,000
8 05/05/2021 TO BINANCE £10,000.00 £30,000
9 12/05/2021 TO BINANCE £10,000.00 £40,000
10 15/05/2021 TO BINANCE £10,000.00 £50,000
11 19/05/2021 TO BINANCE £10,000.00 £60,000
12 21/05/2021 TO BINANCE £10,000.00 £70,000
13 23/05/2021 TO BINANCE £25,000.00 £95,000
14 24/05/2021 TO BINANCE £25,000.00 £120,000
Santander contacted Miss Z as it had blocked the second transaction. Miss Z confirmed that 
this transaction was genuine; was for her own account; and was because she wanted to 
invest in Bitcoin. 
Miss Z has explained that after this point, when the value of the crypto she had purchased 
went down, C persuaded her to exchange all of her crypto into Bitcoin and transfer it to 
another crypto exchange that I will call D. She says she was told that bots would then trade 
on her behalf. Miss Z says that she believed that the transfer to D was to an account in her 
name. The majority of these transfers appear to have been on 23 May 2021.
The following day, on 24 May 2021, Santander blocked transaction 14. Miss Z contacted 
Santander and again confirmed that the transaction was for herself. Miss Z has since 
confirmed that she did not send this transaction from Binance to D.
Subsequently, when Miss Z was unable to withdraw funds from D she contacted Santander 
to request a refund of the transactions that she had made to Binance. 
I issued a provisional decision on 1 March 2023 in which I said the following;
Ive provisionally considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I am upholding this 
complaint in part. Let me explain why.
Miss Z authorised the payments she made, even though she was duped into making them 
by C, as part of a sophisticated scam. She used her security credentials to request the 
transfers online to be made to Binance and, in broad terms, the starting position in law is that 
a bank is expected to process payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to 
make, in accordance with the terms and conditions of the customers account. And under the 
Payment Service Regulations 2017, Miss Z is presumed liable for the loss in the first 
instance.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. I consider that
Santander should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, such as money laundering and countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so, given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have 
takenadditional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.In the context of this scam, Miss Z transferred funds from her Santander account to her 
Binance account, which she says she was in control of. Once she had transferred money 
into her Binance account and converted it to crypto, remained in her Binance wallet. It wasnt 
until some time later that Miss Z it transferred that crypto on to D, a scam trading platform. I 
appreciate that Miss Zs loss didnt materialise directly from her Santander account in these 
circumstances. But even though she was transferring funds to crypto accounts in her own 
name, I still consider that Santander ought to have taken a closer look at the payments she 
was making  given the significant risk of fraud associated with cryptocurrency investments 
at the time.
Therefore, Im satisfied that Santander shouldve had mechanisms in place to detect and 
prevent this type of fraud at the time Miss Z was making her payments, and that it should 
have led to it intervening in order to ask further questions about the payments.
I note that Santander did intervene when Miss Z made transaction 2. I have listened to this 
call. In this call Miss Z was asked what the payment was; if anyone had advised her to make 
the payment; and asked whether shed done her own research. Miss Z confirmed that the 
payment was for her, she was not dealing with a third-party and she was intending to trade 
in crypto herself. 
Santander did not intervene again until payment 14. It is arguable that an earlier second 
intervention shouldve been made. Had the earlier intervention happened prior to transaction 
13, I dont think anything would have happened differently. I say this because prior to this 
point Miss Z was not transferring the funds on to the scam trading platform at that point. So 
any probing questions would have likely just been met with similar answers that Miss Z 
provided when Santander asked her about transaction 2. Santander could not have 
discovered the part of the scam that had not occurred yet  especially as Miss Z had told 
Santander that she was not involving a third party. I also dont think that, prior to Miss Z 
being told to transfer the funds on, Santander could have warned Miss Z about all possible 
fraud that could have occurred after the payments had been made. As a result, Im satisfied 
that Santander cannot be said to have caused Miss Zs loss by failing to prevent the 
payments prior to transaction 13.
That said though, I think that had Santander intervened during transaction 13 Miss Z might 
have acted differently. Firstly, the transaction was for a significantly larger amount, so I feel it 
should have been flagged. Secondly the reason I say that intervention wouldve made Miss 
Z act differently is because the intervention from Santander on transaction 14 did make Miss 
Z act differently. By intervening on transaction 14 this prevented Miss Z from transferring the 
funds on to the scam investment platform. I note that transaction 14 did go to Binance, but 
Miss Z has confirmed that the warnings provided stopped her from sending the funds on 
from Binance. Given this, had the intervention occurred the day before, I dont think that 
transaction 13 would have been transferred from Binance to D either.
I understand that Miss Z may argue that had Santander intervened during transaction 13 she 
would not have transferred the other funds from the previous transactions from Binance to D. 
It is unclear precisely the timeline in relation to this as to whether the majority of the funds 
were transferred to D from Binance before or after transaction 13 was carried out. But even 
had transaction 13 occurred before Miss Z transferred the funds to D, I dont think that 
Santander continued to be liable for the transactions it approved prior to this. Any loss 
caused on these transactions after they had been made to Binance is not a loss that I 
believe was reasonably foreseeable for Santander and the gap between these payments 
being approved and the transfer to D breaks the chain of causation for which Santander can 
be held liable. Ive also thought about whether Santander could have done more to recover the funds after 
Miss Z reported the fraud. As in some circumstances, the money can be recovered via the 
bank raising an indemnity with the receiving bank. However, in these circumstances,
Miss Z transferred money to Binance in order to purchase crypto, hold them in a wallet and 
subsequently move those funds onto another wallet. As a result, I dont think its likely that 
Santander wouldve been able to recoup the money, particularly as the crypto was moved 
onto D prior to Miss Z reporting the scam to Santander. Any funds that wouldve remained in 
Miss Ds Binance account, would have been hers to control. So I dont think there was 
anything further Santander could have done to recover the funds.
Santander are also under no obligation to refund the money to Miss Z under the Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code either, as the Code does not apply to payments which 
the payer has effectively made to themselves (which would have been the case here given 
the payment was made to Miss Zs crypto wallet with Binance, rather than directly to the 
scammer).
Finally, Miss Z seems convinced that Binance itself is a scam website and therefore 
Santander should not have allowed her to send any funds to it at all. Ive noted that 
Santander decided (along with some other banks) decided to restrict payments to Binance 
following the FCAs consumer warning publication in June 2021. But Ive also noted the 
warning was published after Miss Z made all of her payments, so I dont think I can say 
Santander ought to have stopped her payments because the recipient was Binance. And 
whilst Miss Z has alleged that Binance is a scam website, she doesnt appear to dispute that 
they received her funds, converted them upon her request and moved those funds on 
following a subsequent request. It would therefore seem that she received the services she 
intended to receive from Binance and would have likely received a similar service had she 
engaged with an alternative crypto exchange. I would also add that when Santander 
checked with Miss Z about transaction 2, Miss Z said that she had decided to trade in crypto 
and ultimately it is up to Miss Z what she decides to do with her money. So Santander cant 
reasonably be held responsible because Miss Z decided to spend a large amount of money 
to buy a crypto.
Putting things right 
I currently intend to ask Santander UK Plc to do the following
1) Refund transaction 13; and
2) Add interest to this amount at 8% simple per annum, less any applicable tax from the 
date this was paid, to the date of settlement.
Responses to my provisional decision
Santander agreed with my provisional findings whereas Mrs Z did not, and in summary, she 
made the following points:
If the phone call that occurred during transaction 2 between Santander and Mrs Z 
went as far as the phone call that occurred during transaction 14, Mrs Z would have 
been put off making any further transactions from transaction 2.
Santander should have intervened prior to transaction 13.
Had Santander intervened during transaction 13 none of the transfers would have 
been made from Binance to the D.Due to the prevalence of cryptocurrency scams, an enhanced level of caution and 
questioning should have gone on when transfers were made to Binance.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Z has put forward considerable further submissions in response to my provisional 
decision, and Ive read and considered everything sent in. But I dont intend to respond in 
similar detail. 
My provisional decision sets out, in full, my reasons for upholding the complaint, and those 
reasons still remain. So, Ill focus on what I consider to be the key points Mrs Z has raised in 
response. If I dont mention a particular point or piece of evidence, it isnt because I havent 
seen it or thought about it. Instead, its just that I dont feel the need to reference it in order to 
explain my decision. This isnt intended as a discourtesy  its just a reflection of the informal 
nature of our service.
I will address the first point, second point and final point - which can be summarised as due 
to Mrs Z transferring funds to Binance, she should have been given a more thorough 
warning of what the likely crypto scams could be, in line with the call that happened during 
transaction 14. Also that there should have been multiple interventions prior to transaction 
14.
I have carefully considered this and I agree that Santander should possibly have intervened 
earlier and more frequently. But I dont think that this would have changed anything. 
I dont think that it would be reasonable for Santander to proactively describe every potential 
scam that could occur when funds are transferred to a crypto exchange. I should also add 
that if Mrs Z had been more forthcoming about receiving advice from a third party who had 
approached her on twitter, rather than saying that she was referred to Binance from a friend 
who is a banker, then Santander could have given some broad descriptions of the types of 
scams that could occur in situations like this. But even that is a stretch, given that up to 
around transaction 13 the scam had not really started - all that had happened up to that point 
was that Mrs Z purchased crypto for herself and held them in her own Binance wallet. I 
accept that Santander should have asked probing questions to ensure that the payments 
were not part of a scam, but had it done so, I am satisfied that Mrs Z would have said the 
same thing she said during transaction 2 - which was she was investing on her own behalf.
Mrs Z says that if Santander had intervened during transaction 13 it would have prevented 
all of the transfers from Binance to D. Firstly, I have looked at the transaction statement that 
Mrs Z provided showing her Binance transfers to the scammer. It looks like many of the 
transfers to D, value wise, were before the time of transaction 13. So before any intervention 
from Santander could have occurred that was connected to transaction 13. Secondly, as 
explained in my provisional decision, given the length of time between the first 12 
transactions to Binance and the subsequent transfer to D, there is a break in the chain of 
causation  which means, the scam didnt occur at the same time the payments left 
Santander and arrived at Binance. The scam occurred sometime after the first 12 
transactions were made and it wouldnt be reasonable for me to hold Santander indefinitely 
liable for them. Transactions 1 to 12 were in Mrs Zs control at the time they were made and 
it wasnt in her contemplation that shed be sending the payments elsewhere and so, I dont 
think it could have been in Santanders either. So overall, I remain of the opinion that Santander should have intervened during transaction 
13 and had it done so it wouldve become apparent that the payment was likely to purchase 
crypto as part of an investment scam. So only this transaction should be refunded.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint in part 
and require Santander UK Plc to do the following:
1) Refund transaction 13; and
2) Add interest to this amount at 8% simple per annum, less any applicable tax from the 
date this was paid, to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2023.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman