DRN-3998132
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) acted irresponsibly by approving an 
overdraft for him when he had overdrafts with other providers and suffered from a mental 
health condition affecting his ability to manage his finances.
What happened
Mr M applied online and was approved for an overdraft with a limit of £200 on 24 June 2019. 
Following this Mr M applied for a number of increases to his overdraft limit the last of which 
application was approved for £500 on 16 October 2019.  All applications following this were 
declined.
Mr M complained to BOS that the appropriate checks werent carried out and that it acted 
irresponsibly approving the overdraft and limit increases especially considering he had a 
medical health condition which affected his ability to manage his finances. 
BOS didnt uphold the complaint. It said there was no evidence that it was aware of Mr Ms 
health condition prior to September 2021. BOS said no errors had been made on its behalf 
and that Mr M passed all checks it carried out when the overdraft and limit increases were 
granted. 
Mr M was dis-satisfied with this and he referred the complaint to our service.
Mr Ms complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. They didnt think BOS had 
treated Mr M unfairly when it applied charges to his overdraft as they didnt think there were 
signs of financial difficulty that shouldve prompted the bank to treat Mr M any differently 
based on his circumstances. 
Mr M disagreed and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 30 January 2023 where my initial thoughts were that BOS 
shouldnt have approved an increase in Mr Ms overdraft limit up to £500 in October 2019 as 
I didnt think the credits Mr M received into his account matched the declared income on his 
overdraft application. BOS came back with further comments regarding the payment of Mr 
Ms wage changing from monthly to weekly and based on this information Ive decided to 
issue a further provisional decision.
I issued my provisional decision in 21 February 2023. I invited both parties to let me have 
any further submissions before I reached a final decision and neither BOS or Mr M have 
added anything further that would I think would change the outcome.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I said that:
BOS needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is it 
needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr M would be 
able to repay what he was being lent before providing any credit to him. Our website sets out 
what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. 
Mr Ms overdraft is what we refer to as an open-ended credit facility. This means the checks 
BOS carried out had to provide enough for it to be able to understand whether Mr M would 
be able to repay his overdraft within a reasonable period of time. And generally, we think its 
reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much information it 
gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending relationship. But we 
might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the amount 
lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of it 
becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed also 
expect a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
BOS approved an overdraft with an initial limit of £200 in June 2019. Following this Mr M 
made a number of applications to increase his limit for fairly modest amounts of which some 
were accepted and some declined. The last limit increase to be approved was for £500 in 
October 2019, all further applications for increases were declined. 
BOS says all applications were credit scored taking into account information Mr M provided 
about his income and expenditure, as well as information held by other lenders provided 
through credit reference checks to work out the monthly minimum repayments on what he 
already owed and whether he can afford to repay the overdraft requested. And based on this 
information BOS was satisfied his score was high enough to provide him with the overdraft 
facility he requested.
And having viewed Mr Ms statements leading up to the last increase in October 2019 I can 
see that although Mr Ms salary payments did change from being paid monthly to weekly, he 
was still receiving around the amount declared on his applications. And although Mr M did 
use his overdraft, he was able to bring it right down with incoming credits and wasnt at the 
top of his limit. 
I accept that Mr Ms financial position may well have been worse than the credit checks 
carried out showed or in any information he disclosed to BOS at the time. And it is possible 
that further checks might have told BOS this. But given the overall limit requested was 
relatively low and the overdraft had only been in place for around four months, I think BOS 
was reasonably entitled to rely on the credit check it carried out and I dont think BOS acted 
unfairly in agreeing to increase his limit. 
BOS still wont have acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr M if on review of the overdraft 
facility it continued to lend and it applied any interest, fees and charges to Mr Ms account in 
circumstances where it was aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been aware Mr 
M was experiencing financial difficulty. So Ive considered whether there were instances 
where BOS didnt treat Mr M fairly and reasonably.
And having looked at Mr Ms statements I dont think there was anything in these that ought 
to have alerted BOS to the fact Mr M was in financial difficulty and that it should stepped in. 
Although Mr M used his overdraft, this in itself isnt a clear indication of financial difficulty. 
Indeed, most the time I think Mr Ms overdraft was being managed and there were occasions 
when Mr M did see a credit balance. Although I can see evidence of other lending, Mr Ms 
statements dont show many other financial commitments and I can also see that Mr M had a monthly standing order of £100 being paid to himself with the description of spending. 
While this payment wasnt enough to pay off this overdraft in full, it was certainly enough to 
bring it down and pay it off within a reasonable time should he have chosen to do so. 
I accept this doesnt necessarily mean that Mr M wasnt experiencing financial difficulty and 
didnt have lending elsewhere. But there isnt anything in on the statements in themselves 
which ought to have alerted BOS this. So overall I dont think that BOS did treat Mr M 
unfairly or unreasonably. And in these circumstances I dont think that it was unreasonable 
for BOS to proceed with adding the interest, fees and charges it did in light of how Mr Ms 
account was being used. 
So overall and having considered everything, I dont think that BOS on the information it had, 
treated Mr C unfairly or unreasonably and this means that Im not minded to uphold this 
complaint. I appreciate that this is a change in outcome and will be very disappointing for Mr 
M. But I hope he understands the reasons for my decision and that hell at least feel his 
concerns have been listened to. 
Mr M has told us that the £100 transferred monthly was money he used to live off and I 
accept that this was the case. But there is no evidence that BOS knew this as it was 
described as spending on his statements. So I dont think there was enough information on 
the statements to say BOS ought to have known that Mr M was in financial difficulty. And so 
I see no reason to depart from the conclusions set out above. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman