DRN-4107853
The complaint
Miss W complains that someone elses information is showing on her Equifax Limited credit 
file. 
What happened
In August 2022 Miss W contacted a business (C) that provides credit file information to 
customers having obtained the data from Equifax. Miss W raised a dispute as she found 
account information at an unknown address that didnt belong to her. C went on to raise the 
dispute with Equifax but it responded to say it was unable to find the account in question on 
Miss Ws credit file. 
Equifax responded further in mid September 2022 and asked if the information was 
registered at a different address. Equifax closed the dispute on 20 September 2022 when no 
response was received. 
Miss W raised a complaint directly with Equifax on 20 October 2022. In Miss Ws emails, she 
said shed tried to resolve the issue of another persons debts showing on her credit file via 
C without success and that even more accounts had since been added in error. Miss W 
chased updates from Equifax on 6 November 2022 and 25 November 2022. Equifax has 
confirmed it opened a dispute with a lender reporting information on Miss Ws credit file on 
28 November 2022. The lender responded and confirmed the account had been registered 
as a result of a mistrace at the beginning of January 2023. 
Equifax says it took steps to remove the account from Miss Ws credit file. But Miss W says 
account information belonging to other parties remains on her credit file, despite Equifaxs 
actions. 
Equifax has told us that due to high work volumes at the business it wasnt able to 
investigate her complaint and issue a final response within the eight week time limit so 
provided referral rights to this service. 
An investigator looked at Miss Ws complaint and upheld it. They thought Equifax had failed 
to deal with Miss Ws dispute in a reasonable time and werent satisfied the underlying issue 
had been resolved. The investigator asked Equifax to continue working with Miss W to 
remove disputed accounts and pay her £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Equifax asked to appeal and said that Miss W was a customer of C and that she was 
disputing information recorded on its report. Equifax said Miss W shouldve dealt with the 
dispute directly with C. Equifax added that when Miss W raised the issue as a complaint her 
case was placed in a queue but that it was unable to respond within 8 weeks. Equifax added 
that it raised a dispute with a lender in November 2022 and went on to remove the details 
from her credit file on 6 January 2023. 
The investigator placed Miss Ws case into the queue awaiting an ombudsmans decision in 
April 2023. In May 2023 Miss W sent in evidence that the other parties address remained 
linked to her Equifax credit file and said it had failed to engage with her further to remove it. 
As Equifax asked to appeal Miss Ws complaint its been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Equifaxs responses to us have said Miss W shouldve disputed the incorrect data via C as 
she was its customer at the time. But I can see Miss W did try and resolve the situation with 
C first. When, for whatever reason, that didnt result in the disputed data being removed Miss 
W contacted Equifax and raised a complaint directly. Whilst I take Equifaxs point, the rules 
allow Miss W to complain directly to Equifax which is the business that provided the credit 
file data to C. 
Miss W raised the complaint with Equifax in October 2022 and her case was placed in a 
queue. But I think the nature of Miss Ws concerns ought to have led Equifax to consider 
investigating the dispute sooner. It wasnt until the end of November 2022 that Equifax first 
contacted a business about an account on Miss Ws credit file. And that meant the response 
wasnt received until January 2023, with confirmation there was a mistrace. 
Whilst Im pleased Equifax took steps to remove that data, Miss W says the issue still 
remains unresolved. As noted above, in May 2023 Miss W sent us a screen shot that 
appears to show the linked address remained on her credit file in relation to an account 
linked to a business Ill call L. As the address link and third partys credit information appears 
to remain on Miss Ws credit file, I agree with the investigator that Equifax needs to do more 
to try and resolve the situation and remove disputed data. 
I agree with the investigator that the service provided to Miss W shouldve been better and 
that its fair to award compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. And Im 
satisfied that a payment of £200 fairly reflects Miss Ws experiences and the way her dispute 
has been handled. So Im going to proceed in line with the investigators recommendations 
and uphold Miss Ws complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Miss Ws complaint and direct Equifax Limited to settle as 
follows: 
- Continue to work with Miss W and investigate the linked address and disputed 
accounts that may be showing on her credit file
- Pay Miss W £200 for the distress and inconvenience causedUnder the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 August 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman