DRN-2582337
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy that the contractual monthly repayments (CMPs) on their 
mortgage with Nationwide Building Society have been calculated correctly. Mr and Mrs C 
want the repayments to be as they were originally quoted and compensation for the distress 
this has caused them.
What happened
In December 2019 Mr and Mrs C agreed with Nationwide to make a number of changes to 
their existing mortgage including a rate switch, change to repayment and change of 
mortgage term so that they would have a fixed term loan of about £76,000 over ten years.
The mortgage was now to be over a ten-year term and on a ten-year fixed rate of 2.44%, 
with a quoted CMP of £714.37. The changes were to take effect from January 2020, but this 
didnt happen. The mortgage term had to be changed first and this was to take effect from 
February 2020. But the change to the mortgage product was only submitted from March 
2020 which caused problems as the mortgage term now wasnt long enough. 
In January 2020, Mr and Mrs C paid £477.08 as the term, repayment type and rate switch 
changes hadnt completed and in February paid £722.98 as the term and repayment type 
had completed by that stage. When the changes were backdated to January 2020 this 
reduced the overpayment reserve by £232.79. But after a further recalculation, the expected 
payments for January, February and March were £709.87. As payments of £722.98 had 
been collected for three months, £39.33 was refunded. Following a complaint from Mr and 
Mrs C, Nationwide backdated the mortgage term to be effective from 1 January 2020 and a 
CMP of £717.52.
Nationwide offered £200 for Mr and Mrs Cs upset because of the delays in completing the 
changes and the numerous recalculations. Our investigator believed that Nationwide had put 
Mr and Mrs C back financially where they would have been had the delays not occurred and 
that the compensation offered was appropriate. He didnt recommend that this complaint 
should be upheld. Mr and Mrs C disagreed and saying in summary that they shouldnt be 
paying £2.38 more each month than they were quoted for the term of the loan.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What has become quite a complex matter started with a simple agreement between 
Nationwide and Mr and Mrs C in December 2019 that they switch to a ten-year repayment 
mortgage with a ten-year fixed rate product. There was about 8 years remaining on the 
mortgage at that time. They also agreed a further advance of £2,600 against the 
overpayment reserve. In December 2019, Mr and Mrs C say that they were quoted on an 
assumed balance of £76,000, a CMP of £714.37 on a fixed mortgage product at 2.44% with 
total repayments to be £85,724.00. Although they seem to have been told that there would 
be timing issues in implementing the arrangement, it isnt clear to me that the difficulties 
were clearly explained. There does appear to have been an issue that Nationwide required 
the term extension before it implemented the mortgage product so that it appears to have 
envisaged a term of 10 years and one month with a mortgage product of ten years but Mr 
and Mrs C dont refer to that and so its not clear to me that at the start they were alerted to 
that issue or the issue of the CMP for the extra month,  
But difficulties then began because Nationwide had problems co-ordinating the length of the 
term with the term of the mortgage product. As the term of the mortgage was less than ten 
years so the term had to be extended before the mortgage product could start. Its 
unfortunate that both the change in term and the change with the mortgage product didnt 
both come into effect on at the beginning of January 2020. The failure to do so has resulted 
in a number of recalculations and as the recalculations have thrown up different figures than 
the original quote, Mr and Mrs Cs have concerns that they are being asked to pay more 
than they should have to pay.
That said, it doesnt seem that Mr and Mrs C have been financially disadvantaged by 
Nationwides recalculations. In its letter to Mr and Mrs C of 1 May 2020, Nationwide sets out 
the basis of the recalculations in some detail that I will not repeat here. In that letter it says 
that the changes envisaged in the original offer assumed a term of ten years and one month 
from 1 January 2020, with the mortgage product running from 1 February 2020 so that both 
the term and mortgage product terminated in January 2030.It says that the quoted CMP was 
based on that. But after it received complaints from Mr and Mrs C, Nationwide eventually 
accepted that the term and the product should run concurrently from 1 January and that the 
term and product end in December 2030. 
But the recalculation meant that the term was one month shorter. Nationwide says that the 
payment of £717.52 was calculated using the true balance as of 31 March 2020 for nine 
years and nine months. If the term is shorter that would be a reasonable explanation for the 
slightly increased CMP. Ive noted Mr and Mrs Cs objection to using this balance in their 
email of 30 January 2021 but as long as the balance on 1January is correct as it appears to 
be and the correct interest rate is applied from 1 January as it seems to be, I cant see an 
issue of using the balance on 31 March.  
 
The recalculations have added complexity to this complaint and as is clear from the 
correspondence, Mr and Mrs C have difficulty reconciling some figures. Our investigator has 
indicated that we dont provide an audit of how repayments and interest are calculated for 
the remaing term of the mortgage. My role is to consider whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. Mr and Mrs C have got what they wanted from the changes they requested 
with Nationwide. They wanted a ten-year term with a ten-year mortgage product at an 
interest rate of 2.44% beginning in January 2020. Im satisfied they got that and from looking 
at their mortgage account, Nationwide appears to have kept a proper account of their 
mortgage balance and has been applying the correct interest rate to the mortgage from 1 
January 2020. So, Ive no reason to believe that the CMP is incorrect or that Mr and Mrs C 
are paying more than they should have to pay. 
Nationwide has also provided a reasonable explanation of why the CMP differs from what Mr 
and Mrs C were told it was likely to be. But Mr and Mrs C appear to have been led to believe 
that this was a simpler process than it turned out to be and I agree with the award of £200 
which has been paid to them. But my view is that they achieved their financial objectives and 
have been fairly dealt with by Nationwide and so I dont uphold this complaint.    
My final decisionMy decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 July 2021.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman