DRN-3519118
The complaint
Mr G complains that SGA Consultancy Group Limited mis-sold him a personal protection 
policy. He says he was misled to believe it was a life assurance policy.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here. 
In November 2021 Mr G was sold a personal protection policy by an appointed 
representative of SGA Consultancy. The policy included multiple benefits including cover for 
broken bones, hospitalisation in the UK, accidental permanent injuries, total permanent 
disablement, accidental death and also non-accidental death. The amount of cover 
increased depending on the number of units selected, with more units increasing the 
premium cost. 
Mr Gs policy  based on the number of units he selected  cost £27 per month. This gave 
him £120,000 of accidental death cover but it provided a much smaller amount of cover for 
non-accidental death. That being £3,000 after the policy had been in force for at least one 
year and rising to a maximum of £6,000 after five years. 
Mr G complained to the policy provider in March 2022 as he said he was led to believe it was 
a life assurance policy. So, he thought it had been mis-sold. The policy provider referred the 
complaint to SGA Consultancy and confirmed the policy had been cancelled. They also 
explained that Mr G was requesting the premiums hed paid to be refunded as well as 
compensation.
SGA Consultancy didnt uphold the complaint. They said, having listened to sales call, it was 
explained to Mr G that some people take it out thinking its [a] life policy but its not. It 
protects the customer while they are alive with a little non-accidental death cover.
The complaint was referred to our service but our investigator didnt think the policy was mis-
sold. In short, he said:
Hed listened to the sale calls and thought SGA Consultancy made it clear what the 
policy did and didnt cover. This included that the policy only provided a small amount 
of non-accidental life cover.  
He noted Mr Gs medical problems, which included memory impairment and not 
having control of what he says. But he hadnt heard Mr G tell SGA Consultancy he 
couldnt take responsibility for what he says. Instead, Mr G confirmed that he took 
responsibility for his financial decisions.
He couldnt expect the sales agent to act on something he wasnt aware of. 
Mr G disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide. In short, Mr G has said:
He was sold the wrong product..
Hes provided a medical letter confirming that he has memory issues  having 
suffered a brain haemorrhage in 2013  which often means he cant remember what 
hes said the day before. It also confirms that he has no responsibility for what he 
says too. 
He doesnt have anyone to help him with his financial decisions. And so, he is 
helpless and he must do it himself.
This case is affecting him mentally and has caused a deterioration in his health 
condition due to hypertension, as the complaint is going on without an amicable 
agreement being reached.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr G feels very strongly about this matter and so I want to reassure him that Ive 
given everything hes said careful consideration. This includes the medical problems that 
hes told us he suffers from, and which hes also provided a medical letter to evidence. Im 
also sorry to hear that Mr G says dealing with this complaint has affected his health too. But, 
while I know this isnt the outcome Mr G is hoping for, I dont think SGA Consultancy mis-
sold the policy. Ill explain why.
The policy was sold on a non-advised basis. This means that it was the responsibility of 
Mr G to ensure it was suitable for his needs. SGA Consultancy were however required to 
provide Mr G with the relevant information for him to make an informed decision. Ive 
therefore looked at whether SGA Consultancy did so.
Ive firstly considered what information SGA Consultancy gave Mr G in the sale calls. Having 
done so, it seems that when Mr G first contacted SGA Consultancy he was enquiring about 
setting up traditional life assurance. I think SGA Consultancy clearly explained to Mr G 
though that they were unable to offer this type of cover. This was because it would need to 
be a medically underwritten policy, which they couldnt source due to his medical history. So, 
instead, they told Mr G about the types of policies they could offer  those being an over 50s 
plan, which he declined, and the other being the one that was set up. I think it was 
reasonable for SGA Consultancy to provide these alternative options to Mr G as they can 
provide valuable benefits.
Im also satisfied that SGA Consultancy explained to Mr G on several occasions how the 
policy worked. This included that, for the number of units selected, it would provide £120,000 
of accidental cover but a much smaller amount (up to £6,000) for non-accidental death which 
could, for example, cover funeral costs. Because of this, I think SGA Consultancy made 
Mr G sufficiently aware that this policy wasnt like traditional life assurance.
I understand Mr G suffers from memory impairment and that he also says he cant be held 
responsible for what he says. This is due to a brain haemorrhage he suffered in 2013. 
Having listened to the calls though, it seems that Mr G only informed SGA Consultancy his 
brain capacity isnt that good and that it doesnt work so well. SGA Consultancy, upon 
being told this, confirmed with Mr G that he makes his own financial decisions. And that 
following a request from Mr G, SGA Consultancy agreed to send the policy information to 
Mr Gs friend (who was a financial adviser) and speak with him too. 
Given Mr G didnt tell SGA Consultancy that he couldnt be held responsible for what he 
says, I think it was reasonable for them to accept his confirmation of making his own financial decisions in good faith. I also consider it was reasonable for them to include the 
financial adviser in the sales process as per Mr Gs request. I think sending over the policy 
information and calling the adviser to explain how the policy worked  including the 
accidental and non-accidental life cover benefits  was appropriate as they tailored the sales 
process to Mr Gs specific circumstances (based on what they were aware of). SGA 
Consultancy also gave Mr G time to speak with his friend before proceeding with the 
application further. So, I think they took reasonable steps to allow Mr G to seek the help he 
needed. 
Ive also considered the policy paperwork provided to Mr G during the sales process. And on 
page eight of the terms and conditions, under the Step 1  It starts with Core Cover section, 
it says:
[Policy name] Core Cover automatically includes the following benefits, with a 
monthly premium from £9 to £45.

Accidental death should the worst happen, [Policy name] provides cover for up to 
£200,000

Non-accidental death up to £10,000 if you die as a result of natural causes, or your 
premiums returned if your death is within the first year of your policy starting
It then goes on to explain from page 11 onwards, under the Summary of Benefits section, 
how much cover is provided based on the number of units selected. Im therefore satisfied 
that Mr G (and his friend) was provided the relevant policy documentation to understand how 
the policy worked  including the amount of non-accidental death life cover.
I appreciate Mr G may not have fully understood the type of cover he was setting up. I 
accept there was most likely some confusion on Mr Gs part and that his medical problems 
probably contributed to this. Im therefore sympathetic to Mr Gs position and the difficulties 
he has in making financial decisions such as this. That said, I dont think I can fairly hold 
SGA Consultancy responsible for this or conclude that they mis-sold the policy. This is 
because - for the above reasons - Im satisfied SGA Consultancy gave Mr G, and his 
financial adviser friend, enough information both verbally and in writing that explained how 
the policy worked. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2022.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman