DRN-4283636
The complaint
Mr T complains that West Bay Insurance Plc (West Bay) declined a claim he made on his 
motor insurance policy after his car was stolen.
All references to West Bay include its agents.
What happened
Mr T has motor insurance with West Bay.
In October 2021 Mr T says his car was stolen from outside his business partners house. Mr 
T called the police, obtained a crime reference number, and reported the matter to his 
insurer. 
Mr T says West Bay sent a loss adjustor to validate the claim in March 2022. At the time of 
the interview the loss adjustor made handwritten notes and asked Mr T to sign them 
afterwards. Mr T refused to sign the notes since he says they he was unable to read them 
due to poor handwriting. 
Mr T says the loss adjustor told him to sign the notes and he would email everything over the 
following morning, so he was able to make any amendments if he wanted to. Mr T says he 
didnt receive the email and, instead the notes were sent to his insurer. 
West Bay declined his claim on the basis Mr T was using his car for his business. Mr T 
refutes this; he says hes a builder and has four vans that he uses for the business. West 
Bay also said Mr Ts account of the incident was inconsistent but Mr T explained this was 
because he was interviewed months after the event and the nature of his work means that 
he can be all over the country, working all hours. 
Mr T wasnt happy and so he complained to West Bay. West Bay said it needed to ensure 
the claim was settled within the terms and conditions of the policy and so needed to validate 
the claim. West Bay apologised that Mr T had been provided with an incorrect expectation 
regarding the settlement of the claim and awarded him £75 as a gesture of goodwill. 
Mr T wasnt satisfied with the response from West Bay so he referred his complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators looked into things for him. He said he didnt think West Bay 
had acted fairly. He said he could see there were some changes in some of the details 
provided by Mr T but considering the time it took West Bay to complete its face-to-face 
interview he thought it was likely some elements may have been forgotten or mixed up over 
time. He said the findings in the face-to-face interview should be disregarded given the 
circumstances. He said West Bay should reconsider the claim since the inconsistencies 
werent enough to repudiate the claim. He also said West Bay should pay Mr T £250 to 
reflect the distress caused by the delay and the mismanagement of Mr Ts expectations 
following the face-to-face interview. 
West Bay didnt agree. It said the statement was written up during the face-to-face interview 
based on the events as described by Mr T. It said a report was drafted using all the 
information it had. West Bay provided the investigator with the call recordings that took place 
four weeks after the incident. On review of the further information the investigator amended 
his view to say West Bay should pay the claim with an additional 8% simple interest, from 
the date of loss to the date payment is made. For the delays in dealing with the claim he 
recommended West Bay pay Mr T £250.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to start by assuring both parties that Ive considered all the information provided to 
me as well as comments from both parties. But Ive only commented on whats relevant to 
the outcome of this complaint. 
My role here is to look at whether West Bays declination of the claim was fair and in line 
with the terms of the policy. I have read the policy terms to understand the cover provided. 
It is clear that Mr Ts car was stolen and hasnt been recovered. Mr T reported this to his 
insurer and the police, who provided a crime reference number. While I agree West Bay 
undertook a reasonable investigation into the circumstances surrounding the theft of Mr Ts 
car, I dont think West Bay has sufficient evidence to decline the claim. Ill explain why.
On review of the evidence, Mr Ts general account and description of the circumstances 
surrounding the theft has been consistent. He has given a clear account of where he left the 
car and what happened. 
Under the section What to do if your car is subject to a theft the policy says, call the police 
and obtain a crime reference number. And this is what he did. The policy also says Mr T 
must cooperate fully with West Bay when making a claim. Again, this is what he did. 
Its not disputed that Mr Ts car was stolen. So, on the face of it, he has a claim under his car 
insurance policy. West Bay hasnt explained which of the general conditions of the policy it 
seeks to rely on to decline the claim. Its for West Bay to show it has grounds to decline the 
claim and I dont think it has done so here. West Bay has referred to inconsistencies in the 
evidence. But I think they can be explained and arent enough to warrant a decline. 
Conclusion
In turning down Mr Ts claim West Bay has said there were inconsistencies in the evidence 
provided. But it doesnt have any evidence to suggest that Mr T was involved or has been 
untruthful with it or its investigators  certainly not to the extent that it is free to decline the 
claim. 
Overall, Im not persuaded that there is sufficient evidence to decline the claim. Mr Ts 
testimony remains consistent apart from some inconsistencies with the time things 
happened, but I think its more likely this is due to the passage of time from the incident to 
when Mr T was interviewed. His car was stolen and reported to police, he obtained a crime 
reference number, he provided his testimony to West Bay four weeks after the incident and 
again months later when it sent its investigator to validate the claim. Mr T has fully 
cooperated with West Bays investigator and the police.
To compound all of this there have been delays and misinformation which has caused Mr T 
a great deal of distress and inconvenience. So I think the fair and reasonable thing to do, in the particular circumstances of this case, is 
for West Bay to deal with Mr Ts theft and pay him 8% simple interest from the date of loss 
until the date of settlement since he has been without the car or cash settlement. 
West Bay should also pay him compensation for the time he has been without his car. 
Although it is fortunate Mr T had use of his van it must have been very inconvenient for him 
to have to use his van every day. Our investigator recommended £250 to reflect the distress 
and inconvenience and I think this is fair in all the circumstances and is in line with the 
awards we make. 
Putting things right
Given the conclusions Ive reached, as set out above, I think West Bay Insurance Plc should;
Pay Mr Ts theft claim 
Add 8% simple interest from the date of loss until the date of settlement. 
Pay Mr T £250 compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I uphold this complaint and direct West Bay Insurance Plc to do 
what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2023.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman