DRN-4467178
The complaint
Ms complaint is about Michael Howard, trading as U K I Directs (UKI) failure to sell it 
personal accident cover when it took out a Master Tradesmans insurance policy with them 
in 2020.
Mr H, on behalf of M says that UKI should have identified a need for this cover and sold it to 
him accordingly and their failure to do so meant he wasnt able to work since he had an 
accident whilst at work in 2021.  
What happened
In 2020 Mr H took out a Master Tradesmans insurance policy with UKI. The sale was 
conducted on an advised basis. In 2021, Mr H was sent renewal documents and asked to 
check them before agreeing for cover to roll over. Mr H agreed to this, and the policy 
renewed.
Later that year Mr H slipped and fell from a roof whilst working, which resulted in him being 
hospitalised and requiring surgery. Hes explained that his injuries have meant hes been 
unable to work since. A couple of months after the accident, Mr H contacted UKI to find out if 
he had personal accident cover for the losses M had suffered as a result of him being unable 
to work. UKI explained that hed only taken out employers and public liability cover and not 
personal accident cover. 
Unhappy, Mr H referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. He says he felt 
UKI should have sold him a policy that was suitable to his needs and the insurance he had 
didnt extend to covering him for the risk his trade put him in, which ultimately resulted in the 
injury he suffered.
Our investigator considered Ms complaint and concluded it should be upheld. She said that 
because UKI had sold the policy on an advised basis, they had a duty to ensure it was 
suitable for Mr Hs needs- and those needs extended to protecting him from the risk of injury 
given the type of work he did. As such she directed UKI to appoint a loss adjuster to assess 
Mr Hs claim as if he had taken out the optional additional personal accident cover that could 
have been added to his policy. The investigator said that interest of 8% per year simple 
should be paid on any claim from the date Mr H contacted them, until the claim is settled. 
She also directed UKI to pay him £500 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused to him.
UKI doesnt agree, so the matter has been passed to me to determine. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I intend to uphold this complaint for broadly the same reasons set out by 
the investigator.
The policy was initially sold to Mr H on an advised basis in 2020 by telephone. The renewal 
was sent to Mr H in writing the following year. Although the claim was made against the 
renewed policy, Ive considered the 2020 sale in more detail because its clear from what Mr 
H has said that he was renewing the policy on the same terms and based on the same 
recommendation UKI originally made in 2020. From what Ive seen, thats consistent with the 
cover he was sold again in 2021.
Because the policy was sold to Mr H in 2020 on an advised basis, UKI had an obligation to 
ensure it was suitable for Ms needs. They also needed to ensure they gave Mr H enough 
information to allow him to make an informed decision about whether to take the policy out. 
Mr Hs specific complaint is UKIs failure to sell him/M personal accident cover. He says this 
was essential to ensuring M could operate in the event he couldnt work as a result of an 
accident at work. Ive thought about this in the context of 2020 sale. There isnt a telephone 
recording available of the sale but from the documents Ive seen- namely the Statement of 
Fact and Statement of Demands and Needs, theres nothing to suggest that personal 
accident cover was considered or discussed. UKI say this was because Mr H specifically 
requested employers and public liability cover when he contacted them. I can understand 
that but in selling insurance on an advised basis UKI needed to ask questions about Mr Hs 
business and circumstances and offer products that were suitable for those needs. 
From what Ive seen, the insurance sold to Mr H provided cover in the event that one of his 
employees was involved in an accident at work, Mr H wasnt covered for this himself. And 
personal accident cover was an optional extra that Mr H could have purchased, had it been 
recommended to him. The Statement of Demands and Needs says:
Based on this information and on our knowledge of the market, we recommended the
following:
A policy with Covea that meets your needs and requirements at a competitive price
As you are aware, we recommended that you considered the following covers, but
note from our records that you have elected not to proceed with them:
Legal Expenses.
So, I dont think that UKI did discuss whether Mr H wouldve wanted optional personal 
accident insurance to cover himself in the event he was injured. Mr H has said that had he 
known he wouldnt be covered for this like his employee was, he wouldve asked for cover. 
Im persuaded by this. The nature of the work Mr H did was known to UKI- he provided 
roofing services. So, the risk associated with those services wouldve also been apparent as 
well as the consequences of any injuries he might suffer whilst at work. Because of this I 
think UKI shouldve recommended personal accident cover and if they had, I think that Mr H 
wouldve taken it up both in 2020 and at renewal in 2021. UKIs failure to identify a need for 
and recommend this product meant that Mr H didnt take it up and wasnt covered when he 
was injured in 2021. From what Mr H has said, this has caused him considerable stress and 
worry at a time where he was recovering from the accident and the surgery that followed. 
I understand Mr H is still experiencing adverse health affects as a consequence which has 
meant hes been unable to work and therefore M is not receiving any income. Because of 
this I think UKI should put things right as Ive set out below.
When reaching these conclusions, I want to make clear that Ive taken on board UKIs 
submissions about why they arent responsible for the fact that Mr H didnt take out cover. 
The refer to the fact that the documents he was provided with made clear he didnt take out personal accident cover and that he needed to ensure the insurance was suitable for his 
own needs and circumstances. I agree that the documents Mr H was provided with didnt 
specify he had personal accident cover, but I dont think this makes a difference. From what 
Mr H has said, he thought he was covered by the insurances he took out in the same way 
his employee was and Ive seen nothing to suggest that it was made clear to him that he 
wasnt and that hed need additional cover if he wanted this. And given this was an advised 
sale, it wasnt for Mr H to ensure the insurance was suitable for his needs and 
circumstances- this was up to UKI. 
Putting things right
UKI should now do the following:
Instruct a loss adjuster to assess Mr Hs claim against the terms of the personal accident 
cover that wouldve been sold to him had UKI recommended it, in order to ascertain 
whether his claim would be covered.
If Mr Hs claim is covered, the loss adjuster will need to determine what, if anything is 
payable under that policy and, UKI will need to pay Mr H this.
UKI will be entitled to deduct the cost of the policy premium applicable to the personal 
accident cover for two policy periods starting from April 2020, against any settlement 
amounts payable to Mr H.
UKI must pay interest at 8% per year simple on any settlement amount payable to Mr H 
from the time he contacted them to find out if he had cover after the accident, until the 
claim is paid. UKI should note that interest runs from the specific date this happened 
because this would reasonably have been the time Mr H would have sought to claim on 
his policy. 
UKI should pay Mr H £500 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience their 
failure to correctly identify his needs and recommend products suitable to them ultimately 
caused him.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Hs complaint against Michael Howard trading as 
U K I Direct.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2023.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman