DRN-2423032
The complaint
Mr M complained that Starling Bank Limited (Starling) changed the terms and conditions of 
his joint account.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M opened a personal current account in January 2020. On 25 February 2020, 
Starling contacted them to say that the account was being used for business purposes - and 
this was outside of its terms and conditions. Mr M contacted Starling that day to discuss this 
- and to say that there was a problem with his wifes card. On 26 February 2020, he got a 
message from Starling about the card. On 27 February 2020, Starling sent a message 
saying that its terms and conditions had changed because of the introduction of its mobile 
cheque deposit service. 
Mr M complained. He said the terms and conditions of the personal account had been 
changed by Starling after he opened it. And the message about the mobile banking app 
attached new terms and conditions that changed the terms of his account  they were not 
just about mobile cheque deposit.
Starling responded. They said that on 25 February 2020 they sent an in-app message 
saying the personal account was being used for business purposes and asked Mr and Mrs 
M to look at using a business account. Mr M contacted them that day to ask if they could 
continue using the personal account for his wifes childminding business. And he said their 
cards were being declined. On 26 February 2020, they sent him an in-app message saying 
the account was unrestricted and to continue to use the account as normal. On 27 February 
2020, Starling sent an email updating the terms and conditions in connection with its mobile 
cheque deposit service. Starling said that the email of 26 February 2020 meant that the 
cards could now be used  it wasnt intended to suggest that they could continue to use the 
personal account for the business. But the terms and conditions of the personal account 
were clear  theyre for everyday personal use. And if theyre used for business purposes, it 
was a breach of its terms and conditions. But Starling apologised for the lack of clarity in its 
communications and paid £50 compensation.
Mr M brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator looked at what had happened. In 
December 2020 she said that Starlings terms and conditions were accepted when the joint 
account was opened. And they said that the account was for personal use only. So, Starling 
could ask Mr M to open a business account. She agreed that the sequence of 
communications from Starling  and their content - was confusing. But Starling had 
apologised for that and paid compensation of £50, which she thought was reasonable.
Mr M asked that his complaint be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ms complaint has come about because of the confusion over the sequence and content 
of Starlings communications. But his main points are  did the terms and conditions of the 
personal account change after he opened it? And did they change as a result of the 
introduction of mobile cheque deposit?
Mr M and Mrs M opened the joint personal account in January 2020. I have seen the terms 
and conditions dated September 2019  so these were in use at the time. They say your 
joint current account is for personal use only.  I have seen screenshots of the process Mr M 
would have gone though and these say the following Terms will apply to your joint account. 
By tapping confirm, you are agreeing to them. A link to the person account terms is shown. 
As Starlings personal current accounts are for day to day activities, such as receiving 
salaries and paying bills, they asked Mr M to look at opening a business account  and they 
could do that. 
The communication about mobile cheque deposit was sent in February 2020. I have seen 
the terms and conditions dated February 2020 and they include the same clause about the 
use of personal accounts  so there was no change in them.
The timing of the communications was unfortunate - I can see how Mr M was confused by 
what happened. The main problems arose because Starling sent him a message about the 
account being OK to use  following problems with the card  and he thought they meant 
that he could use his personal account for the business. The message about the mobile 
cheque deposit service then confused matters further - it included reference to changes to 
terms and conditions at the same time as Mr M was being told that hed breached them. 
Starling have apologised for what happened and paid compensation of £50, which I think 
was reasonable.
So, while I can appreciate where Mr M is coming from, Starling havent done anything 
wrong. I think Starling have acted reasonably here and I wont be asking them to do 
anymore.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 February 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman