DRN-3126528
The complaint
Mrs N is unhappy that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) wouldnt reduce 
the maximum total mileage allowable under a contract hire agreement she had with them.
What happened
In March 2018, Mrs N was supplied with a car through a contract hire agreement with 
VWFS. The agreement was for 36 months; with monthly payments of £229.54. The 
agreement stated a maximum total allowable mileage of 36,000 miles over the three years of 
the agreement. It also stated that Mrs N would be charged 6.98 pence a mile for any mileage 
that exceeded this amount.
In 2019, Mrs N asked VWFS to increase the maximum total mileage allowable under the 
agreement to 44,001. VWFS agreed and Mrs N signed a new agreement on 4 November 
2019. She paid an administration fee of £60 and her monthly premium increased by £33.52.
In October 2020, Mrs N asked VWFS if they could reduce the maximum total mileage back 
to 36,000. She said this was because she hadnt used the car as much as shed expected 
she wouldve when she asked for the mileage increase, as a result of the coronavirus 
(Covid-19) pandemic. VWFS explained they werent able to do this  they only allowed one 
change in mileage every 12-months, and they dont allow any adjustments within the last 6-
months of an agreement.
Mrs N wasnt happy with this reply, so she complained to VWFS. But VWFS didnt change 
their mind. And Mrs N brought her complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said the amended agreement didnt set out any provisions for customers 
who subsequently wanted to reduce their mileage. And he said the amended agreement was 
not cancellable. Because of this, he didnt think that VWFS had acted outside the agreement 
by not letting Mrs N reduce her mileage.
The investigator also said that the Covid-19 pandemic wasnt something that couldve been 
foreseen when Mrs N entered into the amended agreement, and the government lockdown 
and restrictions that meant Mrs N did less mileage than shed expected was something 
outside of VWFS control. And, because the agreement was for a maximum mileage, then 
Mrs N doing less than this had already been factored in. So he didnt think VWFS needed to 
do anything more.
Mrs N didnt agree with the investigator. She didnt think that VWFS had acted fairly and 
reasonably given the circumstances of the lockdown; and said that her car insurer had 
offered her a partial refund to reflect that the amount of road usage and risk of claims had 
dropped significantly during the lockdown. 
Mrs N also said that the car was handed back with less mileage than allowable under the 
original agreement, so VWFS didnt incur any depreciation costs. And shes asked for this 
matter to be sent to an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Mrs N was supplied with a car under a contract hire agreement. 
This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to look into 
complaints about it. 
In signing the original agreement, Mrs N agreed to VWFSs terms and conditions. From what 
Ive seen, there was no automatic right for Mrs N to vary the allowable mileage specifically, 
or to vary the terms of the agreement generally. 
But Ive seen also a copy of the amendment to the agreement, which Miss N signed on 4 
November 2019. This states that the allowable mileage was increased from 36,000 to 
44,001, and the monthly payment was increased from £229.54 to £263.06. And under the 
heading Key Information, it states this agreement is not cancellable.
Based on the above, Im satisfied that VWFS internal processes allowed for a variation of 
the mileage under an agreement. VWFS have said they allow for a mileage variation once 
every 12-months, but not in the last 6-months of an agreement. It isnt the role of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service to decide what policies financial businesses should have in 
place. This is a decision VWFS can make in line with its regulator  the Financial Conduct 
Authority. As such, I wont be commenting on the fairness or reasonableness of VWFS 
mileage variation policy.
When, in October 2020, Mrs N asked VWFS to revert back to 36,000 miles, this was within 
12-months of the previous change. And it was within 6-months of the end of the agreement. 
Whats more, the agreement she signed in November 2019 wasnt cancellable. So it wasnt 
possible to revert back to the originally agreed mileage. Given all of this, I dont think VWFS 
acted unfairly or unreasonably be refusing Mrs Ns request.
I appreciate that, given the circumstances created by the Covid-19 pandemic, Mrs N didnt 
make use of the 8,001 additional miles shed agreed to in November 2019. And she hadnt 
covered the original 36,000 miles by the time she handed the car back. But this is a 
maximum mileage  Mrs N wasnt required to drive the car for 44,001 miles; she would just 
have been charged excess mileage if shed exceeded this. And Im satisfied that Mrs N had 
the flexibility to drive up to 44,001 miles, without being charged any excess mileage, over the 
full 36-months of the agreement.
Whats more, as the November 2019 agreement wasnt cancellable, even if I were to say 
that VWFS shouldve allowed Mrs N to revert back to 36,000 miles (which Im not), then the 
additional payments she paid to give her the flexibility to cover the addition miles wouldnt be 
refundable anyway, as shed benefitted from having this option. And when VWFS didnt alter 
the terms of the agreement in October 2020, Mrs N still benefitted from the flexibility to drive 
up to 44,001 miles without being charged. Even if she hadnt used this flexibility.Mrs N has also referred to a partial refund shes received from her car insurer. But her car 
insurance is a different type of contract, with its own terms and conditions, provided by a 
different financial business. So I dont think the car insurers actions have any bearing on 
what VWFS should or shouldnt do in relation to an agreement thats completely unrelated to 
Mrs Ns car insurance.
As such, while I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mrs N, I think VWFS acted 
reasonably by refusing his request to vary the terms of the agreement. Ive seen that VWFS 
have already offered to refund Mrs N the £60 administration fee she paid in November 2019, 
and I wont be asking them to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mrs Ns complaint about Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2021.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman