DRN-2776046
The complaint
Mr W complains about the way The Mortgage Business Plc dealt with his property after it 
took possession, including the way it was valued. He asks for compensation.
What happened
Mr W took out a residential mortgage with TMB in about 1997 and further borrowing in 2004. 
The mortgage account fell into arrears and TMB took possession of Mr Ws property in 
November 2019. Mr W is unhappy about valuations of the property, which he says didnt 
take account of the propertys commercial buildings, which hed renovated since buying the 
property.
Mr W is also unhappy about how the property and animals at the property were looked after 
by the property management agents appointed by TMB. He says he wasnt given clear 
information about attending the property to clear items and animals. 
The property was sold in July 2020, after Mr W brought the complaint to us.
Our investigator said TMB asked for valuations, from an estate agent and a surveyor, and 
sold the property for the highest offer it received. TMB appointed an agent to manage the 
property and an animal handler was instructed to feed and water the animals while they 
were in the property. The investigator said there was no evidence the property wasnt looked 
after while in TMBs possession.
Mr W didnt agree. He said theres been a business at the property for decades and he cant 
see why he was offered a residential mortgage. He provided a deed from 1996 which 
created restrictions on occupation of the property. Mr W said he still hadnt received funds 
from the sale, nearly a year after the sale. He said he was trying to raise funds to pay for a 
commercial valuation of the property.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I must be clear that the complaint Im looking at here is the complaint Mr W brought to us, 
and which TMB responded to in March 2020. That is, his complaint about how TMBs agent 
looked after the property and animals after TMB took possession. And that TMB didnt 
instruct a commercial valuation. 
Mr W contacted TMB in mid-October 2019 after hed received notice of eviction. Eviction 
was scheduled for late October, but this was cancelled due to animals at the site. TMB took 
possession in late November 2019. TMBs property management agents asked Mr W to 
remove animals and other items from the property by 19 December 2019. According to the 
information provided by the agents to TMB, the agents offered Mr W access to the property 
to remove the animals. Mr W says he had problems getting access. The agents told TMB 
they were concerned about the time it was taking Mr W to clear the property, and the 
number of times he asked for (and was allowed) access.
The agents appointed an animal handler to feed and water the animals until they were 
removed from the property. The animal handlers werent responsible for cleaning up after 
the animals. The agents told TMB the property needed cleaning  including of animal mess 
 when it was first taken into possession. The agents say they would have arranged for 
cleaning of the property, but Mr W said he wanted to do this himself. I appreciate the cost 
would have been added to the mortgage account. 
It was unfortunate there were still animals and personal items at the property when TMB 
took possession, but this wasnt due to an error by TMB. TMB gave Mr W notice of eviction, 
which was then delayed for a month due to there being animals at the site. After the property 
was taken into possession, Mr W was given more time to remove animals and other items. 
Based on the available evidence, I think TMB gave Mr W reasonable time and opportunities 
to remove animals and belongings, both before and after it took possession. 
TMB says its usual process is to have properties valued by a surveyor (a member of the 
Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors) and an estate agent. In February 2020, once the 
property had been cleaned, it asked for valuations.
A valuation report was provided by a surveyor. The report says the valuation is of the 
residential building and does not account for the significant commercial element. The valuer 
says the property isnt suitable for a residential mortgage due to the commercial element. It 
says this will severely impede the saleability and marketability. The report says it assumes 
all consents are in place and there are no conditions restricting occupancy. It gave a market 
value of £410,000. 
An estate agent gave a value of £450,000, noting the condition of the commercial buildings 
as a deterring factor.
TMB doesnt have expertise to value property, and I think it was entitled to ask for valuations 
from people with expertise. This was to help it to market the property for sale. I dont think it 
had any reason to think the advice it was given was incorrect. Mr W is right that the surveyor 
only valued the residential building. I dont think TMB was wrong to instruct a residential 
valuation, given this was a residential mortgage. However, this doesnt mean the commercial 
buildings didnt have a value or that the sales price couldnt reflect this. It only meant that the 
surveyor didnt put a value on the commercial buildings or include them in the valuation 
report. 
Mr W sent copies of the estate agents particulars which he says were online. These refer to 
and have pictures of the commercial outbuildings. Mr W says the property was marketed as 
dual purpose/split use. Its likely potential purchasers were aware of the outbuildings and 
potential commercial use. 
Mr W questions how TMB was able to sell the property for domestic purposes when it has 
commercial outbuildings and a covenant restricting its use. However, this would be a matter 
for the purchaser and its advisers to look into and make a decision about. 
Mr W says he obtained a valuation of £525,000, although I havent seen a copy of this. This 
isnt substantially different from the offer accepted by TMB, and doesnt change my view of 
the outcome here. 
Mr W says Lloyds should have instructed a commercial valuation, and given the nature of 
the property it should have instructed three valuations. The cost of this would of course have been added to his mortgage account. Mr W asked whether he should pay for a commercial 
valuation  if this would change my decision. I cant of course know this in advance of seeing 
any such valuation. The property was marketed for sale, and the outbuildings were included 
in the marketing materials. There were several offers of between £410,000 and £450,000 
before TMB accepted an offer of £500,000. 
While Mr W says the property is worth at least £800,000 he hasnt provided evidence of this, 
or that the property could or would have sold for more if TMB had asked for a commercial 
valuation. On balance, I dont think TMB made an error here which meant the property was 
sold for less than it should have been.
Mr W questions why he was offered a residential mortgage when the property is 
predominantly commercial. Mr W also says he still hasnt received net funds from the sale, 
almost a year later. As these werent part of the complaint raised with TMB and brought to 
us, I cant look into these matters here.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman