DRN-3961707
The complaint
Mr P complains Esure Insurance Limited unfairly declined his home insurance claim. 
Mr Ps been represented at points during the claim and complaint. For simplicity Ive referred 
to the representatives actions as being those of Mr P. For the same reasons Ive referred to 
the actions of Esures agents as being its own.  
What happened
In November 2021 Mr P was made aware of water pooling in the void below the suspended 
ground floor of his property. This had resulted in damage  including to floor joists. In 
January 2022 he claimed for the loss against his Esure home insurance policy. At that point 
Mr P, based on the opinion of a damp specialist, believed the cause to be ground water. 
After a site visit Esure declined the claim. It said the damage hadnt occurred as one-off 
incident. It felt rising ground water was the cause of the pooling water and damage. Esure 
added thats not covered by Mr Ps policy as it considered a gradually operating cause of 
damage  something excluded by his cover. 
In March 2022 Esure responded to a complaint from Mr P. It said the claim had been 
correctly declined in line with the policy terms. It pointed to exclusions for loss caused 
gradually over time and caused by gradually rising ground water. Esure said there was no 
evidence to support leaks or storm related damage.
In June 2022 a different contractor assessed the problem for Mr P. Its report explains the 
pooled water had entered the void due to roots penetrating brickwork and a bitumen subfloor 
coating below ground level. Mr P complains Esure didnt respond to this report and cause of 
damage. 
To resolve his complaint Mr P would like Esure to accept the claim, covering the cost of 
repairs to the floor joists and resulting damage including to flooring and decorations. Our 
investigator considered the complaint, He felt Esures decision to decline the claim was fair. 
So he didnt recommend it do anything differently. Mr P didnt accept, so the complaint was 
passed to me. 
I issued a provisional decision. In it I explained why I intended to require Esure to accept 
Mr Ps claim and reimburse him for works covered by his policy. As the provisional decisions 
reasoning forms part of this decision Ive copied it in below. I also invited Mr P and Esure to 
provide any final points or information they would like me to consider. Esure didnt respond. 
Mr P said he accepted my provisional decision and had nothing further to add. 
what Ive provisionally decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ps policy says Esure will pay for loss or damage to his building resulting from 
storm or flood. A flood doesnt have to be a sudden event. It can happen over time. 
But Mr Ps policy has its own definition of flood -  an invasion of the property by a 
large volume of water caused by a rapid build-up or sudden release of water from 
outside the Buildings.
There was certainly an invasion of the property by a large volume of water. Photos 
show this. Im satisfied the floor joists were damaged, requiring repair, by the pooled 
water. But as set out above the policy requires the water invasion to have been 
caused by a rapid build-up or sudden release of water. So Ive gone on to consider if 
there was most likely a rapid build-up or sudden release of water  or if it was it a 
gradual process.
Ive considered the reports and comments provided by Mr P and Esure. Having done 
so, I think its most likely, in the absence of a competing persuasive explanation, that 
the water did enter as a result of root penetration of brickwork and the bitumen 
subfloor. Photos show the presence of established and lengthy roots in the floor void 
amongst the pooled water. Mr P had them removed and brick work repaired as part 
of the repairs. 
Mr Ps representative did say a rapid build-up or sudden release cant be strictly 
established. He said Mr P had no way of knowing of the build-up of water (until the 
electrician opened an inspection hatch in late November 2021). More recently Mr P 
explained the water wasnt there during the period of late June 2021 to September 
2021. He says in that period trades (working on an extensive house refurbishment) 
including the electrician and a plumber accessed the void. And they didnt report a 
build-up of water. 
 
If thats accepted, it would mean the water built up within the period of October 2021 
to November 2021. Weather reports do show heavy rain over several days in late 
October 2021. So its possible there was a rapid build-up during that period.    
I note Mr P didnt previously explain about the June to September 2021 access of the 
void. But having spoken to him and considered the evidence Im persuaded by what 
he says. Photos show a full refurbishment of his kitchen. Invoices refer to replumbing 
and rewiring of the same room. Further photos of the repairs claimed for do show 
wiring and plumbing in the void area. 
So I think its likely that the earlier refurbishment work would have required some 
access of the void area by the relevant trades. Furthermore I think its likely, if there 
was a build of water at that point, the electrician or plumber would have noticed it and 
informed Mr P. As that didnt happen, on balance, I think the water wasnt there 
during June 2021 to September 2021. So it seems there was probably, in late 
October 2021, a rapid build-up of water from outside the building  resulting from the 
heavy rainfall. 
So I currently intend to find the loss and damage to Mr Ps property was most likely 
caused by one of the policys insured events  flood. 
Esures referred to a couple of exclusions to decline claim  loss or damage that 
happens gradually over time and loss or damage caused by rising ground water 
levels which happens over time. As Im persuaded the flood involved a rapid build-
up of water the damage didnt occur gradually. So I intend to find Esure cant rely on 
those exclusions to decline the claim. My proposed outcome (subject to responses I receive to this provisional decision) is 
to require Esure to settle Mr Ps claim for damage to the subfloor area in line with the 
remaining terms of the policy. As hes already paid for most of the work that will 
involve reimbursing him for works covered by the policy. 
Mr P only provided a key determinant, the earlier use of the void, fairly recently. So I 
dont feel it would be fair to require Esure to pay interest on the settlement or 
compensation to reflect delay. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I didnt receive any final points or further information, in response to my provisional 
decision, I dont see any reason to change the proposed outcome. That means Esure will 
need to accept Mr Ps claim and reimburse him for works covered by his policy
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I require Esure Insurance Limited to accept Mr Ps claim and 
reimburse him for works covered by his policy.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2023.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman