DRN-4123668
The complaint
Mr C complains through a representative that Stagemount Limited trading as Quidmarket 
(Quidmarket) gave him loans he couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
Mr C was granted three loans from Quidmarket between August 2017 and February 2021.
Ive outlined a summary of his borrowing below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(months)monthly 
repayment
1 £300.00 24/08/2017 03/11/2017 6 £99.99
2 £500.00 26/02/2020 31/07/2020 6 £146.52
3 £400.00 20/02/2021 outstanding 6 £119.18
Following Mr Cs representatives complaint, Quidmarket issued its final response letter 
(FRL). In summary, it said it had carried out proportionate checks which showed these loans 
were affordable. Although, Quidmarket didnt uphold the complaint, as a gesture of goodwill 
it offered to remove these loans from Mr Cs credit file. In addition, it offered to waive the
interest on Mr Cs final loan leaving a capital balance to repay of £161.64.
Mr Cs representative didnt accept the offer and instead his representative referred the
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman.
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator who in his assessment thought none of the
loans ought to have been granted. He said the information Quidmarket had from its credit 
checks indicated that Mr C already had at least seven outstanding payday loans. The 
adjudicator concluded that Mr C couldnt afford his loan repayment in a sustainable manner.
Quidmarket didnt agree with the outcome. It said the adjudicator hadnt taken account of
the information contained within the final response letter. It also highlighted the gaps
between each loan.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint was passed to me for a decision. I then 
issued my provisional decision explaining the reasons why I was intending to uphold Mr Cs 
complaint in part and about loans 1 and 2 only. 
Both parties were given an opportunity to provide any further evidence for consideration, but 
this needed to have been received no later than 5 May 2023.
Neither Mr C (his representatives) or Quidmarket responded to or acknowledged the 
provisional decision. 
A copy of the background to the complaint and my provisional findings follows this in smaller 
font and forms part of this final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Quidmarket had to assess the lending to check if Mr C could afford to pay back the amounts
hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate
to the circumstances. Quidmarkets checks could have taken into account a number of
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Cs
income and expenditure.
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Quidmarket should have
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr C. These factors include:
Mr C having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr C having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of
time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had
become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr C coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr C.
Quidmarket was required to establish whether Mr C could sustainably repay the loans  not
just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr C was able to repay
his loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further,
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Cs complaint.
What I said in the provisional decisions 
Loan 1
Quidmarket has shown, that as part of the affordability assessment it asked Mr C for details
of his income and expenditure. Mr Cs income has been recorded as being £2,700 per
month.
Mr C said his monthly outgoings were £2,300  this was spread across a number of different
variables, such as rent, bills and outstanding credit commitments. This left disposableincome of around £400 per month. Based on the information Mr C provided the loan looked
affordable for him.
Before the loan was approved Quidmarket also carried out a credit search and it has
provided the Financial Ombudsman with a copy of the results it received from the credit
reference agency. I want to add that although Quidmarket carried out a credit search there
isnt a regulatory requirement to do one, let alone one to a specific standard. But what
Quidmarket couldnt do, is carry out a credit search and then not react to the to the
information it received  if necessary.
Having reviewed the credit checks it new that Mr C had debts of just over £11,700 and he
was using 104% of his available credit  indicating that he was over his credit limit on one or
more account(s).
Quidmarket also knew of an active County Court Judgment  but this had been recorded
against Mr C around four years before this loan was approved, and so I dont think, in this
case, Quidmarket needed to have been concerned by it.
It also knew, in total that Mr C had defaulted on five credit accounts between June 2013 and
April 2016. This would indicate to Quidmarket that over a number of years, Mr C had
problems keeping on top of his repayments.
Quidmarket was also on notice that Mr C was taking out new credit, after previous loans had
been repaid. I say this because in the month before this loan was approved, Mr C had repaid
three payday loan accounts and one home credit account.
But the time the loan was approved, Quidmarket knew that Mr C had four outstanding
payday loans, two home credit accounts, two credit cards and a personal loan. The total
amount Mr C was committed to paying these creditors was over £840 per month.
If you substitute the declared figure Mr C gave to Quidmarket as part of his application for
credit commitments with the figure above, which Quidmarket knew about because it had the
results of the credit search, then this brings Mr Cs total monthly outgoings to £2,742. This is
more than Mr Cs declared income.
Clearly, this sum is more than Mr Cs declared income and so he wasnt in any position at all
to take on any further borrowing because the loan wasnt affordable or sustainable for him. I
am therefore proposing to uphold Mr Cs complaint about this loan.
Loan 2
As Quidmarket pointed out there were gaps between the loans. There was a period of 27
months where Mr C did not borrow from Quidmarket. Given this significant break in
borrowing, I do think this meant when Mr C returned for loan 2, Quidmarket was entitled to
treat him as if he was a new customer  and all of the implications that has for the
proportionate nature of the checks.
Quidmarket carried out the same checks before it granted this loan as it had done so for
loan 1. Mr C declared the same income as before - £2,700 and outgoings of £2,150. Leaving
disposable income of around £550 for him to make his repayment of around £147. As
before, based solely on the income and expenditure details Quidmarket couldve been
confident that the loan was affordable.
However, Ive also looked at the credit check results that were provided to Quidmarket which
to me show a deterioration of his financial position. Mr C had around £14,100 of existing
debt spread across 28 accounts. Of which six had been opened within the last six months.
According to the first page of the results, he was also utilising 215% of his resolving / credit
budget accounts. This would indicate that Mr C was significantly over his agreed credit limits
on one or more account and therefore a sign he was already struggling to repay his existingcredit.
In terms of the defaulted accounts, Mr C now had 12 such accounts on his credit file. Two
had been reported within the last year (March and May 2019) and nine had been reported
since Mr C had taken his first loan. The defaulted accounts were a combination of home
credit loans, payday loans, credit cards and telecommunication contracts. Indeed, the most
recent default appears to have been on a payday loan account.
On top of this, two home credit accounts were also marked as being in delinquency  but
given the outstanding balance on these accounts these were also likely to be in a position to
be defaulted as well. Clearly, Mr Cs financial position had deterioration during the time that
he was repaying his previous loan as well as after the loan had been repaid.
As when loan 1 was advanced there were indicators that Mr C was still using payday loans 
despite this type of credit being intended for short term use because he repaid two such
accounts at the end of 2019.
Looking at the outstanding credit accounts, I can understand why Quidmarket thought this
loan was affordable. However, as Ive said above, a loan being affordable is only part of the
consideration. Quidmarket also had to make sure the loan was sustainable for Mr C. And the
results of the credit search indicate to me that it wasnt.
Overall, given the increase in debt, the number and scope of the defaults, and the fact that
Mr C was still using payday loans, some two years after Quidmarket was aware he was
using such products, has led me to conclude that this loan wasnt sustainable for him. And
so, I am intending to also uphold loan 2.
Loan 3
There is another gap large enough to break the chain of borrowing. Which means, although
this was Mr Cs third loan, Quidmarket could treat it as loan 1 in a new lending chain. Ive
kept that in mind while thinking about whether the checks were proportionate.
Quidmarket has shown that as part of the affordability assessment it asked Mr C for details
of his income and expenditure. Mr Cs income has been recorded as being £1,300 per
month. Quidmarket says Mr Cs income was verified with a copy of his payslip although, a
copy of the payslip hasnt been provided. However, Mr C for this loan also declared that he
received £1,600 per month in either benefit(s) or pensions(s). And it does look like
Quidmarket took account of this  so this led to total income of £2,900.
Mr C declared total outgoings of £2,550  leaving disposable income of £350 per month.
Again, the loan looked affordable. Although, given the information contained within the
application data provided by Quidmarket it isnt clear why in the final response letter it said
that Mr C had minus disposable income of £1,250.
A credit search was also carried out before this loan was approved, and this showed a
significant change in Mr Cs financial position. Mr C had 9 open accounts with debts of
around £5,565. A significant decrease on the total debt only a year before. Quidmarket was
also aware that Mr C had only opened one new credit account within the previous six
months.
Mr C had some current accounts, two personal loans  which were not payday and / or
instalment loans, one credit card and a couple of hire purchase agreements. Even taking
account of these repayments the loan looked affordable and sustainable for Mr C.
For loan 3, Quidmarket carried out a proportionate check which demonstrated to Quidmarket
that Mr C could afford his loan repayments, as such as I am intending to conclude that no
error was made when this loan was granted.
Response to the provisional decision As neither party has provided any new information or further comments for my consideration 
then I see no reason to depart from the findings that I made in the provisional decision, and 
which are repeated above. 
The credit check results Quidmarket received for loan 1 showed he didnt have any 
disposable income to be able to take on further borrowing. For loan 2, the information 
provided by the credit reference agency indicated Mr C was in financial difficulties given he 
was utilising more than his credit limit on a number of account(s). 
However, due to the break in lending, a proportionate check was carried out when loan 3 
was granted which demonstrated to Quidmarket Mr C would be able to afford his 
repayments. This loan therefore looked affordable and is not upheld. 
Mr Cs complaint should be upheld about loans 1 and 2 and Ive outlined below what 
Quidmarket needs to do in order to put things right for him. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Quidmarket should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what
might have happened had it not lent loans 1 and 2 to Mr C, as Im satisfied it ought not to
have. Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Mr C may have simply left matters there, not
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, they may have
looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to reconstruct now accurately. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would
have been able to lend to Mr C in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable
to conclude that Mr C would more likely than not have taken up any one of these options.
So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Quidmarkets liability in this case for what Im
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Quidmarket shouldnt have given Mr C loans 1 and 2.
If Quidmarket has sold the outstanding debt it should buy it back if it is able to do so and
then take the following steps. If Quidmarket isnt able to buy the debt back then it should
liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A. Quidmarket should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr C 
towards interest, fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding 
balance, not including anything you have already refunded.
B. Quidmarket should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made 
by Mr C which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr C 
originally made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. If there is still an outstanding balance due for loan 3, then the amounts calculated 
in A and B can be used to repay any outstanding balance remaining. If this results 
in a surplus, then the surplus should be paid to Mr C. However, if there is still an outstanding balance then Quidmarket should try to agree an affordable repayment 
plan with Mr C.
D. Quidmarket should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Cs credit file 
in relation to loans 1 and 2.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Quidmarket to deduct tax from this interest. Quidmarket
should give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, Im upholding Mr Cs 
complaint in part.
Stagemount Limited trading as Quidmarket should put things right for Mr C as directed 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman