DRN-3558058
The complaint
Miss W has complained that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) has failed to refund her following 
her being the victim of a financial scam.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so I wont repeat what 
happened in detail. 
In summary Miss W found a business online via social media offering investment in 
cryptocurrency I will call this business (A) throughout my decision. Miss W contacted A and 
agreed to make several relatively small card payments for her initial investments.
Shortly after making the card payments Miss W was asked by A to open a cryptocurrency 
trading account with a separate company that I will call (B) throughout my decision. Miss W 
transferred larger sums to her account with B that were then transferred to A from this 
account. Miss W lost a total of over £33,000.
Miss W says A asked her to download a screen sharing app on her computer which she did 
at the time.
From looking at the information available it appears company B is a legitimate 
cryptocurrency exchange.
Now that the funds have been transferred to A Miss W has been unable to recover them and 
it appears the investments were intended to be a scam from the outset.
Our Investigator considered Miss Ws complaint but didnt think it could be upheld against 
BoS. As Miss W disagreed this complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The circumstances of this complaint are not disputed by either BoS or Miss W. What is in 
dispute is whether BoS should refund the money Miss W has lost because of the scam she 
has fallen victim to.
I have looked at the activity on Miss Ws account in general and whether the BoS system 
should have picked up anything automatically to warn Miss W of a potential fraud.
The lower payments Miss W made were not of a significant enough value to cause any 
concern to BoS.
I can see that the higher payments Miss W made were to B - a legitimate cryptocurrency 
exchange and the funds were paid into an account in her name. I therefore see no reason 
why BoS would have found the need to step in to prevent the payments automatically.
BoS has explained that the payments Miss W made were in line with previous activity on her 
account so as this wasnt out of the ordinary the system would not have considered the 
payments to be a concern. I have looked over Miss Ws statements and can confirm other 
large payments had been processed through her account after receiving similar amounts 
from other accounts ion her name. So, this type of activity would not have been considered 
unusual.
Overall, I dont think BoS did anything wrong in allowing the payments Miss W requested to 
be made. These payments were not by themselves fraudulent. They were instead payments 
requested by Miss W that went to their intended and legitimate beneficiary.
It appears that the scam took place by A gaining access to Miss Ws funds once they were in 
her account held with B. Most likely by accessing information through an app Miss W was 
asked to download. This app allowed A to share Miss Ws computer screen and gain access 
to the information it needed to transfer the funds.
Once the funds were with B it was no longer possible for BoS to prevent them from being 
moved. As Ive explained above, I dont think BoS did anything wrong in allowing the funds 
to be moved so I dont think it should have to refund Miss W any of the funds she lost.
If Miss W feels the funds should not have been released by B she would have to raise a 
complaint with B directly.
I understand Miss W was going through a difficult time when she decided to make these 
investments and feels she was in a vulnerable position. But even with this considered I dont 
think BoS is responsible for the loss she has incurred because I dont think it ought 
reasonably to have suspected a fraud or scam was taking place in light of Miss Ws normal 
account usage. Ive also not seen anything to suggest that BoS was aware of the personal 
difficulties Miss W was facing.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 February 2023.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman