DRN-2518645
The complaint
Mr U complains that Phoenix Life Limited didnt tell him it thought his Independent Financial 
Advisor had incorrectly set up his policy.
What happened
Both parties are aware of the background to this complaint, so I have only provided a brief 
summary of what happened below.
Following advice from an Independent Financial Advisor (IFA), Mr U took out an income 
protection policy with Phoenix. After an unsuccessful claim he complained about the claims 
decline and the sale of his policy, but this service did not have the jurisdiction to consider 
either complaint.
In 2018, Mr U made a subject access request to Phoenix and identified internal documents 
from 2014 in which staff had commented on the policy having been set up incorrectly.
Mr U raised another complaint and said Phoenix should have told him it thought the IFA had 
set up his policy incorrectly. He said that by not doing so, hed been unable to take 
advantage of the three year time period under the Limitation Act. And, that Phoenix was in 
breach of a number of its duties and responsibilities within the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
Handbook.
Phoenix didnt uphold Mr Us complaint and said it wasnt responsible for the sale of his 
policy; his IFA was. It also said its staff comments were opinions based on assumption, and 
it had no firm grounds on which to state Mr Us policy was definitely unsuitable. And it said it 
had acted in line with the relevant regulations and obligations placed upon it. 
Mr U disagreed and referred his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator told Mr U that consideration of his complaint would only focus on Phoenixs 
internal communications in 2014, and whether it was reasonable of it not to have shared its 
staffs opinions with Mr U. However, having looked at what had happened she didnt think his 
complaint should be upheld. 
Our investigator acknowledged that individuals at Phoenix may have had their own opinions 
about the setup of the policy, but said it wasnt Phoenixs role to assess the actions of Mr Us 
IFA, or to check whether the policy had been mis-sold. She also said that Phoenix had 
highlighted the cover upon which Mr Us policy was based, and she wasnt persuaded that it 
had been in breach of its regulatory obligations. 
Mr U disagreed and said Phoenix had been given too much benefit of the doubt. He said 
Phoenix had concluded the policy had been set up incorrectly, and should have told him so. 
He also said that Phoenix had not made matters clear enough to him, and that its position 
was neither fair nor reasonable. So, as no agreement was reached the matter was passed to 
me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr U has set out his complaint in detail and I recognise he feels very strongly about what 
has happened. My findings will only focus on those matters I consider central to the outcome 
of this complaint, so I will not address every point made. Having considered everything that 
has been made available, I too agree that this complaint is not one that should be upheld. Ill 
explain why: 
Phoenix was not responsible for the sale of Mr Us policy, nor the actions of his IFA. 
That responsibility, and the duty to make sure the policy was suitable for Mr Us 
particular circumstances and needs, sat with the IFA. I accept that members of 
Phoenixs staff had formed an opinion about the setup of Mr Us policy. But Phoenix 
has explained that those opinions were based on assumption, and it had no firm 
grounds on which to state Mr Us policy was definitely unsuitable. Given that Phoenix 
had no involvement in, or liability for, the sale or suitability of the policy, I dont think 
its explanation as to why it did not share its internal opinions with Mr U in 2014 is 
unreasonable.  
Phoenixs role and responsibility to Mr U was in relation to the handling of his policy 
and the assessment of his claim. It communicated the reasons upon which it had 
declined Mr Us claim, and it took steps to explain the level of cover the policy was 
based upon too. Despite Mr Us frustrations, Phoenix was not bound to share its 
staffs opinions on matters it was not involved in or responsible for. And I dont think 
Phoenix was in breach of its duties and or responsibilities because of this.
As I understand, Mr Us concerns with the setup of his policy surrounded the level of 
cover his IFA had applied for. Phoenix had drawn attention to the level of cover on 
which Mr Us policy was based when it explained why it had declined his claim in 
2011. I realise Mr U thinks Phoenix should have been clearer about this matter then, 
but I dont think Phoenix failed to address the level of cover the policy provided, and 
any concerns about the level of cover Mr U had were matters for his IFA. So Im not 
persuaded that Phoenixs actions in not sharing its internal opinions with Mr U in 
2014 disadvantaged him under the Limitation Act. 
I note the concerns Mr U has raised surrounding the level of detail between 
Phoenixs letters in 2011 and 2014. But I dont think this means Phoenix hadnt 
previously drawn attention to the level of cover on which his policy was based and 
the reasons for his claim being declined; it had done so in its 2011 letter.
Phoenix did communicate with Mr Us IFA directly. But the IFA was the party 
responsible for the sale and suitability of the policy, and the IFA had raised concerns 
with Phoenix on Mr Us behalf. So I dont think it was unreasonable of Phoenix to 
have communicated with and responded to the IFA. And while I appreciate the points 
Mr U has made surrounding the action his IFA had purported to take, it would be 
unfair of me to hold Phoenix responsible for any action, or inaction, on the IFAs part.
I realise Mr U is likely to be further disappointed by my findings, but for the reasons given 
above I am not persuaded that this complaint should be upheld. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 April 2021.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman