DRN-4196553
The complaint
Mr C complains that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited (Prudential) has failed to 
provide him with accurate information regarding his pension values and hasnt explained 
how they undertook their calculations. He feels this may have led to an incorrect valuation 
which would mean he has suffered a financial loss. 
What happened
Mr C holds a pension with Prudential which is a conventional with-profits plan, originally 
arranged with Scottish Amicable in the mid 1980s. The sum assured was set at £70,000. A 
benefit of the policy is that it provides a Guaranteed Annuity Rate (GAR) when retiring 
between the ages of 60 to 75. Additionally, a Guaranteed Minimum Retirement Fund 
(GMRF) is part of the policy features. When quoted it assumes payments continue at the 
same amount, includes any already added regular bonuses but doesnt include any potential 
final bonus.
The chronology of the background was set out in the investigators view. The information 
provided is not disputed and so for clarity I have set it out again in the background of this 
complaint. 
Prudential issued an annual statement to Mr C on 8 March 2022. It stated the transfer value 
on 7 March 2021, was £111,434.33, and the GMRF was £116,676.75, a regular bonus of 
£201.41 had been added making the GMRF on 7 March 2022 £116,878.16.
The transfer value on 7 March 2022 was quoted as £120,465.06. A change of £9,030.73 
over the year.
The statement explained:
What's a final bonus? 
We might add a final bonus at the time of death or when benefits are paid out, but it's not 
guaranteed. We might not pay you a final bonus if investment returns have been low over 
the time your money has been invested.
And went onto say Your transfer value:
This is the amount we would have paid if you'd transferred your plan on your statement date. 
The amount isn't guaranteed. 
Another part stated, Based on assumptions we've made, your final plan value on 30 
November 2034 could be £171,000.00. and We can't guarantee this is the income you'll 
get. When you come to take your pension income it could be worth more or less than this.
Under the section Assumptions weve used it stated: -
The law says that, when we illustrate what you might get back from your plan, we have to
base it on some assumptions. We've assumed that:
You'll retire on 30 November 2034 aged 75.
The value of the With-Profits Fund will grow by 3.17% each year, after adjusting for 
the assumed rate of inflation. 
We think the growth rate we use gives you a realistic idea of how the product and 
fund might perform, before allowing for the effect of charges.
The assumed rate of inflation we use will be 2.50% a year.
The amounts we've shown for the With-Profits Fund include all bonuses and any final 
bonus.
A further valuation was issued on 6 May 2022, it quoted the final bonus as £52,057.03 and 
transfer value as £129,754.09.
On 10 June 2022, Prudential sent Mr C his 2021 bonus statement, it said:
This statement shows how much Regular Bonus we've added to your Plan. We may add a 
Final Bonus to your Plan on maturity or when a claim is made, but this isn't guaranteed and 
isn't shown in this statement. The 2021 bonus was declared as 0.10/0.25%, basic 
guaranteed minimum retirement fund as £60,182.80, previous regular bonus as £56,595.36, 
regular bonus added that year of £201.92 and total bonuses and benefits as of 31 December 
2021 was £117,080.08.
A further valuation was issued 7 October 2022, it quoted the final bonus as £37,017.27 and 
transfer value as £111,434.37. The pack issued also included projections for age 75 and 
included the following statements: -
The following figures show what pension income you might get in today's prices to give you 
an idea of what your pension could be worth when you're 75 They've been adjusted to allow 
for inflation (the rising costs of goods and services) at an assumed rate of 2.00% each year.
Actual values might be lower or higher than those shown, and your plan may pay back less 
than you've paid in. The projection is not a promise or guarantee and the figures are not 
minimum or maximum amounts.
Assumed growth rates over term of the plan after allowing for the effects of inflation.
The growth rates shown are an average based on all the funds you've chosen to invest in.
Your investment in the conventional with profit fund offers a specific guarantee and this
projection makes allowance for its effect You should refer to your product literature or
contact us for details of the specific guarantee that applies to this fund General statements
and warnings elsewhere within this illustration may still apply to the displayed values, due to
other fund selections or because of the other assumptions used in these calculations.
The growth rates used in this illustration are reviewed on a regular basis. The timing of any
reviews will mean the projections within this illustration may differ from those in any
previous illustration you've received.
On 22 November 2022, a retirement quote was provided to Mr C. The pension value was 
quoted as £79,362.53, final bonus as £53,172.90 and total including final bonus as 
£132,535.43. 
The retirement quote said:
The total pension pot value shown above, which includes a Final Bonus, is the amount we'd 
have paid if you'd chosen to take your benefits with us or transferred to another provider on 
22 November 2022. We've used this value to provide you an estimate of what you could get 
if you were to make no further contributions to your plan(s) between the valuation date and the retirement date shown The value is not guaranteed and can still go up or down until you 
take your benefits.
As you're invested in the With-Profits Fund, this value includes any Final Bonus that would 
be payable on that date. There's more information on the enclosed 'Your pension value'.
Please note that the value may differ from the value shown on the enclosed 'Your pension 
summary'. This is because the value above is as calculated on 22 November 2022 and 
includes current estimates of any relevant deductions or additions that may apply if you take
your benefits on that date. The value in 'Your pension summary' is a current value and 
includes any Final Bonus but doesn't include any deductions that may apply when you take 
your benefits.
On 5 December 2022, Mr C called Prudential to query the values provided. He felt the value 
should be higher and was unhappy it didnt include the final bonus, but the transfer value did. 
He asked for Prudential to honour the higher value or to explain the contradiction. Because 
Mr C expressed dissatisfaction during the call, Prudential treated his comments as a 
complaint.
On 31 January 2023, Prudential issued its final response letter, it supported Mr Cs 
complaint on the basis that it had caused delays in the claim process. It said it was sending 
a cheque for £125 to apologise and would review the case in 30 days and, if Mr C had made 
a claim, it would calculate any financial loss caused by its delay. Prudential also explained 
that final bonuses were not guaranteed, and it would be sending further information within 
ten working days.
Mr C sent an email dated 7 February 2023. He acknowledged receipt of the cheque and 
commented that he hoped there would be a full explanation as to how terminal fund value 
was arrived at. given the previously quoted guaranteed fund value and the terminal bonus 
which is stated as in excess of £50,000. This should give a value over £160,000 and not 
£132,535.
Prudential responded and said:
We confirm that the guaranteed minimum retirement fund value of £116,878.16 quoted on
the annual benefit statement is how much your fund will be worth when you reach your
Selected Retirement Date (age 75).
The guaranteed minimum retirement fund value includes the sum assured and all the regular
bonuses already added to the plan but doesn't include any final bonus. Final bonus is an
additional bonus payable on death, transfer, or maturity. It isn't possible to calculate the final
bonus for a plan at a future date. This can only be provided for a current date.
The transfer value quoted on the annual statement as of 8 March 2022 was £120,465.06 
including the final bonus of £43,243.87.
The transfer value quoted on the Retirement Option pack as of 23 November 2022 was 
£132,535.43 including the final bonus of £53,172.90.
We confirm that the current transfer value on 7 February 2023 is £133,211.72 including final 
bonus of £53,362.10.
On 10 February 2023, Mr C responded by email stating that the letter did not answer his 
queries and raised some specific questions with Prudential regarding its calculations.
On 19 February 2023, Mr C brought his complaint to this service as he was very concerned 
Prudential may be understating the value of the plan by around £30,000, he said he needed it to explain how its arriving at the figures provided and ideally, he would like to view the 
Actuarial calculations involved.
On 8 March 2023, a further statement was issued by Prudential. It stated that the GMRF was 
£117,080.08 on 7 March 2022, a regular bonus of £0.00 had been added making the GMRF 
on 7 March 2023 the same. The transfer value on 7 March 2022, was £120,465.06 and for 7 
March 2023 it was £133,549.87. A change of £13,084.81 over the year.
On 20 March 2023, a further valuation was issued by Prudential. It quoted the final bonus as 
£53,456.71 and transfer value as £133,549.87. A copy of the 8 March 2022 statement was 
enclosed.
On 29 March Mr C chased his earlier complaint as his specific questions had not been 
answered.
On 31 March 2023, Prudential issued a further final response letter. Over and above the 
complaint points already noted, Prudential understood Mr C was unhappy with the time 
taken to respond to his complaint and a failure to acknowledge his correspondence. 
Prudential partially upheld the new points, agreeing that it felt it had taken too long to 
respond to Mr Cs queries. It paid a further £150 compensation directly to Mr Cs bank 
account.
But it didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint regarding the manner in which it quoted values to Mr C. 
It gave a detailed explanation of how values are calculated and pointed him to specific areas 
of his annual bonus statements in an attempt to help Mr C understand why it gave different 
values and quotations at different times, depending on the circumstances.
Mr C didnt accept the explanations and continued to ask for further clarity on how the 
figures where reached. On 27 April 2023, Prudential attempted again to answer Mr Cs 
queries explaining that the final bonus is not guaranteed, payable on death, transfer or 
maturity at the time benefits are taken. It also explained that any figures quoted for annuities 
at age 75 were to give him an idea of what his pension could be worth, but the actual values 
could be higher or lower.
Mr C remained dissatisfied. He contacted this service to say he didnt feel he could take his 
pension until the complaint points were resolved and as such this meant he would be paying 
unnecessary mortgage interest.
On 2 May 2023, Prudential issued a further complaint response. It advised Mr C that it was 
satisfied it had covered all of the issues raised and could not support his continued 
complaint.
Mr C responded as he felt the information provided within Prudentials response of 27 April 
2023 contained further information that raised more questions as to how the calculations 
were reached.
An investigator looked into matters for Mr C. He appreciated the information provided, by its 
nature is complex and he understood Mr Cs frustrations, but he felt that Prudential had met 
all the regulatory requirements and had attempted a number of different ways to fully explain 
how it had reached its calculations and the basis for them. He understood Mr C had 
continued to query the calculations but ultimately, he didnt agree that the delay in claiming 
his pension and therefore the need to continue to make interest payments on his mortgage 
was Prudentials responsibility. So, he didnt ask Prudential to compensate him for this. He 
acknowledged there had been delays in providing information but felt the offers made by 
Prudential were fair and reasonable and so he didnt ask them to do anything further.Mr C disagreed. He said although Prudential had offered multiple explanations and had 
failed to answer why the guaranteed minimum fund value plus the final bonus did not equal 
the transfer value. In not providing a simple answer to this question he was concerned 
Prudential was concealing information and as such asks for an ombudsman review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding Mr Cs complaint but, I am supportive of the approach 
Prudential have already taken. And, having carefully considered the points Mr C has made 
regarding Prudentials failure to explain the background to their bonus decisions, I agree with 
the investigator and for broadly the same reasons. I appreciate Mr C will be disappointed, so 
Ill explain why.
I have summarised this complaint in far less detail than Mr C has done and, Ive done so 
using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this; our rules allow me to do this. This simply 
reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it - I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome. 
The level and nature of bonuses declared by Prudential on its with-profits fund is the result of 
a commercial decision taken by them acting on the advice of its Actuaries which impacts all 
policyholders invested in that fund. As a result, it is not within the remit of this service to 
either sense check Prudentials decisions or scrutinise their calculations. 
But I think its worth explaining about with-profits funds and how they are regulated. With-
profits funds have historically attracted criticism for their complexity and perceived lack of 
transparency  it can be very difficult for policyholders to understand often complex and 
lengthy documentation and to be satisfied that they are receiving their proper entitlement 
under the terms and conditions of the particular product. But those difficulties do not 
necessarily mean that Prudential has done something wrong or is not acting in accordance 
with its regulatory obligations. 
The industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), recognises that with-profits 
fund providers have a considerable amount of discretion about how they operate those 
funds. So, the regulator has made providers accountable for the way in which these funds 
are managed. 
The regulators Principle 6 requires that regulated firms must pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers and treat them fairly. Furthermore, the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS), and specifically COBS 20, contains specific rules and guidance for 
businesses on the operation of their with-profits funds. 
COBS 20.2.1 states: 
(1)With- profits business, by virtue of its nature and the extent of discretion applied by 
firms in its operation, involves numerous potential conflicts of interest that might give 
rise to the unfair treatment of policyholders. 
And COBS 20.2.3 states: A firm must have good reason to believe that its pay-outs on individual with-profits 
polices are fair.
Prudential is accountable to the regulator for the way in which it operates its with-profits fund 
and the regulator monitors the management of with-profits funds. Businesses are required to 
appoint a with-profits Actuary and the regulator provides rules and guidance on their duties. 
An independent with-profits committee is also required  its remit is to protect the interests of 
the with-profits policyholders and to ensure that they are treated fairly. I am not aware of the 
regulator having any concerns about the operation of Prudentials with-profits fund at issue 
here. 
The amount of bonus paid, if any, is determined by Prudentials investment objectives which 
are consistent with its regulatory obligations. Thats to allocate bonus amounts as fairly as 
possible to all its investors in its with-profits fund with the aim of providing a competitive 
return at the end of the term.  Similarly, the way Prudential applies the quotes and valuations 
at different points, are explained within the annual bonus statements. But I should explain it 
is not the role of this service to audit those decisions and assess the level of the bonus or 
when it applies. The responsibility for auditing Prudential falls on the regulator.
I have looked at the response Prudential has provided to Mr C and the annual bonus 
statements and although I can appreciate Mr C has been frustrated by what he sees as a 
lack of explanation Im persuaded the information, although complex, has been provided. 
Further, the annual statements and the retirement pack either suggest or recommend Mr C 
seek independent advice. I havent seen any evidence that he has done so in order to help 
him clarify the calculations.
Ultimately, as our investigator explained estimates and projections are just that, they are not 
intended to be wholly accurate quotations. The exact amounts Mr C would receive when 
claiming will be confirmed at that time. The way in which pension administrators are required 
to present information has changed over the years and I havent seen anything to suggest 
Prudential hasnt been compliant with their regulatory requirements.
I appreciate Mr C wanted definitive figures and a breakdown of Prudentials calculations 
before realising his pension and in delaying his decision he has paid mortgage interest 
payments he feels he otherwise would not have made. But that Im afraid is his decision and 
I cant hold Prudential responsible for that.
The customer service concerns were addressed by Prudential, and I find the compensation 
paid to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
For all of these reasons Im satisfied Prudentials resolution is fair and reasonable. I cant 
direct Prudential to disclose its calculations to Mr C as this could involve revealing 
commercially sensitive information and I dont consider that fair or reasonable. If Mr C has 
concerns about the management of Prudentials with-profits fund he can approach the 
regulator directly. Mr C is perfectly entitled to appoint an independent Actuary should he 
wish to do so, or he could also seek independent financial advice which may assist him with 
the options available to best suit his needs.
My final decision
The Prudential Assurance Company Limited has already agreed to pay £300 to settle the 
complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. 
So, my decision is that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited should pay £300 to Mr C for the inconvenience of the poor customer service he received.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2023.
 
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman