DRN-3709368
The complaint
Mr M has complained about the support he received from Oodle Financial Services Limited 
(Oodle) when he was in financial hardship. 
When I refer to what Mr M has said, and Oodle have said, it should also be taken to include 
things said on their behalf.
What happened
In February 2019, Mr M entered into a hire purchase agreement with Oodle to acquire a 
used car first registered in 2011. The first instalment was around £299 (including a document 
fee of £50), followed by 46 monthly payments; each around £249. There was also a final 
instalment of around £299 (including the option to purchase fee of £50). 
On 23 March 2020, the UK Government announced that UK would enter a lockdown due to 
the Covid-19 pandemic. Mr M, due to the pandemic, contacted Oodle in April 2020 and 
requested financial assistance as his income and finances were affected. Oodle initially gave 
Mr M a three-month payment deferral. When this period ended Mr M asked for further help. 
Oodle agreed for him to make payments of £125 from August to October 2020. 
After this period Mr Ms finances were still affected, so Oodle offered that he could make 
reduced payments of £180 a month. But Mr M made no payments from November 2020 to 
November 2021. And during this period, in July 2021, Oodle issued a default notice to Mr M, 
at which time Mr M was around £2,415 in arrears on his credit agreement. In November 
2021, his credit agreement was terminated.
Mr M didnt think that he got enough support from Oodle and their agents, when he was in 
financial difficulties, so he complained to Oodle. 
In January 2022, Oodle responded to Mr Ms complaint. In this correspondence they said 
that Mr M told them in April 2020 that he had been impacted by Covid-19, so they reviewed 
his account and gave him a three-month payment holiday. They said that when this payment 
holiday was about to expire, Mr M requested a further two months, and they agreed a 
reduced payment arrangement for August, September, and October 2020 (£125 a month). 
They said that in October 2020 Mr M requested a further three-month payment reduction, so 
towards the end of December 2020, after verifying some information, they sent an email 
advising him that they could assist with a further payment reduction for three months, but he 
would need to make monthly minimum payments of £180. They said that this arrangement 
was put in place, but they had difficulties contacting Mr M. They said that as Mr M didnt 
make the required payments to them, they passed the account to their solicitors and a 
default letter was sent to him in July 2021. This was followed by a Notice of Sums in Arrears 
in October 2021. They said they also sent Mr M a pre termination letter advising him to 
contact them as soon as possible, but, as there was no response from him, the agreement 
was terminated. In view of the above, they explained in this correspondence that they 
havent acted inappropriately, so they are unable to uphold his complaint.
Mr M was unhappy with Oodles response, so he brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator thought that Oodle couldve done more to assist Mr M and couldve
offered him further payment deferrals, and the investigator thought that Oodle should pay Mr 
M £150 for distress and inconvenience caused. 
Oodle said they accept the investigators adjudication. 
Mr M disagreed with the investigator, as he though Oodle should pay him a higher amount of 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to take into account the relevant rules, 
guidance, the law, and, where appropriate, what would be considered to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time.
Mr M acquired the car under a hire purchase agreement, which is a regulated consumer
credit agreement. Our service can look at these sorts of agreements. 
In summary, Mr Ms main complaint point is that he was not treated fairly by Oodle when he 
found himself in financial hardship due to the Covid-19 pandemic. He feels that they should 
pay him a higher amount of compensation than the £150 suggested by our investigator. 
So, Ive taken the above into consideration and Ive considered whether Oodle have done 
enough to support Mr M, when he told them that he was experiencing financial hardship. 
When doing so, Ive also thought about the relevant rules and guidance at the time. The 
rules and guidance mentioned below referrer to customers and consumers, and I will be 
using these words interchangeably, but in this decision the words are to have the same 
meaning.  
 
On 24 April 2020 the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) published additional guidance which 
came into effect on 27 April 2020  Motor finance agreements and coronavirus: temporary 
guidance for firms. This guidance introduced temporary measures for consumers whose 
finances had been impacted by Covid-19, and it builds on Principle 6: A firm must pay due 
regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly. In relation to the payment 
deferrals, the guidance states the following: Where a customer is already experiencing or 
reasonably expects to experience temporary payment difficulties as a result of 
circumstances relating to coronavirus, and wishes to receive a payment deferral, a firm 
should grant the customer a payment deferral for three months unless the firm determines 
(acting reasonably) that its obviously not in the customers interests to do so. 
This guidance was further updated by the FCA in July 2020, and later in September 2020. 
Both updates build on the previous guidance that was issued and stipulate that payment 
deferrals can be granted for a total period of six months. It is also important to note that 
within the mentioned guidance it states that: There is no expectation under this guidance 
that the firm makes enquiries with each customer to determine the circumstances 
surrounding a request for a payment deferral, or whether this is not in the customers 
interests. Firms can, however, choose to make the enquiries they consider necessary in 
order to satisfy themselves that the customer is eligible for support and to identify whether the customer would benefit from any additional support, provided that this does not delay the 
provision of timely support.
Ive considered that in April 2020, when Mr M started to be in financial difficulty and informed 
Oodle of this, some of the above mentioned FCA guidance on Covid-19 had not yet been 
published or in force. But Ive considered that before, and after, the additional Covid-19 
guidance was in force, there was other guidance such as the FCA  Consumer Credit 
Sourcebook (CONC), and in particular CONC 7, titled Arrears, default and recovery 
(including repossession), which say that firms should treat consumers in default or in 
arrears difficulties with forbearance and due consideration. 
Treating consumers with forbearance would include such things as considering suspending, 
reducing, waiving, or cancelling any further interest or charges, allowing deferment of 
payment of arrears, and accepting token payments for a reasonable period of time. And from 
what Ive seen, it looks like Oodle was trying to help Mr M, by treating him with forbearance 
and due consideration. I say this because when Mr M had difficulties making payments 
towards the finance agreement, they gave him an initial three-month payment deferral for 
May, June, and July 2020. I think this was a reasonable decision and in line with the 
guidance provided by the FCA. But Ive gone on to consider whether they shouldve done 
more when he asked for further help after those initial three-months. 
I can see from the contact notes, provided by Oodle, that after the initial three-month 
payment deferral ended, Mr M asked them for further help. Oodle considered this and asked 
him to make payments of £125 from August to October 2020, but I think the FCA Covid-19 
guidance, mentioned above, was intended for customers in situations like the one Mr M 
found himself in, and it was in force at the time. So, I think Oodle shouldve given Mr M the 
benefit of another three-month payment deferral as per the FCA Covid-19 guidance. 
Together, I think the payment deferrals shouldve been applied for a total of six months from 
May 2020 to October 2020. And I think it is only fair and reasonable that they compensate 
Mr M £150 for the stress and inconvenience that was caused. I say this because during this 
time Mr M had additional financial pressure which he wouldnt have had, had the payment 
deferral been extended to that time period. I know Mr M thinks that £150 is not enough, but 
Ive considered the impact the situation had on him and I think this amount fairly reflects this. 
Also, I think there should be no adverse information recorded on Mr Ms credit file for those 
six months, from May 2020 to October 2020. If there is, Oodle should have this adverse 
information removed from Mr Ms credit file.
Ive also thought about what shouldve happened after October 2020, as Mr M was still 
experiencing financial difficulties at the time, and, I think most likely, he wouldve needed 
further help. 
The FCA expected firms to offer tailored support to customers who were still facing financial 
difficulties after taking out the maximum six-month payment deferrals. The Tailored Support 
Guidance, issued by the FCA in January 2021, which originally came into force in October 
2020 and was updated in November 2020, indicated that the FCA expected firms to be 
flexible and employ a range of short-term and long-term forbearance options. I can see that 
in January 2021, Oodle agreed to reinstate the repayment arrangement of £180 a month, but 
Mr M didnt make any payments towards his credit agreement from November 2020 to 
November 2021. So, I think Oodle did try to work with and provide tailored support to Mr M, 
but he didnt make any payments towards the credit agreement. It is also not unreasonable 
for Oodle to report any missed payments to credit reference agencies, from November 2020 
onwards, as this is in line with the Tailored Support Guidance.  
Ive also considered whether it was right for Oodle to terminate Mr Ms credit agreement. I 
can see that Mr Ms financial difficulties lasted longer than six months and that he hasnt made any payments towards the finance agreement from November 2020 to November 
2021, so a large number of arrears had accrued. And, like I mentioned above, Mr M didnt 
utilise the payment arrangement offered to him in January 2021. I think Oodle were patient 
with Mr M while they waited to see if his circumstances would change. Also, I dont think it 
wouldve been reasonable for Oodle to allow the arrears to increase indefinitely, so I think 
their decision to terminate the contract was a reasonable one. Considering the agreement 
was unaffordable with significant amount of arrears, I dont think it wouldve been 
responsible for Oodle to allow Mr M to continue with the finance agreement and get into 
further arrears. 
Oodle sent Mr M a default notice in July 2021. They also sent arrears letters to him in 
November 2021, which set out the arrears on the account and explained what would happen 
if he didnt take action regarding the state of the account. So, I think the correspondence 
Mr M had from Oodle, gave him enough information for him to understand that Oodle could 
terminate his finance agreement and repossess the car, if he made no contact or payments 
towards the credit agreement. As neither was forthcoming, I dont think it was unreasonable 
for Oodle to terminate the agreement when they did; in November 2021. They also acted in 
line with the terms and conditions of his hire purchase agreement. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I require Oodle Financial Services Limited to:
- Pay Mr M £150 compensation for distress and inconvenience caused;
- Treat the missed payments from May 2020 to October 2020 as a six-month payment 
deferral, and remove the adverse information from Mr Ms credit file for those 
months.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2022.
 
Mike Kozbial
Ombudsman