DRN-3828869
The complaint
Mrs A complains that Nationwide Building Society wont refund the money she lost when she 
was the victim of a scam.
What happened
In September 2021, Mrs A received a message through an instant messaging service from 
someone claiming to be one of her children. The person said they had lost their phone so 
this was their new number, and asked Mrs A to delete the old number. After a short 
conversation, the person said they had bills that needed to be paid, but that they couldnt log 
in to their internet banking. As Mrs A believed the messages were coming from her son, she 
then made a payment of £2,740.50 to the payment details she was given. Unfortunately, we 
now know the messages were coming from a scammer.
Mrs A says she became suspicious when, after she made the payment, the person said they 
had given her the wrong payment details. She says she then spoke to her daughter, who 
spoke to her son over the phone and confirmed her son hadnt asked her for any money. 
Mrs A then contacted Nationwide to report the scam and ask for her money to be refunded.
Nationwide investigated and said it felt it had done all it could to protect her, but that Mrs A 
didnt take reasonable steps to check if the payment was genuine. So it didnt agree to 
refund the money shed lost. Nationwide did contact the bank the money was sent to though 
and was able to recover £505.82, which was returned to Mrs As account. Mrs A wasnt 
satisfied with Nationwides response, so referred a complaint to our service.
I sent Mrs A and Nationwide a provisional decision on 7 October 2022, setting out why I 
wasnt intending to uphold the complaint. An extract from my provisional decision is set out 
below:
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, where the 
consumer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a fraudster, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the consumer even though they 
authorised the payment.
Nationwide is a signatory of the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement 
Model (the CRM code). This code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the 
victim of authorised push payment scams, like the one Mrs A fell victim to, in all but a limited 
number of circumstances. And it is for the firm to establish that one of those exceptions to 
reimbursement applies.
Under the CRM code, a firm may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish that:
 The customer ignored an effective warning in relation to the payment being made
 The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that:
o the payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay;
o the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or
o the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate
There are further exceptions within the CRM code, but these dont apply here.
Did Mrs A have a reasonable basis for belief when making the payment?
This was clearly a cruel scam and Im sympathetic towards the situation Mrs A found herself 
in. But I need to consider not just whether she believed she was sending money to her son, 
but whether it was reasonable for her to do so.
The scammer doesnt appear to have known any personal details about either Mrs A or her 
son, and only uses the sons name after Mrs A uses it first. There arent any details or 
circumstances in the messages from the scammer that are particular to Mrs As son, or 
anything else in the messages to suggest who they are coming from. And theres no real 
discussion or conversation before the scammer says they need help with bills.
The scammer also didnt give any explanation about what the payment was for or why it was 
needed so soon. They didnt give any explanation of why Mrs A was sending money to an 
account in the name of a person she had never heard of before. And Mrs A has told us that 
her son has never asked her for money before, so the request was unusual. I think all these 
things should have caused Mrs A some concern, but she doesnt appear to have questioned 
them.
Nationwides records also show that, when Mrs A tried to make the payment, she was shown 
a warning message that said the name on the account didnt match the name she had 
entered. And Mrs A was also shown a warning message which said criminals could pretend 
they were your friends and suggested calling the person she was paying to check it was 
really them. I think these warnings should also have caused Mrs A some concern. And while 
shes said she did try to call her son, she wasnt able to speak to him.
Mrs A also told us she was extremely worried about her son and only made the payment as 
she was so concerned about him. But the payment wasnt made until nearly 24 hours after 
the first messages Mrs A received from the scammer. During that time there are several 
gaps of more than an hour between messages from the scammer, including an overnight 
period where there are no messages for more than 12 hours. The scammer doesnt reply to 
Mrs A for more than an hour several times. And at one point the scammer says hell 
message Mrs A after work. So the messages from the scammer all seem to be quite calm 
and I cant see that the scammer suggested there was anything to be worried or concerned 
about.
I appreciate that Mrs A thought she was just helping her son, and that this type of scam 
plays on trust and the emotive nature of the relationship between a parent and their child. 
But I think there were significant enough concerns here that Mrs As initial trust that she was 
speaking to her son should have been overcome and she should have asked some further 
questions or taken some further action to remove those concerns. And, as she didnt do so, I 
dont think Mrs A did have a reasonable basis for belief that the person she was paying was 
legitimate or was the person she was expecting to pay.
Did Nationwide meet its obligations under the CRM code?
Even though I dont think Mrs A had a reasonable basis for belief when making the payment, 
she may still be entitled to a refund of 50% of the money she lost if Nationwide didnt meet 
its obligations under the CRM code  one of which is to provide effective warnings.The CRM code says that, where firms identify scam risks, they should provide effective 
warnings to their customers.
But the payment Mrs A made as a result of this scam wasnt for a particularly large amount 
and didnt leave the balance of her account at a particularly unusual level. So I dont think 
the payment will have looked suspicious or out of character for her, and I wouldnt expect 
Nationwide to have identified a scam risk as a result of it.
And so I dont think Nationwide was required to provide an effective warning under the CRM 
code, or that it has failed to meet its obligations under the code by not doing so.
I therefore dont think Nationwide should be required to refund the money Mrs A lost.
Recovery
Ive also considered whether Nationwide could have done more to try to recover the money 
Mrs A lost once it had been told of the scam. Wed expect a business to take reasonable 
steps to try to recover the money from the bank it was sent to. But Nationwide has shown us 
that it emailed the bank the money was sent to once it was told of the scam, and was able to 
recover £505.82  which has now been returned to Mrs A. So I dont think Nationwide could 
reasonably have done more to try to recover the money.
I said Id consider anything further Mrs A and Nationwide sent in following the provisional 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nationwide replied to the provisional decision, saying it had nothing further to add. And 
Mrs A didnt respond to the provisional decision by the deadline given.
As neither Mrs A nor Nationwide provided any further information to be considered, I still 
think the conclusions I set out in the provisional decision are correct, and for the same 
reasons.
I therefore still dont think Nationwide should be required to refund the money Mrs A lost as a 
result of this scam under the CRM code, or that it could reasonably have done more to 
recover the money she lost.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2022. 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman