DRN-3795551
The complaint
Mr V complains that Kingfisher Insurance Services Limited (trading as ClubCare) refused 
to give him information that he requested when his insurance policy came up for renewal. 
What happened
Mr V had a caravan insurance policy, arranged through Kingfisher. It was due for renewal in 
April 2022.
In the renewal invitation letter Kingfisher drew Mr Vs attention to the fact that cover was 
provided on a market value basis. It said:
As such in the event of a total loss, insurers will pay up to the market value of your 
Touring Caravan, based on the information provided by Glasss Guide, if this is not 
available other sources such as the internet. In any event the maximum insurers will 
pay in the event of a total loss is the sum insured as shown on your Evidence of 
Insurance.
A few days before the renewal date Mr V phoned Kingfisher and asked what the current 
Glasss Guide value of his caravan was. Kingfisher told him that it was no longer able to 
provide any assistance regarding the Glasss Guide value. It explained that this was 
because it operates on a non-advised basis. 
Mr V went ahead with the renewal. But he considers Kingfishers refusal to give him 
information about the Glasss Guide valuation of his caravan to be unfair. He says this is 
because that settlement of a claim in the event of a total loss would be based on the Glasss 
Guide valuation if that was less than the sum insured. Hes pointed out that the Glasss 
Guide value isnt publicly available, and he says that this meant that he was unable to make 
an informed decision about the renewal. 
Mr V says that as it is, his caravan insurance premium may be too high, or he may be 
underinsured. He believes that Kingfisher should provide a dated Glasss Guide value on 
renewal documentation. And he says this could be accompanied by a warning that the value 
is only accurate on the date stated. He says he even told Kingfisher that he wanted it to give 
him the information on a non-advice basis so that he could use his own judgment, but it still 
refused.
One of our investigators considered Mr Vs complaint, but didnt think it should be upheld. 
She said, in summary, that we wouldnt expect the insurer to provide a valuation when the 
policy is sold.
Mr V didnt agree with the investigators view, so the complaints been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr V wanted to know what the Glasss Guide valuation of his caravan 
was at the point of renewal. Its clear to me from what hes said that he realises that this 
would only have applied on the date of the valuation and would have been no guarantee of 
its future value. But he considers that having access to the Glasss Guide value as it stood at 
the point of renewal would have helped him decide how much to insure the caravan for, and 
to avoid being over- or under-insured.
I take Mr Vs point that its not clear that providing him with the Glasss Guide value at the 
date of renewal would amount to providing advice. It seems to me that simply stating what 
the Glasss Guide value as at the time of purchase or renewal of the policy would be more a 
question of providing information than advice. 
But while I can see that it might have been helpful to Mr V to have the Glasss valuation at 
the date of renewal, I cant fairly say that Kingfisher was wrong not to give it to him. It was for 
Mr V to make enquiries about how much the caravan was worth. Kingfisher didnt have a 
responsibility to give him a current market value, whether as advice or purely for information. 
Mr V could have got information about the value of his caravan from caravan dealers and 
from the internet. And he had the option of insuring it elsewhere if he wasnt happy with the 
information that Kingfisher was willing to give him.
As I dont consider that Kingfisher did anything wrong in refusing to provide Mr V with a 
Glasss Guide valuation of his caravan, I cant uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2022.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman