DRN-2437367
The complaint
The estate of Mr H has complained that The Co-operative Bank Plc (the Co-op) didnt stop 
scheduled payments leaving the late Mr Hs account after it was notified of his death.
In this case, the estate is represented by the late Mr Hs son, who Ill refer to as Mr S. 
What happened
Mr Ss father sadly passed away on 25 April 2020. Mr S phoned the Co-op on 27 April to 
inform them of his fathers death and provide them with his contact details for future 
correspondence. 
The Co-op asked Mr S to complete and return a bereavement form, which Mr S accessed 
online, completed and posted back to them on 28 April. Mr S asked the Co-op to stop all 
activity on the account with immediate effect. 
This wasnt done. Instead, three scheduled payments left the account during May 2020. 
Mr S contacted the Co-op on 11 May by letter and on 15 May by secure message to 
complain. Before the Co-op received the letter, it responded to Mr Ss secure message on 
16 May to explain it couldnt stop the scheduled payments leaving the account until the late 
Mr Hs death certificate had been received. It also wrote to Mr S on 12 May to request a 
certified copy of the death certificate. Dissatisfied with the Co-ops response, Mr S brought a 
complaint to this service on behalf of the estate of Mr H.
Our investigator considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. She said it 
wasnt unusual for banks to request a death certificate before being able to make changes to 
an account. And that it wasnt our role to change a banks policies or procedures. She said if 
Mr S or the estate of Mr H needed to recover the money that had been paid out of the 
account, theyd need to contact the recipients of those funds, as the Co-op hadnt done 
anything wrong by asking for, and waiting for, proof of the late Mr Hs death before freezing 
the account.
Mr S disagreed and said that while the Co-op may have been following its internal 
procedures, he believed it to be acting in contravention of the law. He said banks are obliged 
to stop all debit transactions on notification of a customers death. As Mr S didnt agree with 
our investigators assessment, the complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I wish to offer my condolences to Mr S during what must continue to be a very difficult 
time for him and his family. Ive thought carefully about everything Mr S has said on behalf of 
the estate of Mr H  and I appreciate he feels very strongly that Co-op have not acted in 
accordance with the law.
However, Im afraid having considered all the information provided by both parties, Ive 
decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr S accessed the online bereavement form on the Co-ops website in order to complete it 
and send it back. The same page of the website states:
Before we can make changes to a customers account, we need to see the death 
certificate. 
It further states that until this is received, scheduled payments will continue to be made from 
the account. The issue in this case is not that Mr S was not aware of the policy, but that he 
doesnt agree with payments continuing to be made after notification of the death. But Im 
satisfied that the Co-op acted in line with its internal procedures and made Mr S aware of 
what it would need.
Mr S says that Co-ops policy not to make any changes to an account until the death 
certificate is received is against the law. He explains that receipt of notice of a customers 
passing revokes the banks authority to make any further payments from the account. He 
further says this is backed up in law by statute  namely s75 of the Bills of Exchange Act 
1882  which states:
The duty and authority of a banker to pay a cheque drawn on him by his customer 
are determined by
(1) Countermand of payment:
(2) Notice of the customers death.
But, as a statute is a legal instrument I must consider that the legal definition of notice may 
not be what Mr S thinks. And theres no evidence here to suggest that notice of death in law 
is fulfilled only by the verbal or written announcement of a customer passing away. Notice 
as a legal term is often defined as being fulfilled only if certain other requirements are also 
met. Notice clauses in contracts often specify how and when the notice must be given  and 
if those requirements arent met, then notice cannot be deemed to have been given. 
In this case, I think its reasonable for the Co-op to only consider formal notice of death to 
have been given (notice which is sufficient to make changes to an account) once its also 
received the accompanying documentary evidence, such as a death certificate. I say this 
because, when I consider the alternative  which is a situation in which scheduled (and 
potentially important) payments could be stopped from leaving an account simply by a 
person filling out a form  I dont think this would be safe or adequately protect customers 
and their families from serious adverse consequences.
Mr S has said he understands this, but that there are numerous cases which support his 
argument. He hasnt provided me with the details of any cases  and in any event, the 
circumstances of those cases might not match the circumstances of this case. And my role 
is to look at each complaint on its own individual merits.
Mr S has also pointed to banking industry guidance, which he says shows that firms should 
restrict transactions upon notification (without receiving a death certificate). But the BBA 
bereavement principles he refers to are dated February 2016 and have since been 
superseded by the BBA leaflet dated March 2017, which says If there is a will, the bank will 
usually need to see the original death certificate and If there is no will, the bank will need to 
see the original death certificate. So Im not persuaded that current banking industry guidance shows that the Co-op did anything wrong by requiring the death certificate before 
making changes to the account.
Mr S has also referred to the Co-ops own guidance, which he says states Once the bank 
has been notified of the death, the account will be frozen. But the paragraph above this 
says Each bank and financial institution will want to see a copy of the Death Certificate and 
proof that you have the authority to freeze the bank account.  So, Im satisfied that the 
Co-ops own website sets out its bereavement policy and that it acted in line with that policy 
in this case. Im also aware that other banks have similar policies and procedures in place.
I know this situation is incredibly frustrating for Mr S, and its left the estate of his late father 
without all the funds that couldve been distributed to beneficiaries. Im also conscious that 
the recipient of some of those funds has refused to pay them back and I do sympathise with 
Mr S and the estate of Mr H because of that. But Im not persuaded that the Co-op has done 
anything wrong here. So Im afraid I wont be requiring the Co-op to refund any of the money 
it paid out. 
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr S and the estate of Mr H, but I hope Ive 
clearly explained why Ive reached this decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr H 
to accept or reject my decision before 17 January 2021.
 
Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman