DRN-2216432
The complaint
Miss P complains about the actions of Erudio Student Loans Limited after she attempted to 
defer her student loan repayments. 
What happened
In October 2018, Miss Ps student loan referral period came to an end. Erudio sent her a 
deferment application form by post eight weeks before. It also sent her reminders by email 
and SMS. Miss P says she applied for her loan to be deferred online.
A year later, Miss P discovered that Erudio had registered a County Court Judgment (CCJ) 
against her. She contacted Erudio and was told the CCJ would be removed if she paid off 
her loan in full. Miss P was concerned about the effect on her credit rating, so she paid the 
loan off. But she had to borrow money from her partner, whod taken out a loan, to do this.
Miss P made a complaint to Erudio, saying she hadnt received the letters Erudio had sent 
her. Miss P thought Erudio should have emailed her to let her know the status of her 
account. She said she had logged onto her online account to defer her repayments.
Erudio said it had sent Miss P various letters, as had a recovery agent, when arrears began 
to accrue. These had gone to her old address because Miss P hadnt updated it with her 
current address. It said it was Miss Ps responsibility to do so.
Erudio acknowledged that Miss P had logged on to her online account on 22 October 2018, 
but it couldnt see why, and no deferment application was submitted or accepted. 
Miss P remained unhappy, so she brought her complaint to our service. Our investigator 
looked into her concerns but didnt think Miss Ps complaint should be upheld. She didnt 
think Miss P was likely to have completed a deferment application online because a 
successful deferment letter hadnt been sent to her.
 
Our investigator also didnt think Erudio was obligated to contact Miss P by phone or email. It 
was sufficient for it to contact her by post. And she was satisfied Erudio had written to her at 
the address it had on file.
Miss P disagreed with our investigators view. She didnt think Erudio had acted fairly or 
reasonably. Erudio hadnt taken all reasonable steps to reached her because they didnt use 
the form of contact that was unlikely to have changed  her email address. Erudio had given 
her false information about this when she initially complained to them and had then said 
something different.
 
Miss P questioned why Erudio hadnt sent letters by recorded delivery and why the debt 
didnt appear on her credit file. If it was on her credit file, she wouldnt have overlooked 
Erudio when informing her creditors of the change to her address. 
Miss P said she was eligible for deferment and accessed Erudios online system at the time 
she should have deferred. She didnt think she should forgo the right to defer because a 
letter wasnt generated. She felt her circumstances  earning less than the threshold and not 
being able to repay the loan  should be taken into account when deciding on the matter.
As Miss P has disagreed with our investigators opinion, her complaint has been passed to 
me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to reassure Miss P, Ive considered all of her points even if Ive not commented on 
them individually. Ive focused on what is most relevant to the outcome of her complaint. I 
know my answer will be disappointing to Miss P, but Ive decided not to uphold her 
complaint. Ill explain why.
The relevant industry rules require Erudio to pay due regard to the interests of its customers 
and treat them fairly. 
Erudio has acknowledged that Miss P logged onto its online system on 22 October 2018. It 
couldnt say why shed logged on, but no deferment application was submitted or accepted, 
and no acknowledgement email or letter was sent. 
Miss P says she was eligible for deferment and I dont doubt what shes said about this, but 
deferral isnt automatic, and it needs to be applied for each year. She thinks the fact she 
accessed Erudios online system at that time should be enough to conclude that she applied 
to defer her loan repayments. 
I think its likely that Miss P intended to defer her loan repayments when she accessed 
Erudios online system in October 2018. But I havent seen any evidence that an application 
was completed or accepted. So, I dont think Miss P is likely to have completed the 
deferment application online, even if she believed she had. 
Erudio has sent us a copy of a letter it sent to Miss P in August 2017, confirming it accepted 
her previous application for her loan to be deferred. So, I think Miss P should reasonably 
have expected to receive a similar letter if a deferral had been granted in 2018.
As Miss Ps loan repayments werent deferred, repayments started to become due in 
October 2018. Erudio has provided copies of several letters it sent to Miss P about arrears 
on her account, including a default notice. Unfortunately, these letters were sent to Miss Ps 
previous address and she didnt receive them. 
Miss P says she forgot to let Erudio know about her change of address. She was dealing 
with several challenging circumstances in her life at the time, including some health issues. 
She says she wouldnt have overlooked informing Erudio of her change of address if it had 
appeared on her credit file. But student loans dont appear on credit files unless theyve been 
defaulted on. So, I cant say that Erudio did something wrong here.
I know Miss P feels strongly that Erudio should have contacted her by email to let her know 
about the arrears. But its not this services role to tell a business which communication 
methods to use. This is a commercial decision. Erudio says its main method of 
communication is by post and it has to send certain documents this way for regulatory 
purposes. Erudio has provided information to show that it also tried to call Miss P but the 
phone numbers it had on file were incorrect. So, I think Erudio made reasonable attempts to 
contact Miss P.Miss P has commented on the conflicting information Erudio gave her about why it hadnt 
emailed her. But Erudio has acknowledged it gave her the wrong information over the phone 
and has apologised for this. 
Miss P has also questioned why Erudio didnt send letters by recorded delivery. But it didnt 
have any obligation to do so. Im satisfied from the information Erudio provided that the 
letters were sent. The most likely reason Miss P didnt receive them was because they were 
sent to her previous address.
I appreciate this has been a distressing and frustrating situation for Miss P, who couldnt 
afford to repay the loan when she did. Shes worried about how shell be able to repay her 
partner who took out a loan to cover it. But overall, I think Erudio has acted fairly. So, 
although I empathise with Miss P, I havent found reason to uphold her complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Miss Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 November 2020.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman