DRN-4373334
The complaint
Mrs W has complained to Suffolk Life Pensions Limited (SLP) about its fees and the costs 
she has to incur in order to transfer from her Self Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) due to 
holding non-tradeable shares. Curtis Bank Limited trades as Suffolk Life Pensions Limited 
and the latter company is where Mrs W holds her SIPP. For ease of reference, I will refer to 
SLP throughout this decision.
What happened
Mrs W had a SIPP with a business called European Pensions Management Limited 
(EPML). In 2016, EPML went into Administration and its SIPP book was acquired by SLP. 
All former EPML clients received a letter dated 9 November 2016 from SLP in which they 
were informed, amongst other things, that their respective SIPPs would be transferred 
across into SLPs MasterSIPP product. SLP said this action was necessary from a 
regulatory point of view, as there was a requirement to maintain the integrity of existing 
clients SIPPs in the event of the failure of their former SIPP operator.
SLP initially had a separate fee structure for MasterSIPP holders who had previously been 
clients of EPML. SLP did this for relevant clients in order to maintain fees at parity with 
EPML's own fees. Clients were told that the annual administration fee for the SLP 
MasterSIPP was normally £545 plus Value Added Tax (VAT). But a permanent discount 
would be applied of £375 to former EPML SIPP holders, meaning theyd be charged an 
annual administration fee of £170 plus VAT.
In August 2019, SLP wrote to all former EPML clients to inform them that it would be making 
changes to its product terms and conditions which included its fee structure. SLP explained 
that from 1 October 2019, from the next anniversary date of the clients SIPP, the annual fee 
would increase to £560. SLP said this was due to a general increase in the cost of SIPP 
operations. SLP said clients who wanted to transfer out to another provider or move to one 
of its other products that might be more favourable to them, could do so without incurring its 
normal transfer fees as long as the transfer forms were received within a 90day period..
Mrs W elected to transfer out from SLP to another provider. She held several shareholdings in 
her SLP MasterSIPP account. In total excluding her cash holdings, she held 14,880 shares in 
a business I will refer to as company A, as well as 2,591 in another business and 5,842 in 
one other. 
SLP received Mrs Ws transfer out request in September 2019 and initiated the process. 
However, it soon became apparent that it wasnt possible to transfer one of Mrs Ws 
shareholdings. The shares in company A werent accepted by her chosen SIPP provider, as it 
wasnt prepared to hold them in one of its SIPPs because they were non-trading shares. 
Mrs W enquired with SLP whether it was possible to sell, gift or transfer the shares in 
company A. She noted a relative had been able to gift shares in this company to charity and 
she wanted to do the same. But SLP said this was not possible without a professional 
valuation of those shares to establish their true market value. Alternatively, it would accept a 
letter from company A confirming that Mrs W would not receive any further returns from her 
shareholdings. SLP explained this was necessary to meet H M Revenue and Customs 
(HMRC) regulations. 
Mrs W decided not to obtain a valuation as she considered it was economically unviable. 
She said that she had received a quote for a valuation by an accountant for £600 plus VAT. 
And the costs would be more if she were to sell the shares to a connected party. So, she 
decided to cancel the transfer out and instead opted to stay with SLP and convert her 
MasterSIPP to SLPs Your Future SIPP. This gave her lower annual administration fee plus 
an unadvised client fee. Mrs W said this was still more expensive than shed pay if she 
were to transfer to her chosen SIPP provider.
Mrs W complained to SLP. She said SLP was making it difficult for her to move to another 
provider because of the need for a professional valuation. She reasoned that given company 
A is not trading; is no longer on the relevant foreign exchange; and is under investigation for 
fraud, its shares clearly had no value. She referred to the relative whod been able to gift 
their shares in company A and she couldnt understand why that wasnt possible for her. She 
was also unhappy about having to stay with SLP and pay its fees. And she felt she was 
being penalised for holding non-tradable shares. 
SLP rejected Mrs Ws complaint. Its key reason was that because of HMRC rules, it was not 
possible to gift or relinquish the shares without a professional valuation, as this could lead to 
an unauthorised charge if the investment gained value in the future.
Mrs W referred her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service (us we our). Our 
investigator initially recommended upholding the complaint but after considering further 
submissions from SLP, he revised his view. In brief, he said he considered SLP had acted 
fairly and reasonably towards Mrs W particularly as it had offered her a cheaper alternative 
product within its SIPP range. So, he didnt think SLP had to do anything further. 
Mrs W disagreed reiterating her previous arguments as to why she considered she is being 
treated unfairly. She asked for an Ombudsmans decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, I am not upholding the complaint. Ill explain why. Before I do 
so, I understand that Mrs W has raised a number of points during her contact with our 
Service. Ive carefully noted all the representations made by Mrs W, but I wont be 
addressing every single point shes raised. Ive instead concentrated on the issues I think 
are central to the outcome of her complaint. 
As a regulated business, SLP has a duty to treat Mrs W fairly taking into account her current 
situation. With this in mind, I think the starting point is that once it became clear Mrs Ws 
chosen provider would not accept the non-trading shares, SLP needed to provide her with a 
clear indication of what she would need to do with her shares so she could go forward with 
the transfer. Looking at the exchanges of correspondence between SLP and Mrs W, I 
consider it has done this. 
SLP gave Mrs W the option to have the shares removed from her account so as to enable 
her to transfer out. But in order to do this, it said she required a valuation from a suitably 
qualified person such as an accountant. Under the terms and conditions of the MasterSIPP 
account (section 16) it says: Where we are required by legislation or other regulations to value your SIPP at market value, we will arrange for your SIPPs investments to be so 
valued. This will include, but is not limited to, the appointment of an appropriately qualified 
valuer in respect of unquoted investmentsThe valuers fees and any other costs 
associated with the valuation will be payable from your SIPP.
And the regulations that have led to the need for a valuation were explained by SLP to Mrs W 
as follows: In relation to the [company A shares] holding you have, we are unfortunately 
unable to simply remove or give away investments from your SIPP, as we are bound by 
HMRC regulations relating to return payments from investments. If we were to remove the 
investment from the SIPP, and you were then to receive returns, these returns would be 
classified as unauthorised payments and would be liable for considerable tax penalties. 
So, whilst Mrs W says the costs of a valuation are relatively high compared to her overall 
SIPP value, if no professional valuation is carried out she could face considerable tax 
penalties in the future. And therefore, I dont think SLP asking for a valuation is unfair or 
unreasonable. SLP has said, as set out in its terms above, that the cost of the valuation 
could be deducted from her SIPP. All in all, I think SLP has acted fairly in this regard. 
I also note SLP did give Mrs W an alternative in that it said it would accept a statement from 
company A confirming there will be no more returns from her shareholdings. I accept this 
may be difficult given it is a non-trading company. But the option to have a valuation is still 
possible even if it does come with a cost. I dont think the cost of this would be the obligation 
of SLP as the SIPP administrator. SLP provides an execution only service and the need for a 
valuation in situations such as these is clearly set out in its literature and as Ive set out 
above, there is a good reason behind it. 
Whilst Mrs W says she knows the shares in company A are of no value because, amongst 
other things, it is no longer trading and she says it is under investigation for fraud by the 
relevant authority abroad, SLP has stipulated, in clear terms, what action it requires her to 
take before it can reach this conclusion. And as its said, this is to mitigate against Mrs W 
facing a potential tax penalty in the future. 
I should also say that, in theory, Mrs W could transfer her funds without a valuation. 
However, Mrs Ws chosen provider wouldnt accept the shares. Its difficult to say whether 
another provider would accept these shares but even if they were to do so, it appears that 
Mrs W wants to move to a specific provider for cost reasons, which I dont think is 
unreasonable. Nonetheless, unless she takes the steps SLP have recommended to her, 
which would allow her to relinquish her shares, it seems the other provider will not accept 
her transfer request. This is its commercial decision and I cant hold SLP responsible for the 
decision of another business.
Further, the shares that led to this situation were acquired prior to SLPs involvement with 
the SIPP. And I cant see that it has any responsibility for the impact this asset has had on 
Mrs Ws transfer, as the shares in question were acquired under the administration of the 
previous SIPP operator, EPML. So, I dont think it would be fair to ask SLP to pay for the 
cost of the valuation so that a transfer could be undertaken. And I dont think its 
unreasonable or unfair for SLP to continue to charge for its service, as there is still work 
involved in providing a SIPP to Mrs W even if a significant part of the funds held in it have 
become impaired in some way.
I can see that following the transfer of the EPML SIPPs in 2016, SLP did say to affected 
clients it would keep the discount itd applied permanently but then changed its position 
notifying clients about the increase in fees in August 2019. Under its terms and conditions, 
this is something it is entitled to do so long as it serves clients with 30 days notice, which it did in Mrs Ws case. But as SLP has said itself, what it said in 2016 about the discount is 
unfortunate and I do think it could have managed Mrs Ws expectations better in this regard. 
However, when SLP did notify Mrs W of the increase in 2019, it gave her a number of 
options including to move to another one of its products or to another provider without 
applying its standard transfer fees for a certain period of time. It also had, by that point, 
applied the discount to her account for three years. So, despite what it had said in 2016, 
taking everything into account and on balance, I think SLP has acted fairly and reasonably. 
Mrs W was still unhappy about staying with SLP despite moving to an account with lower 
fees. She says these fees were still higher than the fees she would pay if she could transfer 
out. I appreciate this situation was frustrating for her and was less than ideal given it wasnt 
what Mrs W wanted. But Mrs W was given clear information about the steps she needed to 
take if she wished to remove the shares and thereby, allow her to transfer out. 
I acknowledge what Mrs W said about a relative being able to remove the shares in the same 
company from an account they hold. But I can only decide, on the facts before me, whether 
SLP has acted fairly and reasonably in Mrs Ws particular case. And taking everything into 
account, I consider SLP has done so. I cannot agree with Mrs W that she is being penalised 
by SLP for holding non-tradeable shares. This situation has arisen because of the company 
in which she held shares in. And again, it isnt something SLP is responsible for.
I understand that since bringing her complaint to us, the shares have now become tradeable 
and she was told about this in May 2022. I appreciate she is still unhappy about how long 
things have taken and the fact the offer to waive the SLP transfer fees has now passed. But 
as Ive noted, the issue of her not being able to transfer out to her chosen provider in 2019 
was not the fault of SLP. 
For all these reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2023.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman