DRN-1131293
The complaint
Mrs V's unhappy about the way U K Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line has handled a 
claim on her motor insurance policy.  
What happened
In December 2018 Mrs V's car was involved in an accident. There was only minor damage 
and no repairs were needed. In early 2019 UKI spoke to the third party insurer but no 
decision on liability was made as there were outstanding issues about the damage to the 
other car. And in the following months it became apparent that each party's version of events 
was different and liability was in dispute. UKI told Mrs V that as a result and as there 
wasn't any independent evidence, such as from independent witnesses or CCTV, it was 
likely to be a 50/50 split liability decision. In early April UKI said it would need to get an 
engineer to inspect Mrs V's car after the third party insurer said an injury claim was being 
made. Mrs V is unhappy with the progress of the claim and says UKI hasn't kept her 
updated.
UKI said in its final response in May 2019 that neither Mrs V nor the third party insurer 
had actually made a claim. So there were no costs to recover.
UKI has also now confirmed that as six more months have passed and no claim has been 
made by the third party it is closing the claim.
Our investigator felt this complaint shouldn't be upheld as UKI has acted fairly and 
reasonably. She said she cannot hold UKI responsible for the actions or lack of response 
from the third party insurer. She also cannot see any significant delays caused by UKI. 
Although UKI could've sent the engineer's report to the third party insurer sooner 
this hasn't had a detrimental effect on Mrs V's claim. Most of the time Mrs V was chasing 
UKI for updates but although this was frustrating UKI didn't have anything significant to 
update her on.UKI only said it would update Mrs V when any  key decisions were made. Mrs 
V says she has health issues but she didn't tell UKI of them to allow it to potentially change 
the way it dealt with her.
Mrs V remains unhappy and has asked for an ombudsman review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigator's view for the same reasons.
Although I understand Mrs V's frustration at the apparently slow progress of matters I don't 
think I can reasonably hold UKI responsible for this. In fact it appears the third party insurer 
took time to investigate the incident and to respond and correspond with UKI. It was also fair 
for UKI to seek to obtain an engineer's report when it did. And although this was perhaps 
later than was ideal it was at an appropriate time given the extent of other party's claim. 
Any delay hasn't disadvantaged or prejudiced Mrs V's position.I also think UKI kept Mrs V reasonably informed of what was happening. But as there was 
little if any progress at times it had nothing new or significant to tell her.
Overall although I recognise Mrs V's strength of feeling I don't think UKI has done anything 
wrong. It has also confirmed that as it hasn't heard anything more from the third party insurer 
the claim is being closed.
My final decision
I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs V to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2019.
Stephen Cooper
Ombudsman