DRN-3993300
The complaint
A company I will refer to as R complains that Society of Lloyds (Lloyds) caused delays in an 
accident repair claim following a collision involving its commercial vehicle, under its motor 
insurance policy.  
All references to Lloyds include its agents.
What happened
At the end of January 2022 Rs commercial vehicle was involved in a front-end collision. The 
vehicle was taken to Lloydss approved repairer in March and the damage was assessed. 
There were delays in repairs commencing. It was subsequently identified in June that there 
was a problem with the brakes. Further parts were required. Due to shortages these would 
not be available until the end of August. 
Rs vehicle was repaired and returned in October 2022. R says this delay had a significant 
impact on the business, in lost income, and when hiring a replacement vehicle. It says its 
choice of garage was able to repair the vehicle, but Lloyds told it this couldnt happen as it 
wasnt one of its approved repairers. R says had Lloyds assessed the damage properly, it 
wouldve known about the brake issue and avoided delays. It also says communication 
throughout Lloydss claim handling was poor. 
In its complaint response Lloyds says a national backlog with vehicle repairs caused some 
delays as well as supply issues when obtaining replacement parts. It says it accepts 
communication wasnt of a good standard. Lloyds offered R £1,200 in total, for poor 
communication and for the inconvenience caused. This was inclusive of waiving the £500 
policy excess charge.
R didnt think this offer adequately compensated for the seven-month period it was without 
its vehicle. So, it referred the matter to our service. Our investigator upheld Rs complaint. 
She thought the payment Lloyds offered in compensation was sufficient to acknowledge the 
inconvenience caused. But she says it should pay any lost income R is able to evidence as 
well as the cost of truck hire it paid, plus 8% simple interest. 
R accepted our investigators view. It says it is very hard to prove what work it was unable to 
carry out, but it still feels that the hire costs should be reimbursed. Lloyds didnt agree with 
this outcome. 
As an agreement wasnt reached the matter has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided to uphold Rs complaint. Let me explain. 
Ive read Rs policy terms and conditions to understand what cover is provided. The terms 
under the section headed What to do if you need to make a claim say:
If your insurance covers damage to your vehicle, we can talk you through the options for 
getting it repaired. Well take care of everything: 
Repairs will be carried out by a garage in our approved repairer network, provided thats the 
best option for you.
Also, under the section headed Section 2  Loss or damage to your vehicle it says:
If your vehicle is damaged in any way which is covered by this insurance, you should 
contact us immediately. We can, if you wish, organise for our approved repairers to repair 
your vehicle.
..If you choose to not use our approved repairer, we will not:
Be responsible for any delays incurred by the repairer
Guarantee the provision of a courtesy car
Guarantee the repairs
Guarantee the use of original equipment manufacturer paint/parts.
Based on this, R could choose to have repairs carried out by its preferred repairer. From its 
testimony this is what it told Lloyds it wanted to do. R says its garage was able to do the 
work, but it was told it couldnt as it wasnt one of Lloyds approved repairers. 
Ive seen an email from Rs garage that says it spoke to Lloyds twice. This was toward the 
end of February 2022 and a couple of days later in March. The garage says it also spoke to 
Lloydss repairer and advised body repairs were needed. This was in addition to telling it 
about issues with the brakes. Rs garage confirms Lloyds told it that it couldnt carry out the 
repairs as it wasnt an authorised repairer. 
Lloyds provided its claim notes, which Ive read in full. A note from 16 February 2022 states 
Rs garage called to say R doesnt want to use Lloydss repairer, and that they have another 
garage in mind. The note says Lloyds told R it would need to contact it directly to discuss. 
 
An entry dated 28 February 2022 says Rs garage had called. It says it has the vehicle, but 
cannot do the job. The note also says, they want us to get [Lloydss garage] topick up 
vehicle and repair. A later note the same day states R called Lloyds asking for an update 
when the vehicle would be collected. Lloyds advised this would be within the next couple of 
days. 
The records show the vehicle repairs were authorised and the vehicle was taken to Lloydss 
garage in March 2022. R requested an update on 15 March. At the end of April, the records 
show R called and was told parts were on back-order. R tells Lloyds the parts would be 
available at his local garage. Lloydss agent checks on the parts order and confirms to R this 
is a clip fastening and the order had been chased. R say it will try and get hold of the part. 
A note later the same day says R had obtained the part and delivered it to Lloydss repairer. 
The repairer explained to R that no work had been carried out on the vehicle due to 
workshop availability. Also, that there was more than just this part outstanding. At this time 
R tells Lloyds it has a reputable garage able to complete the work, but Lloyds wouldnt allow 
this. R says it is paying £400 per week for lorry hire. A few days later Lloyds tells R the parts 
have arrived but there is no capacity at the garage to complete the repairs. An estimated 
completion date in mid-May 2022 is advised at this point. 
The records show that in the first week of June 2022 R calls Lloyds and is told the repairs are complete, but a further test is required regarding the crane on the rear of the vehicle. R 
chased progress a week later. Lloyds contacted its garage and was advised a new 
windscreen and air conditioning repairs were also needed. A week later a note states a 
problem with the vehicles active braking system (ABS) had been identified.
The records at the end of June 2022 say the fault codes for the ABS issue were recorded at 
the time of the accident. This allowed the repairs to be authorised. The next note a few days 
later says the ABS component will be supplied at the end of August. The note discusses the 
possibility of using a refurbished part instead. R tells Lloyds again that its business is 
struggling without the use of its vehicle. 
At the end of July 2022, the records show the vehicle was sent to the main dealer due to 
another error that was found. The notes show this related to the ABS system after the new 
component had been fitted. 
The contact records end around the beginning of August 2022. I understand Rs vehicle was 
returned to it in October. We asked Lloyds for call recordings, particularly from February 
when Rs garage initially contacted it and its approved repairer. From the call records Rs 
repairer said it couldnt complete the repairs. But this is at odds with Rs testimony and the 
email Rs garage sent. Lloyds wasnt able to provide the requested call recordings. 
Having considered this information, its not clear why Lloyds didnt initially authorise Rs 
choice of garage to carry out the repairs. The note from 28 February 2022 indicates the 
garage couldnt do the work. But I think Rs testimony and the response from its garage is 
persuasive. I think its more likely that Lloydss agent confirmed only an approved garage 
could do the work. This is why the vehicle was sent to its approved repairer. 
Ive thought about what impact this had. R obtained the component Lloyds said its repairer 
needed at the end of April 2022. It was at this point it was confirmed that no repairs had 
been carried out. I cant see that R was informed of probable delays in its garage carrying 
out the work. Lloyds also gave inaccurate information as to the status of the repairs when 
advising the work was close to completion. R took steps to speed things up by obtaining the 
part needed by Lloydss repairer. But the repairs were no-where close to being complete. 
A significant delay also occurred in relation to the ABS component. This issue wasnt noticed 
until mid-June 2022 and the part ordered at the end of the month. Once a part was sourced 
and fitted, further issues came to light. As per the notes, this included issues with the 
windscreen, air conditioning, more ABS issues and an issue with the brake callipers that was 
noticed in September 2022. 
I acknowledge Lloydss reference to global supply shortages for spare parts. Also, the limited 
capacity of available repairers nationally. But R wasnt given the option to use its choice of 
garage. This garage confirmed it was able to do the work. Lloydss garage didnt identify the 
ABS issue until a later stage. Yet, Rs garage says repairs to the brakes were specifically 
mentioned back in February 2022 when it called Lloyds and its garage. I also note the 
photos Lloyds garage provided, with its repair report, show the dashboard with the ABS light 
illuminated.
Based on this evidence the indication is that Lloydss repairer didnt carry out an effective 
assessment of the repairs when it received Rs vehicle in March 2022. It wasnt made clear 
to R that there would be a delay in Lloydss repairer starting the repair work. And it appears 
that Rs request to have its own garage complete the work, was unfairly dismissed. Its 
possible that Rs garage would have faced some of the same issues obtaining replacement 
parts. But I think the workshop availability issue and the ineffective repair assessment 
contributed significantly to the delays R experienced. Lloyds offered £1,200 for the inconvenience and its poor communication. I think its clear R 
had to be actively involved in chasing progress and even in obtaining parts, because of 
inaccurate information Lloydss received from its repairer. For the inconvenience this caused 
I think Lloydss offer is fair. 
Ive thought about Rs request that Lloyds pays for the replacement lorry hire it paid because 
of the delays in it arranging the repairs of its vehicle. Lloyds has referred to the following 
policy exclusion in this respect: 
This section of your insurance does not cover the following:
2. Any amount as compensation for you not being able to use your vehicle (including the 
cost of hiring another vehicle).
 
I accept the policy doesnt provide for compensation and vehicle hire in the event that R 
cant use its vehicle. However, R wasnt able to use its vehicle because of delays caused by 
Lloyds and its approved repairer. In these circumstances I think its fair that Lloyds pays for 
the costs R incurred in mitigating its losses by hiring a replacement vehicle. 
Ive also thought about Rs reference to loss of earnings. It hasnt provided evidence to show 
lost earnings. I note its comments that it would be difficult to provide this information. I think 
replacing the vehicle with a hire vehicle was a reasonable mitigating measure for R to take. 
In paying for these costs Lloyds is reasonably compensating R for the impact of its poor 
handling of the claim. 
In summary I dont think Lloyds treated R fairly in its handing of this claim. It should pay C 
the cost of vehicle hire on provision of the relevant receipts, plus 8% simple interest up until 
payment is made. 
My final decision
My intention is to uphold this complaint. Society of Lloyds should:
pay R for the cost of its hire vehicle on receipt of proof of payment, plus 8% simple 
interest from the date of the invoice until this payment is made.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman