DRN-2302394
The complaint
Mr D complains that a finance deal he entered into with Close Brothers Limited, trading as 
Close Brothers Motor Finance (Close Brothers), was misrepresented to him. He also 
complains about the quality of the vehicle.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr D, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr D acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
the quality of the car
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Close Brothers, who are also the supplier of the car, 
are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet 
the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
I can see that when Mr D initially brought the air bag problem to the dealerships attention in 
December 2019. They suggested he get a third-party garage to look at it. The business 
contact notes explain that he later confirmed the problem had gone away. Ive not seen 
evidence that the problem has returned so I dont think it would be fair to tell Close Brothers 
to take any further action.
misrepresentation
If the finance agreement was misrepresented to Mr D, and if that misrepresentation led him 
to enter into an agreement he would not otherwise have entered into, then I would think 
Close Brothers were responsible and I would ask them to take some action.
But here I am not persuaded there has been a misrepresentation. I understand Mr D 
disputes the sales price of the car as it was advertised at £8,995. Im persuaded that the 
£11,000 sales price shown on the finance agreement is an accurate representation of what 
Mr D was financing because:
the sales price of the car was £8995;
there was negative equity in Mr Ds previous finance agreement of £6,531;
the business paid £4,526 for Mr Ds old car;
that left £2,005 still to be paid;
£845 of that was carried over onto the agreement;
that left £1,160 which was registered as a deposit on the invoice to be paid by Mr D 
in January 2020.
I think these details are clarified on the pre contract information and in the hire purchase 
agreement and that it was reasonable for Close Brothers to have expected Mr D to have 
read that information before committing to the finance arrangement.
I understand that Mr D disputes the deposit was ever agreed but Im persuaded it most likely 
was as I can see it was registered not only on the invoice he received much later but also on 
the hire purchase agreement he signed in November 2019.
So, I dont think the finance agreement was misrepresented or the quality of the car was 
unsatisfactory and Im not asking Close Brothers to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 February 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman