DRN-3503514
The complaint
Mr C complains about the settlement figure paid to him when his caravan was damaged.
What happened
Mr C had caravan insurance arranged by Caravanwise Limited (Caravanwise). Caravanwise 
is an insurance broker not an insurer so it arranged the policy but the policy was 
underwritten by an insurance company that I will call Company A. Mr C has also complained 
to this service about Company A, but this decision is only about his complaint about 
Caravanwise.
Mr Cs caravan was badly damaged and Company A decided that it couldnt be economically 
repaired. Mr C wanted to keep the caravan and Company A paid him the sum insured 
under the policy, which was £6000, less an amount for salvage. 
Under normal circumstances when a business settles a total loss claim like this, it will take 
possession of the caravan in its damaged state. If the consumer wishes to keep the caravan, 
the insurer will deduct an amount for salvage from the settlement figure. This is because 
even a damaged caravan has some value, for example for parts or scrap. 
Mr C wasnt happy about this as he said this wouldnt be enough to replace the caravan. He 
complained to Caravanwise. Caravanwise said it wasnt in a position to advise him about the 
sum insured as it had no way of valuing his caravan. Caravanwise said at the time of 
quotation it asked him how much he wanted to insure the caravan for and he said £6000.
Mr C wasnt happy with Caravanwises response and so he complained to this service. Our 
investigator didnt uphold his complaint, saying Caravanwise, as a broker, wasnt authorised 
to give advice and didnt do so. The investigator said Caravanwise did have a responsibility 
to provide clear and fair information that wasnt misleading, but it was Mr Cs responsibility to 
ensure he had the cover he required.
Mr C wasnt happy with the investigators response and so his complaint has been passed to 
me. Mr C says he was mis-sold the policy and wants to be paid the market value of his 
caravan, which he says is higher than the sum insured. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr C contacted Caravanwise to get a quote for his caravan insurance. He told Caravanwise 
he wanted to insure the caravan for £6000, which became the sum insured under the 
policy. Caravanwise has told us it doesnt record telephone calls so there isnt a record of 
this conversation, but I can see from the policy documents that the sum insured was £6000.
Caravanwise sent Mr C his policy documents. The covering email said:
Please find your Insurance schedule, statement of fact and policy documents attached, 
which we would ask you to check to ensure that they are correct and meet with your 
requirements, this is particularly important as we have not provided any advice or 
recommendationPlease note that we have not provided any advice or recommendation.
Caravanwise told us:
We are not authorised to give advice and do not do soSince we are not authorised to give 
advice we do not, and in fact are not in a position to, comment on the sum insured that the 
client has stated.
The Statement of Fact for the policy said the sum insured for a market value policy such 
as this:
should be the cost of replacing the caravan similar model and age.
The policy booklet said:
it is your responsibility to make sure the amounts you are insured for represent the full value 
of your property.
And: 
The most your insurer will pay is the market value of your Caravan or trailer up to the 
caravan sum insured shown on your schedule.
The documents explain how a claim would be settled if the sum insured was less than the 
market value.
Caravanwise is not authorised to give advice or recommend insurance policies. 
Caravanwise took the information Mr C gave it and used it to find an insurance policy for 
him. But it was Mr Cs responsibility to read the insurance documents and make sure that 
the policy met his needs. Caravanwise wasnt responsible for deciding the sum insured on 
the policy, this was Mr Cs decision. Nor was Caravanwise responsible for deciding how to 
settle the claim. This was done by Company A. 
I think that Caravanwise gave Mr C clear information in the policy documents, told him it 
couldnt give advice or recommendations and told him he needed to check the policy 
documents to ensure the policy met his needs. I think this was fair and reasonable.
So on balance I cant say the policy was mis-sold or that Caravanwise did anything wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint. So I wont be asking 
Caravanwise Limited to do anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2022.
 
Sarah Baalham
Ombudsman