DRN-2109950
The complaint
Mr and Mrs E complain that Lloyds Bank PLC sent them a number of misleading and 
incorrect text messages about their account. They also complain that Lloyds paid money into 
their account that wasnt intended for them.
What happened
Mr E says in January 2020 he received text messages from Lloyds telling him that there 
wasnt enough money in his account for a standing order to be paid. He says that caused 
him concern as he knew he had money in his account and was concerned his account 
security had been compromised. Mr E says the messages continued and he spoke to Lloyds 
about it. He says Lloyds offered him £125 compensation, but he then noticed Lloyds had 
paid him a further £290. Mr E says he told Lloyds about this latest mistake, but it offered him 
£75 compensation which he says isnt enough for the stress and worry hes been caused.
In summary Mr E would like further compensation and an assurance the problem will stop.
Lloyds accepts it made mistakes with the text messages and the payment for £290 and has 
apologised. It says it is aware of the problem and is trying to sort it out but says the 
compensation paid is fair and reasonable.
Mr E didnt accept that view and brought his complaint to us. Our investigator looked at the 
complaint and thought Lloyds had dealt fairly with it by paying a fair and reasonable level of 
compensation. The investigator thought Mr and Mrs E hadnt suffered any financial loss.
Mr and Mrs E dont accept that view and in summary say they received further text 
messages from Lloyds in July 2020 and the compensation should be around £1,160. They 
accept the £125 compensation for the first part of the complaint appropriate but say the 
second incident exasperated Mr Es stress.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that Lloyds has dealt fairly with this 
complaint by apologising and paying a fair and reasonable level of compensation. I 
appreciate Mr and Mrs E will be disappointed by my decision and I appreciate how strongly 
they feel about whats taken place.
There is no doubt here that Lloyds made a number of mistakes. I accept that Mr E would 
have been concerned and caused stress by being told he didnt have enough money in his 
account when he knew there ought to have been. I also accept in those circumstances that 
Mr E would have been concerned that his account security had been compromised. But Im 
satisfied that Lloyds has fairly apologised for the mistake and has explained why it took 
place. Im also satisfied that it paid a fair and reasonable amount of £125 compensation 
which I can see that Mr E also agrees was appropriate.
I accept that Lloyds then made a further mistake by paying £290 into Mr and Mrs Es 
account and that Mr E fairly told Lloyds about that mistake. I am sure Lloyds would have 
appreciated Mr Es honesty in those circumstances and I accept that Mr E would have been 
caused some inconvenience in bringing that matter to Lloyds attention. But I dont think this 
payment mistake was as significant as the first mistake about the text messages and there 
was no risk or concern about account security. Im satisfied that Lloyds acted fairly by paying 
a fair and reasonable level of compensation and that it has also apologised for that mistake.
I appreciate Mr E says this second mistake exasperated his stress level. But I think overall 
the payment of £200 in total is fair and reasonable taking into account what took place and 
that Mr and Mrs E didnt suffer any financial loss. I can see that Mr E says he received 
further text messages in July 2020. But that part of the complaint hasnt been investigated by 
Lloyds and so that is not something I can comment on. Mr and Mrs E will need to make a 
new complaint in respect of that if they wish.
Overall, I accept Lloyds has made a series of mistakes. We are not Lloyds regulator and so I 
cant order it to provide an assurance that the mistake about the text messages will not be 
repeated. But Im satisfied its acted fairly by apologising and paying appropriate 
compensation. I dont think those mistakes or the impact they had on Mr and Mrs E justify 
compensation of over £1,000 as they would like.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E and Mr E to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 October 2020.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman