DRN-3077094
Complaint
Ms K has complained about the overdraft charges HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) applied to 
her current account. Shes said HSBC applied arranged and unarranged charges when she 
was in financial difficulty.
Background
Ms Ks complaint was then looked at by one of our adjudicators. She didnt think that HSBC 
had done anything wrong as HSBC didnt have reason to suspect she may have been in 
financial difficulty before being notified of this. So she didnt recommend the complaint be 
upheld. Ms K disagreed with the investigator and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ks
complaint. Ill explain why Ive done so in a little more detail.
Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the
various amounts HSBC charged over the years were fair and reasonable, or proportionate in 
comparison to the costs of the service provided. Ultimately how much a bank charges for 
services is a commercial decision. And it isnt something for me to get involved with.
That said, while Im not looking at HSBCs charging structure per se, it wont have acted 
fairly and reasonably towards Ms K if it applied these interest, fees and charges to Ms Ks 
account in circumstances where it was aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been
aware Ms K was experiencing financial difficulty. So Ive considered whether there were
instances where HSBC didnt treat Ms K fairly and reasonably. 
In other words, Ive considered whether there were periods where HSBC continued charging 
Ms K even though it ought to have known she was in financial difficulty or it ought to have 
realised this was the case. Ive also looked through Ms Ks statements throughout the period 
concerned I cant see that HSBC ought to have been aware that Ms K might have been 
struggling during the period weve looked at. 
Its fair to say that Ms K did exceed her limit on occasion. But the unarranged overdraft 
charges on Ms Ks account were incurred sporadically. And while Im not seeking to make 
retrospective value judgements over Ms K expenditure, nonetheless there are significant 
amounts of non-committed, non-contractual and discretionary transactions account going 
from the account. Equally the amount being credited to Ms Ks account each month didnt 
indicate that she was struggling either.
I accept neither of these things in themselves (or taken together) mean that Ms K wasnt 
experiencing financial difficulty. But there isnt anything in these transactions in themselves 
which ought to have alerted HSBC to potential financial difficulty prior to Ms K notifying it of 
this. So, in these circumstances and in the absence of being told anything by Ms K, I dont 
think that it was unreasonable for HSBC to have proceeded adding the charges that it did. 
And I dont think HSBC unfairly charged Ms K in circumstances where it ought to have 
realised that she may have been experiencing financial difficulty.
Ive seen what Ms K has said about her financial position. And Im sorry to hear about her 
difficulty. But I note that HSBC did refund some of the fees when Ms K got in contact to 
explain this, in order to give her some time to make other arrangements. Im satisfied that 
this was an appropriate initial response to Ms Ks contact. As this is the case and bearing in 
mind what Ive already said about the earlier charges, I dont think that HSBC needs to 
refund any further interest, fees and charges and Im not upholding Ms Ks complaint. 
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Ms K  especially as she has been waiting 
sometime for an answer from us. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision 
and that shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Ms Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman