DRN-2440210
The complaint
Mrs J has complained about her home insurer, Ageas Insurance Limited, as it has sought to 
settle for only a portion of the repair cost to her fire damaged home. 
What happened
Mrs Js home suffered a fire in early 2020. Ageas appointed a loss adjuster. On the first visit 
the adjuster determined that a surveyor was required to determine the rebuild value of the 
property. The loss adjuster, based on rates for a standard property, had felt the rebuild cost 
would be £498,000. But he noted Mrs Js property is listed so the standard property rates 
would not apply. And the figure based on the standard rates was very close to the sum the 
property was insured for  £500,000. So he felt that the sum insured was likely inadequate, 
meaning a professional analysis of the rebuild cost was required.
A surveyor initially calculated a rebuild sum of £629,000, but this was revised. The revised 
figure, based on rates applicable at the point of the policys last renewal, was £640,837. 
Ageas considered what premium it would have charged Mrs J for a sum insured of that value 
and compared that to the premium she had actually paid. Ageas said that showed she was 
57% under-insured, so it would only pay 43% of her reinstatement costs.
 
This was set out in a final response to Mrs J. In the same letter Ageas accepted her claim 
had been handled poorly at times and offered £300 compensation. Mrs J remained unhappy 
 she disagreed that she was under-insured. She said she had gauged the rebuild cost for 
her property using an on-line calculator, and whilst this doesnt account for properties being 
listed, she had added a contingency to that value to generate her sum insured. She said she 
felt this was a fair way to do it as whilst her property is listed it doesnt have many listed 
features and so, in her view, by-and-large, modern similar materials could be used and it 
wouldnt cost much more to reinstate than a non-listed property. 
 
As well as complaining to us, Mrs J continued a discourse with Ageas. Ageas said it would 
revise its settlement offer. It said it was still satisfied that Mrs J was under-insured. But it said 
it was prepared to base its settlement on the rate of under-insurance presented by the sum 
insured against the correct rebuild rate, as opposed to a comparison of the premiums. Ageas 
said that would mean it would pay 78% of Mrs Js reinstatement costs (as opposed to 43%). 
Mrs J still argued that she had not been under-insured, in her view, and said she felt Ageas 
hadnt adequately shown its calculations were correct or fair. She provided an email from a 
relative, who had previously held a position of significance in terms of listed properties, 
which said in their experience rebuilding this house in a similar format wouldnt cost much 
more than for a non-listed property.
Our investigator explained that as a service we rely heavily on expert opinions, and here 
such would come from a surveyor. He didnt think, considering what the policy allowed for, 
he could reasonably conclude Ageas had done anything wrong in settling the claim as it had. 
He felt its offer of compensation was fair.
Mrs J provided a valuation from a surveyor which confirmed standard building rates had 
been used to determine a rebuild cost of £570,000. Mrs J said she was trying to obtain a 
further report from another surveyor but in the end nothing further was provided. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Legislation exists which, in certain circumstances, allows insurers to settle claims where 
there is under-insurance, based on the percentage of premium paid, against that which 
would have been paid. Some insurers have included similar methods for settlement in the 
terms of the policies they provide. This means in the event the legislation doesnt apply, the 
policy terms still might. But some insurers are less prescriptive in their policies about how 
they will settle claims if there is under-insurance (and the legislation doesnt apply or isnt 
being relied upon for some reason), commenting merely that if the sum insured is not 
reflective of the rebuild cost the claim settlement may be reduced.
Mrs Js policy explains what Ageas sees the rebuild cost as and says that if the sum insured 
is not enough to cover the full rebuild cost of the property, any settlement made for a claim 
may be reduced. The policy doesnt give a formula for how this will be done. The legislation 
says reduction can be based on the proportion of premium paid against that which would 
have been charged if the correct rebuild sum had been used. Ageas originally planned to 
mirror the redress method provided for by the legislation. But upon review Ageas decided to 
treat Mrs J more favourably and look at the percentage represented of the rebuild cost 
originally selected against what it felt the correct cost was. This meant it saw Mrs J as being 
78% insured rather than just 43%, and that only 22% of her claim costs were not covered by 
it, rather than 57%. I think this was reasonable of it.
I know Mrs J has concerns with the rebuild costs Ageas has put forwards. Ive considered 
what she says and the views put forwards by her relative. However, Ageas has had a 
surveyor complete a fully costed breakdown of the costs theyd expect to encounter in 
reinstating Mrs Js listed property. Whilst Mrs J has provided an alternate view from a 
surveyor, the surveyors report doesnt include the level of information Ageas surveyor has 
provided. Mrs J has said that her surveyor, and others she has spoken to, simply dont offer 
that level of detail  I dont know why that might be. But I do see that in their report dated 
2 February 2021, Mrs Js surveyor, said the rebuild cost of Mrs Js property  based on 
standard building rates  is £570,000. And Im mindful that the extra detail Ageas surveyor 
provided was to account for the fact that the standard building rates alone wont adequately 
calculate the rebuild cost of a listed property. Rather allowances have to be factored in which 
then generates the level of detail Ageas surveyor has provided, and is absent from Mrs Js 
surveyors report. So Im not persuaded that the evidence provided by Mrs J reasonably 
shows Ageas rebuild cost is wrong such that she was likely not under-insured.
I know Mrs J thinks that all insurers work with a threshold for under insurance and that this is 
often 80% - meaning that if a claimant is 80% insured, the underinsurance will be ignored 
and the claimant will be treated as though they are full insured. Also that Mrs J believes 
there is either a margin for error and/or a degree of professional judgement in the rebuild 
cost which means a few items or costs, more or less, could have an impact on the overall 
value. So Mrs J thinks that because Ageas now views her as being 78% insured, it should 
give her the benefit of the doubt, increasing that figure to 80%, which in turn would then 
mean it could view her as being fully insured. I understand why Mrs J might think all this  
but there is no standard threshold in the insurance industry beyond which all insurers will 
ignore under-insurance. Some insurers do build such a margin for error into their policies. 
But not all. And the Ageas policy wording doesnt include this.I appreciate this has been a difficult and stressful time for Mrs J. However, and whilst Ageas 
has noted it made some failings in handling the claim, I think its fair to say the most upset 
has been caused to Mrs J because her home is not fully insured. I know she feels Ageas 
settlement offers have been unfair. But as Ive explained above, I think Ageas has acted 
fairly and reasonably in this respect. Fire claims in general can be complex and I see that 
here, as well as the under-insurance which complicated matters, Ageas did feel the need to 
complete a forensic assessment before accepting any liability for the loss. This did delay the 
claim but I think it was reasonable for it to want to make those enquiries. Ageas though, in its 
final response, seems to acknowledge that Mrs J wasnt always dealt with compassionately. 
Ageas has offered £300 compensation for the upset caused by its failures in handling the 
claim. I think that, in the circumstances here, that is fair and reasonable. Im not going to 
require it to pay anything more.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against Ageas Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2021. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman