DRN-3991813
The complaint
Mr P complains that AJ Bell Securities Limited trading as AJ Bell Youinvest (A J Bell) has 
offered him inadequate compensation after admitting it failed to give him information it 
shouldve done which resulted in him missing out on a tender offer. He wants AJ Bell to 
compensate him for the loss he says hes made.
What happened
Mr P had an execution only account with A J Bell and he held an investment which Ill refer 
to as his C bond. A J Bell apologised to Mr P for having failed to communicate to him a 
tender offer on C bonds which meant that Mr P did not opt to take part in the offer and so he 
didnt tender any shares. He continued to hold his C bond, receiving interest payments 
meanwhile, until the bonds underwent a full call and redeemed early in January 2022. 
A J Bell said that although Mr P had missed out on the tender offer, the value he actually 
received for his holding plus the interest paid to him meant Mr P was around £725 better off 
financially as a result of what happened. But A J Bell said it accepted that Mr P wasnt sent a 
secure message notifying him about the C bonds tender offer in October 2020 due to human 
error and in recognition of any stress and inconvenience this caused, it offered him a 
goodwill payment  initially set at £50, later on increased to £100.
Our investigator ultimately recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She said she 
had come to believe that Mr P would've taken the tender offer, reinvested the proceeds, and 
likely made some profit beyond what he received at recall of the bonds and interest. To put 
things right, she said A J Bell should pay Mr P compensation for investment loss, based on a 
benchmark that reflected the degree of investment risk she felt he wouldve been 
comfortable taking  plus £300 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Mr P was prepared to settle his complaint on these terms. 
A J Bell took a different view  it replied in detail to say, in summary, that:
- the investigator should explain why she thought Mr P wouldve reinvested the 
proceeds of the C bond if hed taken up the tender offer, when initially shed thought 
something different 
- Mr Ps investment record didnt support the investigators view that he wouldve likely 
reinvested in equities so the benchmark she suggested for calculating loss wasnt fair 
- benchmarks typically used to track bond performance, which A J Bell said better 
reflected Mr Ps likely investment path, had dropped globally during the relevant 
period of time which meant he hadnt suffered any loss as a consequence of its 
failure to notify him of the tender offer
- following each redemption and dividend or interest payment made to Mr P in recent 
years hed withdrawn the proceeds rather than made further investments, which 
supported A J Bells view that he wouldve been unlikely to invest in equities if he had 
taken up the tender offer
- it had already agreed to pay the £300 suggested by the investigator for distress and 
inconvenience.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this. This 
simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts and 
I hope this is helpful. 
A J Bell has already upheld Mr Ps complaint and agreed that it made an error when it failed 
to send him a secure message about the transfer offer. So I dont need to say more about 
the background to this complaint or make any findings about whats already been agreed. 
Im going to concentrate in my decision on what A J Bell should fairly and reasonably do to 
put things right in these circumstances.
Having considered everything very carefully, I have independently come to the same 
conclusions as the investigator about what Mr P is likely to have done, but for A J Bells 
admitted error. And I agree with the way she has suggested A J Bell should put things right.
Ill explain why I say this.
I've carefully listened to call recordings of discussions between Mr P and A J Bell where he 
consistently said that he wouldve taken the tender offer and reinvested the proceeds. Mr P 
has reiterated this information to us since bringing his complaint to this service. 
I must look at all the available information and decide what I think is most likely on a balance 
of probabilities. This means making some reasonable assumptions where theres only 
limited information.
I understand that a large majority of investors in C bonds were tempted to take advantage of 
the tender offer. I've no good reason to think that Mr P wouldnt also have found the offer 
terms attractive and I find it likely that he would have wanted to tender his shares, if only 
hed known about the offer in time. The tender price of the shares was £1.7715 per share 
and Mr P held 75,000 shares. So, but for A J Bells admitted error, Mr P could reasonably 
have expected to receive around £132,862.50 had he been able to elect to tender his entire 
holding when there was an opportunity for him to do so.
Ive carefully considered what Mr P would most likely have done with those investment 
proceeds. 
Despite what A J Bell has told us about what it has seen of Mr Ps investment record, it only 
saw how he managed the investments held on its platform. I think it's fair to say it has only a 
limited overview of the bigger picture in terms of what Mr P did with income generated from 
his investment portfolio. I dont think this puts A J Bell in a position to be able to conclude 
that, had Mr P been able to participate, its unlikely he wouldve invested the proceeds of the 
tender offer in equities and more likely that any investment wouldve been in much less risky 
bonds. 
Mr P retained his C bond investment until recall in 2022 so it looks like he had no more 
pressing need for the money he had tied up in that investment. He had told A J Bell in a 
secure message in December 2020 that he was happy to retain his bonds, providing his 
position would not be prejudiced by not tendering. All this makes me think that if Mr P had 
realised an investment worth £132,862.50 sometime around October 2020, its likely that he 
wouldve reinvested this money as hes told us (and A J Bell) he would have done. So, A J Bell needs to work out whether Mr P has suffered any investment loss as a result of 
Mr P missing out on his lost investment opportunity.   
Central to deciding what A J Bell needs to do to put things right is the question of Mr Ps risk 
approach.
The C bonds appear to have represented a high degree of investment risk as far as I can 
see. And from what Mr P has told us about the investments he holds and his investment 
goals, I find it unlikely he would've been content to invest in the sort of bonds A J Bell has 
suggested would be a fair comparator. Whilst I cant know for sure what Mr P would have 
done, on balance, based on everything I've seen and been told, I think he would've wanted 
to continue to keep his money invested at some degree of risk, as he understood that the 
potential returns on such an investment were commensurately higher and it looks like 
maximising investment gains was an important consideration for Mr P. 
I consider that the benchmark proposed by the investigator for working out investment loss 
broadly matches Mr Ps attitude to risk and reflects what wouldve been an appropriate level 
of risk for Mr Ps reinvestment. 
I find that £300 compensation as recommended by the investigator is fair and reasonable to 
reflect the anxiety and inconvenience caused to Mr P as a result of what happened. Mr P 
hasnt said any more about this and A J Bell has confirmed it accepts this view, so I dont 
need to say more about it.    Putting things right
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr P 
as close to the position he would probably now be in if he had been made aware of the 
tender offer and taken this up.
I take the view that Mr P would have accepted the tender offer and invested the returns. It is 
not possible to say precisely what he would have invested into. But I am satisfied that what 
I have set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr P's circumstances and objectives when 
he invested.
To compensate Mr P fairly AJ Bell should:
- Compare the performance of Mr P's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investment. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
- A J Bell should also pay interest as set out below.
- Pay Mr P £300 in total (if it hasnt already done so) for the distress and 
inconvenience he was caused. 
- Provide details of the calculation to Mr P in a clear, simple format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
Cooperatieve
Rabobank UA
6.567%-FRN 
T1 Perpetual No longer
existsFTSE UK
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return IndexDate the tender 
offer completedceased to be 
held8% simple per 
year on any loss 
from the end 
date to date of 
settlement
Actual value
This means the value of the investment at the end date, including the amount of any interest 
earned between tender offer and full recall.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the above benchmark calculated from the start date using the proceeds that wouldve 
been received at tender.Why is this remedy suitable?
I have chosen this method of compensation because:
- Mr P wanted capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
- The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices 
representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a 
higher return.
- Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr P's circumstances and risk attitude.
- The additional interest is for being deprived of the use of any compensation money 
since the end date.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and AJ Bell Securities Limited trading as AJ Bell Youinvest should 
take the steps set out above to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2023.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman