DRN-3661210
The complaint
Mr W complains that Investec Bank PLC has refused to make reasonable adjustments to 
assist him open a new account.
What happened
Mr W says Investec told him it was closing his account and if he wished to stay as a 
customer would need to apply for a new online account. He says he applied for the new 
account but says his application, which required the use of a smartphone, was rejected. Mr 
W says he has difficulty using a smartphone due to a disability and is being discriminated 
against. He would like Investec to use other methods to allow him to open the account.
Investec says it told Mr W what the issue was with his application, namely that he included a 
photograph of his driving licence in a photograph that should have been of him. It says it 
introduced a new type of account that relies on the use of smartphones and doesnt have the 
ability to make changes to that use.
Mr W brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Investec was entitled to withdraw Mr Ws previous account and was entitled to 
decide what type of account it offered customers. The investigator explained that we couldnt 
decide if the Equality Act 2010 was breached but could look at the complaint to decide if it 
had been dealt with fairly and reasonably, which he thought it had.
Mr W doesnt accept that view and says Investec hasnt treated him fairly and hasnt made 
reasonable adjustments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr W will be disappointed by my decision. I am sure Mr W appreciates that we 
are not Investecs regulator and so its not our role to direct it on the type of accounts it offers 
its customers or how such accounts operate. 
There is no real dispute here that Investec is entitled when exercising its commercial 
judgement to, as here, withdraw an account and replace it with a different type of account. 
The key issue is if Investec ought reasonably to have made reasonable adjustments to the 
new account process to allow Mr W to apply for it.
We are not a court and it would be for a court to decide if there has been a breach of the 
Equality Act 2010 or any other type of legislation. We look at a complaint to decide if a 
business has acted fairly and reasonably.
I appreciate Investec changed the type of account it offered and that the new account 
required smartphone use which Mr W had difficulties with. But I can see that Mr W did get to 
the end of the Investec account opening process and was able to use his telephone to do so. 
And Im satisfied that Investec fairly explained that the problem with the application was that 
Mr Ws photograph contained his driving licence. I can see that Mr W said he didnt wish to 
go through the process again, but Im satisfied that he could have done so.
Overall, Im satisfied this was a new Investec account that required the use of a smartphone. 
I can see that Investec has explained that it cant make reasonable adjustments that avoid 
that use of a smartphone at present. It follows that I cant fairly order Investec to do 
something it cant do, and, in any event, Im satisfied that Mr W was able to make an account 
application. I find this now brings an end to what we in trying to resolve this dispute 
informally can do.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman