DRN-4232652
The complaint
Mr W complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC gave him unsuitable financial advice in 2000, 
when it advised him on investing a lump sum he had inherited.
In particular, Mr W says that as an inexperienced investor, he should not have been advised 
to invest as much as he did.
Mr W is represented in this matter.
What happened
From the information recorded at the time the advice was given in 2000, it appears that Mr 
W was 38 years old and was earning £12,000 per year. The adviser noted Mr W had a net 
disposable income of around £350 per month, no debts, and cash savings of over £175,000 
(including the inheritance Mr W had received) and shares valued at around £12,000. 
Mr Ws attitude to investment risk was assessed as medium. The adviser noted that Mr W 
wanted to invest a lump sum for capital growth over the longer term and to keep £22,500 in 
cash for a planned expense and a further cash reserve of £33,500.
Barclays advised Mr W to invest a total of around £132,000 in its Safety with Growth 
Portfolio. The £132,000 was made up of £120,000 cash from the inheritance Mr W had 
received and the sale of the shares he held, valued at around £12,000 at the time they were 
sold. The Safety with Growth Portfolio was predominantly invested in fixed interest and UK 
equities. 
I understand that in mid-2010 Mr W transferred the stocks and shares ISA part of his 
Barclays portfolio to another provider and encashed the rest of his portfolio. 
In 2022, Mr Ws representative complained to Barclays on his behalf. He said he felt Mr W 
had been advised to invest too much of his money in the portfolio and he felt Mr W should 
have been advised to retain more in deposit based savings.
Barclays did not uphold the complaint. It said it felt its advice had been suitable based on the 
information it had recorded about Mr Ws personal and financial circumstances at the time 
the advice was given. It also noted that in addition to the £33,500 in cash savings that Mr W 
had retained, it understood he had received a further payment from the estate in 2001. In 
view of this it said it was satisfied that Mr W had an adequate level of deposit based savings.
(There was some delay in Barclays responding to Mr Ws complaint and it has paid him £200 
for any trouble or inconvenience this delay caused him.)
Mr Ws representative was not satisfied with Barclays response and referred his complaint 
to this service.
Having carefully considered the complaint our investigator said she didnt think the advice Mr 
W received in 2000 was unsuitable. She said she felt the cash reserve Mr W had retained of 
£33,500 was sufficient, particularly as it appeared Mr W had a monthly surplus of income 
over expenditure of around £350. She also noted that Mr W was working and, given his age 
it was likely he could continue to do so for a number of years. In view of this she said she 
didnt think an investment loss would have a direct impact on his everyday standard of living.
Mr Ws representative did not accept our investigators view. He reiterated that he felt the 
advice was not appropriate. He said:
Although Mr W had no dependants and no mortgage and a good cash reserve, we still feel 
that the amount advised as a proportion of his liquid savings was not appropriate for a 
Medium Risk investor with no previous investment experience. We know that Barclays had 
guidelines themselves for their advisors not to commit too much overall savings when giving 
advice and we believe that 80% is not in line with their own guidance and is excessive for an 
investor with no previous investment experience and small disposable income of £350 per 
month.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think the advice Mr W received from Barclays in 2000 was 
unsuitable. Ill explain why.
As our investigator set out, Mr W had no debts and had a significant monthly surplus of 
income over expenditure. He also retained deposit based savings equal to nearly three 
years of his gross annual income. I understand that these deposit based savings may have 
increased in 2001, with an additional payment from the estate. I am also mindful that as well 
as the £33,500 in cash based deposits Mr W retained, he also kept a further £22,500 in cash 
to meet a planned expenditure. This indicates that Mr W had thought carefully about whether 
he would need access to the money he was investing and allowed for both a significant 
emergency fund and the planned expenditure.
I cant reasonably find, given Mr Ws financial situation at the time the advice was given, that 
the adviser acted unreasonably in recommending that he invest a total of around £132,000 
for capital growth over the longer term. I am also mindful that there is nothing that shows or 
suggests Mr W made any withdrawals from the portfolio until 2010.
Having carefully considered this complaint, I dont think the advice in 2000 was unsuitable 
given Mr Ws personal and financial circumstances, his attitude to investment risk and his 
capacity for loss.
I note that Mr Ws representative has referred to his understanding of internal Barclays 
guidelines. I appreciate he feels that the amount Mr W was advised to invest was not in-line 
with these guidelines. 
As the representative will be aware, this service determines complaints based on what we 
consider to be fair and reasonable  whilst taking account of any relevant regulatory 
requirements. I am not aware of any regulatory requirement that sets out how much an 
investor must retain in cash, or any requirement that directly links the amount of cash 
reserves a consumer must hold to their attitude to investment risk. This is because financial 
advice should be tailored to the consumers personal and financial circumstances as well as 
their attitude to investment risk and capacity for loss.My final decision
My decision is that, for the reasons I have set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2023.
 
Suzannah Stuart
Ombudsman