DRN-4123253
The complaint
A limited company, which Ill refer to as P, complains that The Co-operative Bank Plc failed 
to process its application to switch its banking to them in a timely manner. As a result, P was 
prevented from benefiting from a cash incentive to switch offered by its existing bank. 
P also complains that The Co-op proceeded with Ps switch after the deadline without 
authority and didnt provide any advice or notify P that it wouldnt meet the deadline. 
P is represented by its director, Mr J. 
What happened
P operated a business current account with another bank. This bank invited P to participate 
in its incentivised switching scheme, offering an incentive payment if P successfully moved 
its banking elsewhere. 
Mr J selected The Co-op and in January 2021, expressed Ps interest in switching. The Co-
op acknowledged Ps expression of interest and provided a link to the application process. 
The deadline for the incentivised scheme was 30 June 2021. Ps bank account was opened 
on 5 July 2021 and the switch was completed on 29 July 2021. 
On 23 June 2021, Mr J made a formal complaint on behalf of P and two other companies. 
He said that The Co-op had ignored scores of emails, letters and phone calls and was 
blocking the three business account transfers. 
The Co-op didnt uphold the complaint and Mr J referred it to our service. 
Mr J told us:
Between February 2021 and June 2021, he had contacted The Co-op a large 
number of times and had submitted applications for an account, both electronically 
and in writing. 
The Co-op had ignored him. 
The Co-op had promised to pay and then defaulted on its promises. 
He was led to believe the incentive would still be paid. At no point was he informed 
this would be an issue. 
The Co-op told us:
After P expressed an interest in an account, they didnt hear from it again until 
23 June. 
On 23 June, P sent them a large number of emails, including a formal complaint, and 
a letter. P continued to contact them frequently over the next few days, during which 
they had done their best to help P open its account. 
P didnt submit an application until 29 June 2021. 
Automated switches through the Current Account Switching System (CASS) take 
seven working days so this application was too late to get the incentive. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. He asked Mr J for evidence that P 
had applied for an account before 29 June and any evidence of contact between March and 
June. Mr J gave him some more documents, but our investigator concluded that The Co-op 
hadnt done anything wrong. 
Mr J disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at the matter again. He made the 
following points: 
The only correct finding that could be made was that The Co-op were at fault.
P had supplied The Co-op with everything required to open the account repeatedly 
long before the deadline. 
The bank hadnt provided any advice at any stage and failed to notify him that they 
wouldnt be able to make the switch in time.
Despite failing to make the switch in time, the bank had proceeded to make the 
switch without authority after the deadline. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator, and for largely the 
same reasons.  
Did delays by The Co-op cause P to miss the deadline for switching its account? 
In order to be satisfied that The Co-op caused a delay in Ps switch, Id need to see that P 
had completed an application in good time. Mr J has said he did so, but despite sending us a 
considerable amount of information, all of which I have reviewed carefully, I havent found 
any evidence of a completed application, or indeed any other contact with the bank, between 
early March and 23 June 2021. 
As our investigator mentioned, Mr J has sent us two pieces of evidence that The Co-op cant 
account for  a screenshot from their website dated 28 February beginning thank you, your 
application is complete and an email from 5 March saying your business account 
application has been submitted. Neither of them specify to which business they refer, so I 
cant know if they refer to P. The bank argues that these cant refer to P because they didnt 
receive an application from P until 29 June.  Both of these documents mention that the bank will be in touch regarding next steps and 
potentially request further information. They therefore suggest the start of the process, rather 
than the end of one. But Mr J hasnt supplied any further evidence of contact with the bank 
following these submissions, for example, I would have expected to see emails from the 
bank requesting bank statements and/or proof of address. 
I would also expect that if, following these two items, Mr J heard nothing more at all, then he 
would have followed it up between March and June, given his awareness of the deadline. I 
note that, after our investigator put this to Mr J, he hasnt responded with any evidence of 
any contact in that period. 
Mr Js letter of 21 June 2021 (received by the bank on 23 June 2021), said We applied for 
the transfer of three business accounts on 28 February? The question mark at the end of 
this sentence suggests to me that Mr J was himself uncertain about this statement. The 
letter goes on to include various forms of identification, but theres no suggestion that this 
information had been requested by the bank, rather Mr J seems to be guessing what they 
might need and trying to supply anything he can. 
I accept that one possible explanation of this evidence is that an application was submitted 
for P on either 28 February or 5 March, but that the bank then failed to follow it up or take 
any action on it. Im not persuaded this is more likely than not however, as it would suggest a 
fundamental problem with the banks systems or a deliberate attempt by the bank not to 
process applications. I dont think this would it be in the banks best interests. After all, The 
Co-op chose to be part of the switching scheme because they wanted to accept new 
business. And its not The Co-op who pays the incentive, so theres no reason for them to 
delay and risk disappointing its new customers.  
I know that Mr J has said several times that The Co-op promised to open Ps account by 
28 June 2021 and has therefore effectively breached a contract. I am not sure which 
document Mr J considers to be a promise, but I havent seen any form of contractual 
undertaking to open the account by that date. 
In order to apply for a business account, Mr J needed to click on an online link and then 
complete an online application. The Co-op has provided us with data capture information for 
Mr Js email address, which he used for all three applications. This shows that he first 
expressed an interest on 10 January 2021, he opened an email on 1 March 2021 but it 
shows no activity after that until he clicked on a link on 19 June 2021. The information 
doesnt show what happened after that click, but theres no evidence of Mr J completing the 
process of submitting applications on 19 June. 
In cases like this, where there is contradictory evidence, my role is to consider all the 
evidence and make a decision on the balance of probabilities. In other words, I need to 
decide whats more likely than not to have happened. In this case, taking everything into 
account, the weight of evidence leads me to the conclusion that Mr J didnt submit an 
application until 29 June. As this was too late to complete a switch in time, it follows that I 
dont believe its The Co-ops fault that P didnt receive an incentive payment under the 
switching scheme. 
Should The Co-op have helped P more?
Mr J has complained that The Co-op gave him no advice. I think what he means here is that 
he thinks their customer service was poor. Strictly speaking, they didnt have to give him any 
advice, but of course, I would expect them to be helpful with any questions or difficulties he 
had with the process of switching. I havent seen any evidence of obstructive or misleading actions by the bank. I can also see 
that when Mr J submitted an application on 29 June, the bank spoke to him several times 
and talked him through how to submit it through the correct channel. This suggests to me 
that help was available when Mr J sought it.
I have listened to a phone call from 25 June when Mr J mentions having been given 
incorrect email addresses in a previous call, but I havent heard that previous call. In the 
25 June call, Mr J does mention that he has tried emailing a bascomm email address and 
The Co-ops representative explains that this is an internet banking email address and thats 
why Mr J hasnt had a response. I can also see that in a letter, Mr J mentions having emailed 
two other email accounts at The Co-op, but again, I havent seen these emails. This does 
suggest there was some confusion on the part of Mr J, but I havent seen evidence that any 
misinformation on the part of The Co-op was responsible for it.  
Mr J has suggested that one example of The Co-ops unhelpfulness was their failure to notify 
him that they wouldnt be able to make the switch in time. I dont think that is correct. In the 
phone call Ive already mentioned from 25 June 2021, the banks representative informs him 
that it is too late for an automated switch, as switches take seven working days.
On 28 June 2021, The Co-op emailed Mr J to acknowledge receipt of his complaint. The 
email went on to explain that the switching team hadnt received an account application from 
him and provided the link through which the applications needed to be made. The email also 
said:
As youre aware, the deadline for the switching incentive is 30 June unfortunately, if 
we processed the switch for you, this would take 7 days. Therefore, once your account 
is opened to ensure your account is switched in time to receive the incentive payment, 
by 30 June, you would need to do this manually. This would mean youd have to 
switch any standing orders and direct debits you may have set up yourself, youll also 
need to ensure your balance is transferred to your new accounts with us and your RBS 
accounts are closed by close of business on Wednesday 30 June.  
I think this email was clear in terms of the process, how long it would take and what Mr J 
needed to do to complete the switch on time. 
The banks records show that an application to switch was submitted on behalf of P on 
29 June at 17:30. This followed Mr J submitting an application earlier that day via an 
incorrect channel, which would have resulted in the application taking twelve weeks to 
process. The Co-op phoned Mr J after this and helped him submit the applications through 
the correct channel. Ive listened to the call and the banks representative informed Mr J that 
she would try and get the applications through that day, but she couldnt promise anything as 
due diligence was required. She also explained that she couldnt comment on the deadlines 
or his complaint, as her role was only to help get the account applications correctly 
submitted. 
Ps account was opened four working days later, on 5 July, which I dont consider was an 
unreasonable delay and was in line with the banks published timescales. 
Did The Co-op switch Ps account in July without authorisation? 
I dont think its fair to say that the eventual switch of Ps account, which went through on 
29 July, was unauthorised. P had submitted an application on 29 June and I havent seen 
any evidence that Mr J had attempted to cancel it or even told the bank that he didnt want to 
go ahead if it was too late to get the incentive. So I dont think The Co-op did anything wrong 
in proceeding with the switch. Summary
Having considered everything that Ive been sent by both sides, my conclusion is that The 
Co-op havent made an error in this case. I dont think they delayed Ps application, failed to 
keep a promise or transferred Ps accounts without authorisation. So Im not going to award 
any compensation. 
I know Mr J feels very strongly about this matter, which has clearly been a source of great 
frustration to him. He has been passionate about his belief that he had applied for the 
business accounts well before June. But I have to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances, based on the evidence Im given. And I dont think that this evidence shows 
that The Co-op have done anything wrong. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2023.
 
Louise Bardell
Ombudsman