The complaint
Miss K complains that Lloyds Bank PLC removed her overdraft facility.
What happened
Miss K says she has two Lloyds accounts and in April 2019 consolidated her debts by taking 
out a loan to repay the overdraft on one of the accounts. She says she was asked by Lloyds 
if she wished to keep the £100 overdraft facility on the other account (that was not subject to 
the loan) and she told it she wished to keep it. Miss K says Lloyds removed the overdraft 
facility and says she was given false information. She also says she spent a considerable 
amount of time trying to find out what had happened and doesn't believe Lloyds sent her 
final response letters it claims to have sent.
Miss K would like the overdraft facility reinstated and compensation for the time she has 
spent dealing with this complaint, and for Lloyds poor service.
Lloyds says it agreed a loan to consolidate Miss K's debt and says she was told the 
overdraft facility would be removed and that no further lending would be approved until the 
loan was repaid. It says it wrote to Miss K  twice about her complaint, and isn't responsible 
for the delivery of mail.
Miss K brought her complaint to us but our investigator didn't uphold it. The investigator 
listened to the call and thought Miss K was told the overdraft would be removed and says 
there wasn't evidence of a discussion about it being kept. 
Miss K doesn't accept that view and says there were two accounts and the overdraft that 
was to be removed was on the account that the loan was taken out to repay. She says she 
knows she said she wanted to keep the facility.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to the same 
overall view as the investigator and for similar reasons.
I'm satisfied that Miss K took out a loan to repay the overdraft balance on her account and I 
have no reason to doubt that she was told that Lloyds would not allow any other lending until 
the loan was repaid. An overdraft is a form of lending, and so I don't think Lloyds made a 
mistake or acted unfairly by deciding to remove the £100 overdraft facility from Miss K's 
second account. I'm also satisfied it's up to Lloyds to decide with whom it decides to provide 
lending to when it exercises its commercial judgement. And that is not something I can fairly 
interfere in. I also think an overdraft is repayable on demand and that it can be removed at 
DRN-1345852any stage.
So it follows that I don't think it matters what Miss K was told during the call for the reasons I 
have explained. I'm satisfied that Lloyds was entitled to remove the facility regardless of 
what was said in the call.
I have looked at the evidence and can't see that Miss K was told in any event the overdraft 
would remain. But I have made clear even if Miss K was told that - Lloyds would have been 
entitled to remove it at any stage..
I appreciate that Miss K says she didn't receive Lloyds final response letters that I can see 
were sent twice. I have no doubt Miss K then spent some time trying to find out what Lloyds 
response was. But that is not something I can fairly hold Lloyds responsible for as its not 
responsible for the delivery of the mail.
Overall I'm satisfied Lloyds has dealt fairly with this complaint, and hasn't made a mistake or 
misled Miss K. So in those circumstances, I can't order it to reinstate the overdraft facility or 
pay compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 August 2020
David Singh
Ombudsman