DRN-3303170
Complaint
Mrs H says that TSB Bank Plc (TSB) unfairly recorded a default on her credit file as a 
result of the overdraft on her current account.
Background
One of our adjudicators looked into Mrs Hs concerns. He didnt think that TSB had done 
anything wrong or treated Mrs H unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mrs H disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Hs 
complaint. Ill explain why Ive done so in a little more detail.
It doesnt Mrs H appear to be in dispute that Mrs H was aware she may have been 
overdrawn on her account as a result of using the debit card on her TSB current account 
without having sufficient funds in October 2019. Mrs H says she expected TSB to write to 
her to let her know about this as she didnt have access to internet banking. I can see that 
TSB sent Mrs H no fewer than 9 letters between November 2019 and June 2020 telling her 
that she was overdrawn and that she had insufficient funds in her account. 
I know that Mrs H has suggested she didnt receive any letters from TSB. But Ive seen 
copies of the letters that TSB sent and they were all correctly addressed. So I see no 
obvious reason why Mrs H wouldnt have received at least some of them  especially as the 
vast majority of correctly addressed mail is successfully delivered. Equally, while I appreciate 
that Mrs H may not have had internet banking with TSB, Ive not seen anything to suggest 
that Mrs H took any other steps to contact TSB to discuss the balance she says she knew 
existed on the account either.
Mrs H has also said that it was unfair for TSB to add unarranged overdraft fees to her 
balance. But these fees were applied in line with the terms and conditions and Ive not seen 
anything to suggest that Mrs H got in touch to say that she couldnt pay them or that there 
was any other obvious reason why TSB ought to have realised that it was unfair to add them 
either. 
Furthermore, by July 2019, it was clear that Mrs H hadnt engaged with this debt for a 
number of months and I dont think it would have been fair, reasonable or proportionate for 
TSB to continue ignoring this indefinitely. So by this stage, I would have expected TSB to 
have taken corrective action in the way that it did. 
After all while withdrawing a facility and recording a default or other adverse information, 
might be viewed negatively by other lenders, it does offer the borrower certain protections in 
relation to the overdraft debt  for example it stops interest and further charges being added. 
And even though Mrs H has now offered to pay the amount she was initially overdrawn by 
this doesnt change the fact that it is well over a year since she was overdrawn. So asking 
TSB to remove the default and record that Mrs H paid this debt when it was due when she 
didnt simply doesnt reflect what happened here and would arguably be counterproductive 
and not in Mrs Hs interests or that of any future lender.
Bearing in mind the above, Im satisfied that it was fair and reasonable for TSB to begin the 
process of taking corrective action in relation to Mrs Hs overdraft when it did. As this is the 
case and Mrs H didnt respond to TSBs final termination notice (which was sent in July 2020 
and also correctly addressed using Mrs Hs correspondence details) or take any steps to 
repay what was owed, Im satisfied that TSB was entitled to close Mrs Hs account and 
register the default it did on her credit file. 
So overall and having considered everything, I have not been persuaded to uphold Mrs Hs 
complaint. I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Mrs H. But I hope that shell 
understand the reasons for my decision and at least feel that her concerns have been 
listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman