DRN-1979148
The complaint
Ms M and Mr W complain that ERGO Reiseversicherung AG has turned down a cancellation 
claim they made on their travel insurance policy.
 
What happened
Ms M and Mr W booked a holiday in July 2019. They were due to travel on 29 September 
2019. They took out a travel insurance policy through a price comparison website on 24 
September 2019. Sadly, Ms Ms mother passed away on 29 September 2019 and so Ms M 
and Mr W had to cancel their trip. They made a cancellation claim on their travel insurance 
policy.
ERGO turned down Ms M and Mr Ws claim. It noted that Ms Ms mother had been admitted 
to hospital on 9 September 2019 and had still been an inpatient at the time the policy had 
been taken out. It also noted that the cause of Ms Ms mothers death had been linked to a 
pre-existing medical condition, which shed suffered from before the policy had been 
purchased. This was specifically excluded by the policy terms.
Ms M and Mr W were unhappy with ERGOs decision. They said that Ms Ms mother had 
been admitted to hospital following an accident, in which shed suffered a broken hip and 
shoulder. Her death had been sudden and unexpected. They asked us to look into their 
complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Ms M and Mr Ws complaint should be upheld. She 
acknowledged that Ms Ms mothers death had been sudden. But she thought Ms M and Mr 
W had known that Ms Ms mother suffered from cardiac conditions when they took out the 
policy. Those cardiac conditions had contributed to Ms Ms mothers cause of death. So she 
felt it was fair for ERGO to rely on its policy terms to turn down the claim.
Ms M and Mr W disagreed. They didnt feel their case had been treated fairly; consistently, 
or with compassion. They also said that ERGO hadnt asked them about the health 
conditions of family members when they took out the policy.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think it was fair for ERGO to turn down Ms M and Mr Ws claim. Ill explain 
why.
First, Id like to offer my sincere condolences to Ms M and Mr W for their loss. I dont doubt 
how upsetting their situation mustve been for them and I sympathise with their position. But 
in making my decision, I need to consider, amongst other things, whether ERGO met its 
regulatory obligations to consider their claim fairly and promptly and to not turn down the 
claim unreasonably. So I need to look carefully at the policy terms; the available medical 
evidence and the circumstances of Ms M and Mr Ws claim to decide whether ERGO 
considered it fairly.
Ive first considered the policy terms, as these form the basis of Ms M and Mr Ws contract 
with ERGO. The policy includes a section called Pre-Existing Medical Conditions. One of 
the terms set out in this section says:
This policy does not cover any claim
-Arising from a medical condition of someone you were going to stay with, a Relative, 
a Close Business Associate, a travelling companion or anyone on whose health Your 
trip may depend if You were aware of the medical condition at the time Your Policy 
was issued or Your trip was booked.
I think the policy terms and conditions make it clear that ERGO wont pay claims which are 
caused by a medical condition of a relative which a policyholder knew about when they took 
out the policy. Ive also looked at page two of the policy which sets out a declaration, asking 
a number of questions so that policyholders can check whether theyll be covered in certain 
situations. One of these questions says:
Are you or your travelling companions aware that a Relative, a Close Business Associate, 
someone with whom you are going to stay, or any other person on whose health your trip 
might depend has a medical condition which might lead to cancellation or curtailment of the
trip?
If the answer to this question is yes, the declaration states: We will not pay any claims 
related directly or indirectly to Pre-existing Medical Conditions. You may cancel your Policy 
within the 14 day Cooling off period.
I think the policy terms and conditions make it clear that ERGO wont pay claims which are 
caused by a medical condition of a relative which a policyholder knew about when they took 
out the policy. Id also add that terms like these are very common in travel insurance 
policies. Most, if all not all, travel insurers wont cover claims which happen because of the 
pre-existing medical condition of a close relative or a third party on whom travel depends. So 
most insurers wont ask about the health conditions of people who arent going to be insured 
on the policy at the point of sale because they simply wont agree to cover them.
ERGO has turned down Ms M and Mr Ws claim because it considers that Ms Ms mothers 
death was linked to a medical condition she already had when Ms M and Mr W took out the 
policy, which Ms M knew about. So Ive turned to look closely at the available medical 
evidence to decide whether I think this was a fair conclusion for ERGO to reach.
Ms Ms mothers death certificate says that the immediate cause of her death was an acute 
cardiac event. It lists chronic cardiac failure immediately underneath, which suggests the 
coroner thought that this condition caused the acute cardiac event. The certificate also lists 
atrial fibrillation, together with some other medical conditions as being contributory causes of 
Ms Ms mothers death. And Ms Ms mothers medical records also show that shed 
previously admitted to hospital on 9 July 2019  just over two months before Ms M and Mr W 
took out the policy  suffering from cardiac issues, including atrial fibrillation.  The discharge 
summary also refers to Ms Ms mothers chronic cardiac failure as a secondary diagnosis.
Based on the available medical evidence, it does appear that Ms Ms mothers sad death 
was directly related to a medical condition she already had when Ms M and Mr W took out 
their policy. Ms M and Mr W havent disputed that they knew about Ms Ms mothers cardiac conditions at the time they took out the policy. So on that basis, I think it was fair and 
reasonable for ERGO to conclude that Ms M and Mr Ws claim wasnt covered by the policy 
terms.
I acknowledge that Ms Ms mother had been admitted into hospital following an accident and 
that the injuries shed suffered werent related to her cardiac conditions. I also accept that 
her death was sudden and unexpected. But its also the case that Ms Ms mother was in 
hospital with those injuries at the point the policy was taken out. This means that those 
conditions did exist at the time Ms M and Mr W bought the policy. Therefore, there was a risk 
to ERGO that Ms M and Mr W might need to make a claim as a result of Ms Ms mothers 
admission.
Overall, while I sympathise with Ms M and Mr Ws position, I think it was fair and reasonable 
for ERGO to consider that their claim was excluded by the terms of their policy. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 March 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman