DRN-3211860
The complaint
Miss M complains that Monzo Bank Ltd will not refund the money she lost after paying for 
some items she did not receive.
What happened
Miss M had found a seller who claimed to be selling branded items from well-known retailers 
at half-price. The seller was using an account on a popular image and video sharing social 
media website. Miss M explains that a friend shared the link with her. The friend told her 
theyd been able to buy a phone for just one third of the normal price. 
Miss M says she watched the account for a while and the seller posted messages that 
seemed to show orders were being made for other people. She decided to go ahead. 
Miss M ordered several items and sent several payments between 8 June and 11 June 
2021. All were sent by Faster Payments bank transfer from her Monzo account. The 
payments ranged in value from £50 to £220. In total she sent £630.
Miss M expected the items to arrive on 11 June. But by the following morning nothing had 
turned up. She was blocked by the seller on social media, and realised shed been 
scammed. Miss M reported what had happened to Monzo on 12 June, and asked Monzo to 
carry out a chargeback.
Monzo said the chargeback process could only be used for card payments. It said that 
wasnt an option for bank transfer payments like the ones Miss M had made. However, it did 
contact the bank that held the receiving account and told it to see if it was still possible to 
recover Miss Ms money. Unfortunately, the other bank said that the money had already 
been moved out of the account - on 11 June. By the time Miss M had reported the scam, all 
that remained to be recovered was the sum of £0.78.
Monzo also considered the payments Miss M had made under the Lending Standards 
Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (the CRM Code). The CRM Code provides 
additional protection when customers fall victim to push payments such as this one. But 
Monzo didnt think Miss M had taken enough care to check the seller was legitimate before 
shed sent the payments. It had also shown her a scam warning that said not to go ahead if 
something seemed too good to be true. So Monzo said it wasnt going to reimburse her for 
the money shed lost.
Miss M complained about this. When Monzo said it wasnt willing to change its position, she 
referred her complaint to our service for an impartial review.
Our investigator looked into what had happened. She asked Miss M what checks shed done 
into the seller before sending them money. Miss M told her that the seller had just explained 
they had discounts for several major retailers. The seller hadnt told Miss M how that was 
possible, and she hadnt asked. She hadnt known the seller, but had gone off what other 
people appeared to be saying about orders in the sellers social media posts.
The investigator thought Monzo didnt need to refund Miss M. She said Miss M hadnt had a 
reasonable basis for believing the seller was legitimate.
Miss M didnt agree. Monzo agreed shed been scammed but wasnt refunding her. She 
didnt think this was right or fair.
Miss M has asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint, and the matter has been 
referred to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. 
However, where the customer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a 
fraudster, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the customer 
even though they authorised the payment. 
When thinking about what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive considered whether Monzo 
should have reimbursed Miss M in line with the provisions of the CRM Code it has agreed to 
adhere to and whether it ought to have done more to protect Miss M from the possibility of 
financial harm from fraud. 
Theres no dispute here that Miss M was tricked into making these payments  she was the 
victim of a scam. But this isnt enough, in and of itself, for her to receive a refund of the 
money under the CRM Code. The Code places a level of care on Miss M too.
Before I look at this under the CRM Code, I should confirm that Monzo is correct in what it 
told Miss M about the chargeback process. Unfortunately, this process isnt available when 
payments are made by bank transfer  it can only be applied to card payments. So it just 
wasnt an option for Miss M here, shed sent all of these payments by bank transfer.
The CRM Code 
Monzo has agreed to adhere to the provisions of the Lending Standards Board Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code). If Monzo doesnt refund a scam victim under the 
CRM Code it needs to establish that the customer failed to meet their requisite level of care 
under one or more of the listed exceptions set out in the CRM Code. 
Here Monzo says Miss M didnt do enough to check the seller was legitimate. It says it can 
therefore decline to reimburse Miss M based on the following exception:
In all the circumstances at the time of the payment, in particular the characteristics of 
the Customer and the complexity and sophistication of the APP scam, the Customer 
made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that: (i) the payee was 
the person the Customer was expecting to pay; (ii) the payment was for genuine 
goods or services; and/or (iii) the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate.
There are further exceptions within the CRM Code, but they do not apply in this case.
Ive carefully considered all the evidence and what Miss M has said to the investigator and to 
Monzo. Having done so, Im satisfied that Monzo has been able to establish it can rely on 
this exception. That means it doesnt need to reimburse Miss M for the money she lost to the 
scammer. Ill explain why.
Firstly, Monzo says it gave a scam warning. It said: Could someone be trying to scam you 
and Stop if  The offer sounds to good to be true. Miss M has said she read the warning 
but thought the seller seemed genuine.
While the warning was very relevant to this scam, I dont consider it met the minimum 
requirements of an effective warning under the CRM Code. In saying that, I dont find 
Monzo needed to provide an effective warning here. The scam risk wasnt readily apparent 
based on just the payments Miss M was making  after all she didnt speak or chat with 
Monzo at the time.
So the scam warning Monzo gave was relevant here, and Miss M does acknowledge 
reading it. I also think its fair to say it did prompt Miss M to consider if the seller was genuine 
(she says she thought the seller was) as well as if the deal might be too good to be true.
Miss M was trying to buy items through a social media site thats not really designed to allow 
the sale of items  it was originally set up as a way of sharing photos and videos. Also, the 
accounts are not held in the persons real name. All of this means it is difficult to check 
whether what someone is posting is trustworthy or not. 
The posts Miss M put her trust in appeared to show the seller was fulfilling orders for other 
people. But that seems to all have been based on what the seller was willing to allow to 
appear on their social media feed. As happened with Miss M, it seems likely that the seller 
blocked their victims before they could post negative comments. Again, that is a risk of 
buying through a website without seller rating systems or other buyer protections.
In short there wasnt much she could place her trust in, given the control the seller seems to 
have had over what would be shown on their page. So knowing that, I think Miss M really 
needed to be on her guard here.
However, the information the seller provided her with, apparently showing the items she was 
buying, seems to have just been in the form of a screenshot from the webpages of the actual 
retailers. Theres nothing to suggest the seller was doing anything more than just posting 
copies of those webpages and there was nothing to indicate the seller actually had access to 
those items. I dont think this should have given Miss M reassurance that what she was 
being promised was likely to be true.
There also were some significant warning signs here. The seller claimed to be able to get 
discounts of half-price with several major retailers. Some of the items Miss M was 
purchasing arent commonly sold at such a big discount. So this seems slightly unlikely. But 
Miss M didnt ask the seller how this was possible.
I think in reality these deals were too good to be true. And the evidence provided by the 
seller was insubstantial and couldnt be relied on. I dont think Miss M had seen enough to 
have reasonable confidence that the seller would provide the items promised  or in short, 
that the seller was legitimate or genuine.Overall, Im really sorry to hear of whats happened to Miss M. I can understand why she 
wants to do all that she can to try and recover the money she lost through this scam. She 
sent her money in good faith and did not receive anything in return for it. Money was already 
tight for her, so she was left in a difficult position. 
But I cant fairly hold Monzo responsible for the actions of a scammer. I can only look at the 
banks position on Miss Ms fraud claim and its assessment under the CRM Code. Im 
satisfied the bank processed Miss Ms payments correctly in line with her instructions and it 
did all it could to help her once it knew what had happened. For the reasons Ive explained, 
Monzo has established it can choose not to refund Miss M under the CRM Code. I cant 
fairly ask Monzo to do more than it has done. And so I dont think Monzo is liable to 
reimburse Miss M for what was lost to the scammer  either under the CRM Code or for any 
other applicable reason.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my decision is that I dont uphold Miss Ms complaint about 
Monzo Bank Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman