DRN-3599994
The complaint
A, a limited company, complains about Accelerant Insurance Limiteds (Accelerant) decision 
to decline a claim made under their commercial insurance policy. 
As complaint has been referred by Mr H. Any references to Accelerant include its agents. 
What happened
In March 2021, there was a fire at the commercial premises owned by A. It started in a deep 
fat fryer. Mr H made a claim to Accelerant who arranged for the property, including the fryer, 
to be inspected. A forensic report said the high temperature limit control had been bypassed. 
Mr H says the fryer was installed in the property before he purchased the business some 
months earlier. 
In August 2021, Accelerant sent a letter, declining the claim. It said an attempted repair had 
been carried out on a capillary tube associated with the high temperature limit control and, 
as a result, the control thermostat failed when the fryer was operated. Accelerant said this 
attempted repair wouldnt be in accordance with the manufacturers instructions and 
therefore breached one of the policy terms. 
It also said that while Mr H provided an electrical safety certificate this, in itself, wasnt 
sufficient to show the equipment had been serviced by the manufacturer or specialist 
contractor within a year before the fire. Accelerants view was if the fryer had been serviced, 
the fault with the temperature limit control would have been identified and rectified. Finally, it 
was noted that based on the statements from the employees present at the time of the fire, 
they were not in immediate proximity of the fryer when the fire ignited. For these reasons, 
the claim was declined.
Mr H referred his complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators. They said the thought Accelerant was acting fairly in relying on the policy 
terms to decline the claim. As Mr H didnt agree, this case has been passed to me.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While Ive considered all the information provided, my decision here focuses on what I 
consider to be the central issues to the dispute. I trust both sides wont consider this a 
discourtesy, rather a reflection of this Services informal nature. 
There are three reasons why the claim was declined. Ill consider each of these below.
The operation of the fryer
The forensic report noted when the inspection was carried out on the high temperature limit 
control, temperature sensing bulbs were not connected by the capillary. They had been 
detached and hooked through a loop to connect to the bulb. The overall conclusion was that, 
for each of the frying pans, one of the thermal controls were not operating as it should. As a 
result, the state of the capillary tube was such that it bypassed the high-temperature cut out.  
Accelerant relied on the finding in the forensic report when declining this claim. It said the 
detached capillary tube meant the following policy terms werent complied with:
9. Operation of Deep Fat Frying & Cooking Equipment Condition
It is a condition Precedent to the Insurers liability, in respect of any deep fat frying 
range, frying or cooking equipment that
b) it is installed and operated in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions

d) a high temperature limit control (of a non-self resetting type) is fitted to shut off the 
heat source if the temperature of the fat or oil exceeds 230C...
While I accept neither side has been able to provide a copy of the manufacturers 
instructions, I dont think it is unreasonable for Accelerant to rely on the second clause (d), 
as set out above when declining the claim. Its clear from the findings in the forensic report 
the temperature limit control was not working as it should have been and did not cut off the 
heat when it exceeded a safe limit. 
I think its also more likely than not that any manufacturers instructions would set out the 
temperature control unit needed to be working in such a way that it would shut off a heat 
source if the temperature exceeded a safe limit.
As I havent been provided with any evidence to show the temperature control units were 
working correctly (and I note these were retained by the company that carried out the 
forensic report and are said to still be available), I dont think Accelerant is acting unfairly by 
relying on this clause to decline the claim.
Servicing of the fryer
Ive gone on to consider if the second reason for declining the claim was fair, and I think it 
was. Ill set out why.
The above policy terms go on to state:
i) a service of the range or equipment is carried out by the manufacturer or installer
(or an independent specialist contractor as recommended by them as a competent
company or person) at least once a year
The policy requires any frying range be serviced on an annual basis by a competent 
independent engineer. And the forensic report set out that had the fryer been serviced, the 
bypassed high-temperature cut out would likely have been identified and rectified so it would 
have operated correctly to cut out the temperature when the oil exceeded a certain 
temperature.
Mr H has argued that the Electrical Installation Condition Report dated 16 September 2020 
should be sufficient to show the fryer had been suitably inspected. Ive reviewed the 
certificate which shows various electrical components were tested as part of the inspection. 
The electrical certificate says, in the Guidance for recipients:1. The purpose of this Condition Report is to confirm, so far as reasonably 
practicable, whether or not the electrical installation is in the satisfactory condition for 
continued service
The evidence an electrical safety check was carried out does not appear to be the same as 
an annual service. The certificate does not set out any evidence or assurances a service 
was carried out on the fryer so it would satisfy the above clause of the policy terms. A hasnt 
provided any evidence to show a service was carried out in the 12 months before the fire, 
despite being offered the opportunity to do so. It follows I dont think Accelerant is acting 
unfairly in concluding this clause hasnt been adhered to and relying on it to decline the 
claim.
Employees in vicinity of the fryer
There seems to have been a discussion point about how close the employees present at the 
time of the fire needed to be to the fryer before the fire started. Accelerant was satisfied that, 
based on the statements given by the employees, the final policy term relied on the decline 
the claim had not been met. This policy term required an operator to be in the immediate 
proximity and alongside of the equipment. 
And it does seem, from the comments given in the statements by the two employees, that 
they may not have been alongside the fryer at all times before the fire began. On this basis, I 
dont think Accelerant have acted unfairly in declining their claim on the basis this clause 
seems not to have been adhered to.  
Overall, while Im sorry my decision wont be the one Mr H is hoping for, for the reasons Ive 
given, I dont consider Accelerant has acted unfairly in declining this claim. I appreciate that 
Mr H would have liked Accelerant to have given their answer on the claim more quickly. 
There was a considerable amount of information to be considered and Im not persuaded an 
outcome to the claim could have been provided much sooner than it was. And for the 
reasons Ive given, I dont think Accelerant acted unfairly in declining the claim. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2022.
 
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman