DRN-2964581
The complaint
Mr S complains that American Express Payment Services Limited trading as American
Express (Amex) mismanaged his chargeback claim. 
What happened
Mr S went on a short trip to Italy for a few days between 12 September 2019 and 15 
September 2019. He hired a car in Italy and paid using his Amex card. He also paid an 
amount of £70.50 using a pre-paid voucher. At the end of the trip he returned the car before 
getting the flight home. His account was debited with £1,058.53  for damage to the car, 
location surcharges and refuelling costs. He raised a chargeback claim with Amex. 
£1,058.53 was credited to his Amex account pending investigation of the disputed amounts. 
Eventually, the cost of the damages was debited back to the merchant  leaving the cost of 
the location surcharges and fuel - £244.17. Amex said these were justified and debited Mr S 
account with £244.17 in February 2020.
Mr S complained. He had seen the damage when the car was picked up on 12 September 
2019 and this was shown on the documentation. He said that the car was refuelled just 
before it was returned and showed a garage receipt for £53.45 dated 15 September 2019. 
He said the rental agreement showed that the location surcharges were covered by his pre- 
paid voucher of £70.50. He pointed to his booking confirmation for his pre-paid voucher 
which said What is Included.Airport/city surcharge
Amex said that they agreed that the damages werent the responsibility of Mr S and these 
were debited to the merchant. But they said that as part of the rental agreement, the car 
shouldve been returned with a full tank of fuel  and it wasnt. And, the rental agreement 
said that airport/location surcharges should be paid. They agreed that Mr Ss complaint 
hadnt been logged and dealt with when he called them. They apologised for that and paid 
£100 compensation.
Mr S brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator said Mr S dispute about the 
damage was closed three times before Amex upheld Mr S position. But that aspect of Mr S 
complaint had been dealt with. On the matter of refuelling costs, she felt that it was likely that 
the car had been refuelled before its return, and asked Amex to refund this amount. On 
location surcharge, she said the rental agreement only stated an estimated amount for fees 
and surcharges  so they were subject to change. So, the merchant was justified in 
charging them. She said the fuel charge of EUR 73.50 should be refunded, and any fees 
charged to Mr S as a result should also be returned to him.
Amex didnt agree. They said the fuel charge was justified. Even though there was a receipt 
shown by Mr S, that didnt mean that the car was filled up. But  to close the complaint, they 
offered a goodwill payment to Mr S of £50.  Mr S disagreed and said he wanted an
ombudsman to look at his complaint. 
I reached a provisional decision where I said:
I take a different view to our investigator here. The charges for the alleged damage to the car 
have been waived and recredited to Mr S  so I wont go into that aspect. Ill look at the fuel 
charges and location surcharge  which totalled £244.17. 
Fuel Charges
In summary, I agree that Mr S should be refunded the fuel costs of EUR73.50 plus VAT at 
22%. I dont dispute that the rental agreement says the car shouldve been returned with a 
full tank of fuel. Mr S showed Amex a receipt for fuel of £53.45 paid on 15 September. This 
was timed at 20.58  this may have been UK time  and I can see the car was returned to 
the rental company at 19.25 local time. The car was refuelled at a location which appeared 
to be close to the airport. The car was a two-litre diesel and the amount paid looked about 
right for the car  I looked up its tank capacity and its 63 litres. I looked at fuel prices in Italy 
for September 2019  it was about £1.29 per litre. So  the amount paid by Mr S wasnt the 
equivalent of a full tank  which wouldve been about £61-£62. But  its reasonable to 
conclude that fuel costing £53.45 was enough to bring the tank to full.
Also, I note that the merchant hasnt come forward with any evidence that the tank wasnt 
full e.g. a photo of the fuel gauge.
Location Surcharges
This is where I differ from our investigator. Ive seen the rental agreement. It says, fees and 
surchargeslocation surcharge EUR9.31 plus VAT EUR2.0511.36 It goes on to say 
Estimated Total Charges It also says, estimated amount due EUR 0.49 (after Mr S 
voucher was taken into account for EUR73.99). So  Mr S clearly expected the charges to 
be close to zero for extra charges. And I can see that he underlined EUR 0.49 on signing 
the rental agreement. So  I agree the rental agreement did clause estimated charges.
In the event, an location surcharge of EUR152.66 plus VAT at 22% was charged  EUR 
186.25.
But  the actual charge was EUR 174.89 more than the estimated surcharge  this was over 
1500% more. And  given that the car hire company was an established one, operating from 
an airport location  surely its reasonable to assume that it would know what the 
location/airport surcharge would be  or close to it. So - I dont think it was reasonable to 
charge so much more than the estimated amount.
There was also a road fund licence charge of EUR 6.15 shown as both estimated and 
charged  so I wont address this aspect.
So  my provisional decision is that Amex should refund to Mr S:
The refuelling charge of EUR 89.67. This should be refunded at the rate used when 
Mr S was debited with the amount which I believe was 1.083 - £82.80
The difference between the estimated location surcharge (EUR 11.36) and the actual 
location surcharge (EUR 186.25)  EUR 174.89. This should be refunded at the rate 
used when Mr S was debited with the amount which I believe was 1.083 - £161.49
This has taken Mr S lot of time to address his complaint with Amex  its been going 
on since September 2019  so I think a payment of £100 for distress and 
inconvenience should also be paid.
Its not clear if there have been any late payment fees or interest paid on Mr S Amex account as a result of what happened  if there have, these should be refunded.
Responses to the provisional decision:
Mr S agreed and said that he had been charged late payment fees by Amex. Amex didnt 
respond.
So  I now need to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Because Mr S agreed with the provisional decision, and Amex didnt comment, I wont be 
departing from my original findings and for the reasons I gave in it. So, I will be asking Amex 
to do what I suggested in the provisional decision.
 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. American Express Payment Services Limited trading as American 
Express must:
Refund to Mr S the refuelling charge of £82.80.
Refund to Mr S the difference between the estimated location surcharge and the actual 
location surcharge - £161.49.
Pay Mr S £100 for distress and inconvenience.
Refund any late payment fees or interest charged on Mr S account as a result of what 
happened. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 September 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman