DRN-2841762
The complaint
This is a complaint that Santander UK Plc mis-sold Miss B payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage which 
started in 1978. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Miss B disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
The sale of the PPI took place about 43 years ago and its likely that records and documents 
are incomplete, which means I cant know if Im getting a full picture of what happened. Also, 
I wouldnt expect someone to recall in detail everything that happened so long ago, so it can 
be difficult to know whether its fair to rely fully on everything they now remember.
Ive borne in mind these difficulties in the evidence when considering the case. 
Miss B has said that she was not aware she had PPI at all, and would have claimed on it 
when she went long-term sick in 1996. She says she didnt need PPI because of her very 
good public sector employer benefits, and she would have refused PPI if it had been offered 
to her. 
However, it wouldnt be fair for me to conclude Santander added the PPI without Miss Bs 
consent, unless there was reasonable supporting evidence of it. As a general principle of 
fairness, where someone has said another person or organisation has done something 
wrong, there needs to be reasonable evidence that this probably did happen. It wouldnt be 
fair to make someone prove they didnt do something wrong, especially when it was such a 
very long time ago. 
I think it is quite possible that Miss B could have forgotten she had PPI when, 18 years later, 
she says she could have made a claim. So I cant fairly regard that as strong evidence in 
support of her complaint. And it would be more usual for the PPI to have been mentioned in 
the documents at the time, not least to enable the insurance policy to be set up. Overall, 
without stronger evidence, I cant fairly say the PPI was added without Miss Bs consent. 
Ive looked to see whether there are other reasons the PPI might have been mis-sold  but I 
dont think they apply. 
Santander says it would have recommended the PPI to Miss B, and this means we would 
judge its sales process by a higher standard  it had to make sure the PPI was suitable for 
Miss Bs particular circumstances. However, it looks to me as though a recommendation 
would have been a suitable one, based on what Ive seen of Miss Bs situation at the time: 
Its true that PPI was of questionable value for many people with certain types of 
borrowing. But finding yourself unable to pay a mortgage can lead to significant 
difficulties, and it was often sensible to consider covering yourself with PPI for this.
Its likely Miss B was eligible for the policy, so would have been entitled to make a 
claim if needed. 
The PPI would have paid benefits at the same time as Miss B received any employer 
sick pay, and potentially for longer. It would have paid unemployment benefits in 
addition to any redundancy pay. And it would have put off the time when Miss B 
would need to fall back on any savings or other means she may have had for paying 
the mortgage and other living costs. This all would have put Miss B in a more secure 
position, if shed eventually lost income due to long term sickness or unemployment. 
Ive not been told anything to suggest she couldnt afford the PPI when she took it 
out. 
There are some things the PPI didnt cover (exclusions). But its unlikely Miss B 
would have been affected by any of these.
So I think the PPI would have been potentially useful, and so a recommendation was 
suitable. It would then be up to Miss B to decide whether she wanted to accept the 
recommendation and agree to buy the PPI (assuming she was aware it was being offered  
which I accept she is sure didnt happen).
Its hard to know how well Santander explained the costs and benefits of the policy. But I 
dont anyway think its likely that full and clear information about this would have made a 
difference to whether or not Miss B took the PPI. I say this because, in her circumstances, 
its unlikely this would have made the PPI seem less useful.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 July 2021. 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman