DRN-3041695
The complaint
 Mr V is now a director of two limited companies, which Ill call K and V. Mr V told us that he 
would like to complain on behalf of both companies that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plcs 
errors in updating the mandate for Ks bank account caused losses to both K and V.
I am considering this complaint in respect of K only, for reasons I will explain below.
What happened
 Mr V told us:
At the beginning of 2019, he was Vs director and owned all of Vs shares. At that 
point a third party, who I will call Mr K, was the director of K. Mr K owned Ks shares, 
and was authorised to operate Ks RBS bank account.
He arranged to buy Mr Ks shares in K, with a completion date in May 2019. Mr K 
also agreed to resign as Ks director, and Mr V would then take over. Mr V intended 
to absorb Ks clients into V.
Before completion, Mr K asked RBS what would need to happen to ensure Ks bank 
account could be operated by Mr V only (and not by Mr K). RBS did not provide Mr K 
with the information it should have done, leading to delays for Mr V and associated 
parties.
It took three months for RBS to give him full access to Ks bank account. He had 
telephone access from the end of July 2019, but could not fully access online 
banking until the end of August 2019.
In an attempt to retain Ks customers in the meantime, he had to fund K with around 
£100,000 of his own resources  but some customers still chose not to deal with K 
any longer. Those customers lost confidence in himself and K because he and his 
staff were unable to answer their reasonable questions about payments and other 
matters.
RBSs errors caused losses of around £43,000 to himself, K and V. Those losses 
include additional accountancy costs, extra staff salaries, loss of clients, and loss of 
reputation.
There was also an issue surrounding RBSs fees, but the amounts involved were 
small and were not the reason he decided to refer the matter to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. 
RBS told us:
It accepts that it made errors: there were excessive delays with arranging Online 
Banking [for Mr V and K], and it is unclear why there wasnt an earlier discussion 
about attaching the [K] accounts to [Mr Vs] Bankline profile.
It also accepts that it didnt make Mr V aware of £80 of bank charges, and it has 
refunded that amount back to the accounts the money was taken from.
However, it doesnt think it did anything wrong in preventing access to Ks bank 
account for a short period  and it doesnt think its actions resulted in K or V losing 
any clients. It is not prepared to make any payments in respect of accountancy fees 
or staff salaries.
Overall, it considers that £920 would represent fair compensation for the delays in 
arranging online banking and the lack of clarity over charges.
Everybody, including RBS, agrees that the bank has made some errors here. The dispute is 
about the extent of those errors and the amount of compensation the bank should have to 
pay as a result. Mr V says RBS should pay around £43,000 in respect of losses suffered by 
K and related parties; RBS has offered to pay a further £920 to K.
When our investigator looked at this complaint, he concluded:
Mr K called RBS on 10 May 2019 to discuss the sale of K. At that point, RBS did not 
know that Mr V was intending to purchase shares in K; it only knew that Mr K was 
intending to sell his shares.
Mr K asked RBS what he needed to do to separate Ks banking from his own 
personal banking. RBS told him he needed to change the mandate on Ks account, 
and gave him a link to an online mandate change form. RBS also explained that the 
new owner of Ks shares wouldnt have online access to Ks online banking until the 
mandate was changed  and that the mandate change would take six to ten working 
days.
RBS received a mandate change form in early June, and the mandate change was 
completed after 15 working days.
At this point (late June 2019) K was on RBSs business banking platform and V was 
on its corporate banking platform. That meant Mr V did have some access to Ks 
bank account, but he couldnt access Ks account in the same way that he accessed 
Vs account.
In July 2019 RBS received a request to add K to the same online banking platform as 
V. A member of RBSs staff contacted Mr V to explain that this could be done, that it 
would enable Mr V to see K and Vs accounts together on RBSs Bankline system, 
but it would take three to four weeks.
By the end of August 2019 RBS had arranged for Mr V to have full online access to 
both K and Vs bank accounts. In the meantime, it offered telephone banking access 
to Mr V, said it would help with any transactions or information required, and allowed 
Ks accounts to be viewed on its business banking platform.
Overall, our investigator thought that RBSs offer to pay £920 to compensate K for the delays 
was fair. He said that whilst it did take RBS some time to move Ks account to corporate 
banking, in the meantime Mr V was still able to operate Ks account and make payments. 
Mr V could not do so using his preferred method, but RBS did take reasonable steps to help  including providing telephone access and the services of a relationship manager. So, our 
investigator didnt think the costs incurred were a result of RBSs actions. 
Although our investigator didnt agree that RBSs errors had caused the losses Mr V claims, 
he said that even if RBS had caused those losses he didnt think they had been suffered by 
K. Instead, he thought the losses claimed were losses suffered by V or by Mr V personally  
and he said that we can only consider losses suffered by the complainant itself.
Mr V did not accept our investigators findings. Briefly, he and his solicitor said:
Our investigator was misinformed about some of the relevant dates  for example, 
RBS received the signed mandate form a few days earlier than our investigator 
thought it did.
An RBS relationship manager was aware of the issues from at least mid July 2019, 
but Mr V was still unable to properly speak to anyone at RBS and was still locked out 
of the account. 
Mr V could access Ks digital online banking from early August 2019, but that access 
was futile because he couldnt make transactions online until the end of August 2019. 
It was also impossible to manage a business as complex as K without full online 
access to its bank account.
In total, Mr V and Mr K were locked out of Ks bank account for nearly three months. 
That meant neither of them could continue running the business properly  causing 
great difficulty from an accounting perspective, but also serious issues with Ks 
customers.
The following losses were incurred:
oAdditional accountancy costs for V, because Mr V did not have access to Ks 
accounts.
oLost revenue from high profile clients.
oAdditional salaries paid to Vs staff members as overtime, because Mr V 
needed their assistance in meeting RBSs requirements.
oFees from a financial consultant for additional auditing and client accounting 
services in respect of K.
oWasted management time, amounting to 14 days at Mr Vs daily rate.
If RBS had given the correct advice at the outset when Mr V acquired K  including 
making appropriate enquiries as to the companies use of RBSs commercial and/or 
business banking platforms  then the above losses would not have been suffered. 
Mr V therefore claims those amounts, plus interest.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to further disappoint Mr V, but there is very little I can add to what our investigator 
has already said. 
Firstly, our investigator was right to say that the complainant here is K. Mr V owns shares in 
both K and V, and his intention was in effect to merge the two businesses, but they are nevertheless two distinct limited companies. I accept Mr Vs evidence that K and V are (now) 
inextricably linked, but that doesnt change the fact that they each have their own individual 
legal personality.
This complaint is about RBSs actions in respect of Ks bank account. In other words, the 
complaint arises out of Ks customer relationship with RBS. V is not eligible to complain to 
our service about a third partys bank account, even if it is closely associated with that third 
party. The only person here with a right to complain to the Financial Ombudsman Service 
about Ks bank account is K itself. Mr V, in his capacity as Ks director, can act on Ks behalf 
in bringing that complaint to our service. I make no comment on who, if anyone, would be 
entitled to refer this matter to a court  that is not something I have any power to determine.
As an ombudsman, I can consider complaints where there is an allegation that the 
complainant has suffered (or may suffer) financial loss, material distress or material 
inconvenience. I cannot consider losses suffered by other parties. Again, I make no 
comment on the extent of a courts powers.
In these circumstances, I think our investigator was right to say that RBSs errors were not 
the cause of the losses Mr V claims. I also agree that the banks errors did not cause 
financial loss to K.
I havent seen anything that persuades me that Ks customers decided not to work with Mr V 
and V because of RBSs errors, rather than for any other reason. V and K operate in the 
same market, and it is one in which customers do sometimes choose a different supplier, or 
indeed to take the work V and K were doing in house. I also note that Mr V always intended 
to transfer Ks clients to V  so K would not have kept the clients in any event.
Any salaries or accountancy fees paid by V were clearly not paid by K. Regardless of any 
errors RBS made, I cannot see how the banks errors could have caused K to be responsible 
for those costs. 
I cannot consider whether RBSs errors caused a loss of reputation to Mr V or V, because 
they are not the complainant. So far as K is concerned, for the majority of the relevant period 
Mr V was able to operate Ks bank account (if in an inconvenient way) and so I do not agree 
that the delays RBS caused resulted in damage to Ks reputation. 
Overall, I consider that RBSs offer of £920 is fair in respect of the inconvenience suffered by 
K itself.
 
Putting things right
 I know RBS has already refunded the £80 of bank charges, but I do not know whether it has 
paid the £920. If it has not already done so, I order The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to pay 
£920 to K.
My final decision
 My final decision is that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plcs offer to refund £80 of bank 
charges and pay a further £920 to K in respect of inconvenience is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask K to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2021.
 
Laura ColmanOmbudsman