DRN-3726939
The complaint
Mr M says Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited didnt pay him enough for his written-off car 
when he made a claim on his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Admiral initially offered Mr M £2,685. He said his research showed similar cars advertised for 
sale from £3,994 to £7,000. He said his car had low mileage and that second-hand car 
prices had risen substantially due to the pandemic. Admiral said in its final response letter 
that it had relied on one of the national trade guides to arrive at a market value offer for the 
car. It said it had reduced the sum offered as the car didnt have a full service-history, that 
was bought from a private seller and that it had one past MOT fail.
 
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Ms complaint. She noted that the car had a full 
service-history. She said we dont think its fair to reduce a settlement sum because a car is 
bought from a private seller or has an MOT fail in its history. The investigator looked at two 
other national trade guides, plus the adverts provided by Mr M. Two were for cars similar to 
his (registered in 2010, but with slightly more mileage) advertised at £4,577 and £5,000. The 
investigator thought that they  and all the guides valuations  should be taken into account. 
By then, Admiral had accepted it should have offered Mr M £3,610 for his car (based on two 
of the guides) and it had also offered him £100 compensation. But the investigator thought 
the valuation should be £4,131.80, based on the figures quoted in three of the trade guides, 
and taking the two adverts into account. She proposed that Admiral should pay the 
difference between that sum and the sum it had already paid Mr M, with interest (plus the 
£100 compensation). Mr M agreed with that, but Admiral said it didnt think the adverts were 
persuasive, as they didnt show sales prices. It said it would pay Mr M the average of the 
sums quoted in the three trade guides (£3,694) plus interest and £100 compensation. 
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review. I issued a 
provisional decision in which I proposed that Admiral should pay Mr M £3,909.75 for his car. 
I said I thought it should have paid him £3,694 initially, based on the three trade guides. But I 
also thought that in this particular case it would be fair and reasonable to take into account 
the lower-priced of the two 2010-registered cars Mr M had seen advertised. I noted that the 
two 2010 cars (plus all the older, 2009-registered cars he found advertised) had higher 
mileage than his car - yet were for sale at significantly higher asking prices. I thought the 
range of asking prices as a whole suggested that Mr Ms car was probably worth more than 
£3,694 - and I noted that the investigator found a higher valuation in one of the guides. 
Mr M accepted my provisional findings. Admiral said the trade guides were consistent and 
the prices for the other cars were only asking prices. It thought its offer of £3,694 was fair 
and in line with our guidelines. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We dont usually find advertised prices persuasive - and I agree that the guides figures are 
consistent. But in this case, all but one of the advertised prices is significantly higher than the 
trade guide valuations - for cars with higher mileage. I havent said Admiral should pay Mr M 
the asking price of a 2010 car. But I think it would be fair and reasonable in this instance to 
include one of the advertised, higher prices in the valuation calculation, as the prices shown 
across all the adverts suggests that Mr Ms car is worth more than £3,694. Doing so 
produces an amount thats still well under £600 less than the lower-priced 2010 car, which I 
think is reasonable. 
Taking everything into account, Im still of the view that Admiral should pay Mr M £3,909.75 - 
plus interest on the amount between that and the sum it offered him initially. It should also 
pay him the £100 compensation already offered. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) 
Limited to do the following:
Pay Mr M £3,909.75 for his car
Add interest to the sum between that quoted above and the sum initially offered to Mr 
M, at the simple yearly rate of 8%, from the date of the offer to the date of settlement
Pay Mr M £100 compensation, as already offered 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2022. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman