DRN-3646544
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T are unhappy with Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) as it declined to extend their 
packaged travel insurance policy beyond the age of 80.
What happened
Mr and Mrs T had a travel insurance policy within a packaged account. The policy 
was underwritten by Aviva.  
The policy had an age limit of 70 and then this was extended to the age of 80. Mr and 
Mrs T have said they didnt make use of their policy for two years during the Covid-19 
pandemic and therefore wanted Aviva to extend their policy for a further year as a 
gesture of goodwill.
Aviva said it couldnt extend the age limit for one customer and not others. The terms 
and conditions are clear in that there is an upper age limit for the policy. It also 
couldnt extend the policy for a further year as every insurer has their own 
commercial right to decide what insurance risks it would take on. 
Our investigator looked into Mr and Mrs Ts complaint, He didnt uphold it as he 
thought the terms and conditions were clear and fair in informing customers what the 
age limit would be in order to benefit from the policy. He said he didnt think Aviva 
had treated Mr and Mrs T unfairly. 
Mr and Mrs T didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be referred to an 
ombudsman. So, its been passed to me.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
The terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ts travel insurance policy is clear in 
informing customers of the age limit. In this case, the age limit is 80. Additionally, 
while the policy is renewed each month, once a policyholder reaches 80, they will no 
longer be eligible for any benefit under the policy.
I cant see Aviva has treated Mr and Mrs T any differently to other customers in 
similar circumstances. 
While Aviva has increased the age limit previously, this is because of a policy and 
business decision it made which applied to all its policyholders and not specifically to 
any individuals. 
Its not our role to tell a business on how to apply its policy criteria and eligibility. 
Thats a decision it has made based on various risks it is willing to take and a pricing 
structure it has agreed on a commercial basis. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs Ts comments, but Im not persuaded that Aviva ought to 
extend the age limit for them on a goodwill basis as that would also mean it would be 
treating other customers unfairly. 
Overall, Im satisfied, having taken everything into account, that Aviva hasnt treated 
Mr and Mrs T unfairly or unreasonably. It follows that I dont require Aviva to do 
anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint against Aviva 
Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 September 2022.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman