DRN-3267684
The complain
Mr Js representative, a Claims Management Company (CMC), complains on his behalf that 
he was given unsuitable investment advice by Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited, referred to 
as Aviva.   
In short, the CMC says:
The Illustrated return period was longer than Mr Js planned investment term. 
The investment risk was unnecessary because the likely return from the investment 
was lower than the return that could be achieved from a fixed-rate deposit savings 
account. 
The protection provided for investment losses over 30%, means any losses would be 
locked-in and hed miss out on any subsequent growth. 
What happened
In April 2006, Mr J was advised to invest £6,000 in a With-Profits Investment Bond (the 
bond), invested in the AXA Proctor 70 Fund (the fund). Later the same year, Mr J invested 
a further £2,000 into the fund.  In May 2014, Mr J surrendered the bond and received 
£8,693. 
Aviva didnt uphold the complaint. In short it said:
Mr Js financial circumstances were considered when the recommendation was 
made. 
The recommendation was suitable. It met Mr Js objective and ATR. Mr J also had 
capacity for loss. 
Mr J was made aware of the risks and key features of the investment. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
Theres no dispute that Mr J was made aware of the risks involved with the 
recommendation. He accepted the risks when he decided to proceed with the 
recommendation. 
Given his assets, its apparent that he had some knowledge and experience of 
financial products. 
Information publicly available showed that the fund, historically, had a risk rating of 
four out of seven. This wasnt unsuitable or incompatible with Mr Js balanced ATR. 
Mr J wasnt personally reliant on the funds invested. It was recorded that hed 
earmarked them for the benefit of his children. His income needs were otherwise 
comfortably met, and he had access to enough funds. 
Although his plans to retire within 18 months of the recommendation were likely to 
affect his income, it was recorded that Mr J planned to find new employment to 
replace some of the income. So, Mr J had capacity to accept risk. 
Mr Js desired investment term wasnt clearly defined when the advice was given. It 
was simply recorded 'any money you are looking to invest today is eventually for the 
benefit of your 2 children and you do not need access to the funds.' 
The financial report also considered the recommendation as a medium to long term 
investment, for at least five years. And although it wasnt a fixed term investment, 
the early surrender charge gradually reduced to 0% after six years, so Mr J could end 
the investment any time after that point without incurring a charge. 
If Mr J wanted a short-term investment  and there was nothing to suggest that he 
did  he couldve made this clear to the adviser. 
The adviser could only advise based on the information available, and the adviser 
wasnt aware that Mr J wanted a short-term investment.  
A comparison with a five-year fixed-rate deposit account in hindsight is unfair to 
Aviva. The Bank of England base rate was 4.5% at the time, which was more than 
the mid-rate of return after charges at 4.3%, as set out in the bond illustration. 
Aviva couldnt have known how the interest rate would change in future. Its notable 
that after five years the base rate was only 0.5%. 
Besides, a cash-based account wouldnt have met Mr Js requirements for a chance 
of higher returns. So, although the bond didnt guarantee higher capital growth, it 
gave Mr J an opportunity for it.
The fund also provided a level of capital guarantee which meant that it ensured Mr J 
would receive a unit price of at least 70% of the highest unit price achieved by the 
fund since its launch, thereby providing some significant protection to the capital hed 
invested.   
The CMC disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In 
summary, it said:
Mr J wasnt completely inexperienced however the experience he had was limited. 
He hadnt invested at a balanced risk before. 
The only products that could be considered at the same level were the company 
shares however these werent purchased at par value but were provided via an 
employer matched scheme, so were provided at a much lower price than their true 
value, thereby eliminating the risk.   
It cant accept that a loss of 30% of his capital was appropriate, given that the funds 
were for his daughter. 
The surrender fee drops to zero at the end of five years not six years.  
Mr J was unaware of what term he shouldve been seeking and wasnt in a position 
to be able to explain this. It was the advisers duty to know their customer. 
It was clear that in 18 months Mr J might not be employed or have a lower paid role 
and that he might need to access his money.  
Even if a five-year term plus investment was suitable, it cant accept that the sale of 
a fund whose growth after charges was likely to be lower than similar length fixed 
rate bond was suitable.  
The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change his 
mind. In summary, he said:
Mr J had some experience of financial products carrying an investment risk, therefore 
its likely he wouldve been comfortable with and understood the risk involved. 
His existing assets firmly indicate that he would be familiar with the concept of 
investment risk. 
The level of risk Mr J was advised to take wasnt inconsistent with his ATR or 
capacity for loss, and his acceptance of the advice suggest he was comfortable with 
the risk involved. On the one hand, the CMC is saying that Mr J was unaware of what investment term 
he should have been seeking  and shouldve been advised to invest in a long-term 
fixed rate deposit account. But on the other hand, the CMC implied it was a short-
term investment to provide funds to support his daughter at university, and to provide 
emergency funds during a potential period of unemployment both within an 18-month 
period. Theres a clear contradiction in what the CMC is suggesting.    
Aviva could only provide the recommendation based on the information provided by 
Mr J. Theres no evidence that he needed the money short term. The evidence 
suggests that Mr J earmarked the money for his children, and that he planned to 
retire and seek new employment in 18 months. 
There was no specific reference to when in the future he might need the money. But 
whilst he mightve needed money to cover gaps in his employment, he had access to 
cash savings that he couldve used.   
Despite what the CMC says, a fixed-rate deposit savings account was unlikely to 
have met Mr Js recorded objectives. Ultimately, he wanted an investment that gave 
him a chance of earning more than a cash account. Whilst returns cant be 
guaranteed, greater risk means greater reward. In this instance the recommendation 
was suitable for Mr J given his objectives and didnt involve taking more risk than he 
wanted.  
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
Before I explain further why this is the case, I think its important for me to recognise the 
strength of feeling Mr J has about this matter. The CMC has provided submissions to 
support the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope Mr J wont 
take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as 
much detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised under a separate 
subject heading  its not what Im required to do  in order to reach a decision in this case. I 
appreciate this can be frustrating, but it doesnt mean Im not considering the pertinent 
points. 
My role is to consider the evidence presented by the CMC and Aviva, and reach what I think 
is an independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. In deciding 
whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best industry 
practice, but unlike a court or tribunal Im not bound by this. Its for me to decide, based on 
the information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have happened.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what the CMC says, Im unable to 
safely say that the recommendation to invest in the bond was unsuitable for Mr J. 
Im mindful that he was in his mid-50s, married, with children and due to retire within two 
years. I note Mr H had no financial liabilities, £300 net disposable income and a pension 
benefit that would provide an income in excess of £13,000 a year in due course.  
I also note that Mr J had the following assets:oResidential property worth about £220,000 with no mortgage. 
oEmergency fund worth £2,142. 
oDeposit and cash savings worth £18,708
oMaxi ISA worth £7,000
oShares in his employer worth £25,000, that formed part of his remuneration 
package. 
In the circumstances, I think Mr J was in a reasonably good position to invest and take a risk 
with a portion of his money which he wasnt reliant upon at the time. Im satisfied that Mr Js 
ATR was discussed and that he was willing to take a balanced risk to meet his objective for 
capital growth. 
Whilst I dont think that Mr J was an experienced investor, given his assets Im satisfied that 
he wasnt without investment experience either. Based on what the investigator says, Im 
satisfied that Mr J was aware of the general risks involved and was happy and willing to 
invest his capital in a risk-based investment. 
Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mr J was risk averse or didnt want to take any risk with his 
money in order meet his objective. Despite what the CMC says, I also think that given the 
source of his money its unlikely that Mr J wouldve wanted to invest his money in deposit-
based account. I note the following was recorded in the documentation: We have discussed 
the greater security inherent in deposit type accounts. However, you are prepared to 
exchange this security for the potential for greater returns available in the longer term (i.e. 
five years).  
Just because this mightve been Mr Js first time taking a balanced risk  with a portion of his 
money  doesnt mean the recommendation was unsuitable, or that it carried more risk than 
he was willing to take. 
Im mindful of what the CMC says about Mr Js investments in shares, nevertheless he had 
shares worth £25,000 with his employer that he could probably trade in due course. Even if 
Mr J obtained the shares at a lower price, I dont think this means the risk was (completely) 
eliminated. That notwithstanding, this particular fund provided a degree of capital protection 
which wouldve further reduced his level of exposure to risk. 
On balance, I think its more likely than not Mr J knew what he wanted and made an 
informed decision. If for whatever reason the information recorded on the fact find was 
incorrect or inaccurate  and for example Mr B had little or no investment experience which I 
appreciate isnt the case  he ought reasonably to have raised it with the adviser at the time, 
and not signed the relevant forms confirming the information was correct. 
I appreciate that a specific term for the investment wasnt set in stone. However, it was 
recorded that the investment was for the benefit of Mr Js children and that he didnt need 
access to the funds. It was also recorded that the investment was a medium to long term 
investment with a minimum of five years. This doesnt suggest that Aviva didnt know its 
customer, or that Aviva didnt take sufficient steps to consider Mr Js circumstances. In my 
opinion, it would suggest that an investment for the medium to long term was suitable for Mr 
S, and at no point did he raise any concerns that it wasnt.  
I agree with the investigator that an adviser can only advise based on the information 
provided and there was nothing to suggest that Mr J specifically wanted a short-term 
investment. Im mindful that he maintained the investment for around eight years despite 
there being a charge (albeit on a sliding scale) only for the first five years, but this doesnt 
suggest the term was unsuitable. Despite what the CMC says about Mr Js employment status  18 months from when he took 
out the investment  I note, albeit with the benefit of hindsight, that Mr J had no issue with 
maintaining the investment until 2014. Besides, the adviser was fully aware of Mr Js 
potential change of circumstances, and that Mr J was considering obtaining new 
employment if he needed to but was otherwise happy to follow the recommendation. 
Notwithstanding the CMCs contradictory position referred to by the investigator, if Mr J 
needed additional money after he retired, Im satisfied that he had access to savings that he 
could utilise. Im mindful that instead Mr J chose to invest another £2,000 in the bond later 
the same year which doesnt suggest that he was particularly worried about funds. Besides, I 
note that Mr J wasnt of the traditional retirement age and there was nothing to suggest that 
he couldnt find gainful employment if he wanted to or needed to.   
The above notwithstanding, I note that after investing Mr J was left with access to a 
reasonable amount of funds set aside for any planned expenditure or emergencies, so I 
think he was in a reasonable position to invest a portion of his money in the bond. 
Based on what Aviva says, Im satisfied that alternative investments were also considered 
and discounted because they didnt meet all of Mr Js objectives. With the benefit of 
hindsight it seems its possible that a five-year fixed-rate deposit account mightve given Mr J 
better returns, however that doesnt mean the recommendation was unsuitable, given that 
Mr J wanted to invest his money for potential growth for his children. 
I should make clear that Im not looking at whether (or not) alternative investments were 
more suitable for Mr J, Im only considering whether (or not) the recommendation was 
suitable, and on balance, despite the points made by the CMC I cant say that it wasnt.  
I agree with the investigator that theres no way of knowing how the interest rates would 
change. Although Im mindful that five years after the investment started the Bank of 
England base rate was 0.5% so Mr J was unlikely to receive higher rates of return in the long 
run with the fixed rate deposit account. In any case, as Ive mentioned above, having 
sourced the money from a building society savings account, a different cash-based savings 
account was unlikely to have satisfied Mr Js requirements for the potential for higher capital 
growth than his current portfolio. 
Im mindful of the CMCs point about capital protection, but I dont think this means the same 
thing as protecting only 70% of the capital, after charges. I think protection against over 30% 
loss meant that his entire capital wasnt at risk, unlike some balanced risk investments where 
the investor would be at the risk of losing everything. 
In summary, Ive not seen enough persuasive evidence that the recommendation was 
unsuitable for Mr J when it was recommended in 2006. Or that his ATR wasnt discussed in 
detail or that the adviser got his ATR wrong. 
I appreciate Mr J will be disappointed Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator. 
Furthermore, I realise my decision isnt what he wants to hear. Whilst I appreciate his 
frustration, Im not persuaded to require Aviva to do anything.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or reject my decision before 6 April 2022.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman