DRN-4278661
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain Santander UK Plc gave them a poor rate for a foreign exchange.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W had a cheque, in Euros, for a large amount. Mr and Mrs W paid the cheque 
into Santander and added a note asking to be contacted when it was time to exchange the 
amount from Euros to Sterling.
Mr and Mrs W were told they couldnt call the team responsible for the exchange, but the 
team would contact them. This never happened, and the cheque was exchanged to Sterling 
without any discussion with Mr and Mrs W.
Mr and Mrs W felt the exchange rate they received was worse than they could have got 
elsewhere, so they complained to Santander. Santander said there was no guarantee of the 
rate, and even if Mr and Mrs W had been called, the rate would have been the same.
Unhappy with this response, Mr and Mrs W brought their complaint to this service. An 
investigator looked into things and didnt think Mr and Mrs Ws complaint should be upheld.
The investigator said Santanders terms and conditions say it will use different rates for 
different transactions. The investigator thought it was fair for Santander to determine the rate 
on the day the transaction was completed.
The investigator acknowledged Mr and Mrs W had some poor communication with 
Santander, it shouldnt have told them it would contact them about the rate. But, regardless 
of this, the investigator thought it wouldnt have made a difference to the rate.
Mr and Mrs W didnt agree, and said other businesses were able to confirm the rate before 
the exchange. And Mr and Mrs W felt a large transaction, like the one they were carrying 
out, should benefit from the spot rate or very close to it.
Mr and Mrs W asked for an ombudsman to decide things.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs W were paying in a cheque in Euros. This is quite important, and different from a 
direct transfer from a Euro account to a Sterling account.
Santander cleared the cheque via collection. This means it sent the cheque to the overseas 
bank it was drawn on and asked it to clear the cheque. At this point, Santander is no longer 
in control of when, or if, the cheque will clear.
Once the cheque has been verified by the overseas bank it sends a payment to Santander, 
for onward payment to Mr and Mrs Ws account. Since Santander isnt making the payment, 
and doesnt know when it will receive it, its difficult for it to guarantee a rate.
Ive looked at the rate Mr and Mrs W received. Ive also looked at the Bank of Englands mid-
rate for the day as well as the days high and low rate. The rate Mr and Mrs W received was 
better than the lowest rate for the day.
Looking at the highest rate for the day, theres a difference of less than 1% between this rate 
and the rate Mr and Mrs W received from Santander.
Mr and Mrs W feel Santander should have given them a rate equal, or close to, the spot rate 
for the day. I think Santander has done that. Santanders rate is very close to the highest 
rate for the day.
And since Santander didnt know when the payment was coming in, or when the best rate for 
the day would be, I think Mr and Mrs W have received a very competitive rate.
The cheque Mr and Mrs W paid in was for a large amount of money. So, I accept even a 1% 
variance to the rate has meant a fairly substantial difference in the Sterling amount Mr and 
Mrs W received. But I still think Santanders given Mr and Mrs W a competitive rate.
Mr and Mrs W have mentioned some other businesses which might have given a better rate. 
But these businesses dont appear to accept cheques in foreign currencies, their rates and 
booking facilities are for direct transfers from overseas.
I dont think Mr and Mrs W had any other option but to use a high street bank to clear this 
cheque. And because of this I dont think Santanders poor service, around promising a call 
back from the team responsible for exchanging the cheque, made a difference.
If Mr and Mrs W had been told the right thing by Santander, that they couldnt book a rate for 
this type of payment, I think its likely Mr and Mrs W would have explored other options.
But I think Mr and Mrs W would have found their options limited, and in all likelihood come 
back to Santander to clear the cheque anyway.
I dont think Santanders poor communication caused a loss to Mr and Mrs W, I think theyd 
always have used Santander to clear the cheque. And because of this Mr and Mrs W would 
always have received the rate Santander gave on the day, without the ability to pick a rate.
I dont think Mr and Mrs W were ever in a position where they could pick a rate with 
Santander.
And since the rate Mr and Mrs W received was very close to the days high rate, I dont think 
Santander needs to do anything to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 October 2023.
 Chris Russ
Ombudsman