DRN-4019327
The complaint
Mrs C complains about advice she received from Morton Fraser LLP (at the time Skene 
Edwards). She complains that she was advised to release more equity from her property 
than she needed, and as a result, this has significantly eroded the value of her home for no 
real benefit. Furthermore, she believes the additional money was used to pay fees and 
commission  and was never invested for her. She feels that the advice she received wasnt 
suitable and has now caused her a financial loss. 
What happened
In 2005 Mrs C completed a fact find with her adviser from Skene Edwards and a need for 
some borrowing was identified. The evidence on file indicates that:
Mrs C was receiving an income from an existing investment worth around £50,000 
and some other sources. At the time, that income was sufficient to meet her needs. 
But it was also clear that she was depleting her existing investment bond by virtue of 
the level of income she was taking from it. 
The fact find revealed that she was not financially sophisticated or experienced, and 
she only had one existing investment. 
She said that she wanted to raise enough money to cover a small amount of 
expenditure and perhaps the odd luxury, as well as small gifts to family and a 
holiday. 
As a result of these needs, Skene Edwards recommended that Mrs C take out a lifetime 
mortgage with Scottish Widows. In her recommendation letter, the adviser from Skene 
Edwards said that Mrs C wanted a cash reserve to provide her with some form of security 
blanket in times of need in the future. She said that Mrs C had the option of withdrawing 
further sums from the bond or taking money out of the house  and whilst the latter option 
was more expensive, it would leave Mrs C with cash deposits in the future that would be 
available to her. In addition, the adviser said that in the future, Mrs C may have care costs 
that shed be unable to afford  she explained that there was a possibility that should [Mrs 
C] need a reasonable amount of care in the future and [was] unable to pay for this [Mrs C] 
may well have to sell [her] house to pay for those costs. 
The adviser said that Mrs C had identified approximately £18,500 worth of borrowing that 
she needed for various works on her home. However, she concluded that it might be 
advantageous to maximise the borrowing on the equity release scheme to provide peace of 
mind and perhaps a little security in the future. 
She said that cash does create a maximum flexibility for whatever may happen in the future 
and furthermore could let Mrs C stay in [her] home for longer.
The adviser explained that it was not always possible to return to the lender to obtain further 
monies from the property at a later date and therefore she recommended Mrs C maximise 
the borrowing she could at the time. As Mrs Cs home was valued at around £200,000 at the 
time, this amounted to £54,000. The adviser explained that whilst she wasnt expecting Mrs 
C to spend the money that can be released from the property, she thought Mrs C could 
transfer some of the assets from bricks and mortar into cash to assist you. 
The adviser recommended Scottish Widows because, although it wasnt necessarily the 
cheapest product on the market, the adviser felt that it led the market in terms of service 
and clarity. She also explained that the loan had a specific guarantee by the lender that her 
home would never be sold while she was still able to live in it. Among other things, the 
adviser explained that she thought it would be hard to visualise how most of the house price 
could be lost to the lender in the first 15 years. However, she said that this might not be the 
case if Mrs C survived for longer than 15 years. Ultimately though, the adviser said that 
hopefully the increase in the value of the house would pay for the interest accrued no 
matter how long Mrs C lived. She said that the net value of the house should always remain 
the same  although no guarantees could be made. 
Finally, the adviser explained that with the approximately £54,000 released, around £52,000 
would be left after payment of fees. The adviser recommended that they set up sufficient 
funds to cover various costs anticipated in the next 12 months, and sufficient funds to cover 
any emergency funding over the longer period. She then recommended any additional 
monies be lodged into ISA accounts or ISA investments. 
Mrs C completed the necessary paperwork, and the equity was released from her property. 
She initially received £18,500 and the remaining monies (around £34,400) remained in 
Skene Edwardss client account. Further money was deposited in Mrs Cs accounts in 
October 2008 and November 2008, totalling £15,000. In the meantime, Skene Edwards 
continued levying fees on this money ,and the balance of around £14,000 was transferred to 
another firm when Mrs Cs adviser moved in 2010. Between 2010 and 2019 this new firm 
also continued levying fees ,and eventually the balance of around £7,700 was paid to Mrs C 
in 2019. 
I issued a provisional decision in February 2023. I firstly confirmed that in my view the 
complaint had been raised in time and I could consider it. I then gave my provisional 
conclusions on the merits of Mrs Cs complaint. I said:
Having considered the evidence carefully, Im not minded to change my preliminary 
conclusions which I shared with both parties in September 2022. 
I acknowledge that theres a great deal of evidence which is missing or incomplete  and in 
those circumstances, Im required to decide matters based on what I consider is most likely 
to have happened. 
In this case, Im satisfied that the recommendation letter gives an accurate description of the 
basis of the advice Mrs C was given, and the reasons why she was recommended to take 
out the maximum available loan. 
I acknowledge that Mrs C has indicated that in 2005 she had another investment that she 
couldve used to pay for the works to her property. I agree that this might also have been a 
suitable alternative. And I also agree that this option shouldve been explored in detail with 
Mrs C. 
For example, the letter simply makes reference to not encashing the bond on the basis that 
Mrs C would have cash deposits available to her at a later date  without any discussion of 
the costs of this benefit compared to encashing her bond. The adviser then appears to 
confuse matters, by discussing the possibility of Mrs C being required to sell her home in 
order to pay for future care home fees, but not encash the bond  even though the very recommendation she was making was likely to erode the value of her home for this purpose. 
So Im not persuaded the adviser did consider this option thoroughly enough  nor did she 
consider or explore the possibility of combining some encashment from the bond with some 
borrowing, in order to reduce the cost to Mrs C as much as possible. 
However, when considering what probably wouldve happened at the time, even if the 
adviser had properly explored this option, I need to take into account Mrs Cs circumstances 
as they were, and the contemporaneous evidence I have available. This shows that Mrs C 
was heavily reliant on the bond for a large proportion of her income  so much so that she 
was in fact drawing down more income than the bond was producing. 
I therefore dont consider it likely that Mrs C wouldve agreed to encash a portion of this 
investment for the work she required doing to the property  and Im not persuaded the 
adviser treated her unfairly by not recommending she do this. 
Given what Ive said above, Im satisfied the evidence shows, on balance, that in 2005 Mrs C 
expressed a need to raise capital for work she needed to do to her property. Given Mrs Cs 
financial circumstances, Im not persuaded an equity release product such as the one she 
took out was inherently unsuitable for her  particularly given that her home was 
unencumbered at the time. Im satisfied it allowed her to raise the capital she said she 
needed for the important work she needed to do to her home, while at the same time not 
increasing her monthly expenses, given her low income. 
However, its clear to me that Mrs C didnt need all of the equity that was released. Her 
stated need was around £18,500 and Ive seen no persuasive evidence for why the adviser 
considered it suitable to recommend she take out an additional £35,500. 
The recommendation letter suggests that this was in order to provide Mrs C with peace of 
mind and perhaps a little security in the future, as well as giving Mrs C maximum flexibility 
 including allowing Mrs C to stay in her home for longer. But there was no analysis in the 
recommendation letter about how these aims were going to be achieved through releasing 
more equity than Mrs C actually needed  for example, theres no particular mention of how 
the adviser proposed this cash would give Mrs C more flexibility. 
And theres no discussion about why this would allow Mrs C to stay in her home for longer  
other than a guarantee, from the provider, that her home would not be forcibly sold while she 
was still in it. 
Furthermore, Mrs C was also told that it wasnt always possible to return to the lender for 
future cash  and so it would be sensible to maximise the borrowing you can make at 
present. But here too there was no apparent discussion with Mrs C about this  for example, 
theres no evidence the adviser contacted other providers to determine the likelihood of Mrs 
C being able to borrow in future, or how long she might have to do so. And there was no 
weighing up over the obvious downside  the rolling up of interest, which was compounding 
on a yearly basis. 
Another reason the adviser gave for taking out the maximum amount was to do with property 
valuations being, according to the adviser, high at the time. The advisers opinion was that 
Mrs C should take advantage of market conditions. 
In my view this was not a reason to borrow more money than Mrs C actually needed  and 
also undermined the advisers view that property prices would continue to rise thereby 
offsetting the interest shew as being charged. If this was true, there was no particular reason 
for Mrs C to take advantage of market conditions at that moment in time. Either way, Ive 
seen no evidence that any of this was properly considered or discussed with Mrs C in a way that she could fully appreciate the risks to the advisers recommendations. 
Finally, the adviser also said that she recommended that additional monies be logged into 
ISA accounts or perhaps ISA investments. And here too, the adviser simply covers this 
aspect off in a cursory manner  there was no actual discussion here about how Mrs Cs 
money might be invested, when or what the aim of such an investment would be. 
For example, it isnt clear to me how the adviser wouldve gone about doing this. Given the 
interest on the loan was 6.44%, any investment wouldve needed to match or exceed this, 
after fees. Its possible that existing ISAs at the time may have enabled her to achieve this  
Im aware that the base rate was 4.5%-5% at the time. 
However, this would not have lasted for the duration of the loan, at some point further 
discussions wouldve been needed to decide whether to extinguish a part of the loan with the 
balance of money available or take other action. 
It is not my role to speculate in this way  and I dont think it would be fair on either party. 
Instead, my role is to take the evidence I have before me and decide, based on that, what 
wouldve been the suitable option for Mrs C at the time  taking it all into account. And my 
current thinking is that even if the adviser had properly looked into investing the balance of 
the loan for Mrs C, taking out more equity from her property than she needed would still not 
have been suitable for her. Its clear that Mrs C wouldve been unable to take much risk with 
this money, and base rates were only at around 5% for three years after the advice. This 
means that in a short period of time, I think Mrs C would still have been in a position of 
deciding to immediately repay some of the loan in order to lessen the impact of the 
compounding interest. 
Finally, Im also unclear about why the particular provider was chosen. The recommendation 
acknowledges that this was not necessarily the cheapest product available, but makes a 
vague claim about the provider leading the market in terms of service and clarity. But its 
not clear to me how this would benefit Mrs C  the service she was after was a 
straightforward equity release, for which she was being advised. I can see no reason why a 
more expensive product needed to be chosen for her at the time  and in my view, given the 
future implications of this loan, this needed to be discussed in far more detail with Mrs C. 
For all these reasons Im satisfied that recommending Mrs C take out over £35,000 more 
than she needed was not suitable for her nor was it in her best interests. At that moment in 
time Mrs C only needed a specific amount of capital for a very defined need. The additional 
money that was released to her was clearly not needed  the majority of it was left on 
account, first with one firm, and then passed over to another firm where it remained in cash 
until 2019. This means that Mrs C is now left with a significant debt  and the majority of this 
debt she had no need for, nor did she derive any benefit from.
Ultimately, I consider it was for the adviser to cautiously and thoroughly explain to Mrs C that 
borrowing in this way to pay for the odd luxury or for more flexibility had a cost that was not 
suitable for Mrs C, and was not in her interests. In my view, had the adviser done this, Mrs C 
would not have wanted to borrow more than she needed. 
So taking all this into account, Im satisfied Mrs C has not been treated fairly and this means 
Morton Fraser LLP needs to put things right for Mrs C. 
Ive given some additional thought to how to put things right since my email to the parties in 
September. Ive decided that in order for Morton Fraser LLP to fairly take into account the 
benefit of the capital which Mrs C has had, it needs to pay the compensation to Mrs C. It will 
then be for Mrs C to decide how she wishes proceed  whether by paying off a substantial portion of the loan on her property or not. Therefore, in my view, Morton Fraser LLP needs 
to:
Work out what Mrs Cs outstanding balance on her equity release loan would be if 
she had only taken out £18,500  this being the sum she had indicated to her adviser 
she needed. 
Pay the difference directly to her, deducting any capital sums paid to Mrs C, but no 
interest or fees. The end date for this calculation will be the date when Morton Fraser 
LLP anticipates the payment being made to Mrs C. 
Its clear that all fees were deducted from this money and therefore will be 
compensated as above. For the avoidance of doubt, Im satisfied it would not be fair 
for Mrs Cs compensation to be reduced by the fees that were deducted during this 
period. 
Pay Mrs C £1,000 compensation for the distress and inconvenience this matter has 
caused her. Ive increased the amount of compensation because, on reflection, Mrs 
C was not only let down by the unsuitable advice she received in 2005  she has 
been let down and taken advantage of during the course of a number of years, when 
money she had borrowed was being used to pay fees for services theres no 
evidence she received, wanted or benefited from. Had the adviser suitably advised 
her at the time, all this unnecessary upset and stress wouldve been avoided. 
By compensating Mrs C in the way Ive described above, Im satisfied she will be put back as 
close as possible to the position she wouldve been in had she not been given unsuitable 
advice. 
Morton Fraser didnt agree with my provisional decision. It said:
It noted that valuations it undertook online for house prices in the same areas as Mrs 
Cs had increased in value, showing that the equity release mortgage had functioned 
as intended. 
It said that the details of the complaint as set out did not correspond with the basis 
upon which the Provisional Decision is made. 
It disagreed with my conclusion that Mrs Cs income, in 2005, was sufficient to meet 
her needs. It said that the October 2005 report from Skene Edwards showed that 
Mrs C was looking to fund expenditure that could not be met from her income. 
The letter said that Mrs C would discuss matters with family members and stressed 
that it was important Mrs Cs children were aware of what was being done. It 
explained that Mrs C wanted expenses to be paid our of the released money, and 
she was also given a warning that if the property was not in the most sought after 
area, there was a risk that the expected annual rise in your house valuation might 
not equate to the cost of the interest charged. 
The balance of around £34,400 was held for Mrs C in accordance with Law Society 
of Scotland regulations in Skene Edwards client accounts until the transfer in 2010. 
Morton Fraser said that the transfer appeared to have happened after a meeting with 
Mrs C herself. 
It provided copies of invoices that were available, showing that each firm was providing a range or services to the Claimant (including in relation to the ERM but 
also on a range of other matters) and it is clear from the correspondence that the 
arrangement with the Claimant [was that she] would have expected those fees and 
outlays to have been met from the funds held on account. It said that to the extent 
that those fees and outlays are not ultimately met by the Claimant we would suggest 
the Claimant enjoys unjust enrichment. 
Morton Fraser said that in December 2005 Mrs C was made aware of the monies 
held  but it wasnt clear why no arrangements were made by the Claimant to take 
forward any such investment. But what it did know was that two payments were 
made to Mrs C in October and November 2008. It also said that Mrs C was aware in 
2010 that there was money remaining from the ERM. It said that from 2010 onwards 
the money was held by a different firm and Morton Fraser was not responsible for the 
lack of any investment of that money from that point onwards. 
Morton Fraser said that Mrs C was aware that the balance of the funds were being 
held for her by Skene Edwards. It said that it assumed any fees and any outlays met 
from the funds would only have been with client approval. It said that a complaint 
about this aspect would be time-barred given how long ago it occurred. 
It disagreed with the points I made about the suitability letter of October 2005, in 
particular around the advisers statements about it being the right time to borrow, that 
she may not be able to borrow in future, and that taking out the ERM might allow Mrs 
C to stay in her home for longer. 
It disagreed that Mrs C didnt need to the full amount, and repeated the reasons 
given in the suitability letter for why Mrs C was advised to maximise her borrowing  
in particular, that the additional borrowing would allow Mrs C to create a cash 
reserve. 
It said that no lender would be bound in perpetuity to provide further lending, and so 
it wasnt wrong for the adviser to have said that it might not have been possible in 
future for Mrs C to take out further borrowing. It also said that it assumed drawdown 
wasnt taken forward on account of the advisers investigations indicating that would 
be more costly. 
It said that it wasnt clear why the money was not invested or discussed in January 
2006. It also said that the rate being offered by Scottish Widows at the time was 
competitive. 
It disagreed with my conclusion that the advice was unsuitable and said that Mrs C 
had benefited from this additional borrowing. 
It also disagreed with my method of compensation  it said that the deduction from 
the difference ought to include the interest on such capital sums that Mrs C benefited 
from. It also said that Mrs C benefited from services offered by Skene Edwards, and 
therefore the deduction from the difference referred to should include rather than 
exclude those fees. 
Mrs C has also benefited from the increase in value of her property, and therefore 
that increase in value should be deducted from the difference to the extent that it 
reflect increase in value referable to the period prior to the point at which those 
capital sums were available for payment to the Claimant. 
Any losses from not investing the money should be borne by Mrs C as she had control of that investment process. 
Finally, it said that any award for distress and inconvenience in this matter should 
reflect the above and that Skene Edwards / Morton Fraser had no involvement with 
matters after transferring the remaining balance of funds in 2010. 
Mrs C agreed with my provisional decision and made some additional submissions as well:
She said she didnt think Morton Fraser had made new arguments about the 
suitability of the advice she had received. 
The valuations of Mrs Cs house provided by Morton Fraser were not reliable, 
because there were a number of different properties on that same road of various 
styles. She said that her property was valued in 2019 at £250,000 and it wasnt 
accurate to suggest that it was almost worth double that now. 
She said that her intention in October 2005, and the wording of that letter, indicates it 
was little gifts she intended to make, not large ones. 
There was no meeting with her in 2010 when the balance of the ERM was 
transferred to another firm. It was only in 2018 that she discovered that this money 
had never been invested. 
The invoice provided from December 2005 was for the arrangement of the ERM  
and she disagreed that it was clear from any other correspondence what the 
arrangement was or what other fees and outlays had been agreed with Mrs C at the 
time. As no invoices were issued to her at the time, she had no opportunity to 
challenge the fees. She disagreed there was any unjust enrichment. 
There was no evidence that she was aware in 2010 that the money was transferred 
over to another firm, and there was no evidence she requested such a transfer. She 
disagreed that there was any discussion with the adviser about future borrowing and 
said that the October 2005 letter extolled the benefits of maximising the ERM, and 
there was only one sentence about no guarantees being given. 
She said that just as there were no instructions to invest the money, there were also 
no instructions to the adviser to retain the balance. If the adviser is saying that it was 
Mrs Cs decision not to invest the money, why was the balance of over £34,000 not 
returned to her? The adviser deciding to retain the balance in the client account 
showed that there needed to be further discussion regarding what was to happen 
with the money. 
Mrs C said there was no discussion at the time about needing to access the money 
urgently or that shed be unable to pay any fees upfront. She also said that if the 
product had indeed been the cheapest on the market, the suitability letter would have 
said so. 
The fact that Mrs C lent to a family member wasnt relevant for the purposes of 
establishing whether it was suitable, years prior, to recommend that she maximise 
the amount of borrowing. 
Finally she disagreed that she had received any benefit of any services in respect of 
which fees and outlays were paid. No invoices were issued and therefore it was 
impossible to justify what services were provided. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have provided submissions, which Ive summarised in some detail above. I want 
to make clear that this final decision will not address every submission or point that has been 
raised unless I consider it relevant to my findings.
I also want to make clear that I dont agree the basis for my provisional decision was 
different to the basis for the complaint  although even if that were the case, the service has 
a well established inquisitorial remit. Mrs C complained to this service about the advice she 
received, including that she was advised to borrow more money than she needed, that she 
was never told the money was not invested and that it was merely used to pay her advisers 
fees. I provisionally concluded that she was in fact given unsuitable advice  and 
furthermore found that the adviser did not invest the money as she had indicated, and that it 
was kept in a client account paying fees, and therefore not providing a benefit for her. So Im 
satisfied that my provisional findings address the core of the complaint that Mrs C brought to 
the service.
The suitability of the advice
In terms of the advice itself, Im not persuaded Morton Fraser has engaged with the key 
reason why I dont consider it was fair and reasonable to have concluded that borrowing 
much more than Mrs C had indicated she needed was suitable for her. 
When advising Mrs C, the adviser needed to ensure that her recommendations were 
suitable for her and overall in her best interests. In other words, she needed to weigh up 
what Mrs C was explaining she wanted the money for, versus the risks and expense of the 
various options available to Mrs C. 
As I explained in my provisional decision, its more likely than not that given Mrs Cs financial 
circumstances, she had limited if any alternatives to releasing equity from her property. But 
given the cost of borrowing money in this way, and the impact this could have on Mrs Cs 
future stake in her own home, the adviser needed to ensure that Mrs C was only borrowing 
the money she said she needed at that moment in time. I dont agree that uncertainty over 
whether Mrs C could borrow in future was a relevant consideration. I say this because the 
adviser couldnt have known what Mrs Cs future options might be - Mrs C did have liquid 
assets she could call upon in the event of an emergency. 
Although Morton Fraser disagrees with what Ive said about Mrs Cs income in 2005 meeting 
her needs, its clear to me that at no point did Mrs C indicate she needed to borrow money 
from her home in order to supplement a shortfall in her income. And indeed, theres no 
assessment by the adviser of what cash reserves Mrs C thought she needed or how many 
months of outgoings or expenditure that would amount to. 
Instead, whats clear from the limited paperwork is that Mrs C felt that she needed a lump 
sum for a very specific purpose. 
But it was the adviser that recommended Mrs C take out more than she needed: 
Although initially you were thinking of just borrowing sufficient to cover a small amount of 
expenditure and perhaps the odd luxury for yourself, I think it might be advantageous to maximise the borrowing on the equity release scheme to provide peace of mind and perhaps 
a little security in the future. 
In my view, it was not fair and reasonable for the adviser to have encouraged Mrs C to 
borrow more in this way  and Im not persuaded it was fair and reasonable for her to have 
concluded that this was a suitable recommendation for Mrs C, given her overall financial 
circumstances and what she had explained she needed the money for. I also think it was 
misleading for the adviser to have gone on to say that this could also let you stay in your 
home for longer  there was no specific reason to talk about the chances of Mrs C staying in 
her home and theres no evidence that this was something Mrs C had indicated she was 
afraid of or needed help with. 
Furthermore, theres insufficient evidence to explain why drawdown of the ERM wasnt 
considered, given that it was clear Mrs C didnt have an immediate need for all the £54,000 
the adviser recommended she borrow. Nor is there sufficient evidence to show what market 
research was carried out at the time to ensure that Mrs C did not take out the most 
expensive product available. Given that the majority of the money Mrs C took out remained 
in various client accounts throughout the years, its clear to me that not only did she not need 
all the cash that was released, she also didnt need it all in one lump sum - so drawdown 
would very likely have been a better and less expensive option for her. 
In relation to how the money was held, I make no finding on whether or not it was held in 
accordance with Law Society of Scotland regulations, because thats not the key issue. The 
mere fact that money which was borrowed on Mrs Cs home, and which was supposedly 
released for her benefit, was not in fact held by her is the issue in dispute. In my view, 
holding the majority of this cash in a client account where it was depleting by virtue of the 
fees being taken, while interest on the loan was compounding, was not in Mrs Cs best 
interests  and Ive seen insufficient evidence from Morton Fraser to persuade me otherwise. 
In terms of the transfer in 2010, Mrs C is adamant that she was not aware of what money 
was being held for her or where. Ive seen insufficient evidence to persuade me that she was 
made aware. As I mentioned in my provisional decision, Ive seen a statement of Mrs Cs 
assets produced for Mrs C in August 2011 by the same advisor working for a different firm, 
which did not show the balance of the ERM which had been transferred over.
In terms of what was supposed to happen to this money once it was released by Scottish 
Widows, Im not persuaded by Morton Frasers submissions. It wasnt for Mrs C to make 
arrangements to take forward the investment  primarily because she didnt have the 
money. Her adviser had specifically discussed investing the money with her and had used it 
as one of the reasons to recommend that Mrs C borrow more than she originally intended. 
Given that it was the adviser that held the money, not Mrs C, Im satisfied that it was not Mrs 
Cs fault if that money remained uninvested. After all, the advisers own fact find had 
identified that Mrs C was not sophisticated or experienced, and the adviser had an obligation 
to have regard to her interests and her information needs. The adviser ought to have 
explained in detail what would happen to the remaining £35,000 which she had 
recommended Mrs C borrow. Im satisfied that the investment of this money was clearly 
something that the adviser needed to take forward. And she needed to do this either by 
providing additional advice to Mrs C about where the balance of the ERM needed to be 
invested, or by returning that money to Mrs C so that she could have the benefit of it. 
Instead, neither of these two things happened  and Im satisfied that wasnt fair and 
reasonable.
SummaryFor the reasons Ive given, Im satisfied Mrs C had limited if any benefit from the additional 
borrowing  the very fact that it took 3 years for further payments out of this money to be 
made to her demonstrates this. During that 3 year period, however, the interest continued to 
compound month on month. It ought to have been clear to the adviser that Mrs Cs property 
was her biggest and most important asset  and the biggest risk to the advisers 
recommendation was the slow and gradual erosion of this asset for purposes which, as Ive 
said above, were not in line with Mrs Cs best interests. 
In my view, the suitability letter simply did not properly assess this risk in light of Mrs Cs 
objectives and circumstances, and Im satisfied the adviser took insufficient steps at that 
time to ensure that Mrs C understood the implications of borrowing so much. I dont agree 
this was fair and reasonable, and Im satisfied Mrs C should not have been in this position. 
Furthermore, its clear to me that while Skene Edwards did not continue to hold Mrs Cs 
money after 2010, it made no attempts to return this money in 2010 to Mrs C as it shouldve 
done  and Ive seen insufficient evidence, as Ive explained in this final decision and my 
provisional decision, that Mrs C was made aware at the time of what money was held for her 
or how much. In my view, this means that Skene Edwards has caused Mrs C the loss she is 
now claiming by both giving her unsuitable advice and by holding on this money for no good 
reason  and so I consider it fair and reasonable that it be held responsible for compensating 
Mrs C. 
Putting things right
In putting things right for Mrs C, my aim is to ensure that she is put as close as possible to 
the position she wouldve been in but for the unsuitable advice she received. In doing so, Ive 
had to take into account the following relevant factors:
Mrs C did need to borrow some money, and for the reasons Ive given in my 
provisional decision and this final decision, I consider releasing some equity from her 
home by way of the ERM was suitable for her. 
Mrs C has also received some capital payments throughout the years  and she will 
need to repay those capital sums to the lender, Scottish Widows. 
The majority of the debt Mrs C now owes she did not benefit from and stems directly 
from the unsuitable advice she received.
In response to my provisional findings around how to put things right, Morton Fraser made a 
number of comments. It said that any complaint about fees and outlays coming out of that 
cash held on account would be time-barred  but Ive not made an award in respect of such 
fees. I provisionally concluded that, in my view, the deduction of those fees from the capital 
held on account should not be used to reduce the compensation payable to Mrs C. This 
complaint is not about the fees for services rendered which Mrs C paid during that time  
and Ive not made an award in respect of that. 
What I have said, however, is that whatever compensation is due to Mrs C should not be 
reduced by those fees. Ive not asked that Morton Fraser repay Mrs C the capital she had 
the benefit of  Ive asked that it repay the interest over and above the sum she was 
intending to borrow. 
I remain satisfied that it would be unfair to Mrs C that she now be liable for the interest that 
has accrued on capital balances she didnt need, and that were primarily used to pay fees. 
I also want to make clear that Ive not held Morton Fraser responsible for what other firms did or failed to do after 2010. As I clarify below, Morton Fraser does not need to take into 
account what deductions for fees were made by other firms from the transferred sum after 
2010. However, its clear to me that the extent of Mrs Cs losses stemmed from the 
unsuitable advice she was originally provided by Skene Edwards  and its for that reason 
that Im satisfied Morton Fraser is ultimately responsible for putting things right for her. My 
award for distress and inconvenience is for the considerable impact the unsuitable advice 
had on Mrs C and the distress this is now causing her. 
Finally, I dont agree that Mrs C is in a position to enjoy any unjust enrichment. Whatever 
the arrangement between Mrs C and the adviser, Im satisfied that it was not in Mrs Cs best 
interests to recommend that she borrow more money simply so that it could sit in a client 
account and be used to pay fees that were apparently being incurred. Its clear to me that 
the compounding nature of the interest meant that this was an unsuitable arrangement, and 
one that was clearly not in Mrs Cs best interests. Im therefore satisfied that I should take 
that into account when making my award. 
For these reasons, Im satisfied that the following is a fair and reasonable award. 
In order for Morton Fraser LLP to fairly take into account the benefit of the capital which Mrs 
C has had, it needs to pay compensation to Mrs C. It will then be for Mrs C to decide how 
she wishes to proceed  whether by paying off a substantial portion of the loan on her 
property or not. 
The purpose of the below is to ensure that Mrs C is not liable for the interest that has 
accrued on the additional money she was recommended she borrow (around £34,000). 
However, the balance currently payable to Scottish Widows also includes the original capital 
 I dont agree it would be fair to ask Morton Fraser LLP to repay that capital. Therefore  
Morton Fraser LLP needs to:
a) Work out what Mrs Cs outstanding balance on her equity release loan would be if 
she had only taken out £18,500  this being the sum she had indicated to her adviser 
she needed. 
b) Contact Scottish Widows to obtain an up to date value of the equity release loan. 
c) Its clear that b) will be greater than a), so Morton Fraser must pay the difference 
directly to Mrs C. 
As Ive mentioned above, in doing so Morton Fraser LLP can deduct capital sums 
paid to Mrs C, but cannot consider the payment of fees as capital sums paid. In 
2010 the sum of around £14,000 was transferred to another firm. I understand that 
fees continued to be taken from this sum during the intervening years, and these 
were later refunded to Mrs C following her complaint to the other firm. For the 
avoidance of doubt, however, Im persuaded that Morton Fraser can ignore what 
happened after 2010, and simply calculate compensation based on the figure 
transferred. This is because it wasnt responsible for what fees were later incurred by 
Mrs C and deducted from that balance. 
The end date for this calculation will be the date when Morton Fraser LLP anticipates 
the payment being made to Mrs C. 
d) Pay Mrs C £1,000 compensation for the distress and inconvenience this matter has 
caused her. Had the adviser suitably advised Mrs C at the time, Mrs C would not 
have experienced the unnecessary upset and stress that she is now facing by the 
size of the debt that she is liable for.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Cs complaint against Morton Fraser LLP. It must pay 
the compensation Ive outlined above within 28 days of when we tell it Mrs C has accepted 
this final decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2023.
 
Alessandro Pulzone
Ombudsman