DRN-2595724
The complaint
Mr C complains about how Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) handled a claim on his car 
insurance policy.
 
What happened
Theres no real dispute about the factual background but for context Ill set out the main 
points;
Mr C was involved in an accident with another vehicle in November 2019. 
He contacted Aviva the same day to raise a claim and paid the policy excess.
He sent his version of events, and a witness statement which said Mr C wasnt at 
fault for the accident. 
Aviva contacted the third-party insurer (TPI) holding their insured at fault. 
The TPI didnt respond and after Aviva sent several chasers, the TPI said they were 
still trying to confirm the details of the incident with their insured. 
The TPI confirmed they were having difficulty contacting the third party, whod initially 
said they werent at fault for the accident. 
The claim was still ongoing in June 2020, at which point Mr C complained to Aviva.
Aviva said at this point in the claim they would usually issue court proceedings  but 
they couldnt as the third party was also insured by Aviva.
In August 2020 Aviva recorded the claim as non-fault, reinstated the no claims 
discount and reimbursed Mr Cs excess. 
Mr C was unhappy with this and referred the complaint to our service. 
He said the claim had taken too long and hed been at a disadvantage because the 
third party was also insured by Aviva.
An investigator looked into the complaint. She said Aviva were slow to provide the TPI with 
the witness statement, and this had delayed the claim and subsequently Mr C getting back 
his policy excess. She said Aviva should pay Mr C £100 for the inconvenience caused.
Mr C agreed with the investigators findings. Aviva disagreed and so the complaint has been 
passed to me for a final decision. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Aviva has a duty to handle claims promptly and fairly. The crux of this complaint appears to 
be around the issue of delays. Ive considered what happened over the course of the claim. 
As the TPI was still trying to get the details of the incident from its insured, Aviva was unable 
to settle the claim in Mr Cs favour right away. And Aviva continued to defend its position and 
said Mr C wasnt at fault for the accident. From what I can see, Aviva chased the TPI for a 
response regularly.
But Avivas system notes confirm it didnt send the witness statement to the TPI along with 
the rest of the claim details. The witness statement held the third party at fault for the 
incident, so Aviva couldve sent this when liability was first disputed. And had it done so, I 
think its likely Aviva wouldve been in a stronger position when pursuing the claim against 
the TPI. Aviva didnt do this, and I agree with the investigator that Aviva didnt progress the 
claim promptly. I acknowledge its not known if that evidence may have been the thing that 
expedited the pragmatic resolution that finally occurred in August 2020.
However, Aviva wasnt proactive sending relevant information or advising Mr C that the TPI 
wasnt responding or that it intended to dispute liability, and so he had to contact Aviva for 
updates on a number of occasions. And it wasnt until he complained that Aviva agreed the 
claim shouldve been settled sooner and refunded his excess. I can see why this wouldve 
caused Mr C distress and inconvenience. 
Putting things right
Having carefully considered the impact the delays had on Mr C, and I think its fair and 
reasonable that Aviva pay him £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
Aviva Insurance Limited must pay Mr C £100 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2021.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman