DRN-3174179
The complaint
Mr M complains about the actions of Rowanmoor Personal Pensions Limited (Rowanmoor) 
when they chased him for unpaid SIPP fees, in particular the instruction of a debt collection 
firm and subsequent court recovery proceedings they instigated.
What happened
Mr M took out a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) with Rowanmoor in 2012. A few 
years later, he moved address but didnt update Rowanmoor about this. 
The terms and conditions of Mr Ms SIPP stipulated his account needed to maintain a 
minimum balance of £2,000 (cash, or other easily realisable assets) to meet ongoing 
charges. However, investments within the SIPP (shares in an unlisted company) became 
worthless, and the cash balance decreased as annual charges were levied. By 2016, the 
cash balance had effectively been extinguished. 
Rowanmoor wrote to Mr M and his Independent Financial Advisor (IFA), both by letter and 
email, asking that he take steps to value the shares, and pay the outstanding annual fees. 
Rowanmoors solicitor also wrote to Mr W three times in 2017 asking for the arrears (then 
just over £550) to be paid, otherwise Court proceedings may be issued. 
Further emails were sent by Rowanmoor to Mr M and his IFA during 2019, asking for the 
shares in the SIPP to be valued. Mr M responded to one of these, in April 2019, to say hed 
try to arrange the share valuation as requested. In July 2019 Rowanmoor re-instructed their 
solicitor to commence recovery proceedings of the outstanding fees (by then, just under 
£1,750), and they wrote to Mr M in July and August 2019 and advised Court proceedings 
would commence if the amount wasnt paid. There was no response, and judgment was 
obtained in October 2019 in the sum of just over £2,200.
A new address was then located for Mr M, via tracing agents instructed by Rowanmoor, in 
January 2020. A letter was hand-delivered to Mr M at this new address some days later, 
advising him of the amounts owed and the existence of a County Court Judgment (CCJ). 
Mr M was unhappy with this and complained. He accepted he hadnt notified Rowanmoor 
when he moved house but believed Rowanmoor should have communicated with him by 
email when chasing the outstanding fees  he said this was how theyd communicated with 
him previously. He wanted Rowanmoor to remove the CCJ theyd obtained. Mr M said hed 
experienced a great deal of stress as a result of Rowanmoors actions and believed their 
approach to have been unduly heavy-handed. 
Rowanmoor explained theyd tried to communicate with Mr M on a number of occasions, 
using the address they had on file, as well as via email. They also mentioned theyd sent 
letters to Mr Ms IFA, in the expectation he would advise Mr M about the arrears that were 
accumulating. However, to bring the matter to a conclusion, Rowanmoor offered to take 
steps to have the CCJ removed (at their expense), providing Mr M paid them £1,500 as final 
settlement for the outstanding fees. And they would close the SIPP, but continue to hold the 
investments as a valueless asset  theyd hold the shares as a bare trustee in case/until they 
attain a value and a distribution is made. No new fees would be applied until this happened.
Mr M was unhappy with this offer and brought his complaint to our service. However, one of 
our investigators felt Rowanmoors offer was fair. Our investigator explained our service can 
only consider certain complaints  charging and pursuing fees is a regulated activity so we 
can consider that, but we couldnt consider the enforcement action element of the complaint 
because that isnt a regulated or ancillary (essentially, connected) activity. Our investigator 
also highlighted the relevant terms of Mr Ms SIPP, including Mr Ms obligation to notify 
Rowanmoor of a change of address within 30 days. The investigator explained that 
Rowanmoor had emailed Mr M (albeit only once), had reached out to him and his IFA 
multiple times, and ultimately concluded theyd done nothing wrong in how theyd pursued 
their outstanding fees. 
Mr M was unhappy with this response. He felt Rowanmoor had effectively admitted fault by 
agreeing to reduce the fees he owed. And the debt collector who visited him had caused him 
much stress. He mentioned again Rowanmoors failure to email their communications to 
him, even though it was clear they had the correct email address. He felt Rowanmoor should 
take steps to remove the CCJ, and hed pay them £50 as an act of good faith. 
Rowanmoor refused this but did agree to accept a reduced settlement of £1,000. Mr M again 
refused this. He counter-offered a settlement of £150, which Rowanmoor refused. It being 
clear that no agreement could be reached, both parties wished for the case to be considered 
by an ombudsman, so its been passed to me to review
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First of all, its not in dispute that Mr M was aware his SIPP would incur annual charges. 
Hed paid them for many years before moving home, so was clearly aware of their existence 
and need for annual payment. I also note his SIPP application records his occupation as 
financial consultant, and so Im further satisfied hed have understood his obligations to 
ensure his SIPP fees were paid on an annual basis. 
I accept the shares held within the SIPP were essentially valueless. However, the fees were 
still due  which isnt in dispute here - and so I think the fees were fairly applied to Mr Ms 
SIPP account as well. And Mr M accepts he moved home and didnt tell Rowanmoor about 
this. So, I think the only thing for me to consider here is whether Rowanmoor communicated 
with Mr M sufficiently, and fairly after he moved home. I should also make clear here that I 
cant consider the actions of the debt collector firm, as debt collection isnt a regulated 
activity. 
Ive seen copies of the various communications Rowanmoor sent to Mr M and his IFA from 
2016 onwards. I can see that most of the 2017 communications related to chasing the fee 
arrears (just over £550 at that time). Most were by post, with one email also sent. And 
Rowanmoors solicitor also sent three letters in 2017, chasing the arrears, as well. 
But from that point on, Rowanmoors communications (based on the documents theyve 
provided to us) solely focussed on asking Mr M to provide updated valuations of the shares 
that sat within the SIPP. No mention was made of outstanding fees. In 2018, the information 
provided shows they only wrote once to Mr Ms IFA. In 2019, Rowanmoor emailed both Mr M 
and his IFA, again about the share valuation matter only. 
It was one of these emails, in April 2019, that generated an immediate email response from 
Mr M  he said hed arrange a valuation of the shares as soon as possible. Rowanmoor sent further emails to Mr M chasing the revaluation information - again with no mention of the fee 
arrears  in August, September and October 2019. And these emails also didnt mention that 
Rowanmoor had, by this time, re-instructed their solicitors to pursue the fee arrears.
So, in the months before Rowanmoor reinstructed their solicitors to pursue the fee arrears, 
they were aware there was a live email address for Mr M  hed replied to them from it in 
April 2019. However, notwithstanding this knowledge, I cant see that any emails were sent 
to Mr M to discuss the fee arrears. In fact, the only fee arrears communications after the 
April 2019 email exchange were two letters from the solicitor, in July and August 2019, 
asking for the debt (by then just under £1,750) to be paid, or Court proceedings would 
commence. And even after these letters were sent, Rowanmoor continued to email Mr M 
(August, September and October 2019), but again only on the subject of the share 
revaluation. 
I think, given the severity of the outcome Rowanmoor had instructed their solicitors to pursue 
(obtain a CCJ), it would have been fair and reasonable for Rowanmoor to have ensured all 
available communication channels were explored/utilised to (a) pursue the arrears and (b) 
notify Mr M of the ramifications of non-payment/engagement with them on the subject. And 
whilst its impossible to know what Mr M would have done had he received any such emails 
 given I accept he hadnt responded to the further share valuation emails sent after April 
2019 - Im persuaded that hes more likely than not to have engaged with Rowanmoor on the 
matter. I think his likely wish to avoid a CCJ would most likely have prompted him to make 
such contact.
So, I dont think Rowanmoor acted fairly, or took all reasonable steps to contact Mr M after 
April 2019. But that doesnt mean I think the fees  which Ive already said I think were fairly 
applied  should be waived. They were fees properly due and payable under the terms of 
the SIPP, and Mr M knew this. Which brings me to what I feel would be a fair outcome here. 
Ordinarily, Id expect Rowanmoor to provide compensation to Mr M for the avoidable distress 
their actions (after April 2019) caused him. And, given what Ive said above, Id expect them 
to take steps to remove the CCJ. But here, Rowanmoor have already offered to compensate 
Mr M by significantly reducing the fees  from £1,750 to £1,000. And theyve already 
undertaken to prepare the necessary consent order to place before the Court to seek the 
CCJ removal. 
I acknowledge Mr M thinks his outstanding fees should be reduced to £150, to reflect the 
distress hes experienced. However, I dont agree. The fees were properly incurred and due, 
and so I dont think a reduction in the amount Mr M properly owes to Rowanmoor of that size 
is fair or reasonable. 
Putting things right
So, for the reasons Ive outlined above, I think Rowanmoors existing offer  prepare and 
serve a consent order to remove the CCJ, on receipt of Mr M paying them £1,000 as full and 
final settlement of the outstanding SIPP fees, and to continue to hold the shares as a bare 
trustee, with no fees applying until such time that they acquire a value and/or a distribution is 
made  is a fair one. And I wont be asking Rowanmoor to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I uphold this complaint. Rowanmoor has already made 
an offer to settle this complaint, which I think is fair in all the circumstances. So my decision 
is that Rowanmoor Personal Pensions Limited should do the following:-Upon receipt of payment by Mr M of £1,000 in respect of outstanding SIPP fees, such 
payment to act as full and final settlement of all outstanding SIPP fees, and any 
associated recovery costs incurred by Rowanmoor, Rowanmoor must do as follows:
oPrepare and file a Consent Order to place before the Court to seek the removal 
of the County Court Judgment obtained in their favour, against Mr M, in relation 
to Mr Ms SIPP fee arrears
oTo continue to hold the shares that sat in the SIPP as bare trustee, until such 
time that they either acquire a value, or generate a return
oRowanmoor will not charge any fees in respect of their holding the shares in this 
way until such time that the shares acquire a value, or generate a return, in which 
case Rowanmoor would be permitted to charge a management fee equivalent to 
the amount that would have been charged under Mr Ms SIPP agreement  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 April 2022.
 
Mark Evans
Ombudsman