DRN-3030916
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2000. Mr B says Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold that PPI policy.
I know that Mr B had two PPI complaints about BoS credit cards. To be clear, this decision is 
about the 2000 policy only. I understand the complaint about the other card was not referred 
to this service. 
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr Bs 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover arent materially disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information 
here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale complaint, but thought BoSs offer to pay back 
some of the cost of the PPI because of the non-disclosure of high commission and profit 
share Mr B paid was fair in the circumstances.
Mr Bs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. They didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like this. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive decided BoS should have disclosed the 
commission it received - but that its offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for 
the unfairness caused is fair in the circumstances. Ive summarised my reasons for each of 
these conclusions below. 
Was PPI mis-sold? 
The parties agree that PPI was sold to Mr B by post at the same time as he took out his 
credit card. So that means I think Mr B would have been able to consider the application 
form in his own time and at his own pace. 
The first thing Ive considered in this case is whether BoS made it clear the PPI was optional 
and Mr B didnt have to take it out if he didnt want it. Ive had the benefit of considering the 
application form Mr B completed. It is not entirely legible, but I can see there was a separate 
section on the application form dealing with PPI. And it appears to me that Mr B signed the 
form to indicate he wanted a PPI policy. I can see the words yes on the application form 
followed by Mr Bs signature. 
It was argued on Mr Bs behalf that PPI was presented as part of a package alongside his 
credit card. I dont think thats likely given that Mr B had to indicate separate agreement for 
the cover. And I can also see hed refused some other financial products that were available 
at the time. I think its most likely Mr B selected PPI because he was interested in that type 
of cover at the point of sale.
 
BoS didnt recommend the PPI to Mr B. That means it didnt have to check that the PPI was 
right or suitable. But it did have to provide enough clear and timely information about the 
cover so he could decide if it was right for him.
If Mr B had made a successful claim on the PPI policy, 10% of his credit card balance would 
have been paid for every month he was off sick or after redundancy for a maximum of 12 
months for each claim. His balance would have also most likely been paid in full in the 
unfortunate event of his death, or if he was diagnosed with a critical illness. 
As I said above, the application form isnt wholly legible, so I accept its possible the 
information BoS gave Mr B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have been. But that 
doesnt mean I can automatically uphold the complaint. Ive found that he chose to take PPI 
out, so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. I dont think the cover was fundamentally 
wrong. 
I say this because I can see how the cover could have been helpful to Mr B if he was out of 
work. Mr B told us that he would have had less than three months sick pay from his 
employer if he was out of work. And he said he didnt have any other means with which to 
meet his repayments if he wasnt working. It follows then that the PPI policy would have 
lasted for longer than his sick pay from work. 
It was stated in the PPI questionnaire that Mr B would have been entitled to at least 12 
months full redundancy pay from his employer. No evidence has been provided to support 
what would have been a most extraordinarily generous redundancy package and given Mr 
Bs age and length of service with his employer, I consider his stated redundancy entitlement 
to be inherently unlikely. I accept he would have had some redundancy entitlement, but I am 
satisfied that the PPI cover would have most likely lasted for longer than his redundancy 
pay.
I appreciate Mr B told us about his entitlement to death in service benefit from work. But that 
benefit would have only paid out in the unfortunate event of his death. He wouldnt have 
been covered if he was off sick or if he lost his job. Ive next considered whether any of the policys exclusions or limitations would have affected 
Mr Bs decision to take the policy out. I can see that hed had what appears to have been a 
significant musculoskeletal injury in 1987. However, the evidence doesnt suggest that this 
injury was still causing Mr B such difficulties that he would have reasonably thought hed 
need to take time off work because of it when the cover was sold. I cant reasonably say the 
exclusions about medical conditions would have affected Mr Bs decision to take the PPI 
policy out.
Those representing Mr B made a number of submissions about some limitations in the policy 
around claims for back and mental health conditions. I accept there were some additional 
evidential requirements if Mr B wanted to claim for either of those conditions. But it seems 
unlikely to me that he would have thought he could make a claim without providing medical 
evidence to support it. So despite these limitations, in light of Mr Bs circumstances at the 
time of sale, the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable. So I think he would have 
still thought he had some good reasons to take the policy out.
 
I havent seen anything that was unusual about Mr Bs employment circumstances that 
would have stopped him from being able to make a successful claim if he needed to. From 
the information Ive seen, it also looks like the PPI was affordable for him. I can see how the 
policy could have been helpful to Mr B at what would have no doubt been a difficult time for 
him if he was out of work.  With all of this in mind, I cant reasonably say Mr B would have 
declined the cover had BoS given him more or better information about it. 
Mr Bs representative raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty 
of utmost good faith meant BoS should have disclosed the poor value and explained the 
significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances of making 
a claim.
But the representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of this individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in this particular case. But these 
points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint. For the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the mis-
sale element of this complaint, which means BoS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of 
the PPI to Mr B.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act, and if so, what would constitute fair compensation to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided BoS should have disclosed the commission it received and that 
its offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness caused is fair. My 
reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
BoS didnt tell Mr B about the high levels of commission and profit share paid in this case. So taking into account: 
the Supreme Courts judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the 
non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
the FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment 
in Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose 
commission gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected 
commission and profit share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship 
between BoS and Mr B was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit 
Act because BoS didnt tell him about the high levels of commission and profit 
share in this case 
I dont think BoS acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr B because it failed to 
disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
Mr Bs representative has made a number of representations about this part of the complaint 
including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the Consumer 
Credit Act on this complaint.
In summary, it was argued Mr B should get back all the money he paid for the policy 
because: BoS failed to tell Mr B about the high commission and profit-share rates paid; the 
low claims ratio; and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because they say that meant 
the policy was poor value, I should find that Mr B wouldnt have taken out the policy had they 
known about the level of commission and he should receive a refund of all the premiums he 
paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether 
the consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
a court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy 
the unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow 
that a court would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or 
conclude that a consumer would not have purchased the policy had the 
commission been disclosed; and
the FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to 
merge the considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and 
guidance about mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI 
complaints) and that the impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy 
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipcaused by it should be considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for Mr B 
in order to remedy the unfairness caused by BoS not disclosing the high level of commission 
to him before he purchased the policy.
So, taking into account: 
the FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus 
interest in order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level 
of commission; and
refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in 
my view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of 
the Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness,
I am not, as the representative suggests, driven to conclude that he wouldnt have 
purchased the policy but for BoSs failure to disclose the level of commission for the reasons 
Ive given above. Im satisfied it was fair for BoS to calculate compensation in line with the 
FCAs guidance and return some of the money Mr B paid for the PPI policy. 
I consider this fairly removes the source of the unfairness. This is because it leaves Mr B 
with the policy Ive concluded above he would still have taken out if BoS had done 
everything it should have done  but with lower commission and profit share levels.
So I consider that BoSs payment of an amount equivalent to the commission and profit 
share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where applicable) in 
line with the FCAs guidance to firms is fair in all the circumstances.
 
As I understand BoS has already paid Mr B compensation on this basis, I dont consider it 
should do anything further. 
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of Mr Bs complaint or make any award for 
this part of the complaint.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that Bank of 
Scotland plc should pay Mr B an amount equivalent to the commission and profit share paid 
in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where applicable). As I 
understand Bank of Scotland plc has already paid compensation on this basis, I do not 
require it to take any further action.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2021.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman