DRN-2173745
The complaint
Mr P complains about how The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited 
(NFU) handled and settled a claim he made under his home insurance policy for storm 
damage to his rear garden wall.
 
What happened
Mr P holds a household insurance policy with NFU. He said, when he left his property during 
the morning of 12 December 2019, his rear garden stone wall was intact. However, on his 
return home that evening he noticed the wall had partially collapsed, leaving stone debris in 
his garden.
Mr P contacted NFU the following morning in order to make a claim under his policy. He said 
he thought the damage to his wall had been caused by excessive rainfall and he expressed 
concerns regarding the structural safety of wall.
Mr P said NFU informed him to provide it with photographs of the damage and a quote from 
a stonemason. The stonemason that attended his address confirmed the wall was 
structurally sound but that parts of it would need replacing. 
After NFU consulted weather reports from around the time of the damage occurring, it 
accepted there was above average rainfall on 12 December 2019. But it said heavy rain 
alone wasnt enough to be considered a storm. And it also said, while flood warnings were 
issued in Mr Ps locality, there wasnt enough rain at the time the damage occurred to cause 
a flood.
In addition to consulting weather reports, NFU appointed a loss adjuster, which Ill call C 
here, to attend Mr Ps property and assist it in dealing with the claim. 
Following Cs inspection of Mr Ps wall, which took place on 30 December 2019, it told NFU 
moss and plant growth had penetrated the top section of the wall. It therefore thought plant 
and moss growth into the wall over a significant period of time, in conjunction with ingression 
of water along the plant root network, would have caused the structural integrity of the wall to 
be compromised, thus weakening the mortar strength and causing this to sag and eventually 
collapse. 
Based on Cs opinion, NFU declined Mr Ps claim. It said the damage to the wall hadnt been 
caused by a on-off storm event. Instead, it had been caused gradually, which was excluded 
by Mr Ps policy.   
Mr P wasnt happy with how NFU proposed to resolve his claim. He said his rear garden wall 
had been well maintained. So, he didnt accept the damage had happened gradually. And he 
felt, as thered been excessive rainfall on 12 December 2019, a storm had caused the 
damage to his wall. He therefore complained that NFU wouldnt meet his claim. 
When NFU responded to Mr Ps complaint it explained it remained persuaded the 
combination of water ingress into his garden wall paired with the plant and moss growth over 
a long period of time was the cause of the damage. It therefore maintained its stance that 
the damage wasnt caused by a one-off storm event as was required by Mr Ps policy. So, it 
didnt uphold his complaint or think it had made an error in the way it had settled his claim.  
Being dissatisfied with how NFU had dealt with his complaint Mr P referred it to our service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened but didnt recommend upholding this 
complaint. They werent persuaded the damage to Mr Ps wall was consistent with a one-off 
identifiable storm event. And they thought it had, most likely, occurred due to the reasons 
outlined by C in its report. Overall, they thought NFU had acted fairly and correctly in 
declining Mr Ps claim. But he disagreed and asked for his complaint to be referred to an 
ombudsman.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here, I 
must base my decision on the balance of probabilities. Ive read and considered all the 
information provided by Mr P and NFU, but Ill concentrate my decision on what I think is 
relevant to decide the complaint. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive 
failed to take it on board and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it 
in order to reach what I think is the right outcome.
My role is to assess whether I think NFU made a mistake, or treated Mr P unfairly, such that 
it needs to now put things right. And, having thought carefully about everything he and NFU 
have said, Im afraid to say that I dont think it did. I appreciate Mr P will be disappointed by 
this outcome. But I hope he can understand the reasons behind my decision.
Theres no dispute that damage occurred to Mr Ps rear garden wall. However, theres 
disagreement between him, NFU and its appointed agent about the cause of the damage 
and the correct outcome of this claim. 
Its clear that Mr P would like NFU to cover the cost of repairing the damage to his wall 
because he feels it was caused by a storm. His policy with NFU provides cover for damage 
caused by a range of perils that might happen. These are specific one-off events and include 
storm, for example. But, for a claim to be successful, Mr P must show that the damage hes 
claiming for was caused by one of the perils listed in his policy.
As explained by our investigator, there are three conditions that need to be met before this 
service would say a claim for storm damage should succeed. Those are:  
1. Is there evidence that there was a storm around the date of the damage?
2. Is the damage consistent with what we would normally consider storm damage?
3. Was the storm the main cause of the damage?
I have re-assessed Mr Ps complaint and all the evidence with these three questions in mind. 
Id like to clarify that the answer to all three questions needs to be yes for this service to be 
able to recommend that a storm complaint is upheld.
In weighing up the first question, I can see that Mr Ps policy doesnt define the word storm. 
I appreciate Mr P is unhappy about this but it isnt unusual. And in that scenario this service 
takes the view that a storm generally involves violent winds, usually accompanied by rain, 
hail or snow. When looking a wind speed, we generally consider wind speeds of 47 mph or above to be 
consistent with a storm. And, as our investigator explained, on certain occasions, although 
rare, our service might conclude that there was a storm even in the absence of violent winds 
if there was rain, hail or snowfall or exceptional or unusual intensity. So, this is what Ive 
thought about when deciding whether there were storm conditions on or around the date of 
Mr Ps claim.
Mr P said his wall collapsed at some point between him leaving his property and returning to 
it on 12 December 2019. Ive checked the weather reports relevant to Mr Ps locality, which 
show that at the time the damage occurred the highest wind speeds recorded were 21 mph 
and the rainfall was 9.1 mm. Two days prior to this, I can see that wind speeds of 40 mph 
and rainfall of 5.1 mm were recorded.
Ive considered the weather report Mr P provided, which differs in content to the weather 
records NFU has provided to our service. The report Mr P provided records wind speeds of 
35.6 mph rainfall of 15.4 mm on 12 December 2019. But I dont think this assists Mr P here. I 
say this because, even if I was to base my decision on the records Mr P provided our 
service, I still wouldnt be persuaded that 15.4 mm of rainfall was exceptional or unusually 
intense. And the recorded wind speed wouldnt be consistent with a storm either.
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr P but the weather recorded doesnt meet the 
conditions of what our service would consider to be a storm. And this means I havent seen 
enough evidence to persuade me that storm conditions existed at around the date of his wall 
was damaged. 
As Ive been unable to answer question one affirmatively, I cant fairly conclude that the 
damage to Mr Ps wall was caused by a one-off identifiable storm event as his policy 
requires. And this means I cant reasonably direct NFU to pay his claim for storm damage.
Overall, I think the adverse weather conditions Mr P experienced exposed the underlying 
problems with his garden wall, as identified by C it its report, and caused its condition to 
worsen afterwards. I say this because stone walls are built to withstand adverse weather and 
C has comprehensively explained in its reports how it thinks the damage took place. 
C believes the damage here was caused by mortar deterioration, which occurred due to 
plant and moss growth into the wall and water ingress over a period of time. I know Mr P 
disagrees with this. But theres cogent evidence here to show that this is what caused the 
wall to partially collapse. And the photographs Ive seen support Cs opinion. I cant ignore 
that evidence and Mr P hasnt provided a report to our service that contradicts Cs opinion on 
the cause of damage here.
I can see that NFU told Mr P the gradually occurring damage is excluded under his policy. 
Having carefully considered the terms and conditions of his policy Im satisfied it does 
exclude damage of this nature. This is in common with most home insurance policies 
because insurance is intended to cover the unforeseen. And something wearing out or 
requiring maintenance isnt unforeseen. I therefore think NFU correctly advised Mr P why it 
wouldnt cover the cost of repairing the damage to his wall.
I can see NFU considered whether it was able to cover the cost of repairs to Mr Ps wall 
under another peril. However, there was no evidence another peril had caused the damage. 
And, as Mr P hadnt chosen to take out accidental damage cover when he incepted his 
policy, NFU wasnt able to look at covering the cost of repairs under that part of his policy 
either.In the overall circumstances, Im not persuaded NFU made an error in how it assessed and 
dealt with Mr Ps claim. I therefore wont be asking it to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2020.
 
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman