DRN-1984977
The complaint
Miss M complains about the cancellation of her motor insurance policy by U K Insurance 
Limited (UKI).
What happened
Miss M had a telematics insurance policy, which required her car to have a data box 
installed. Miss M changed her car and transferred the box over A problem arose because 
Miss M didnt have her box fitted properly and so no driving data was being shared with UKI. 
UKIs agent who handled the telematics side had sent three emails to Miss Ms given email 
address in October and November 2019. On 3 January 2020 UKI sent Miss M a letter asking 
for her to make contact or the policy would be cancelled within seven days. But as no 
contact was made UKI cancelled the policy on 20 January 2020 and sent a letter to this 
effect.
Miss Ms says she never received any emails and only received the letter saying the policy 
had been cancelled. She wants the policy reinstated and thinks UKI should have sent her 
cancellation letters by recorded or special delivery.
Our investigator didnt think UKI had acted unfairly and had followed the cancellation 
process detailed in the policy documentation. And she was satisfied that emails and letters 
had been sent to the addresses Miss M had given to UKI when setting up the policy. And 
although Miss M had had contact with UKIs claim department in December, the claims 
adviser wasnt required to go into all the policy details as Miss Ms proposed claim wasnt 
covered because she didnt have comprehensive cover.
Miss M disagreed with the investigator saying:
i. She didnt receive the cancellation notice letter and doesnt see how this meets the 
policy requirement to be given notice. 
ii. The serious consequences of cancellation mean UKI should have taken more steps 
to ensure she was given notice.  
iii. The claims team had access to her policy and if the telematics issue wasnt flagged 
then thats a systematic issue on UKIs part and she shouldnt suffer as a result.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied UKI had a valid reason to cancel the policy. The policy was based on a 
telematics box being fitted so that UKI could monitor how the car was being driven and offer 
premiums based on that standard of driving. So, the fact the information about how the 
vehicle was being driven wasnt being transferred substantially affected UKIs ability to deal 
with the policy.
That said, I think it only fair to cancel the policy where UKI has taken reasonable steps to 
communicate with Miss M so that such an issue could be remedied. I am satisfied from the 
information we have that UKIs telematics agent sent three emails to Miss Ms address on 
file. But even then, the policy wasnt cancelled and UKI wrote on 3 January 2020 to Miss M 
advising her to make contact else the policy would be cancelled. More than seven days 
notice was given to the latest postal address UKI had. Thats in line with the policy and the 
industry more generally, and if that wasnt delivered to Miss Ms home, Im not persuaded 
UKI was responsible for that. It was required to send the letter and Im satisfied it did as it 
was required to.
I cant explain why Miss M only received UKIs letter that the policy had been cancelled and 
not the previous letter giving notice or the emails. Im satisfied they were all sent as they 
should have been and so I dont find that UKI has acted outside the policy terms or unfairly.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 November 2020.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman