DRN-3835346
The complaint
Mr E and Mrs Y complain that Bank of China (UK) Ltd has failed to refund £1,850,000 they 
lost as part of a scam. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will provide a brief summary and focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision.
Mr E and Mrs Y fell victim to a scam in March 2021. Mrs Y was contacted by a fraudster 
claiming to be from the Chinese embassy, who said that her bank account had been 
associated with criminal activity. She was interviewed by what she believed to be the 
Shanghai police department and was told that her details had been used by a Bank of China 
employee called Chen who said that Mrs Y had sold her personal information to her. 
Mrs Y was told the police had to investigate the source of funds in her account, otherwise 
she would be arrested upon her return to China. So, she transferred £1,850,000 across five 
payments to what she was told were government accounts. This was on the understanding 
that the Chinese authorities would verify the source of funds, and that the money would 
eventually be returned once the checks had been carried out. 
Mrs Y was told not to tell anyone about the true nature of the transfer. She was made to sign 
a statement and was told that she would be arrested if she revealed to anyone what she was 
doing. Mrs Y subsequently asked her Bank of China relationship manager to close one of 
her fixed-term deposit accounts that held £1.8 million, which was transferred to her current 
account. She then sent payment instructions and remittance forms via an instant messaging 
service WeChat, saying the payments were going to her uncles. Mrs Y said that one of the 
uncles was a lawyer, and that they were facilitating a property purchase for her in Hong 
Kong. She said she had to show solicitors that there was a deposit guarantee fund and that 
they had sufficient funds in the relevant jurisdiction to make a serious bid. Mrs Y told the 
bank that the money would be returned to her if she wasnt successful with the property 
acquisition, and the payments were made. 
Mrs Y later realised she had been scammed after she spoke to Bank of China and was told 
there was no employee by the name of Chen. Mr E and Mrs Y complained to Bank of China 
when it failed to refund the money theyd lost. In summary, they complain that:
The payments were out of character and should have been prevented by Bank of China.
Bank of China failed to carry out proper checks in respect of the payments and didnt 
request sufficient evidence/supporting documentation.
Bank of China breached its terms and conditions as it is not permitted to accept 
payment instructions via WeChat instant messaging.
Bank of China failed to take appropriate action after discovering the fraud and also 
breached Mr E and Mrs Ys confidentiality by leaking their personal data.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He didnt think the transactions wouldve 
appeared particularly unusual given Mr E and Mrs Ys history of investing in property, and 
also didnt think that any further checks or questioning the bank couldve carried out would 
have ultimately prevented the scam. He was also satisfied that Bank of China couldnt have 
done anything more to try and recover the funds from the receiving bank. Mr E and Mrs Y 
disagreed, so the matter has been escalated to me to determine. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
not to uphold it.
Both parties have made considerable submissions in relation to this complaint. Ive read and 
considered everything that has been sent in, but I dont intend to respond in similar detail. 
So, if I dont mention a particular point or piece of evidence, it isnt because I havent seen or 
thought about it. Its just that I dont feel I need to reference it to explain my decision. This 
isnt intended as a discourtesy and is just a reflection of the informal nature of our service.
Authorisation
First, it isnt disputed that Mr E and Mrs Y consented to and authorised the disputed 
payments they made to the fraudsters from their Bank of China account. The Payment 
Service Regulations (PSRs) 2017 say that a payment transaction is authorised by the payer 
where they have given their consent to the execution to the payment transaction. Such 
consent must be given in the form and in accordance with the procedure agreed between 
the payer and the payment service provider.
In this case, the payments were requested by Mr E and Mrs Y using signed remittance 
forms, and the starting position is that banks ought to follow the instructions given by their 
customers in order for legitimate payments to be made as instructed.
I understand that Mr E and Mrs Y have raised concerns about the channel used to send the 
payment instructions, as the remittance forms were sent via WeChat, which they say is a 
breach of Bank of Chinas terms and conditions. 
However, I note the terms and conditions state that instructions may be provided by using 
any other method we may introduce and/or agree with you from time to time. Mr E and 
Mrs Y had a relationship manager with Bank of China who they were in contact with 
relatively often, and theyd requested to communicate through WeChat as their preferred 
method of communication. I can see from their chat history that they had been using this 
method of communication with the bank since February 2020, and had also previously used 
it to send remittance forms for past payments. 
Im therefore satisfied that this had become an agreed and accepted channel of 
communication between the parties for the purpose of sending remittance forms and 
payment instructions. The remittance forms were correctly signed and authorised by Mr E 
and Mrs Y. I dont consider there to have been a breach of the banks terms and conditions 
simply because the remittance forms were sent via WeChat.  
Even if I were to accept that Bank of China had breached its terms and conditions by 
accepting payment instructions via WeChat, it does not seem likely that the scam would 
have ultimately been prevented if it had insisted on the payment instructions being made via a different channel. So, any such breach would not have made a difference to the loss that 
Mr E and Mrs Y have sustained in any event. 
Unusual payment activity
Mr E and Mrs Y submit that Bank of China should have recognised that they payments were 
out of character, such that they should have carried out further checks and asked for more 
detailed evidence to prove where the money was being sent to.
However, having considered Mr E and Mrs Ys payment history, I do not think the payments 
would have appeared particularly unusual or out of character. Mr E and Mrs Y had a history 
of purchasing property. They had transferred £700,000 in two payments around four months 
prior to the transactions for another property investment, for example, where they had also 
cancelled a fixed-term deposit account in order to make the purchase  as was the situation 
with the disputed payments made in March 2021. 
I appreciate that the fraudulent payments were international transfers. And I also 
acknowledge that there was a discrepancy between some of the remittance forms, where 
one indicated the purpose of the payment as property and the other trade. But I do not 
think this is enough in and of itself to mean that Bank of China ought to have suspected their 
customers were falling victim to a scam, given Mr E and Mrs Y were experienced property 
investors. 
However, given the value of the transfers, Bank of China did question Mr E and Mrs Y about 
the payments and carried out certain checks, so Ive nonetheless considered whether its 
checks were proportionate and went far enough. In the circumstances, Im satisfied they 
were. But even if I were to accept that Bank of China should have asked further questions 
and for more documentation, Im not persuaded this would have ultimately uncovered the 
scam and prevented the loss in any event. Ill explain why. 
Mr E and Mrs Y were fully convinced of the scam and were following all the scammers 
instructions in what to tell the bank. They had been interviewed by who they believed to be 
the Shanghai police, who were wearing uniforms and using official looking paperwork. Mrs Y 
was told not to tell anyone about the true nature of the payments and was even made to sign 
a non-disclosure agreement. She was told that she would be arrested if she revealed to 
anyone what she was doing and would face five years in prison. So, it seems highly unlikely 
she would have risked revealing the true nature of the payments if questioned further by the 
bank, as she believed she was working with law enforcement authorities in China and would 
risk being sent to prison if she told anyone. 
As such, Mrs Y told Bank of China that the purpose of the payments was to show proof of 
funds to the seller of a property they were planning to purchase in Hong Kong. And given 
Mr E and Mrs Ys payment history and experience with property investments, I dont think 
this would have sounded unusual or out of character.
I note that Bank of China asked for documentation relating to the sale. But Mrs Y explained 
that the transfer was in relation to a contemplated property purchase, which might not have 
been successful. So, there wouldnt have been much by way of documentation that the bank 
couldve reasonably asked for at such a preliminary stage, as there wouldnt have been any 
sales contracts etc, and Mrs Y explained this to the bank.
Mrs Y also said that she had been told by the scammer to search for a suitable advert for a 
property in Hong Kong to show the bank if asked. So, if Bank of China had requested further 
evidence in relation to the purchase, it seems likely that Mrs Y wouldve been able to provide it. So, I dont think any further evidence the bank couldve reasonably requested would have 
likely revealed that its customers were being scammed. 
I note that Bank of China also asked Mrs Y why she was transferring the money to a 
personal account rather than to a company. Mrs Y told the bank that her uncles (one of 
whom was a lawyer) were helping to facilitate the property bid in Hong Kong and would be 
showing the money to solicitors to demonstrate a deposit guarantee. She said that if the deal 
didnt go through that she would be transferring the money back into her account. Again, I 
dont think this ought to have made Bank of China suspect that Mrs Y was in the process of 
being scammed, as its not implausible. 
The messages sent via WeChat also do not suggest that either Mr E or Mrs Y were under 
pressure or acting differently. I understand they were frequently asking for updates about 
when the funds would be sent, but this wouldnt be particularly unusual either in the context 
of a property deal they were eager to secure. The only message that could have potentially 
been construed as unusual was one sent on 6 April 2022 where Mrs Y said: I cant say too 
much now, and please dont tell anyone else. 
However, Bank of China says this was understood to be related to concerns over Mr Es 
bank statements being kept confidential, as I can see he told Bank of China he had 
problems in the past with Chinese banks handling his information. It was not considered to 
be in relation to concerns over the payments themselves. And given the context of which the 
message was sent, I dont think Bank of China ought to have had any cause for concern 
either.
Bank of China said the transfers were also considered by the banks automated anti-money 
laundering system, and that it also conducted a due diligence search on one of the recipients 
of the payments, but no adverse information was found. I understand this was only on one of 
the accounts, but Ive seen nothing to suggest that the bank would have found any other 
adverse information/red flags on either of the accounts if theyd carried out further checks. 
So overall, even if Bank of China could have carried out further checks and asked more 
probing questions of Mr E and Mrs Y, Im not persuaded that this would have likely revealed 
they were falling for a scam or have ultimately prevented their loss. Therefore, I dont think 
its failure to look more closely into the payments can be considered the proximate cause of 
Mr E and Mrs Ys loss in these circumstances, as it seems likely they would have proceeded 
to make the payments irrespective of any intervention by the bank. As such, I dont consider 
it would be fair and reasonable to hold Bank of China liable for the money lost to the scam. 
Recovery
Mr E and Mrs Y say that Bank of China failed to express the urgency of the situation upon 
the receiving bank when it sought to recover the money. So, Ive considered whether the 
bank did all it reasonably could to attempt to recover the funds after the fraud had been 
reported.
I can see that Bank of China did take steps to recover the money after it was alerted of the 
fraud. It sent multiple SWIFT messages to HSBC Hong Kong from 12 April 2021 onwards, 
but it was largely met with an uncooperative response from the receiving bank, who simply 
said it would contact its customers. The receiving bank then ceased any further 
communication after it hadnt received any response from the beneficiaries to provide their 
debit authority for the money to be returned. I dont think Bank of China failed to adequately outline the urgency of the situation to the 
receiving bank. It outlined that the payments were fraudulent and should be cancelled 
immediately. It also chased for responses. As such, Im satisfied that Bank of China used its 
best endeavors to seek to recover the funds. Even if it could have done more to express the 
urgency of the situation, it doesnt seem this wouldve made any difference given the lack of 
co-operation from the receiving bank. So, Im not persuaded it could have taken any further 
steps to recover the funds in these circumstances. 
Breach of confidentiality
Mr E and Mrs Y have also raised concerns that their confidential information could have 
been leaked by Bank of China to the fraudsters, as they see no other basis in which the 
fraudsters could have known about the significant funds held in their account. However, Ive 
seen no evidence to support this allegation.
I appreciate that the fraudsters may have known a lot of information about Mr E and Mrs Ys 
accounts and how much money they had. But this is commonly seen across instances of 
fraud, as scammers have increasingly sophisticated means of obtaining information from 
victims without them knowing  using means such as phishing for example. It doesnt mean 
it must have come from the bank, and given theres no evidence to support this position, its 
not something I can fairly or reasonably hold the bank liable for.
I understand this will come as a great disappointment to Mr E and Mrs Y, and Im sorry to 
hear they have lost such a substantial sum of money to what is clearly a cruel scam. 
However, Im not persuaded that Bank of China could have done anything more to have 
prevented their loss in these circumstances. So, it follows that I will not be asking it to take 
any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E and Mrs Y to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 June 2023.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman