DRN-3688647
The complaint
Mrs T complained, on her own behalf and also in her capacity as the appointed executrix of 
the estate of Mrs S, that Lloyds Bank PLC provided unsuitable investment advice to Mrs S 
and Mrs T in 1998/1999 and to Mrs T 2008. 
Mrs T is represented in this complaint by a claims management company (CMC) but, to help 
keep things simpler, Ill just refer in my decision to Mrs T as the complainant.
What happened
In February/March 1999, Mrs T and Mrs S met with Lloyds financial adviser to discuss their 
investment needs. They wanted a regular income for Mrs S and capital growth for Mrs T 
over the longer term. They were recommended to invest jointly in a mix of low and medium 
risk investments in a managed fund - the Asset Management Service (AMS) - which they 
did. 
In July 1999, Mrs S gifted her interest in this investment to Mrs T (save for Personal Equity 
Plans (PEPs) that were in Mrs Ss name - investment plans which provided tax incentives to 
encourage investment in stocks  since replaced by ISAs). Mrs S continued to receive a 
monthly income from the AMS until the beginning of 2007.
In 2007, Lloyds recommended Mrs T to move the money invested in the AMS to the 
Investment Portfolio Service (IPS). After the investment was changed to IPS, Mrs T made a 
series of lump sum withdrawals which reduced the value of her holdings in the IPS below 
£100,000, which was the minimum permitted investment in the IPS. 
In April 2008, Lloyds advised Mrs T to close the IPS and transfer the investment to a 
Scottish Widows Individual Savings Account (ISA) as this was a more cost effective 
arrangement for her investment  which Mrs T did.
On 30 March 2021, Mrs T complained, via a CMC, that Lloyds had provided unsuitable 
advice in 1998 and 1999. Briefly, it said the timing of the investment advice had been 
unsuitable for both Mrs T and Mrs S as they were each caught up in other more pressing 
matters that meant neither had been in the right frame of mind to make important investment 
decisions. And the CMC said they had been advised to invest too much money in 
investments that were too risky for them. 
In response to this complaint, Lloyds said, in summary, that despite the difficulties Mrs S was 
facing at the time, she was leading an active and independent life and it was always prudent 
to seek financial advice in this situation. It said that Mrs T was on leave from her job during 
part of 1999 and hoping to secure new employment and that it understood that she had the 
benefit of another income coming into the household. 
It said no advice had been given in 1998. And in 1999, the risk profile and amount invested 
in the AMS reflected Mrs T and Mrs Ss circumstances and investment intentions and it was 
suitable for them. 
Lloyds said regular reviews took place to check that Mrs T was happy with her level of risk 
exposure. It said that the various changes in her circumstances between 1999 and 2007 
(when her investments moved into the IPS) hadnt been foreseen but didnt affect the 
suitability of the type of investment she had. And in 2008, when she had been investing in 
risk based arrangements for almost ten years, her investments were moved into the ISA as 
this was a more cost effective and still suitable investment for her. 
So Lloyds didnt uphold the complaint.
One of our investigators considered the complaint. He thought that as Mrs T was a new 
investor in 1999, Lloyds should have recommended a larger cash reserve at the start. He 
thought Lloyds should have re-assessed Mrs Ts position when she became the sole owner 
of the fund within 6 months or so after it was set up jointly with Mrs S  and should have 
realised that the portfolio was unsuitable for a typical first time investor. His view was that 
this had left Mrs T over invested in risk-based assets when she took sole ownership of the 
investments.
Our investigator felt that in 2008, although by this time Mrs T was a more experienced 
investor, and she had capacity to invest some of her money, Lloyds should have advised her 
to reduce her holdings in risk and that a £5,000 cash reserve wasnt enough in her financial 
situation.
Lloyds didnt agree with the investigator. It provided a detailed breakdown of the investments 
and reiterated its view that recommendations it made for both Mrs T and Mrs S were 
suitable. Lloyds also disagreed with the way our investigator suggested things should be put 
right for Mrs T and the estate of Mrs S.
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Although the Financial Ombudsman Service doesnt always have power to investigate 
complaints about events that happened more than six years ago, Lloyds has said it consents 
to us looking at this complaint. So I've proceeded to consider everything that has been said 
about the merits of this complaint. 
Lloyds said no advice was given when Mrs S invested in PEPs in 1998. Mrs T hasnt 
commented further on that and I have seen nothing to suggest this isnt correct. So I am not 
proposing to look further into what happened in 1998.
I am concentrating on Mrs Ts complaint that, in 1999, the timing of the investment advice 
was wrong and she and Mrs S were advised to invest too much money in a fund that was 
too risky for them and that her ISA investment in 2008 was too risky and Mrs T was over-
invested. 
Ive approached this complaint by thinking about the respective positions of Mrs T and Mrs S 
in terms of their investment experience, the financial situation they were each in and whether 
other factors might have had a bearing on either or both of them being able to make 
informed decisions when they had to make investment choices.
Lloyds told us (and it seems to be agreed) that when Mrs S and Mrs T, who were mother 
and daughter, met with its adviser in 1999, they were looking to jointly invest into a managed 
portfolio which would provide a monthly income for Mrs S and achieve capital growth.All the money to fund the portfolio came from Mrs S  she had received an inheritance and 
she already had Black Horse Investment Bonds and High Interest Fund PEPs.
An additional £58,000 was paid into the portfolio in August 1999 which was a further part of 
Mrs Ss inheritance.
Although Lloyds cant say with certainty, it has suggested that the investment was probably 
put in joint names as part of Mrs Ss tax planning strategy  but essentially, that it was her 
inheritance and her investment assets that made up the total amount held in the portfolio  
none came from Mrs T and the income was purely for the benefit of Mrs S.
Whilst this doesnt seem to be in dispute, I think Lloyds still needed to ensure suitability for 
Mrs S and Mrs T when the portfolio was set up in 1999. 
So Ive thought carefully about whether Lloyds recommendations were right for both of 
them. 
I dont have full details of Mrs Ss financial situation at the time. But Lloyds understood (and 
it seems to be agreed) that Mrs S was still leading an adventurous and independent life  it 
appears she could afford long distance travel and holidays which reasonably suggests she 
had ample money to cover her day to day needs plus extra disposable income. She already 
had investments that she hadnt needed to cash in. She had come into extra money by way 
of a substantial inheritance. 
So I think, so far as Mrs S was concerned, from what I know about her financial situation at 
the time, it seems likely she was in a position to invest. And from Mrs Ts point of view, from 
what I've seen of her situation, I think it's fair to say she was being included (at no cost) in a 
fund that offered her the benefit of potential growth when she was already financially 
independent and seems to have had no immediate or pressing financial needs.
I've taken into account that Mrs S was involved in ongoing legal proceedings following a 
family bereavement in 1999  which likely impacted to some extent on Mrs T as well. So 
I can understand why this was a difficult time for them. But I think it was reasonable for 
Lloyds to say that having this amount of money available did mean it was sensible to take 
advice from a financial adviser  and I have considered carefully whether the AMS portfolio 
recommended was suitable for them both.
Lloyds said that in March 1999, the advice was based on a total holding of £160,000. It 
recommended investing £100,000 into a range of investments which would have been 
classed as medium risk and the remaining £60,000 was to be held in cash and government 
stock, both of which were classed as low or no risk. Lloyds has said that the portfolio was 
constructed for an experienced investor to benefit by receiving an income and a less 
experienced investor to benefit over the long term from a gift from her mother. 
I havent seen detailed evidence to show how Lloyds established Mrs S and Mrs Ts 
attitudes to risk  or that they were happy to take a medium risk with some of the money. 
But, it looks to me as if Mrs S probably understood risk  she had some investment 
experience in stock already and seems to have wanted to earn a greater return than she 
could have received on a bank deposit account. 
Whilst Lloyds doesnt have a record of any detailed discussion about the risk Mrs S was 
prepared to take with the investment, Im satisfied this would have been discussed and that 
Mrs S would most likely have understood that risk increased with the potential for making 
money. She seems to have been prepared to invest for the medium/longer term. And I havent seen anything to show that she wasnt prepared to take a medium risk to achieve 
her objectives of income alongside capital growth  which I think it's fair to say a medium risk 
fund would have offered potential to deliver. 
Lloyds told us that whilst Mrs T doesnt appear to have had any previous investment 
experience, she was nevertheless heavily involved in agreeing the amount invested into the 
AMS portfolio. That seems to have been the case. And from what I've seen, Mrs Ts lack of 
previous investment experience wasnt necessarily a barrier to her understanding of risk. Ill 
explain my reasons for saying this. 
Lloyds holds limited paperwork and records from 1999  I think thats understandable after 
so long. I wouldnt reasonably expect it to have kept detailed records from 1999 and this isnt 
a reason for me to uphold the complaint. It has however been able to provide useful 
information from records it has kept on file. 
For instance, a file note dated 7 June 1999 records that Mrs T wanted to achieve a better 
return than building society rates over a 5 year term and rather than applying some of the 
available capital towards repaying Mrs Ss mortgage, Mrs T was keen to invest. Around this 
time, Mrs T was employed and living in her own home  the other adult member of her 
household was also in paid employment and Mrs T told Lloyds income was not required for 
them even though she was going on extended leave from her job a few weeks later. 
It seems clear from what I've seen that Mrs T wasnt reliant on gaining an income from the 
AMS portfolio  she was looking ahead to a time some years down the line when the fund 
would have grown in value. 
Mrs T was managing her mothers financial affairs, which were not straightforward, and 
dealing with lawyers in two countries. Whilst she may not have had much previous 
investment experience to draw on, Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mrs T lacked enough 
understanding to appreciate the fundamental principles of risk or that she didnt share her 
mothers approach. So I think it was reasonable for Lloyds to conclude that they were both 
prepared to take a medium risk with at least some of their money  and each of them was 
well placed to do that.
Looking at the breakdown of the AMS investments, I find it likely that the portfolio reasonably 
reflected Mrs S and Mrs Ts agreed objectives and risk attitude. 
Overall, I am satisfied that when the AMS fund was set up in 1999, Mrs S and Mrs T were 
both in a secure enough financial situation to be able to invest. And I consider that the 
investment advice was suitable, given their particular circumstances and respective financial 
situations and investment aspirations.  
In July 1999, Mrs T advised Lloyds that Mrs S intended to gift more or less the whole of the 
fund to her  and it was boosted by a further £58,000 in August 1999. Ive thought carefully 
about whether the fact that Mrs S no longer had any interest in the AMS fund (aside from still 
receiving an income from it, via Mrs T) meant that the risk profile was no longer suitable for 
Mrs T, who was a less experienced investor. Lloyds said the extra £58,000 invested did 
increase the portfolios investment exposure to equities (which are typically riskier 
investments). But it also held £84,455 in a mixture of Cash, Government Stock and a 
protected bond, all of which helped to balance out the risk attached to the pure equity 
holdings.
I agree that a clients experience of managing money is something that the adviser should 
consider when advising on investments. But it is only one factor among a number of 
considerations. The fact alone that someone is an inexperienced investor doesnt automatically mean that they should only ever be advised to invest in low risk or no risk 
investments. That could unfairly deprive a person of investment potential and the opportunity 
to choose to risk more for the chance of a higher gain. And I have already found that Mrs T 
did appear to be risk aware.  
A file note dated 23 July 1999 records a detailed conversation between Mrs T and Lloyds 
financial adviser about the additional £58,000 lump sum  it seems this money had been 
paid into an account operated by Mrs T. But she wanted Lloyds to arrange for the 
investment of these funds from within the portfolio for long term growth. She told Lloyds she 
didnt want to take any income in order to maximise growth over the next ten years with a 
view to taking early retirement. 
On balance, I dont feel I have seen enough to show that Lloyds failed to properly consider 
risk or that it gave Mrs T unsuitable advice when she became the sole owner of the AMS 
portfolio. I think the investment was suitable for her when it was set up  and the change in 
ownership didnt mean that the investment became unsuitable for her needs. 
I have seen that Lloyds carried out regular reviews with Mrs T during the following years. 
The records produced show consistently that Mrs T seemed comfortable with the risk profile 
of her investment and she was aware that she could have invested differently or accessed 
cash if she had wanted to  but that she chose not to. 
As far as I can see, Lloyds wasnt made aware of any significant change in Mrs Ts financial 
situation that affected suitability until, in 2007, following a full review of Mrs Ts 
circumstances, Lloyds recommended her to move the money invested in the AMS into the 
IPS. 
I understand that Mrs T made some withdrawals from the fund shortly after this to invest in a 
new business venture. I havent seen anything to make me think this had always been part 
of her long term plan for the fund so I wouldnt expect Lloyds to have factored this 
requirement into its advice sooner. And I think it demonstrates that Mrs T understood that 
she could take advantage of the investment in whatever way best suited her needs and 
intentions as circumstances changed. The IPS fund allowed her scope to meet her 
immediate cash needs whilst also continuing to offer growth potential. I dont feel I can fairly 
say that the IPS investment wasnt suitable for her.
When it became clear in 2008 that the reduced fund value meant the IPS management fees 
no longer represented good value for Mrs T, Lloyds said it was agreed that Mrs Ts fund 
should be transferred into the Balanced Growth Fund (a Balanced investment (risk fund) 
under the umbrellas of a Scottish Widows ISA and PEP. 
Lloyds has been able to provide detailed paperwork which shows that Mrs Ts financial 
situation at the time was as follows:
 She expected to be in paid work for a further 14 years or so before retirement and her job 
offered a company pension scheme
 She was married but kept her finances separate from her husband
 She had two financial dependents
 She was generally in good health
 She had a half share in ownership of her home which was valued at around £450,000
 She had no debts, planned expenditures or any financial commitments
 Her gross annual income from employment was £45,000, and she also received £2,000 
yearly from her investments. Her total monthly expenditure was £2,800 leaving her with 
around £626 spare cash each month  She had in total £62,000 in savings invested in the IPS with a risk category described as 
progressive and cash savings of £5,000 in a Lloyds deposit account 
 Her risk appetite was tested and confirmed as balanced
Mrs T told Lloyds that she wanted a good, tax efficient return on her money and the potential 
for capital growth. She wanted lower charges over the medium term and a lower risk 
approach. She didnt need access to any of her investment during the 5-10 year investment 
period she had in mind and her investment priority was capital growth. She told the adviser 
she wasnt particularly concerned about volatility in the market  the return she could get 
was a more important consideration than stability. 
By now, Mrs T had around 10 years investment experience so I think she was well able to 
make well informed risk-based investment decisions. 
This led to Lloyds identifying Mrs Ts investment approach as balanced  which was one 
step less risky than progressive according to Lloyds risk summary and reflected Mrs Ts 
wish to lower her risk exposure. 
The financial report prepared for Mrs T dated 3 March 2008 records that the adviser selected 
the Balanced Solutions Fund because these investments are typically split between equity 
related investments (mostly UK with some overseas) balanced with other investments such 
as Corporate Bonds and Government Bonds. Some mitigation against the effect of 
fluctuations in returns is achieved by spreading the investment across different asset types.
That seems to me to fairly reflect Mrs Ts risk attitude as shown in the fact find. 
The Financial Report also records that the adviser would have normally suggested that 
Mrs T keep £25,000 as a minimum cash reserve but that Mrs T had decided to keep just 
£5,000 which would enable her to maximise the money available to invest.
This suggests to me that Lloyds adviser had discussed a suitable cash reserve. So I cant 
reasonably say that Lloyds didnt advise her properly about this or that it needed to re-affirm 
that advice. Ultimately, this investment decision rested with Mrs T and she had her own 
reasons for prioritising investment opportunity over ready access to secure cash. I dont think 
Lloyds had any reason to think that Mrs T had misunderstood its advice or that she lacked 
capacity to decide this matter for herself after having had advice from Lloyds. So Lloyds isnt 
in my view responsible for the level of her cash reserve. 
And I think that the recommendation to invest around £62,000 in an ISA does recognise 
Mrs Ts investment priorities whilst fairly reflecting her balanced risk approach. 
To sum up, I think that Mrs T understood and accepted the risk of the ISA that Lloyds 
advised her to invest in and that the risk of the product recommended to her was suitable for 
her identified objectives. If she hadnt understood the risk or she wasnt prepared to take that 
sort of risk, she wouldve been aware that there were other safer options for her savings. 
Notably, Mrs T had chosen not to follow the recommendation to keep more of her money 
safe in deposited savings (which didnt offer the growth potential that seemed to be her 
particular priority). 
Taking everything into account, I think Mrs T knew she was signing up to a level of risk for 
this particular investment in order to obtain the capital growth she hoped for.  All in all, this leads me to conclude that I havent seen enough to make me think that the ISA 
was too risky for Mrs T or otherwise unsuitable or that any other advice Lloyds provided was 
unsuitable. 
I appreciate that what I've said here will come as a disappointment to Mrs T but I hope that 
setting things out as Ive done helps explain why I've come to this overall conclusion.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
I have heard nothing further from Mrs T.
Lloyds acknowledged receipt of my provisional decision and is awaiting my final decision.
The deadline for responses has now passed so I think its reasonable for me to proceed with 
my review of this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to dealing with complaints on our website and Ive kept this in 
mind while deciding this complaint.
As no further comments have been received in response to my provisional decision that 
change what I think about this case, I still think its fair not to uphold this complaint for the 
reasons I explained in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and the 
estate of Mrs S to accept or reject my decision before 10 October 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman