DRN-4518039
The complaint
Mr R complains he was given incorrect information by Solium Capital UK Limited trading as 
Shareworks by Morgan Stanley (Solium Capital) about his ability to continue to participate 
in an employee share scheme, after he finished working for his employer.
What happened
On 29 November 2022 Mr R called Solium Capital to let them know hed resigned from his 
employment, and to ask what his options were regarding the share scheme he had joined in 
2020, which Solium Capital administered. He was told that he would be able to contribute a 
further six payments toward the scheme after he left employment, and then hed be able to 
exercise his option to buy shares and sell them. Mr R called again in January 2023 when 
hed left employment and was told the same thing  so he set up a standing order and made 
further contributions of £300 each to the scheme.
In March 2023 Solium Capital sent Mr R an email explaining the scheme had lapsed and 
that there were steps he needed to take to have the cash paid out to him. He raised a 
complaint as he was under the impression that hed still be able to exercise options, due to 
the calls hed had with Solium previously. Solium Capital didnt uphold his complaint, and so 
he brought the complaint to our service. Solium Capital then made an offer to settle Mr Rs 
complaint  they offered:
£150 for the distress and inconvenience caused by providing Mr R with incorrect 
information in the calls.
£60 interest on the additional payments he had made into the scheme after January 
2023. This was calculated at a rate of 8% over a period of 172 days.
An investigator at our service considered this offer and found it was fair  she said that under 
the scheme rules, Mr R wasnt able to keep contributing towards the scheme. Mr R didnt 
accept the offer as he had spent a long time trying to resolve the situation and it caused him 
significant distress and frustration. The investigator wasnt persuaded to change her mind, 
and as no agreement could be reached, the complaint was passed to me for a decision.
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint, as follows:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where I consider a firm has made an 
error, my aim is to make a finding as to what position the customer would be in now, but for 
that error. In this case, that means considering what Mr R would have done, if hed been 
given correct information in the phone calls.
I can see that under the scheme rules, as Mr R resigned from his employment within three 
years of the scheme beginning, he wasnt eligible to continue contributing or to buy and sell 
shares. So, in the call in November 2022, he ought to have been told that his only option 
was to have his savings returned to him as cash.
If hed been given correct information in his initial call to Solium Capital in November 2022, I 
think its likely hed have stopped his contributions at that time as there was no benefit to the 
money being held in the scheme. I also consider it likely that hed have requested return of 
his savings as soon as possible. There is no interest payable on the cash in the scheme, so 
theres no persuasive reason for him to keep his savings in the scheme, if he couldnt buy 
and sell the shares. By giving him wrong information and causing him to leave his money in 
the scheme account, hes been deprived of use of the full amount hed saved, from 
November to the date he withdrew it. Im satisfied it would be fair and reasonable for Solium 
Capital to pay Mr R interest on that amount to compensate Mr R for not having use of his 
savings during that time.
Solium should calculate the amount Mr R would have received had he requested withdrawal 
in the call on 29 November 2022 and pay 8% simple interest on that amount from that date, 
until the date he withdrew the funds from the scheme. 8% simple interest should also be 
paid on any additional contributions made after that date, from the date each contribution 
was paid by Mr R to the date he withdrew.
In addition, Im satisfied that Solium Capital has caused a loss of expectation here  Mr R 
has explained that the profit he was expecting if he had been able to buy the shares at the 
option price, and sell them at market price, would have almost doubled his savings. Im 
satisfied an amount of £300 is reasonable here, rather than £150. This better reflects the 
value attached to the loss of expectation, the fact that two separate call handlers gave Mr R 
the incorrect information, and that when investigating his complaint, Solium Capital failed to 
acknowledge they had given incorrect information, which furthered Mr Rs frustration.
Replies to my provisional decision
Mr R replied and said that he agreed with the provisional decision. 
Solium Capital replied and partly agreed  they said:
They agreed to pay £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Mr Rs contributions were still held in the plan.
They would be willing to pay interest  however they felt that Mr R could have 
requested the return of his capital at any point after they issued their final response 
to the complaint on 3 April 2023. So, they felt interest should not be payable for the 
full time theyve held his money  instead they made a counter-offer:
oInterest on the original contributions Mr R paid in prior to leaving his 
employer, totalling £8,100 from 29 November 2022 to 3 April 2023, totalling 
£221.92, which Solium Capital offered to round up to £222.
oInterest on the additional contributions Mr R made after leaving totalling 
£1,500, calculated from 1 February 2023 to 29 June 2023, totalling £48.33, 
which Solium Capital offered to round up to £50.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my decision remains the same as set out in my provisional decision, and Ill 
explain why. Ive carefully considered the points Solium Capital has put forward about the date ranges for the interest award. In this particular case, Im not persuaded this would be 
fair because:
In their final response to his complaint, Solium Capital didnt admit to any 
wrongdoing, despite there being evidence of errors on their part. This meant that Mr 
R (reasonably, in my view) didnt trust the complaint had been properly investigated. 
This includes him reasonably thinking the outcome might change from an 
independent review, and so didnt remove the money from the scheme, in the hope 
he may be able to purchase shares. This is supported by the fact he continued 
making contributions past the date of the final response letter.
The only time Mr R was given instructions on how to remove his funds was in the 
email from March 2023, which Mr R was sure was incorrect, based on the 
information hed previously been given in the phone calls. 
If a full and fair offer had been made in the final response letter, then I may agree 
that interest shouldnt be brought up to date. However, that isnt the case here. 
Mr R escalated the case to our service on 4 April, the day after Solium Capitals 
response to the complaint. So, hes not unreasonably delayed matters. 
Due to the lack of detailed information given to Mr R I dont think Solium Capital gave 
him enough clear fair and not misleading information for him to make an informed 
decision about requesting the return of his money. So, I dont find it unreasonable 
that he kept the money in the scheme while bringing the complaint to our service. 
Overall, Im satisfied that its not unreasonable for Solium Capital to compensate Mr R for the 
full time hes not had these funds. Im satisfied that if he hadnt been given incorrect 
information, Mr R would have requested the return of his funds on 29 November 2022 and 
wouldnt have made any further contributions after that date. 
  
Putting things right
If he hasnt yet done so, Mr R should request return of his capital as soon as possible. 
Interest will only be payable up until the date Solium Capital settles the complaint  so if Mr 
R leaves his money in the scheme past that date, he wont receive any interest.
Solium Capital should:
Pay £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
I understand the value of the plan as of 29 November 2022 was £7,500. Interest at 
the rate of 8% simple should be paid on this amount from 29 November 2022 until 
the date he withdrew the funds from the scheme  or the date of settlement, 
whichever is earlier. 
I understand Mr R made seven further contributions to the scheme  totalling £2,100. 
8% simple interest should be paid on those additional contributions, from the date 
each contribution was paid by Mr R to the date he withdrew or the date of 
settlement, whichever is earlier.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. Solium Capital UK Limited trading as Shareworks by Morgan Stanley should pay Mr R compensation as set out above. It should provide details of its calculation to 
Mr R in a clear, simple format. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Katie Haywood
Ombudsman