DRN-3643269
The complaint and what happened
Mrs A complains Starling Bank Limited wont reimburse money lost when she fell victim to an 
investment scam. Mrs As complaint concerns money from personal and business accounts. 
This complaint only deals with the money lost from her personal account. I have 
communicated separately about the business accounts. 
Our investigator upheld Mrs As complaint in part. She was satisfied Starling ought to have 
intervened when Mrs A made a £10,000 payment to Binance, as it was unusual for the 
account. She asked it to reimburse losses from that point. However, she also found Mrs A 
was partly responsible for her losses due to the time the scam went on for, research that 
could have been undertaken and the story she was told, soe she reduced compensation by 
20%. 
Mrs A agreed to the outcome, but Starling didnt. It provided evidence that Mrs A has asked 
it to increase her daily transaction limit so transactions could be made to Binance; it said as 
it knew the funds were going to a legitimate crypto-wallet provider it wouldnt have asked any 
questions of its customer.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs A authorised the transactions. Whilst she didnt intend to get scammed, she is 
initially presumed liable for the loss. There also doesnt appear to be any dispute she 
has been scammed, given there was a regulatory warning about the merchant some 
months after Mrs A lost her funds. 
Starling is aware of our approach of expecting it to have been monitoring accounts to 
counter various risks, have systems in place to identify unusual transactions or other 
indicators that its customers were at financial risk. And in some situations, make 
additional checks before processing payments or decline them altogether to protect 
customers from possible financial harm from fraud or scams. 
I have looked at the operation of Mrs As account in the months leading up to the 
disputed transactions, and I agree that I wouldnt have expected some of the earlier 
transactions to trigger Starlings fraud alert systems, even if the spending was higher 
than before and payments made to a new payee. However, I also agree the £10,000 
payment made to Binance was significantly out of character for the account. I accept 
the payment was made to a legitimate crypto-asset provider. But that doesnt mean a 
customers money is safe. Both Action Fraud and the FCA have been reporting on 
the prevalence of scams involving the use of legitimate crypto-asset providers for a 
number of years, intelligence Starling ought to have taken account of.   
Had Starling carried out carried out its due diligence and duties and asked Mrs A 
about the payments, I have no reason to doubt she would have explained what she 
was doing. And on that explanation Starling would have recognised the hallmarks of 
a scam  returns that were too good to be true, the downloading of remote access 
software, and the purchasing of deceased client portfolios. It could have provided 
information on the steps a customer can take to ensure, so far as is reasonably 
possible, they are dealing with a legitimate merchant.  And it could have drawn on its 
knowledge about the high-risk associated with crypto-assets and trading, the 
potential for fraud and provided a scam warning. Had it done so, Im satisfied Mrs A 
would have looked into the opportunity further, and likely would have come across 
the negative reviews and scam warnings about the merchant she was dealing with. 
Im satisfied a warning from Starling would likely have exposed the scam and caused 
her to stop investing, thereby preventing further loss. 
I agree Mrs A is also partly responsible for her losses. It doesnt appear she carried 
out much due diligence, if any, before deciding to part with what are substantial sums 
of money. And given the amount invested, its reasonable for independent research 
to be carried out to be satisfied the investment opportunity is genuine. Had Mrs A 
carried out any research, its likely she would have discovered the negative reviews 
and scam warnings about the merchant, and that such returns on an investment 
were simply far too good to be true. I therefore agree a reduction of 20% is 
reasonable, given the balance of knowledge between the parties. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my decision is I uphold this complaint. I require Starling Bank Limited 
to reimburse Mrs A:
£16,800 representing the losses Starling could have prevented less 20%; and
It should add 8% simple interest per year, to that sum from the date of loss to the 
date of settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2022.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman