DRN-4331497
The complaint
Miss O, Mr O and Mrs O complain that Vitality Health Limited wrongly turned down a claim 
they made on a personal private medical insurance policy.
As Mr O brought the complaint to us, Ive referred mainly to him throughout.
What happened
Mr O took out a personal private medical insurance policy in December 2022 to provide 
cover for his family. Vitality says the policy was taken out through a broker. The contract was 
provided on full underwriting terms. 
In January 2023, Mr Os child saw a private GP, who referred them to a private ear, nose 
and throat (ENT) consultant for investigation. So in February 2023, Mr O made a claim on 
the policy.
Vitality turned down the claim. It initially treated the policy as if it were a moratorium policy. 
And it also wrongly concluded that Mr Os childs symptoms had existed before the policy 
began. Mr O was unhappy with Vitalitys decision and he therefore decided to cancel the 
policy in March 2023.
In early May 2023, Vitality reviewed the claim. And it concluded that it had turned down Mr 
Os claim in error. It said it would have accepted the claim up to the point of diagnosis. It 
apologised to Mr O for the error and it offered him two settlement options. The first was to 
reinstate the policy with a waiver of two months premiums. If Mr O chose to accept that 
option, Vitality said hed need to pay the remaining outstanding premiums and it would 
assess a claim for his childs proposed treatment. Alternatively, Vitality offered to pay Mr O 
£500 compensation.
Mr O didnt accept Vitalitys offer and he asked us to look into his complaint. In brief, he said 
he would accept £500, together with a waiver of premium; if Vitality also agreed to pay for a 
private appointment his child had had in March 2023 and if it assured him that there would 
be no further delays in providing treatment.
Our investigator felt that Vitality had already made a fair offer to settle Mr Os complaint. So 
he didnt think it needed to do anything more.
Mr O disagreed and Ive summarised his response. He didnt think that the investigator had 
addressed his complaint points  including that hed paid for his child to see an ENT 
consultant. He didnt think the settlement figure was reasonable, or that it covered the costs 
hed incurred. And he felt that the policy had been mis-sold to him.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr O, I think Vitality has already made a fair 
offer to settle his complaint and Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. In this case, Vitality already acknowledges 
that it made clear errors in the way it handled Mr Os claim and that it unreasonably turned 
the claim down. Its clear that Vitalitys handling of the claim put Mr O to unnecessary time, 
trouble and inconvenience. I dont doubt how frustrating and upsetting it was for Mr O and 
his family when the claim was incorrectly turned down. Vitality has made an offer to settle Mr 
Os complaint and so I need to consider whether I find its offer to be fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances.
Vitality has offered Mr O two settlement options to choose from:
a) If he decides to reinstate the policy, it will waive two months of the outstanding 
premium balance, although Mr O would need to pay any further remaining 
outstanding premiums to bring the policy up to date. Vitality has also said that if the 
ENT consultant Mr Os child saw is registered with it, it will pay for the initial 
consultation, even if the consultant isnt on Mr Os consultant select panel; or 
b) If he chooses not to reinstate the policy, it will pay him £500 compensation.
Ive thought about this carefully. Generally, I think that before an insurer agrees to accept 
and pay for treatment, its entitled to be satisfied that the policy premiums are up-to-date and 
that any proposed treatment is covered by the policy terms. It seems that were the policy to 
be reinstated, the premiums since March 2023 would be outstanding. In this case, Vitality 
has agreed to waive two monthly premiums of £259.80 per month. This is equal to a waiver 
of around £519. In my view, this is a fair and reasonable amount of effective compensation 
to reflect what I think is the likely impact of Vitalitys errors on Mr O and his family. So I dont 
think Vitality needs to waive any further premium. 
Its clear Mr O feels strongly that Vitality should cover the medical costs hes incurred. But I 
dont think I could reasonably direct Vitality to reinstate Mr Os policy and to pay the claim if 
premiums remain outstanding. As such, I dont think I could fairly tell Vitality to consider the 
costs of Mr Os childs private appointment unless the policy is reinstated and Mr O pays any 
backdated premiums remaining after two months premium has been waived. It isnt clear 
whether the ENT consultant Mr Os child saw is on Mr Os consultant select panel. But 
Vitality has told us that even if theyre not, it will cover the costs of the initial consultation, so 
long as the consultant is registered with it. In my view, this is a fair and reasonable position 
for Vitality to take. Its offered to potentially step outside a strict interpretation of the policy 
and to potentially pay consultant costs off-list. In the event that Mr O opts to reinstate his 
policy, it would be for Vitality to determine whether or not these costs are covered.
Id add too that should Mr O choose to reinstate the policy; I think Vitality would be 
reasonably entitled to assess whether any treatment planned for Mr Os child is covered by 
the policy terms and conditions. 
If Mr O decides not to reinstate the policy, then Vitality has offered £500 compensation. Ive 
considered whether I think this sum is fair. And I think it is. As Ive set out above, Vitality 
accepts it considered the claim using the wrong underwriting terms and Mr O to put to some 
considerable time, trouble and inconvenience. He also suffered likely frustration, 
disappointment and upset when, in early March 2023, Vitality initially declined to pay for a 
referral which ought to have been authorised. Vitality didnt correct its mistake for around a further two months, by which time, Mr O had already understandably arranged a private 
appointment for his child. So I think an award of £500 compensation is fair, reasonable and 
proportionate to reflect the considerable distress and inconvenient Vitality likely caused Mr O 
and his family. 
It seems Mr O also now has concerns about the way the policy was sold to him. Vitality has 
told us that the policy was sold by a broker, so Mr O would need to direct a complaint about 
the sale of the policy to the business which sold it to him. Even if Vitality did sell the policy 
though, Mr O would need to give it an opportunity to look into a complaint about the policy 
sale before we could potentially consider that issue. So, in either event, it wouldnt be 
appropriate for me to consider the sale of the policy as part of this decision.
Overall, as Ive explained, I think Vitality has given Mr O two fair and reasonable options for 
settlement of his complaint. Its open to him to contact Vitality to accept one of those options, 
should he now wish to do so. However, despite my natural sympathy with Mr Os decision, 
Im not telling Vitality to offer anything more in settlement of this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that Vitality has already made a fair 
offer to settle Mr Os complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O, Mr O and 
Mrs O to accept or reject my decision before 20 October 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman