DRN-3394910
The complaint
Ms G has complained that Capital One (Europe) plc irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
Ms G opened a credit card account with Capital One in April 2019. Her credit limit was 
initially £200. In June 2021 her credit limit was increased to £450. 
Ms G, through her representative, says that Capital One shouldnt have allowed her to open 
an account and it shouldnt have increased her credit limit once it had. Ms G says she was 
struggling to meet her repayments and had a lot of credit elsewhere, too. She says if Capital 
One had done adequate checks on her situation it would have seen that she wouldnt be 
able to repay her balance in a reasonable length of time.
Capital One says it didnt lend irresponsibly to Ms G and that it did all the necessary checks 
before it lent to Ms G  and when it increased her credit limit.
 
Our adjudicator thought that Ms Gs complaint should be partially upheld. They thought that 
the credit given to Ms G was acceptable, but that by November 2019 Capital One should 
have realised that Ms G was finding it difficult to manage her repayments. And they thought 
that Capital One shouldnt have increased her credit limit to £450 in June 2021 because 
reasonable and proportionate checks would have shown that Ms Gs finances were 
overextended and that she couldnt afford to sustainably meet the repayments on more 
credit. 
Our adjudicator said that Capital One should have shown forbearance to Ms G in November 
2019 because she had been over her limit for many months before then. They thought that 
Capital One should not have continued the account on the same terms and that it wasnt fair 
of Capital One to charge interest or fees after this point.
 
Capital One disagreed. It said it had done sufficient checks and there were no indications of 
any financial strain.
Capital One thought that we should only be looking at the original and later lending decision. 
It argued that any redress due should only be from the point at which it increased Ms Gs 
credit limit to £450. And it provided evidence that it had tried to contact Ms G to offer support 
on how to manage her finances in August 2019. Capital One also stated that Ms G had not 
be charged any overlimit or late fees through the lifetime of her account.
As Capital One disagreed with the adjudicators view, the complaint has been passed to me 
to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when I have considered Ms Gs complaint.
Capital One needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms G
could afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the
repayment amounts and Ms Gs income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the
early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and
proportionate.
Certain factors might point to the fact that Capital One should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Ms G. These factors include 
things like understanding Ms Gs income, the total amount Ms G borrowed, and the length of 
time Ms G had been indebted.
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that that the lending was unsustainable. 
When Ms G opened her account Capital One conducted a number of checks, including a  
credit check. Capital One told us there were no signs of financial difficulties based on the 
checks it did. Having reviewed the checks, I dont think there is anything to suggest that it 
would have been unreasonable for Capital One to have approved the account. Capital One 
asked about Ms Gs income and it checked how much unsecured debt she had. While Ms G 
had debts which required payments of around £600 per month, which was considerable 
given her gross income of £25,000 per year, she was managing these repayments well and 
she wasnt in arrears and hadnt defaulted on any of them. 
I think this suggests that the original limit of £200 was manageable for Ms G. There were no 
signs of financial distress and the limit was very low. So I dont think Capital One did 
anything wrong with its original lending decision.
However, Ms G went on to regularly exceed her credit limit. Over the following 27 months 
she exceeded that limit in 16 of those months. When she wasnt exceeding the limit, she was 
utilising a very high proportion of her credit limit. So, I think when Capital One came to offer 
Ms G an increase in her credit limit in June 2021 it should have taken account of the way 
she had managed her account up to that point as well as the information it had at the point 
the account was opened in relation to her other outstanding debt. While Capital One said 
that it did creditworthiness and affordability checks it hasnt provided a breakdown of these, 
so I dont know exactly what it saw. But I think if Capital One had also taken into account the 
number of times she had exceeded her credit limit with her credit card account that Capital 
One would have realised that she was unlikely to be able to manage her repayments in a 
sustainable way. So, I dont think Capital One should have increased Ms Gs credit limit in 
June 2021.
But I also think that Capital One should have acted sooner to prevent Ms G getting into 
further financial difficulty. I agree with the adjudicator that by November 2019 Ms G was 
showing clear signs of such difficulty. She had exceeded her credit limit for six consecutive 
months. 
 
Capital One says that I shouldnt consider management of Ms Gs account. Instead, it says I 
can only look at the original account opening and any credit limit increases. I disagree. The Consumer Credit sourcebook (CONC), which is part of the guidance issued by the Financial 
Conduct Authority to businesses providing consumer credit states:
A firm must monitor a.credit card customers repayment record and any other relevant 
information held by the firm and take appropriate action where there are signs of actual or 
possible financial difficulties.
 
So I am satisfied that Capital One still had a duty to monitor Ms Gs ongoing financial 
situation and act accordingly if she was showing evidence of financial difficulty.
Capital One says that it contacted Ms G in August 2019 by email about managing her 
finances; it says it did not receive a response. Meanwhile, although Ms G was making 
payments to her account (which were more than the minimum required) she continued to 
spend on the card to a point that exceeded her credit limit each month. Ms G has also 
provided her credit file which shows she had been in arrears with another lender from 
January 2019 to August 2019.  I think if Capital One had conducted proportionate checks 
each month as it indicated that it had, it would have realised Ms G was in some difficulty. So, 
I think Capital One should have stepped in by November 2019 and not continued to offer 
lending on the same terms.
Putting things right
As I dont think Capital One should have continued to offer the card account on the same
terms after 9 November 2019, and so shouldnt have increased the credit limit to £450
either, I dont think its fair for it to charge any interest or charges after 9 November 2019
However, Ms G has had the benefit of all the money she spent on the account so I think she 
should pay this back. Therefore, Capital One should:
Rework the account removing all interest and charges that have been applied to
balances after 9 November 2019.
If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Ms G
along with 8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each
overpayment to the date of settlement. Capital One should also remove all adverse
information recorded after 9 November 2019 regarding this account from Ms
Gs credit file.
Or, if after the rework the outstanding balance still exceeds £200, Capital One should 
arrange an affordable repayment plan with Ms G for the remaining amount. Once Ms 
G has cleared the outstanding balance, any adverse information recorded after 9 
November 2019 in relation to the account should be removed from her credit file.
I note that Capital One says that it didnt charge any overlimit or late fees, however, I have 
included fees and charges in this redress to avoid any doubt. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Capital One to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must give Ms G a 
certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if she asks for one. If it intends to apply the refund to reduce 
an outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting tax.My final decision
I uphold Ms Gs complaint in part and direct Capital One (Europe) PLC to put things right in 
the way Ive set out above.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Ms G to accept or reject my decision before 5 July 2022.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman