DRN-1299932
The complaint
Mr M complains that a finance agreement he took out with Pendragon Finance and 
Insurance Services Limited was misrepresented to him and he wasnt told about the interest 
on the agreement or that there would be a balloon payment at the end of the agreement if Mr 
M wanted to keep the car.
What happened
Mr M entered into a finance agreement on the 20 November 2015 to purchase a new car. Mr 
M says that he was under the impression that the car was on a 0% finance agreement and 
at no stage during the purchasing process was he told that the agreement would attract 
interest or that there would be a balloon payment at the end of the agreement. Mr M says he 
was shocked to discover this wasnt the case when he took the car in for a service and 
asked for the paperwork relating to the outstanding finance. 
Our Investigator looked into the complaint and didnt recommend it was upheld. He thought 
that the agreement that Mr M signed made it clear that there was interest and a balloon 
payment. He thought that it was unlikely that the car would have been on a 0% deal and 
there was no evidence that the car was advertised as such. He didnt think the business had 
done anything wrong.
Mr M didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. He provided an 
email from his partner to confirm that the interest and the balloon payment were never 
mentioned to Mr M when he was buying the car. Mr M says that he was misled by the 
salesman.
    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M relies on the rights he has under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. Mr M 
says that the agreement was misrepresented to him by the dealership. Under S75 the 
provider of finance is jointly responsible for any breach of contract or misrepresentation. 
In making my decision I have looked at all the paperwork and taken into account what Mr 
M has said about what happened. 
Mr M has explained that he has been a loyal customer of the dealership and bought many 
cars from them. He explains that he has never had a balloon payment on any of his 
previous cars. 
I wasnt there so I dont know what was discussed with Mr M and it isnt surprising that he 
cant recall a balloon payment or interest being mentioned given the time that has passed.
Ive looked at the agreement signed by Mr M and I can see that all of the figures are 
explained on the agreement. The interest is stated as £3347.56 and the final repayment is 
stated as £3725. Those figures are all in a table and Mr M has signed the bottom of the 
page under the declaration that the agreement is legally binding. If Mr M thought he was 
entering into a 0% agreement then I would have expected him to have raised a concern 
before signing this document.
I dont doubt Mr M when he says he cant recall the balloon payment being mentioned. 
Often, when buying a new car lots of things are discussed and options explored. At the 
point of signing the finance agreement all the information is in the paperwork and Mr M 
was able to see exactly what he was agreeing to and how much it would cost. Mr M says 
he cant now recall signing this document and it may have been forged but I dont have any 
evidence to suggest this is the case. Although I am not a handwriting expert there isnt 
anything on the documents I have seen that looks different from Mr Ms signature on his 
passport and driving licence or the direct debit instruction.
 
I am sorry to disappoint Mr M and I can understand why he is unhappy. The salesman has 
now left the dealership and I can sympathise when Mr M says that he trusted the company 
to look after him as a loyal customer. He has said that the whole process of collecting this 
car was muddled and rushed. But on the evidence I have I cant say that the agreement 
was misrepresented or that Mr M wasnt made aware of the terms of the agreement he 
was signing. 
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 
6 November 2020.
 
Emma Boothroyd
Ombudsman