DRN-4014362
The complaint
Miss K complains that Revolut Ltd (Revolut) wont refund around £6,000 she says she lost 
to an investment scam.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons. 
It isnt in dispute that Miss K authorised the disputed payments she made from her 
Revolut account. The payments were requested using her legitimate security credentials 
provided by Revolut, and the starting position is that firms ought to follow the instructions 
given by their customers in order for legitimate payments to be made as instructed.
However, Ive considered whether Revolut should have done more to prevent Miss K 
from falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a firm should 
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular transfer. 
For example, if it was particularly out of character. 
It isnt immediately clear whether both the merchants Miss K was dealing with were 
operating a scam at the time she made her payments, though the evidence Miss K has 
provided would certainly seem to suggest they were. However, even if I were to accept 
that both merchants were scammers, I still dont think her payment activity would have 
appeared unusual enough to warrant a tailored scam warning or intervention from 
Revolut.
I appreciate that overall, Miss K has lost around £6,000 which is a large amount of 
money. But this amount wasnt paid in one large or out of character transaction. It was 
spread over several smaller increments over the space of several months which, in my 
judgment, would not have appeared particularly unusual or out of character, such that 
they ought to have been regarded as suspicious or indicating that she might have been 
at risk of falling victim to a scam. I acknowledge there were occasions where more than 
one payment was sent to the same payee on the same day, such as the payments she 
made to an account in her own name on 5 April 2022. But these still only cumulatively 
totalled just over £1,000, so Im not persuaded this would have been enough to warrant a 
tailored warning or intervention by Revolut either.
Therefore, having considered the payments Miss K made from her Revolut account and 
debit card, Im not persuaded there was anything that ought reasonably to have triggered 
Revoluts fraud monitoring systems, or that would have indicated she was in the process 
of being scammed. 
Ive also considered whether Revolut did enough to try and recover the funds after the 
fraud was reported. However, in terms of the debit card payments she made to the 
crypto platform (Uphold Europe), there wouldnt have been any successful prospect of a 
chargeback, as Miss K would have received the services she paid for (i.e. the purchase 
of cryptocurrency). In terms of the faster payments, I can see that Revolut attempted to 
recover the funds by reaching out to the beneficiary bank. But unfortunately, no funds 
remained. Therefore, Im not persuaded it could have reasonably done anything more to 
recover Miss Ks funds in these circumstances. 
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Miss K, and Im sorry to hear about 
the money she has lost. However, Im not persuaded Revolut can be held liable for this loss. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 October 2023.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman