The complaint
Mr D and Mrs D are unhappy with how ZAD Bulstrad Vienna Insurance Group (ZAD) 
handled a claim they made under their travel insurance policy
What happened
Mr D and Mrs D took out a policy with ZAD for a holiday in which their family would travel to 
Sri Lanka and the Maldives. Shortly after they arrived in the Maldives, there was a terrorist 
attack in Sri Lanka. 
In order to get home, the family had to travel through Sri Lanka. They say the guidance in 
place at that time was to take caution when travelling there. However, they had to leave after 
shortly after they arrived as the Foreign Office guidance was that only essential travel should 
be undertaken. Mr D and Mrs D want to claim back the additional flight costs they incurred, 
as well as the unused hotel costs.
ZAD said Mr D and Mrs Ds claim wasnt covered under the terms of their policy. Mr D and 
Mrs D werent happy with this, so they referred their complaint to this service. One of our 
investigators considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. So this matter has been passed 
to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D and Mrs D found themselves in a situation not of their making, and Im sympathetic to 
this. But in reaching what I consider to be a fair and reasonable conclusion I need to think 
about what Mr D and Mrs D and their family were entitled to under the policy terms. 
Travel insurance policies dont cover every eventuality. With this policy, ZAD decided not to 
cover terrorism. As investigator said, its not for this service to tell an insurer what risks it 
should take when offering cover. 
Mr D and Mrs Ds policy provided cover for cancellation and curtailment of a trip if one of 
seven listed, insured events happens. These events include death, illness, or being made 
redundant. However, the policy doesnt provide cover for cancellation or curtailment as a 
result of a terrorist attack. 
I appreciate Mr D and Mrs Ds strength of feeling here, given the experience that led to their 
claim. However, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. I dont consider Mr D 
and Mrs Ds claim is covered under the policy. It follows I dont intend to ask ZAD to 
reimburse the costs Mr D and Mrs D have claimed for.
DRN-1346239Im aware the decision Ive reached in this case will likely come as a disappointment to Mr D 
and Mrs D. But I hope they can understand why Ive concluded this is a fair outcome for the 
reasons Ive explained.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr D and Mrs Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 August 2020.
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman