DRN-1781767
The complaint
Mr B complains that N26 Bank GmbH (N26) blocked and closed his account, without giving 
him notice and only returned part of the money he had in his account. 
background
On 17 September 2019, N26 blocked and closed Mr Bs account, without telling him why and 
without giving him advance notice. N26 carried out a review, then released £210 to Mr B on 
16 October 2019. Mr B complained, saying his account balance was around £1,300.
N26 declined Mr Bs request, so he brought his complaint to our service. Mr B also said N26 
didnt respond to his emails when he tried to contact it about his account. To put things right, 
he wanted N26 to return the full balance of his account.
Our investigator said N26 was entitled to block and close Mr Bs account and that, while its 
responses werent very prompt, it was replying to his messages.
But our investigator did say N26 shouldve returned a further £675.44 (being the remaining 
account balance) to Mr B. She explained that N26 had initially returned the money to a third 
party bank, following an indemnity request for return of the funds. But she felt it should have 
applied Claytons rule to determine the order in which account funds were distributed. 
Had it done so, it would have sent the money to Mr B as the remaining balance was Mr Bs 
money, and the money the indemnity had been raised to recover, had already left Mr Bs 
account.
N26 didnt accept our investigators opinion. It said it wasnt appropriate to apply Claytons 
rule in the circumstances of this particular case. So it asked for an ombudsman to consider 
the matter afresh.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as that of our investigator. Ill explain why.
account block
Im satisfied N26 acted in line with its legal and regulatory obligations when it blocked and 
reviewed Mr Bs account. And that it was entitled to review his account under the account 
terms and conditions.
N26 has given me a timeline of events that took place during the block. Im satisfied there 
were no unreasonable delays while N26 carried out its review of Mr Bs account. While there 
were some short delays in responding to Mr Bs messages, they werent significant and Im 
satisfied N26 was communicating with Mr B.Having looked at the evidence, I can see no basis on which I might make an award in this 
regard against N26, given I dont think it failed to properly follow its own procedures when it 
blocked and reviewed Mr Bs account.
account closure
A bank is entitled to close an account with a customer just as a customer may close an 
account with a bank. But before a bank closes an account, it must do so in a way which 
complies with the terms and conditions of the account.
The terms and conditions of the account  which both N26 and Mr B had to comply with  
say that it could close the account immediately and without notice, under certain 
circumstances. Having considered the evidence Ive been provided, Im satisfied that N26 
acted in accordance with its terms and conditions when it closed Mr Bs account.
Returning funds
N26 told us that it received a request from a third party bank to return £675.44 on 31 August 
2019. And that it replied to the third party bank, saying there were no funds in the account. 
On 16 September 2019, the day before it blocked the account, two credits went into Mr Bs 
account, leaving a balance in excess of £675.44. So N26 contacted the third party bank to 
say it was able to comply with the indemnity request after all.
Our investigator felt that Claytons rule should have been applied here. Claytons Rule, 
commonly known as the first in first out rule, says that each withdrawal is presumed to be a 
return of all or part of the oldest deposit. The result is that the oldest deposit is withdrawn 
first, or the oldest debt is paid first.
So, in this case, our investigator is saying that the money requested by the third party bank 
had already left Mr Bs account (i.e. Mr B had withdrawn the money himself), and so could 
not be returned to the third party bank.
Im grateful to N26 for providing me with a detailed response on the matter. Its input has 
helped me to think carefully about what should happen in Mr Bs case. In short, N26 says 
that Claytons rule doesnt always have to be followed, and it has set out its reasons why it 
should not be followed in this case. 
I agree it might not always be appropriate for Claytons rule to apply, and that there will be 
some scenarios whereby Claytons rule would result in an outcome that is plainly unjust.
But, having thought about all the information both parties have provided me with, Im not 
persuaded that would be the case here. So I agree with our investigator that N26 should 
have applied Claytons rule. And that it should return the £675.44 to Mr B.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint. To put things right, N26 Bank GmbH 
should pay Mr B £675.44.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2020.
Alex Brooke-Smith
Ombudsman