DRN-2229126
The complaint
Mr A has complained that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) wont refund 
transactions he says he didnt make or otherwise authorise.
What happened
In August and September 2019, ID thieves tried to withdraw money from Mr As account in 
various NatWest branches. They didnt have photo ID, so they pretended to be him using his 
personal details and details from his statements, and attempted to imitate his signature. Two 
branches refused to give out the money, whereas four others gave out cash totalling £670. 
The fraudsters also tried to take over Mr As online and telephone banking, and tried to order 
new cards to the branches. NatWest refunded the £670 that was withdrawn, and Mr A set up 
a password for his account.
In October and November 2019, someone tried five further withdrawals using the same 
method, of which one failed and four were successful. They withdrew £1,080 in total. Again, 
they tried ordering new cards to the branches that let them withdraw money. They were not 
able to produce photo ID, and do not appear to have been asked the basic security 
questions. But they did attempt to reproduce Mr As signature, and for two of the withdrawals 
its recorded that they knew his password.
During these months, Mr A repeatedly reported the withdrawals as and when he found out 
about them, and asked NatWest to stop allowing people to take money from his account 
without photo ID. He also cancelled the cards that kept being ordered. NatWests branch 
staff and fraud team also added warnings to the account about allowing people to take 
money from this account without ID, but other branches did not follow these.
However, NatWest held Mr A liable for the last £1,080 of withdrawals, because it couldnt 
see how a fraudster wouldve known his new password. It also said that a disputed 
withdrawal looked similar to one of Mr As genuine withdrawals. It accepted that the earlier 
transactions it refunded were fraud, but felt that Mr A had falsely reported the later ones.
I sent Mr A and NatWest a provisional decision on 18 August 2020, to explain why 
I thought the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
In order to hold Mr A responsible for these withdrawals, NatWest should be able to evidence 
that they were properly authenticated and that he consented to them. But in this case, it 
does not seem to be able to do either.
From what I have seen, in order to authenticate these withdrawals without ID, NatWest 
needed a genuine signature, password, and the answer to certain security questions.
However, it looks like one of the successful October withdrawals was made using just the 
password and a signature attempt  it seems the person in branch was not asked the 
security questions. In the other successful October withdrawal, theres a note saying that 
questions were asked, though not what they were or whether they were answered properly. 
And NatWest doesnt have any evidence to show how the November withdrawals were 
authenticated at all.
Further, I have looked at a number of examples of Mr As genuine signature on various 
documents. With that in mind, the attempted signatures in the October transactions are poor 
imitations that bear only a passing resemblance. I do not think they are genuine.
So NatWest has not as yet been able to evidence that these withdrawals were properly 
authenticated.
Turning to the issue of whether Mr A consented to the withdrawals, NatWests main 
argument is that no one shouldve been able to guess the password. But the prompt for the 
password asked for Mr As partner, and the answer was an alternative spelling of his 
partners name. Since the prompt and password wouldve been given verbally, I dont think 
the spelling wouldve made much of a difference. And since the ID thieves had clearly 
gathered a lot of information about Mr A in order to make their prior fraudulent transactions, 
I dont find it surprising that they knew his partners name too.
NatWest may argue that Mr A was negligent in not picking a stronger password. That may 
be, but I dont think one can argue that he was grossly negligent, which is of a much higher 
standard than common negligence  not least since Mr A was the one who kept trying to 
keep his account safe and block these withdrawals, while NatWest appears to have ignored 
its own warnings and failed to follow its own procedures. And in any case, the October 
transactions took place in Mr As credit facility, so gross negligence is not relevant there; 
while in the November transactions theres no evidence that the branch staff even asked for 
the password, so it doesnt seem to be relevant there either.
Mr A has provided train tickets and hotel bookings to show that he was in a different city 
when the October transactions took place. Indeed, he even reported them in a branch in that 
other city. So Im satisfied that he was not present at those withdrawals. Or in other words, 
Im satisfied that NatWest gave his money to someone other than the proper accountholder.
The notes from the branches record that the people trying to access Mr As account behaved 
very suspiciously. For example, they didnt match his age or accent, they had to try multiple 
times to emulate his signature and still couldnt get it quite right, they kept claiming that hed 
moved to each branch but were unable to prove it, they gave different excuses for why they 
couldnt provide photo ID, they tried to pressure staff by adding a sense of urgency, and they 
looked nervous and left quickly when challenged. This strongly indicates that Mr A was being 
defrauded.
Similarly, the people accessing Mr As account ordered new cards. It looks like they did this 
so that they could make further use of the account. And they ordered the cards to be 
delivered to the branches that let them make withdrawals, presumably as it would be easier 
for them to pick the cards up there than by having to access Mr As home. Again, this all 
seems indicative of fraud.The disputed withdrawals follow the same pattern and methodology as the ones from August 
and September 2019 that NatWest has already confirmed were fraudulent. NatWest has 
suggested that Mr A is now emulating the fraud in order to get false refunds. But there is no 
evidence to substantiate this, and the suggestion seems quite preposterous. There are 
issues such as how Mr A was in a different city, how it wouldve been very difficult for him to 
have emulated the fraud so closely and effectively, how he was the one who kept trying to 
get these withdrawals blocked, and so on. But even putting all of that aside, it is ultimately a 
far more simple and likely explanation that the disputed withdrawals look the same as the 
fraudulent withdrawals because they are also fraudulent. This makes sense since its clear 
from the prior fraud that the ID thieves had stolen much of Mr As information and were keen 
to gain further access to his account.
NatWest argued that an October withdrawal was similar to an earlier, genuine withdrawal. 
But that earlier withdrawal was not, in fact, genuine  it was one of the ones that NatWest 
confirmed was fraudulent. Or in other words, NatWest has inadvertently agreed that that 
disputed withdrawal looks fraudulent.
Mr A kept trying to block these withdrawals, and repeatedly asked NatWest not to allow 
branch withdrawals without ID. Some of the branch staff added such warnings to the 
account, as did NatWests own fraud team  but these appear to have been ignored by staff 
in other branches.
From what Ive seen, Mr A appears to have been genuinely unaware of each transaction 
until the bank told him about it or he checked his account  at which point he reported things 
without delay. His testimony has been consistent and credible, and I have not seen a good 
reason to disbelieve him.
It bears repeating that NatWest has been unable to show that it followed its own 
authentication procedures here. From the evidence I have, it seems that NatWest repeatedly 
let someone take out substantial sums of money despite the fact that:
they did not look or sound like Mr A
they had no photo ID
they were not able to verify themselves by chip and PIN
they were not able to accurately replicate Mr As signature despite multiple attempts
they were not necessarily asked all the proper security questions
they acted noticeably suspiciously
Mr A had requested for branch withdrawals to be blocked without ID
other branch staff had added warnings about fraudsters trying to withdraw money 
from this account without ID
the fraud team left specific instructions not to allow withdrawals without ID
the disputed withdrawals were made using the same method and pattern as the prior 
confirmed fraud
With all of that in mind, I dont think theres a fair basis on which NatWest can hold Mr A 
liable for these transactions. It cannot evidence that the withdrawals were properly 
authenticated, the evidence does not support its suggestion that Mr A consented to them, 
and theres strong evidence that they were made without his permission.
I think NatWest has conducted itself poorly in this case. I also note that it failed to hold onto 
key evidence despite the ongoing complaint.Understandably, this issue has caused Mr A a great deal of trouble and stress over the 
course of more than a year, and I understand it has also affected his credit rating.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me. NatWest agreed with the 
recommendations in the provisional decision. Mr A also broadly agreed, though he added 
a further point that Ill go through below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A argued that NatWest breached the Data Protection Act in allowing the disputed 
transactions to go through, and hes worried that the bank may have given out his personal 
data.
I do appreciate Mr As concern, and I dont think NatWest shouldve allowed the disputed 
money to be taken out. But Ive not seen that NatWest necessarily gave out Mr As personal 
data. 
In any case, a complaint about a Data Protection Act breach would normally be best directed 
to the Information Commissioners Office, or ICO for short.
Having reconsidered this case about the disputed transactions, and having taken into 
account what both sides have said, Ive come to the same conclusions as before  that 
NatWest cant fairly hold Mr A liable for the transactions in dispute, and that their errors had 
an unfair impact on him.
Putting things right
National Westminster Bank Plc needs to:
refund the disputed transactions that it has not already refunded;
for the disputed payments that came out of a credit balance: pay simple interest to 
Mr A on those transactions, at the rate of 8% simple a year, payable from the date 
they were debited until the date theyre returned. This is to compensate Mr A for the 
time he didnt have his money;
refund any interest or charges that Mr A incurred because of NatWest debiting the 
disputed transactions;
remove any negative information relating to this matter from Mr As credit file;
pay Mr A a further £500 compensation for the trouble and upset it caused, on top of 
any compensation is has already paid.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires NatWest to take off tax from this simple interest. NatWest must 
give Mr A a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.My final decision
I uphold Mr As complaint, and direct National Westminster Bank Plc to put things right in the 
way I set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2020.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman