DRN-2432429
Complaint
Miss B has complained that Everyday Lending Limited (Everyday Lending) didnt provide 
her with enough time to consider the details of an unaffordable loan in March 2020. 
Background
Everyday Lending provided Miss B with a loan of £3,168.24 in March 2020. This was the 
second loan provided to Miss B and some of what Miss B borrowed (£1,168.24) went 
towards settling the outstanding balance remaining on the first loan. 
Miss B hasnt complained about the first loan Everyday Lending provided to her in 
September 2019. So in this decision all references to loan are made in relation to the one 
for £3,168.24 provided in March 2020, which Miss Bs complaint is about. This loan had a 36 
month term and was due to be repaid in 36 instalments of £267.58. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint and thought that Everyday Lending hadnt 
carried out proportionate checks before lending and that such checks would more likely than 
not have shown Miss B wasnt able to sustainably repay the loan. Everyday Lending 
disagreed with our investigator and asked for an ombudsman to review this complaint.    
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive 
referred to this when deciding Miss Bs complaint. 
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions 
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Miss Bs complaint. These two 
questions are:
1. Did Everyday Lending complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that Miss B would be able to repay her loan in a sustainable way?
oIf so, did it make a fair lending decision?
oIf not, would those checks have shown that Miss B wouldve been able to do 
so?
2. Did Everyday Lending act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did Everyday Lending complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Miss B would be able to repay her loan in a sustainable way?
Everyday Lending provided this loan while it was authorised and regulated by the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA). The rules and regulations in place required Everyday Lending to 
carry out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of Miss Bs ability to make the 
repayments under this agreement. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an 
affordability assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Everyday Lending had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would cause significant adverse consequences for Miss B. In practice this 
meant that Everyday Lending had to ensure that making the payments to the loan wouldnt 
cause Miss B undue difficulty or adverse consequences. 
In other words, it wasnt enough for Everyday Lending to simply think about the likelihood of 
it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Miss B. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different 
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an 
extended period); and 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a given loan application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. 
Ive carefully thought about all of the relevant factors in this case.
Were Everyday Lendings checks reasonable and proportionate?
Everyday Lending says that it obtained two months of bank statements from Miss B and 
carried out a credit check on her. It then used data from the Office of National Statistics 
(ONS) to calculate an amount for living expenses.  
Based on all of this, Everyday Lending worked out that Miss B had a monthly income of 
£2,073.83 and monthly expenditure of £2,017.32 but as part of the funds Miss B was being 
provided with was for debt consolidation her monthly disposable income after this loan was 
taken into account was £101.87.Ive carefully thought about what Everyday Lending has said but I have significant concerns 
about the measures used and the rigour it applied to its affordability assessment.
To explain, at this time, CONC stated that Everyday Lending needed to do enough to 
establish that Miss B wouldnt experience significant adverse consequences as a result of 
making the payments to this loan. In particular, this meant Miss B needed to be able to 
make repayments on time, while meeting other contractual and statutory commitments; as 
well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. I think that this means a lender 
needs to do more than simply assess whether the loan repayments were technically 
affordable in the sense of a strict calculation. 
Everyday Lending used ONS data, which is based on the finances and expenditure of the 
average consumer in order to calculate Miss Bs monthly expenditure. But Everyday Lending 
knew, when it lent to Miss B, that it was providing a loan to someone who fell outside this 
average portfolio. I dont think that using ONS data  which was unlikely to reflect the 
existing commitments and expenditure of someone in Miss Bs circumstances was fair, 
reasonable and proportionate bearing in mind Everyday Lendings expenditure calculation 
didnt properly take into account Miss Bs existing revolving credit commitments as it appears 
to have attributed amounts to only cover the monthly minimum payments. 
Miss Bs increasing indebtedness, she owed more at the time of this application than she did 
at the time her first loan was approved six months earlier, and the use of ONS data 
appearing to leave Miss B right at the maximum of being able to sustain the monthly 
payments mean I dont think it was reasonable and proportionate to proceed with Miss Bs 
application without cross-referencing her expenditure against the bank statements obtained. 
Bearing all of this in mind, as Everyday Lending didnt take steps to cross-reference Miss Bs 
expenditure and instead chose to rely on an over optimistic calculation of her monthly 
disposable income based on ONS data and minimum payments to revolving credit, I dont 
think that its checks were reasonable and proportionate.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have indicated to Everyday Lending that Miss B 
would have been unable to sustainably repay this loan?
As reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out before this loan was provided, 
I cant say for sure what they wouldve shown. So I need to decide whether it is more likely 
than not that a proportionate check would have told Everyday Lending that Miss B wouldve 
been unable to sustainably repay this loan. 
As Ive already explained, Everyday Lending was required to establish whether Miss B could 
make her loan repayments without experiencing significant adverse consequences  not just 
whether the loan payments were technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication that a 
consumer could make the repayments without suffering significant adverse consequences. 
But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. And as a borrower shouldnt have to 
borrow further in order to make their payments, it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments without adverse consequences, if it is on notice that they are unlikely to be able 
to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered everything provided in light of all of this. The information provided with shows that Miss Bs income was around the amount Everyday 
Lending recorded. However, her expenditure was higher than that recorded on account of 
having dependents and the payments attributed towards monthly revolving credit 
commitments not being enough to repay them within a reasonable period. When more 
accurate figures are used to account for Miss Bs regular living costs and existing committed 
expenditure, its clear that she didnt have anywhere near enough to make the payments 
required for this loan for the duration of the agreement and that there was a reasonable 
prospect of her experiencing significant adverse consequences.
Bearing all of this in mind, Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would 
more likely than not have demonstrated that Miss B would not have been able to make the 
repayments to this loan without borrowing further and/or suffering undue difficulty  
especially in light of her increased indebtedness in the period between September 2019 and 
Match 2022. And, in these circumstances, I find that reasonable and proportionate checks 
would more likely than not have alerted Everyday Lending to the fact that Miss B was not in 
a position to afford the repayments to this loan. 
Did Everyday Lending act unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss B in some other way?
Ive carefully thought about everything provided. Miss B has said that the interest rate on her 
loan was unfairly concealed from her. But as Ive already found that Everyday Lending 
shouldnt have entered into this agreement with Miss B in the first place, I dont think that any 
finding that I may make in relation to whether the interest rate on this loan was unfairly 
concealed, will materially affect Miss Bs position. 
So, in these circumstances, as its not necessary for me to do so, I make no finding on 
whether or not the interest rate for this loan was concealed from Miss B and this resulted in 
her unfairly entering into this agreement.
As this is the case, and as Ive not seen anything else in the file to suggest that it did, I dont 
think Everyday Lending acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss B in some other way.  
Did Miss B lose out as a result of Everyday Lending unfairly providing her with this loan?
As Miss B has paid or is being expected to pay interest and charges on a loan that she 
shouldnt have been provided with, Im satisfied that she has lost out as a result of what 
Everyday Lending did wrong. 
So I think that Everyday Lending needs to put things right.  
Fair compensation  what Everyday Lending needs to do to put things right for Miss B
Having thought about everything, I think it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Miss Bs complaint for Everyday Lending to put things right by:
removing all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan from the outset. The 
payments Miss B has made should be deducted from the £3,168.24 she was 
originally lent. Everyday Lending should treat any payments made if and when the 
£3,168.24 has been cleared as overpayments. And any overpayments should be 
refunded to Miss B;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments, if any, from the date 
they were made by Miss B to the date of settlement; HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Lending to take off tax from this interest. 
Everyday Lending must give Miss B a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if 
she asks for one.
Id also remind Everyday Lending of its obligation to exercise forbearance should an 
outstanding balance remain after all adjustments have been made to Miss Bs account and it 
be the case that she is experiencing financial difficulty.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Miss Bs complaint. Everyday Lending Limited 
should put things right for Miss B in the way Ive set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 February 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman