DRN-3061804
The complaint
Mr I is a director of a limited company A. On behalf of A he complains that DAS Legal 
Expenses Insurance Company Limited have declined his claim for commercial legal 
expenses insurance (LEI). 
For ease of reading, Ill mostly refer to Mr I, where I mean his company A. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
an overview of some of the key events here. 
Im aware Mr I has a separate claim / complaint with DAS under a different policy (which 
involves some of the same parties) in a personal capacity. This decision is solely about As 
complaint.
Mr I believes he is due money under a consultancy agreement from one of his clients that Ill 
refer to as M. In January 2021 a barrister had concluded that part of the claim he wanted to 
bring against M had reasonable prospects of success. In March 2021 Mr I asked DAS for 
legal assistance in relation to a dispute he was in with M. M also issued a counter-claim 
against Mr I. 
DAS took the initial steps to assess the claim and ultimately there was a further assessment 
conducted by a panel solicitor H. This concluded that the claim wasnt proportionate to 
pursue. As a result of this DAS declined Mr Is claim. Mr I complained, he doesnt agree the 
claim has been fairly declined and he wants DAS to cover him and to reimburse the legal 
costs hes incurred so far. 
DAS considered the complaint and when they maintained their position, the matter was 
referred to our service. One of our investigators didnt recommend that the complaint should 
be upheld. Mr I disagrees and has asked for an ombudsman to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator and for similar reasons. 
I know this will be disappointing for Mr I, so Ill explain why. 
The policy terms are the basis of any cover available. Mr Is policy says We will pay costs 
and expenses...provided that where an award of damages is the only legal remedy to a 
dispute and the cost of pursuing legal action is likely to be more than any award of damages, 
the most we will pay in costs and expenses is the value of the likely award.
Terms like this are common to nearly all LEI and I dont think the above term is unfair. 
Litigation can be expensive and a privately paying client wouldnt generally continue legal 
action if they were likely to have to spend more on legal costs then they stood to gain if 
successful in court  I dont think an insurer should have to either. 
DAS themselves arent legal experts. So, I think it is fair that they rely on a suitably qualified 
legal opinion when making decisions about a claim. Unless that opinion is so obviously 
wrong that a layperson could identify this. In this case, the legal opinion from H is clear and 
sets out its reasoning when concluding that Even if the counterclaim were to fail in its 
entirety, the prospects of success for your claim are limited to the £1,800 claimed only. It is 
therefore unlikely to be proportionate to pursue the matter. Im also satisfied that the legal 
opinion isnt obviously wrong and that its author is suitably qualified. 
So, I think it is fair for DAS to rely on this and the policy term quoted above when concluding 
that the claim isnt proportionate to pursue. Ive thought about the barristers opinion Mr I has 
provided from January 2021 which says part of his claim has reasonable prospects of 
success. But I understand that opinion was drafted prior to the counterclaim being issued. 
So, I dont think DAS were wrong to rely on Hs opinion from April 2021 which included 
consideration of more recent events. 
The solicitor valued Mr Is claim at around £1,800. I dont think its unreasonable for DAS to 
conclude that this is likely to be insufficient to take a claim through court. There is also clear 
provision in the policy that an insured should notify DAS of a claim as soon as possible and 
that costs that arent agreed in advance wont be covered. 
With this in mind, there is no reasonable basis upon which to expect DAS to reimburse Mr I 
any of the legal costs hes claiming for. Ive considered a letter Mr I has referred to from DAS 
about him appointing a non-panel solicitor. But I dont agree that this was a full acceptance 
of his claim nor an authorisation to incur costs. If Mr I were to fund a further legal opinion 
which concluded his claim is proportionate to pursue, Id expect DAS to consider this. But as 
things stand, I dont think they need to do anything further to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2021.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman