DRN-1372313
The complaint
Miss S complains about The Prudential Assurance Company Limiteds administration of her 
endowment policy when she enquired about surrendering it. 
What happened
Miss S called Prudential in April 2019 wanting to know the values of two endowment policies 
as she was thinking of surrendering them. She was told values couldn't be given over the 
phone due to corrections on them. She was also told she would need to complete forms in 
order to surrender the policies and the values couldn't be frozen. Miss S was thinking of 
investing further with Prudential again but is unhappy she might have to pay for this service. 
Miss S complained about these issues and not being able to view her policy values online. 
Prudential upheld her complaint in part. It agreed she had been provided with misleading 
information during the call and so arranged for £150 to be paid into her account by way of 
compensation. It also said it recommends financial advice if someone wants to invest but 
this isn't something it offers. 
Our investigator explained we could only consider the complaint about one policy as the 
other still appeared to be in joint names. He was satisfied that Prudential had already fairly 
resolved this complaint. He explained that corrections could be different things such as 
amendments to the policy or if a policy is close to maturing, both of which were applicable to 
Miss Ss policy. He was satisfied the offer of compensation was fair for any incorrect 
information given to Miss S during the call. The investigator also explained that Prudential 
doesn't offer a free advice service; something he isn't able to comment on as that is a 
business decision for it to make, which our service has no authority over. 
Miss S has asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman. Shes unhappy that shed 
need to refer to a financial adviser about whether to reinvest when the policy value could 
diminish further with this additional cost. And she remains unhappy about the corrections 
and having to put her surrender request in writing. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss S's complaint concerns more than one issue, although I appreciate they all stem from 
wanting to obtain surrender values.  
Surrender values
Prudential was unable to give the surrender value over the phone. I understand this was due 
to amendments that have been made to the policy  such as assigning the policy to a single 
life or because the policy was close to maturity  and so the value has to be calculated 
manually. I appreciate why Miss S might be unhappy about this. But this is a system 
constraint which means its unable to give immediate values. This also explains why Miss S was unable to view her policy value online through the portal. Its unfortunate it described the 
constraints as corrections as this does suggest something has gone wrong but this is 
internal terminology. I dont find that Prudential has done anything wrong  it is only able to 
provide Miss S with accurate values following a manual calculation. 
I note that following the call a surrender value was sent to Miss S in the post and that the 
value was valid for a month. The value also included what requirements were needed in 
order to surrender the policy. Im satisfied, therefore, that Miss S was given time to decide 
whether to surrender the policy, at the value she was given, with sufficient time to return the 
requirements without this affecting that value. The need for a claim form and ID are fairly 
typical of all companies when surrendering an investment. I dont find anything unusual 
about that. Overall, I agree with the investigator that £150 compensation for what happened 
during the call to be fair compensation. 
I also add, if only for the sake of completeness, that whether a surrender value changes on a 
daily basis or is valid for longer is largely determined by what type of fund is invested into. 
Again this is typical across investment companies and isn't confined to Prudential. And 
where a value changes daily, it's generally the situation that a value can't be frozen or a 
policy surrendered without certain requirements being met. 
Advice
Miss S has complained about the need to pay for advice. However, as the investigator 
explained, we dont generally interfere with decisions about how a business is run  that is a 
commercial decision for it to make. 
Further, following the Retail Distribution Review advisers were no longer allowed to be paid 
through commission. So instead advisers generally charge upfront for the advice they give. 
This explains why both Prudentials advice service and the services offered by independent 
advisers (and other types of advice platform) come at a cost. And of course independent 
advisers can offer advice on a wider range of products. 
Its for Miss S to decide if she wants advice or not, but if she does, then I dont find anything 
wrong with Prudential charging for this service. If she doesn't then she may be able to invest 
in products on an execution only basis  but this means she wont receive any advice about 
whether a particular product is suitable for her needs and circumstances, that will be a 
decision she needs to make. Overall I don't find anything wrong with Prudential 
recommending Miss S seek advice about her investments. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my decision is I don't uphold this complaint as I'm satisfied it has 
already been fairly resolved. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 July 2020.
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman