DRN-3883531
The complaint
X says that Lighthouse Advisory Services Limited mis-sold his income protection insurance.
What happened
In 2001, X saw an adviser to source an income protection policy should he be unable to 
work due to incapacity. X said the policy was mis-sold because it doesnt provide the cover 
he was promised. X is now unwell and has realised theres a shortfall in the level of cover he 
thought he had.
Lighthouse said theres limited information available given the passage of time thats lapsed 
since the sale of the policy. It said Xs policy only covered 65% of the first £50,000 of his 
annual wage and a third of that remaining. It also said X needed to regularly review the 
policy to make sure it continued to meet his needs. Lighthouse said although the policy was 
unit-linked, it wouldnt have taken into consideration any pay increases, unless X specifically 
shared this information. 
Our investigator didnt think the policy was mis-sold. He said the policy was suitable at the 
time of sale as Xs salary was less than £50,000. He said hed not seen any persuasive 
evidence of X telling Lighthouse about his salary increasing over the years and so he didnt 
think Lighthouse had done anything wrong. 
X disagreed. In summary he said his salary increased but that this was below expectations. 
He also said it wasnt made clear at the time that there were the policy limitations and that 
hes been considerably disadvantaged as had he known this sooner, he couldve made 
better financially based plans. X also said he saw an adviser around nine years ago and it 
shouldve been identified then that the policy was unsuitable. And so, its for me to make a 
final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it for the same reasons given by our investigator. 
Theres little information available from the time of sale and because I wasnt there, Im 
unable to say for certain what X was told. But Im satisfied the policy says itll cover 65% of 
Xs annual earnings and a third of any remaining amount thereafter. I understand Xs 
argument that he was told the policy would always cover 65% of his earnings, but thats not 
what the policy says, nor is there any evidence to support that argument from the time of 
sale.
Ive seen evidence of the demands and needs letter sent after the policy was initially sold 
and this details the policy limit and says X must review his cover should his employment 
situation change. This was to ensure Xs policy continued to meet his needs. Because X 
didnt do this he remained under-insured. 
I think the policy was suitable, based on the available evidence, because Xs earnings were 
considerably less than £50,000 in 2001. His salary increased by more than £100,000 over 
the years that followed, however that wasnt the case when he took the policy. And so, Im 
satisfied it was suitable at the time based on this. 
Lighthouse said X shouldve let it know when his salary increased so it could determine 
whether the cover in place continued to meet his needs. X said he did this some nine years 
ago, but thats not the complaint he brought to us. The complaint brought was whether the 
policy was mis-sold because it was unsuitable and based on the available evidence, I think it 
was suitable. Should X want us to consider whether he was given suitable advice during the 
meeting nine years ago, then hed first need to raise that with the advisors responsible at 
that time. For these reasons Im unable to make a finding on that point.
My final decision
Its for these reasons I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2023.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman