DRN-3089107
The complaint
Ms M complains about the way Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) have 
handled a claim under her home insurance policy.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, and largely not in dispute so 
Ill only summarise it here. When I refer to RSA I include its agents and contractors.
Ms M contacted RSA in late August 2019 to log a claim for subsidence, and a claim 
was set up on 6 September.
In November 2019 RSA confirmed that vegetation in a nearby property might be 
causing damage. And in January 2020 they instructed contractors to monitor the 
property for cracking.
In April 2020 contactors were instructed to investigate the vegetation issues, but 
some delays were experienced due to Covid-19
There were issues in identifying the owner of the land on which the vegetation 
believed to be causing the subsidence was growing. This was exacerbated by a 
change of ownership and a dispute as to who owned the land.
Ultimately RSA identified the owner of the land who agreed to remove the vegetation 
in January 2021
After intervention by our investigator RSA offered £100 in acknowledgement of what 
it described as minor delays. Our investigator felt this was a fair offer, explaining that 
he believed there had been some avoidable delays as well as a number of 
unavoidable delays. 
The investigator further explained that subsidence claims can take a long time to 
resolve and in this case RSA had to deal with complex ownership issues before the 
vegetation could be removed. And that repairs to Ms Ms property couldnt be carried 
out until the vegetation causing the damage was removed as otherwise damage 
would likely reoccur.
Ms M was unhappy with our investigators findings and made further representations. 
Our investigator provided further clarification of his view, confirming hed considered 
events up to the point RSA provided its business file in May 2021 and that anything 
after that hadnt formed part of his investigation.
Ms M asked that an ombudsman decide her case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with our investigators findings, and largely for the same reasons.
Ms M made a number of submissions in bringing this complaint, and Ive considered these 
and have read everything shes sent in. But I dont intend to respond in similar detail, so if I 
dont mention a particular point or piece of testimony it isnt because Ive not seen it or 
thought about it. Its simply that I dont feel it necessary to reference it to explain my 
decision. I hope Ms M doesnt take this as a discourtesy, its just a reflection of the informal 
nature of our service. 
Whilst understanding how upsetting it can be to have a home damaged by subsidence, 
particularly in Ms Ms personal circumstances, Im satisfied that the offer made by RSA is in 
line with what Id expect in this situation. Much of the delay in progressing the claim was 
outside of RSAs control, our investigator described these as unavoidable delays. And I find 
the delays that were within RSAs control, the avoidable delays, such as not chasing third 
parties in a timely manner had a limited impact on the overall time taken.
Subsidence claims can and do take time to resolve, and its reasonable for RSA to address 
the underlying cause of the subsidence, in this case vegetation on neighbouring land before 
commencing repairs. Im mindful there were complications establishing the owner of the 
land, and I find that RSA took reasonable steps to establish who was responsible. And I 
cant consider Ms Ms concerns about potential loss in value of her property as this isnt 
something thats occurred, and my role is to consider if RSA has acted in a reasonable 
manner in its handling of the claim.
Having considered everything Im satisfied in the circumstances of this cases that £100 is a 
fair and reasonable award by RSA to recognise the delays within its control. And RSA 
should pay this to Ms M if it hasnt already done so.
I note Miss M remains unhappy with the progress of the claim after the timescales our 
investigator and I have considered. And Ms M may wish to raise further complaints to RSA 
about events after 6 May 2021, and bring them to this service if she remains unhappy with 
RSAs response.
My final decision
For the reasons above I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2022.
 
Martyn Tomkins
Ombudsman