DRN-2455678
The complaint
Mr L has complained that Scottish Friendly Assurance Society Limited (Scottish Friendly) 
mis-sold him an ISA as he wasnt made aware of the exit fee.
What happened
The details of the complaint are well-known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I must tell Mr L that I think the investigator has reached a fair outcome
here, Ill explain.
Mr L is unhappy that the ISA he took out had a term which said if he cashed in before 
the end of five years there will be a £50 deduction from the cash-in value. He feels he 
wasnt adequately made aware of this term. And due to its significance, there should 
have been more prominence placed on the term.
I am aware that Mr L applied for the ISA online. As such, I am able to see the steps 
Mr L would have taken prior to completing his application for the ISA.
Having reviewed the online journey I can see that on the first page of the application 
screen there are several tabs which the customer is expected to click on and review. 
One of the tabs is headed Important Things to Think About. Under this section it 
clearly states:
If you cash in before the end of 5 years there will be a £50 deduction from your cash-in 
value.
In order for Mr L to have continued with his application he would have needed to 
press the apply online button. Having done this I can see that after clicking that 
button a popup screen is activated. This explains that the customer must read and 
understand the product guide before continuing and the link to the product guide is 
provided.
I have read the product guide and I can see that is has a risks section. And under 
this section it states:
If you fully cash in your policy or request a withdrawal which would leave a value of less 
than £50 in your policy, within the first 5 years of setting it up there will be a charge of £50 
deducted from your policy.
And under page six, 10 and 13 of the product guide it explains this point again.
So, with that in mind, I am satisfied that Mr L was made sufficiently clear and in a 
prominent way of the associated charges. 
I say this because there was a clear heading stating Important things to think about 
therefore, pushing customers to ensure they had taken this into account before 
proceeding. Once a customer chose to proceed, again there was a product guide 
which clearly outlined risks and charges that the customer was asked to read 
before continuing. Mr L chose to continue after being directed to Important things to 
think about and the product guide. As such, I think Scottish Friendly acted fairly and 
reasonably in highlighting this to its customers. 
Once a customer completes the online application, I am aware that a welcome pack 
is sent. Having reviewed the welcome pack I can see that the charges are again 
outlined in the terms and conditions along with Mr Ls right to cancel.
So, if Mr L had chosen not to read the Important things to think about tab or product 
guide before proceeding to apply for the ISA, he still had an opportunity to cancel 
once he received the welcome pack, which again included the product guide and 
terms. 
With that in mind I am satisfied the customer journey and the information available to 
Mr L about the associated charges was sufficient and prominent. It used triggering 
words such as Important Risks and Charges. And as such Mr L ought to have 
been aware before proceeding.
So I wont be asking Scottish Friendly to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2021.
 
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman