DRN-2956171
The complaint
Miss M complains that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) unfairly 
charged her for damages to a car she returned.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons: 
Miss M entered into an agreement under which she accepted responsibility for any damages 
which went beyond fair wear and tear. Her car proved to have suffered from a recurring fault 
which the dealer was unable to repair despite a number of attempts. The car was left with 
the dealer in August 2020 and was taken by the agents acting for MBFS and inspected in 
March 2021. The inspector identified a number of areas of damage.
MBFS invoiced Miss A £740, but later reduced this to £630 after concluding that the damage 
to one wheel was within the fair wear and tear tolerance. Miss A remained unhappy and 
brought the matter to this service. It was considered by one of our investigators who didnt 
recommend the complaint be upheld. She reviewed the photographs from the agent and 
concluded the damage was chargeable. She said that if Miss A was able to provide any 
evidence that the car had been returned without the damage she would reconsider.
Miss A said that the poor conduct of the dealer had forced her into rejecting the car. It was 
impossible for her to produce evidence of its state when she left it with the dealer. She said 
the car had been with the dealer on numerous occasions and it was possible that the 
damage had occurred then. 
I appreciate the position in which Miss M finds herself in that having rejected the car she 
wasnt able to carry out her own inspection. However, the car is damaged and I 
acknowledge that Miss A accepts this. The agreement states that she is responsible for the 
cost of any such damage and given she was the keeper of the car and the one who drove it 
for most of the period of the agreement she is also responsible for the damage.  
The car had done 955 miles when she acquired it and the mileage at the time of inspection 
was 8,324. While it may have been test driven by the dealer I consider that the bulk of the 
miles will have been done by Miss M. On balance I find it unlikely that the damage would 
have been caused by the dealer.  So, while I have every sympathy with Miss M I cannot 
safely uphold her complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 September 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman