DRN-3797036
The complaint
Ms F complains about a hold eBay Commerce UK Ltd placed on her funds after she sold an 
item online.
What happened
In mid-2022, Ms F complained to eBay after it said it had placed a 14 day hold on funds 
received for an item shed sold online.
eBay said this was because she hadnt met its graduation requirements and she might come 
across this hold from time to time until she did. To meet these requirements, she would need 
to complete 25 transactions.
Ms F remained unhappy and asked our service to consider her complaint. She said she 
wasnt a new seller and felt that she was being discriminated against for not being a regular 
seller. She said she had sold over 70 items since 2015 and had received 100% positive 
feedback and provided a screenshot to show this. 
Our investigator looked into Ms Fs concerns but didnt think her complaint should be upheld. 
The investigator was satisfied eBay had acted in line with its Payments Terms of Use.
Ms F disagreed with our investigators outcome. She felt that eBay was inconsistent with its 
practices and procedures, as it hadnt held on to funds from a transaction carried out in 
March 2022. She also thought eBay should have taken into account that she had been a 
member since 2015, shed received 100% positive feedback in the last 12 months and her 
seller level was above standard. So, her complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Fs complaint. Ill explain why.
eBays Payment Terms of Use say:
We reserve the right to manage the risks associated with providing you the Payment 
Services, by placing restrictions on your access to your funds when deemed necessary, as 
described in further detail below. You agree that we may place holds on your funds or 
instruct a payment service provider to hold your funds, prior to disbursement
The Payment Terms of Use links to eBays holds help page which contains further 
information including:
New or infrequent sellers will experience transaction holds while learning best 
selling practices. This helps sellers become established and build a strong selling 
history on eBay. New sellers typically experience holds for up to 14 days, although 
sometimes it may be longer.
eBay says Ms F experienced a hold on her funds for 14 days because she was considered 
an infrequent seller. It says it wanted to ensure the transaction went smoothly and to confirm 
delivery of the item. 
Ms F has provided evidence to show that shes sold over 70 items on eBay since 2015. 
However, eBay says that it reviews the number of sales for the 24 months prior to the date of 
sale and Ms F hadnt made 25 sales within that time period. Ms F doesnt dispute this. So, I 
dont think its unreasonable for eBay to consider Ms F to be an infrequent seller. 
Given what it says in its terms, I think it was reasonable for eBay to have placed a hold on 
the transaction for up to 14 days.
Ms F has commented that eBay hasnt consistently followed its own policy. She says eBay 
released funds for an item she sold in March 2022 the day after she sold it.
Its not this services role to tell a business what policies or processes to put in place or how 
strictly they must follow them. If a business has failed to follow a policy correctly or a 
consumer has been unfairly disadvantaged in some way, we would consider what the impact 
on the consumer is.
The information on eBays website doesnt state that it will always place a 14 day hold on 
transactions for new or infrequent sellers. It says these sellers will typically experience 
holds for up to 14 days. I appreciate Ms F might be confused about why eBay didnt place 
a 14 day hold on the transaction of March 2022. However, Im not persuaded that shes been 
disadvantaged by this. 
I know my answer will be disappointing for Ms F. But overall, Im satisfied that eBay has 
acted fairly and reasonably. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Ms Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman