DRN-1887674
 
The complaint
Mrs P complains on behalf of Mr M that Covea Insurance plc has unfairly increased his car 
insurance premium in the middle of the policy term, because he became employed and 
needed to use his car to travel to work.
What happened
Mr M took out car insurance via a broker in September 2017 when he was a student. Covea 
is the underwriter, but said the policy is administered by the broker. When Mr M stopped 
being a student and started work he didnt tell the broker, or that he was using his car to 
drive to work. The broker became aware after Mr M was involved in an accident in February 
2018 and told Covea. In response these businesses applied a mid-term additional premium 
to Mr Ms policy, which he believes is unfair.
Covea said that Mr Ms occupation and use of car changed so his policy had to be corrected. 
Following a reassessment of risk Covea added an additional premium of £403.07  including 
insurance premium tax. Covea said its underwriting criteria determine the premium it 
charges for different risks and this is based upon rating factors that assess the chances of 
an accident, the likely cost of repairs, and the risk of theft. Covea said Mr Ms change from 
being a student to working resulted in an increased premium. It wouldnt show the specific 
information behind the increase as it said this is sensitive information. Covea also said the 
broker offered students discounts, which no longer applied when Mr M started work.
Mrs P thought there was no difference in Mr Ms driving to and from college to his driving to 
and from work. She said that since the accident he has changed jobs and doesnt now use 
his car for work.
The investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She said Covea said it wouldnt 
charge additional premium for the change of use of the vehicle. And its willingness to insure 
was shown by its settling Mr Ms claim, irrespective of the changes. So whether Mr M drove 
his car to college or work, or whether he was to only use his car for social and domestic 
purposes, wouldnt have a bearing on the increased premium. She said insurers regularly 
reassess the risk of providing insurance and premiums may go up. But, she wouldnt expect 
a change in risk rating mid-term unless it is a fundamental or significant change. 
The investigator thought a significant change would be a conviction, or change of address, 
or change of car. She thought it was unfair to remove the student discount Mr M received at 
the start of the policy, as his changes mid-term werent significant. She said Covea should 
waive the additional premium it charged as a result of the mid-term amendment to the policy.
Covea disagreed with the investigator that Mr Ms change of occupation wasnt significant 
and shouldnt result in an additional premium. Covea referred to policy booklet which tells 
policyholders to inform of any changes which affect the policy, including to full or part time 
occupation. Covea said its entitled to set its own criteria to determine what it constitutes to 
be a risk, and what premium it will charge for different risks.Covea said all of Mr Ms information is viewed as a rating factor, including occupation and so 
it is fair that any change to the occupation results in a re-rating of the risk and, subsequently, 
the premium charged. As Covea disagreed with the investigators view, the complaint has 
been referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ms broker added further charges to the increase from Covea  and this is the subject of 
a separate complaint that I have considered. In the present complaint it is my role to 
consider the mid-term increase in premium applied by Covea and decide if this was fair. 
Its important that I make clear that were not the industry regulator. So its not my role to 
say how much an insurer should charge, what factors it should assess, or how much risk to 
attach to each of those factors when deciding on a premium. Insurance is essentially 
an assessment of risk. And we generally take the view that, providing they treat people 
fairly insurers are entitled to charge what they feel they need to in order to cover a risk. 
Insurers consider many factors when setting premiums. They will make an assessment of 
how likely it is that their policyholders will make a claim and how much they might have to 
pay out for those. And each insurer will go about that in its own way. So, when deciding if an 
insurer has dealt with a policyholder fairly, I look to see if its treated them the same as it 
would others with similar circumstances.
Covea is right to say its for an insurer to decide how it will assess risk. When calculating 
insurance premiums insurers take a number of factors into consideration; for example - the 
consumers name, age, and occupation. Covea said its applied its risk factors to the 
calculation of the increased premium. However, Covea hasnt shared this with us and so I 
cant see how it has reached the additional charge it applied. This means I cant be certain 
Covea has treated Mr M the same as it would other policyholders in a similar situation to his. 
Mr Ms motor policy states that it is for, Social, domestic and pleasure purposes only, 
excluding commuting to any place of work or study. It also states that policyholders must 
notify the broker if there is a change in their situation, including changes to full or part time 
education. Not every change that a policyholder makes leads to a recalculation of the 
premium during the policy year. And the policy doesnt say that the changes referred to, may 
cause the price of the policy to increase mid-term. 
Ive thought about whether Mr Ms changes were significant. Covea said that from its 
analysis there is a greater claim risk of a claim for non-students. But I think its not 
uncommon for policyholders to change their occupation over a policy year. And Mr M was 
still the policyholder living at the same address, and was still using the car in the same ways. 
Ive noted there was no voidance or reduction of Mr Ms claim by Covea. 
Covea has offered an annual contract and so it's not unreasonable to expect some minor 
changes within the policy year, which dont significantly alter the risk Covea has agreed to 
cover. Its understandable that the cost of Mr Ms cover might increase at renewal according 
to the changes in risk and Mr M is then free to decide if he wants to maintain his cover. With 
these factors in mind I have concluded that Covea hasnt treated Mr M fairly. I say this 
because Im of the view that his changes werent significant or fundamental to his 
circumstances in a way that justified the additional premium he was charged mid-term. 
Putting things rightIve reached the view that Mr Ms change of occupation wasnt relevant to his driving and 
doesnt represent a significant increase in the risk to Covea. I think it was reasonable for Mr 
M to have expected the years premium to remain the same, unless there was a significant 
change to the circumstances, such as changing his car or address. And, even though the 
insurers statistics may well show that starting an occupation is a greater risk its a regular 
occurrence in peoples lives. 
I dont think Covea should have charged Mr M the additional premium and it should be 
cancelled or refunded.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given above it is my final decision that the complaint is upheld. I 
require Covea Insurance plc to cancel the additional premium of £403.07 that it charged Mr 
M and if this amount has been paid it is to be refunded together with interest.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2020.
 
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman