DRN-4320161
The complaint
Mr S complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE declined his claim against his travel 
insurance policy. Reference to Great Lakes includes its agents. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mr S has an annual travel insurance policy underwritten by 
Great Lakes. The cover started on 1 November 2021 and was extended beyond 12 
months to 21 January 2023. 
Mr S was on a trip with a departure date of 10 August 2022 and an intended return date 
of 21 August 2022. He had a serious road accident whilst riding his 500cc motorcycle to 
the point of departure of the return ferry. I understand that no other vehicle was involved.   
Mr S required hospital treatment and was treated in a public hospital in his destination 
country.  
Mr S friend contacted Great Lakes on his behalf in order to make a claim for emergency 
medical treatment. Great Lakes declined the claim. It said that the policy doesnt cover 
participation in the activity of motorcycle riding whereby the engine is in excess of 
125cc
Following his treatment at the overseas hospital, Mr S required transfer by ambulance to 
a hospital near his home in the UK. He borrowed money from a family member for the 
ambulance costs, which he subsequently repaid. Mr S says that he was discharged from 
hospital in the UK in October 2022. 
Mr S complained about Great Lakes decision to decline his claim. He says that the 
exclusion to which Great Lakes refers appears to be for motorcycling as a pastime whilst 
on a trip whereas riding his motorcycle was his mode of transport for the trip. Mr S says 
that he wouldnt have taken out the policy if hed known there was an exclusion in 
relation to motorcycles. He wants Great Lakes to reimburse the cost of his transfer by 
ambulance to the UK hospital near his home. 
Great Lakes maintained its position. It said that theres no cover following an accident in 
which Mr S rode a motorcycle over 125cc. Mr S didnt think that was fair and pursued his 
complaint. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He didnt think that Great Lakes 
had treated Mr S fairly and reasonably in declining the claim. That was because he 
thought that the exclusion upon which Great Lakes seeks to rely refers to recreational 
motorcycle use, rather than the use of a motorcycle to travel to or from a destination. 
The investigator didnt think that the policy excluded cover in relation to the use of a 
motorcycle over 125cc for the purposes of travelling on an inbound or outbound journey. 
He recommended that Great Lakes settle Mr S claim, pay interest and pay 
compensation of £250. 
Mr S accepted the investigators recommendation, but Great Lakes didnt. It said that 
motorcycling as a mode of transport is inherently risky or a hazardous activity.          
Great Lakes said that the exclusion on which its relied is common. It said that specialist 
travel insurance can be obtained from other insurers, and it assumes that Mr S had 
motorcycle insurance which may have covered his accident. 
The investigator considered what Great Lakes said but didnt change his view. He said 
the risk of policyholders travelling to their destination by motorcycle isnt excluded in the 
policy but the use of a motorcycle over 125cc as a sport or activity is. The investigator 
thought that those two uses are different.  
Great Lakes said that the investigators approach suggests that it should cover all the 
excluded activities in the policy  such as BMX stunt riding, hiking above 2,500 metres, 
quad biking  if the policyholder uses it as a mode of transport. It said that the 
investigators view suggests that it could exclude a claim if the insured used their 
motorcycle at their destination, as that wouldnt be part of travel to or from their 
destination. 
The investigator said that motorcycling is a common form of transport and any exclusion 
about that should have been clear, which he didnt think it was here. He also didnt think 
that a policyholder would refer to the sports and activities section of the policy in order to 
establish whether there was cover for motorcycling as a mode of transport. 
Great Lakes said that when insurers sell motorcycle insurance, they commonly offer 
additional cover such as helmet and leathers cover and personal accident cover, as 
these are gaps in the standard insurance cover. It says that its generally understood that 
motorcycling is a hazardous activity and that motorcyclists may need additional cover 
over and above standard insurance products. Great Lakes said that if Mr S had gone to 
the help section of the website and typed in motorcycling, the results would have shown 
that only motorcycling on a motorcycle under 125cc is covered as an activity. It said that 
Mr S didnt mention that motorcycling was his mode of transport when he bought the 
policy. 
Great Lakes asked that an ombudsman consider the matter, so it was passed to me to 
decide. 
My provisional decision 
On 3 August 2023, I sent both parties my provisional decision in this case in which I 
indicated that I didnt intend to uphold the complaint. I said: the relevant terms and conditions
Subject to the policy terms, Mr S policy covers emergency medical and repatriation 
expenses following a medical emergency whilst on a trip. The exclusion on which          
Great Lakes relies says as follows:
General Exclusions  applying to all sections. 
No section of this policy shall apply in respect of:
[]
16. You engaging in any sports and activities or winter sports [] where such activity is 
not listed as covered in this policy.
[]
Sports & Activities
This policy will cover you when participating in any of the following activities on a non-
professional, non-competitive basis:
Accepted activities
[] Motor cycling as a passenger or rider* (only if wearing a helmet, the motorcycle is under 
125cc and the rider holds a valid motorcycle licence, []
[] 
This policy specifically excludes participating in, or practising any of the following activities:
Excluded activities
[]
Motor cycling as a passenger or rider (unless wearing a helmet, the motorcycle is under 
125cc and the rider holds a valid motorcycle licence),[]
If you are undertaking a sport or activity which is not listed, or are in any doubt as to whether 
cover will apply, please call Customer Services.
The policy defines sports and activities as The activities listed under Sports and Activities 
on page 45.
The insurance product information document (IPID) is a summary of cover and exclusions 
and includes the following:
What is not insured?
[]
X Certain hazardous sports and activities may not be covered under this policy. (see policy 
wording).
[]
has Great lakes declined the claim unfairly?
I have considerable sympathy for Mr S. He was involved in a serious accident abroad and 
suffered physical and financial consequences as a result. Im pleased to note that he is now 
making a good recovery. Im sorry to disappoint Mr S, but I dont intend to uphold his 
complaint because I dont think that Great Lakes treated him unfairly or unreasonably in 
declining his claim. I say that because:   Insurance policies arent designed to cover every eventuality or situation. An 
insurer will decide what risks its willing to cover and set these out in the terms and 
conditions of the policy document. The onus is on the consumer to show that the 
claim falls under one of the agreed areas of cover within the policy. If the event is 
covered in principle but is declined on the basis of an exclusion set out in the policy 
the onus shifts to the insurer to show how that exclusion applies.
I think that Great Lakes is entitled to rely on the exclusion Ive set out above. The 
policy excludes claims arising from motorcycling except where the insured wears a 
helmet, the motorcycle is under 125cc, and the rider holds a valid motorcycle licence. 
Mr S claim followed an accident on a motorbike which was 500cc. So, Mr S claim is 
caught by the exclusion. 
I dont think that theres a valid distinction between claims where the motorcycle is 
being ridden for recreation or as a mode of transport. In either case, motorcycling is 
an activity which the policy doesnt cover, unless the insured is wearing a helmet, the 
motorcycle is under 125cc, and the rider holds a valid motorcycle licence. 
Great Lakes didnt advise Mr S about the suitability of the policy for his needs. It was 
nevertheless obliged to provide him with information about the policy thats clear, fair, 
and not misleading, so that he could decide whether the policy was right for him. 
Great Lakes has shown that it sent Mr S policy documents on 25 October 2021. The 
IPID drew Mr S attention to the fact that the policy doesnt cover certain hazardous 
activities and referred him to the policy wording. 
Its common for travel insurance policies to exclude certain activities, including some 
types of motorcycling. I dont think that Great Lakes exclusion is unusual or onerous 
such that it should have been specifically brought to Mr S attention at the time of 
purchase of the policy. I think that Great Lakes did enough to provide Mr S with 
information to enable him to determine whether the policy was right for him.
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont think that Great Lakes treated Mr S unfairly or 
unreasonably in declining his claim. 
Responses to provisional decision
Great Lakes accepted my provisional decision, but Mr S did not. He said, in summary:
He didnt have any contact with Great Lakes during renewal of the policy, he dealt 
with a third party who he assumed was the insurer.
He didnt receive the policy document on renewal and only received a two page 
summary from the third party. 
Great Lakes should ensure that its agent passes on relevant exclusions and enquires 
about the mode of transport the insured will use. He wasnt asked how he would be 
travelling. 
125cc is a strange figure because the insurer could have referred to brake horse 
power (BHP). The motorcycle he was riding was 25BHP which is a lot less than 
some modern 125cc motorcycles. 
He doesnt consider his motorbike as a dangerous mode of transport and has toured 
extensively for over 40 years.He disputes that Great Lakes sent him policy documents in October 2021. The 
renewal document he received from a third party in 2021 only excluded cruises and 
only winter sports and golf were mentioned in the sporting activities section. 
He was misled into thinking that he was covered by the policy. Great Lakes and its 
agent provided contradictory documents. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry that Mr S was disappointed with my provisional decision and I understand the 
importance of this matter to him. Ive looked carefully at the points Mr S has made.
Great Lakes is the underwriter of Mr S policy. That means its the business who declined his 
claim. Im looking at whether it did so in accordance with the policy terms, fairly and 
reasonably. My reference to Great Lakes includes its agents. 
Mr S says he didnt receive policy documentation and only received a two page summary 
from a third party. Great Lakes has provided a copy of the e-mail its agent sent to Mr S 
email address on 25 October 2021. That e-mail provided a link to enable Mr S to download 
his policy documents. The two page summary Mr S has provided in response to my 
provisional decision is a policy summary which includes the following:
[] This summary does not describe all the Terms and Conditions of your policy, so please 
take time to read the policy document to make sure you understand the cover it 
provides.[]
Ive looked again at the information Great Lakes made available to Mr S. Im satisfied that 
Great Lakes provided Mr S with information about the policy thats clear, fair, and not 
misleading, so that he could decide whether the policy was right for him. 
I dont think that Great Lakes was obliged to ask Mr S at renewal about his usual mode of 
transport. 
Its for insurers to decide what risks they wish to cover and its a matter for each insurer  
whether it refers to cc or BHP in referring to cover or exclusions for motorcycles. 
Ive looked again at the detail of the complaint. I remain of the view that Great Lakes was 
entitled to rely on the exclusion to which it referred. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr S, but for the reasons set out in my provisional decision and 
above, I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr S complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2023.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman