DRN-4241023
The complaint
Mr S complaints AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited (AA) unfairly delayed the 
settlement of his claim when his car was classed as a total loss.
 
What happened
On 23 October 2022 Mr Ss car was damaged when a tree fell onto it during a storm. He 
made a claim on his motor insurance policy. 
The car was deemed to be beyond economic repair. AA made a settlement offer for the car 
at the end of October 2022. The settlement amount was disputed by Mr S. The settlement 
was paid to Mr S at the end of November 2022
In late December 2022 AA reviewed its offer and found it to be unfair and raised a further 
payment to Mr S. 
AA accepted there had been delays which had caused inconvenience to Mr S whilst he was 
waiting for the settlement paid to be reviewed. It paid him £200 compensation for this.
As Mr S was not happy with AA, he brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold  the complaint. They looked into the case and said AA did 
offer market value for the car but there were avoidable delays. They said as AA had 
acknowledged this and paid £200 redress, that this was fair and in line with our guidance.
As Mr S is unhappy with our investigators view the complaint has been brought to me for a 
final decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I considered whether AA acted fairly and reasonably in reaching its decision as to the level 
of settlement offered to Mr S following the decision to treat his car as a total loss. My role is 
not to provide an exact valuation but to make a judgment as to whether the offer of 
settlement is fair.
I looked at the details within Mr Ss motor insurance policy with AA. In this case on page 
eight of the policy terms and conditions it says;
Market Value - The cost of replacing the Insured Car with one of the same make, model,
age, mileage, specification and condition at the date of accident or loss.
On page nine it says;
The maximum amount payable will be the Market Value of the Insured Car.
Although this service doesnt value vehicles, we do check that the insurers valuation is fair
and reasonable and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. We use trade guides
to do this, and theyre based on nationwide research of likely selling prices and take the cars
specifications, mileage etc into account.
This service doesnt consider the question of market value to be an exact science, however
our general approach is that the valuations given in the main motor trade guides provide the
most persuasive and consistent evidence. These guides are based on extensive nationwide
research of likely (but not actual) selling prices.
In this case AA told Mr S of its decision that the car was classed as a category N write off 
and made a settlement offer of £4,190 on 31 October 2022. I saw Mr S emailed AA the day 
after and he said he was surprised the car was not repairable but understood there was 
quite a lot of repair work to do, and so he understood this. However he queried the 
settlement amount offered.
I considered if AA fairly determined Mr Ss car as a total loss. I looked at the report that was 
undertaken by AAs approved engineers. The report said the car was repairable. However it 
said it was not economical to repair and recommended the car was treated as a total loss. It 
said it should be registered as a category N loss.
I saw on AA also gave Mr S an alternative settlement offer which included retaining the 
salvage of the car. 
On 18 November 2022 Mr S accepted the settlement offer of £4,190 whilst his contest about 
this amount was being reviewed.  And I saw this was paid to him before the end of 
November 2022.
I saw it took AA until 22 December 2022 to review Mr Ss dispute about its settlement offer. It 
said it had found one of the valuations it had used was significantly lower than the other and 
so it had reassessed the market value using another guide. It reassessed the valuation as 
£4,745 and paid him the outstanding settlement balance of £555.
I looked at the valuations our investigator obtained. They used two of the main trade guides, 
giving a similar, very slightly lower, valuation to AAs final offer of £4,745
As per the terms of  Mr Ss policy AA only have to offer him market value for the car that has
been deemed a total loss. The market value is at the date of loss.
For the reasons given Im not persuaded that AA have acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
settling his claim at £4,745. I agree the amount paid for Mr Ss car is fair and in line with the 
main trade valuation guides. And I cant fairly ask AA to increase its valuation offer.
However I do agree that the time between AAs first settlement offer and its final settlement 
payment to Mr S could have been completed sooner than it was.
I saw in January 2023 AA accepted it had caused delays. It said the review of the initial 
settlement offer made should have been assigned to a team leader and it had not been. It 
apologised to Mr S and paid him £200 compensation for the delay and inconvenience of 
waiting for the review process to be completed. 
I saw Mr S does not think this was enough. He said he bought a new car before he was 
given the increased settlement and now found the car was problematic. He said he would 
not have bought this car if he had received a correct valuation initially.
I understand Mr S was dealing with a family illness at the time of his claim and so it was 
already a difficult time for him. However I consider the £200 paid to be a fair and reasonable offer in the circumstances of this complaint. And it is in line with our services guidelines. I 
cannot hold AA responsible for any issues with a new car.
Although I know it will be disappointing to Mr S, I do not uphold his complaint and do not 
require AA to do anything further in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2023.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman