DRN-2074811
The complaint
Mr As complaint is about the fact that Advantage Insurance Company Limited would not 
provide motor insurance cover for his new car. 
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
I can understand Mr As frustration that Advantage wouldnt place his new car on 
cover, especially as it was just a newer model of his previous car. But Advantage has 
provided a copy of its internal system notes which shows that it wouldnt provide 
cover for Mr As car at that time. I know Mr A has run quotes again recently, but that 
was through the broker which has a wider scope than the insurer and as he has 
highlighted it is a year down the line and underwriting criteria can change.
Mr A has acknowledged that this information is commercially sensitive. He 
understands why it cant be divulged but feels that this shouldve been explained to 
him earlier. I can understand this. But this issue is being advanced with his broker 
under a separate complaint. And although it would have been helpful for Mr A to 
understand why it wouldnt insure his new car he still wouldnt have been able to 
insure his car through Advantage, so I dont think this made any difference.
I know this caused Mr A some inconvenience over a bank holiday weekend. But as 
the investigator explained, this service cant tell an insurer what risks it should or 
shouldnt cover. And unfortunately Advantage wouldnt cover his new car at that time.
So, although I can understand Mr As frustration I dont think that Advantage has done 
anything wrong. It just simply wouldnt provide cover for his new car. 
My final decision
It follows that my final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2020.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman
