DRN-2897604
The complaint
Ms O, on behalf C, complains about the decision of American International Group UK 
Limited, trading as AIG UK, to decline Cs claim for losses following business interruption as 
a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. 
 
What happened
C held a commercial insurance policy with AIG UK. References in this decision to AIG UK 
include the actions of its agents. C is also represented in this complaint by a third party, but 
for the sake of simplicity Ive referred to all representations as having been made by Ms O. 
The policy relevant to the claim in question commenced in September 2019 and was in force 
in March 2020. Cs policy provided a number of areas of cover, including a section for losses 
as a result of business interruption. When C had to close in March 2020, in line with the 
Governments measures to control the spread of COVID-19, Ms O, on behalf of C, made a 
claim under this section of the policy.
AIG UK declined the claim. It said COVID-19 was not one of the diseases listed as being 
covered by the Specified Disease extension to the business interruption section of Cs 
policy. Ms O was unhappy with this outcome and brought a complaint to our service.
Our investigator empathised with the position C found itself in through no fault of its own. But 
he agreed with AIG UK that the policy did not provide cover in the circumstances of the 
claim. He said that COVID-19 hadnt caused damage which had resulted in an interruption to 
Cs business. And that the Specified Disease extension was based on a specific list of 
illnesses. He concluded that, as COVID-19 was not included in this list, AIG UK had acted 
fairly and reasonably when declining Cs claim and in responding to the complaint. Ms O 
remained unhappy and this case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst I am sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact COVID-19 
restrictions have had on C, I wont be upholding its complaint. My reasons are substantially 
the same as the investigators.
I understand that C closed its business in March 2020 due to the government-imposed 
lockdown. The nature of its business was such that it wouldnt have been allowed to stay 
open after this time. So, the type of cover its looking to claim under is business interruption 
insurance.
There are a range of business interruption insurance policies on the market covering 
different risks. For example, some only provide cover for basic things such as fire or flood, 
whilst others provide cover in more circumstances either as part of the policy or as optional 
add-ons. The starting point is to consider the specific policy C took out.
The standard cover provided by the business interruption section of Cs policy, as well as a 
number of the extensions to this cover, is based on an interruption to the business of the 
insured which has been caused by damage to property. Whilst I appreciate the pandemic 
has caused substantial financial loss, I dont think COVID-19 caused damage to property 
which has led to an interruption of Cs business.
So, I dont think either the standard business interruption cover, or the extensions that rely 
on there having been damage, provide cover in the circumstances of Cs claim. And I think 
AIG UK acted fairly and reasonably in not meeting Cs claim under this area of cover.
Cs policy does include an extension to the business interruption section that provides cover 
where a disease has led to the premises being closed. But this is limited to providing cover 
in the event of certain diseases.
The Specified Disease extension in Cs policy says cover is provided for:

a) Loss arising from restrictions on the use of the premises on the order or 
advice of the competent local authority due to:
i) any occurrence of a specified disease at the premises or attributable to 
food or drink supplied from the premises
ii) any discovery of an organism at the premises likely to result in the 
occurrence of a specified disease
iii) the discovery of vermin or pests at the premises
iv) any accident causing defects in the drains or other sanitary 
arrangements at the premises.

However, the policy goes on to define specified disease as:
illness sustained by any person resulting from:
Acute Encephalitis, Anthrax, Chickenpox, Cholera, Diphtheria, Dysentery, Erysipelas, 
Food or Drink Poisoning, Legionellosis, Leprosy, Leptospirosis, Lyme Disease, 
Malaria, Measles, Meningococcal Infection, Mumps, Opthalmia Neonatorum, 
Paratyphoid Fever, Plague (bubonic, pneumonic, septicaemic), Poliomyelitis, 
Puerperal Fever, Rabies, Rubella, Scarlet Fever, Smallpox, Tetanus, Toxoplasmosis, 
Tuberculosis, Typhoid
Having considered this term, Im not persuaded this section of the policy would have 
provided C with cover for the circumstances of its claim. This is because COVID-19 isnt one 
of the diseases listed in the definition.
When reaching this finding Im mindful of Ms Os comments that that COVID-19 is a new 
disease that no-one had the foresight to cover, and that it might not have been possible for 
AIG UK to include it in the policy at the time it was written. But I dont think that changes 
anything. Thats because I dont think AIG UK intended to, or suggested they would, provide 
cover for all diseases. AIG UK deliberately chose to define specified disease by reference 
to a static list of certain diseases.I dont think the list is indicative of the kind of diseases that are included, I think its an 
exhaustive list. There is nothing in the policy which implies that it provides cover for other 
diseases, including any new diseases which might emerge.
As Ive said above, a range of policies are available. And some provide cover for all 
notifiable diseases  a list of diseases updated by the Government. These policies might, 
depending on the circumstances, provide cover. But this is not the type of policy C has.
I think the purpose and effect of the policy C has is to provide cover in the event of the 
diseases listed in the policy definition of specified disease in the policy. There are many 
potential illnesses and diseases that the policy does not cover including, for example, SARS 
(another type of Coronavirus). I dont think the policy can or should fairly be read as covering 
any and all diseases that fall outside of the defined list set out above.
So, the policy clearly only intended to cover certain diseases. And I dont think it can fairly 
and reasonably be read in a different way.
Cs claim resulted from a disease that was not included in the list of covered diseases. As 
cover was not provided under this area of Cs policy for losses resulting from business 
interruption caused by COVID-19, I am satisfied AIG UKs decision to decline the claim was 
in line with the policy, and in all the circumstances of this case fair and reasonable.
Having considered the rest of the policy carefully, I do not consider there to be any area of 
cover that means AIG UK should have met Cs claim. I know this decision will be 
disappointing for Ms O, but I hope Ive provided her with a thorough explanation of why this 
policy doesnt offer cover in the circumstances of this claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 October 2021.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman