DRN-4147600
The complaint
Mr P complains about the advice given by Tuto Money Limited (Tuto) to transfer the benefits 
from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a personal pension. He says 
the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial loss.
What happened
Mr P was referred to an appointed representative of Tuto in late 2017 to consider the 
suitability of transferring deferred benefits held in a DB pension. Tuto are responsible for the 
activities of its appointed representative, so I will simply refer to Tuto in this decision. 
Tuto completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Ps circumstances and objectives. 
And on 3 January 2018, Tuto sent Mr P a suitability report listing that Mr P: 
was 55 years old living with his 41 year old partner
was employed earning around £40,000 a year
had a joint net household monthly income of £4,633 between him and his partner
had total monthly expenditure of £3,160
owned his property with an outstanding mortgage of £260,000
had no financial dependents
had a workplace pension valued around £10,000
Tutos suitability report described Mr Ps financial objectives as:
to ensure that his pension fund could be used as a form of inheritance for his partner
to take a tax free lump sum of £22,000 to clear credit card debt and make home 
improvements
Tuto carried out an assessment of Mr Ps attitude to risk, which it deemed to be lowest 
medium. Tuto advised Mr P to transfer his DB benefits into a personal pension and invest 
the proceeds into the pension providers growth fund. Tuto said this would enable Mr P to 
achieve his objectives.
Mr P accepted Tutos recommendation and transferred his DB pension to a personal 
pension in March 2018.
Mr P complained to Tuto, via a legal representative, in 2021 about the suitability of the 
transfer advice. The representative said that it didnt think that the advice to transfer was 
suitable because Mr P gave up a safe pension for one with investment risk that he didnt 
have the attitude for or capacity to suffer any losses. It estimated that Mr P would be worse 
off in retirement as a result.
Tuto only considered Mr Ps complaint after it had been brought to our service. It didnt 
uphold Mr Ps complaint. It said that Mr P wanted:
the opportunity to vary his income in retirement if the need arose and that he wasnt 
concerned about guarantees
to leave 100% of his pension to his partner and that he was concerned that the 
scheme would not pay her death benefits as they were not married
wanted to take tax free cash straight away and not wait until he was 65
wanted a retirement income of £20,000 a year
And it said that its recommendation enabled Mr P to meet most of his objectives.
Mr P didnt accept Tutos response so our investigator looked into what happened. He 
upheld the complaint and required Tuto to pay compensation. He explained that the critical 
yield (CY)  the average yearly investment return needed to match the benefits given up  
was 14.66%, which was unachievable and would leave Mr P with lower benefits in 
retirement. He didnt agree that Mr Ps other objectives justified a recommendation to give up 
the deferred benefits he held.
Tuto disagreed, saying that it didnt think that our investigator had considered all of the 
relevant factors set out in its final response letter. It thought that our investigator had 
overlooked Mr Ps objectives in reaching the outcome that he did.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice but provides useful context for my assessment of Tuto's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which 
specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Tuto should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Ps 
best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied this transfer 
was.
Financial viability 
Tuto carried out a transfer value analysis report (as required by the regulator) showing how 
much Mr Ps pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide the same 
benefits as his DB scheme (the critical yield).
Mr P was 55 at the time of the advice and wanted to retire at 65. The critical yield required to 
match Mr Ps benefits at age 65 was 14.66% if he took a full pension and 13.35% if he took 
TFC and a reduced pension.
Ive kept in mind that the regulator's projection rates for investment returns had also 
remained unchanged since 2014: the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, 
the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%. 
I've taken this into account, along with Mr PS lowest medium attitude to risk and also the 
term to retirement. There would be little point in Mr P giving up the guarantees available to 
him through his DB scheme only to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the 
scheme. But here, given the lowest critical yield was 13.35%, I think Mr P was likely to 
receive benefits of a substantially lower overall value than the DB scheme at retirement, as a 
result of investing in line with that attitude to risk. Everything, in the analysis that Tuto did, 
pointed to this. And, in fairness, its suitability report reached this conclusion too. 
Tuto has provided cashflow models which it says shows Mr P wouldve been able to meet 
their needs despite the high critical yields. Ive considered these, but Tutos models dont 
show Mr P taking the same benefits from his personal pension. They rely on income from his 
partner to make up his income age 80 after which it shows him starting to draw down on his 
personal pension. I dont think that they provide a clear or fair comparison between what was 
given up and what benefits he might be able to take from his personal pension. I think they 
may have provided a false reassurance to Mr P.
For these reasons a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt likely to be in Mr Ps best 
interests. He was almost certain to end up with retirement benefits that were significantly 
lower than if hed retained his DB pension. Of course financial viability isnt the only 
consideration when giving transfer advice, as Tuto has argued in this case. There might be 
other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, despite providing overall lower 
benefits. Ive considered this below.
Flexibility and income needs
I dont think Mr P required flexibility in retirement when this advice was given. This is 
because based on the evidence Ive seen, I dont think he had a genuine need to access his 
TFC earlier than the normal scheme retirement age and leave the residual funds invested 
until a later date. I say this because Mr P and his partner had a comfortable monthly surplus 
of income over expenditure. He wanted to clear his credit card debt, but that was only given 
as being £2,000. Something that was seemingly already possible to achieve without giving 
up a valuable DB pension. His objective of home improvements was vague. And I note that no alternative means of funding this were suggested or explore before recommending a 
pension transfer. And, again, it should have been prior to recommending that this be given 
up. Especially in light of what the guidance the FCA gave in COBS 19.1.6G.
I also cant see evidence that Mr P had a strong need for variable income throughout his 
retirement. This is because he gave an estimate of the income he would like in retirement of 
£20,000 a year. He didnt indicate that it would vary hugely. And the cash flow analysis 
assumed a fixed annual income requirement. Tuto did point out to Mr P that its 
recommendation would leave Mr P short of his target income in retirement. Which it likely 
would unless he could increase the amount he put into his pension prior to age 65. But Mr P 
would have had less of a shortfall if hed kept his DB pension. 
So, Im satisfied Mr P was closer to meeting his income needs in retirement through the DB 
scheme at 65. 
Death benefits
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr P. But whilst I appreciate 
death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr P might have thought it was a good idea 
to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to 
advise Mr P about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily 
designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think Tuto explored to what extent 
Mr P was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for higher death 
benefits.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Mr P 
wasnt married and had no children. But Ive seen no evidence that Tuto explored whether 
his DB scheme would pay out to a common-law partner if nominated as Mr Ps beneficiary 
through the scheme. In any event, Tuto should not have encouraged Mr P to prioritise the 
potential for higher death benefits through a personal pension over his financial security in 
retirement.
Furthermore, if Mr P genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his partner, which didnt depend 
on investment returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his death, I think Tuto 
shouldve instead explored life insurance. I appreciate that the suitability report briefly 
mentioned a life insurance policy with a sum assured equal to the cash equivalent transfer 
value of the DB pension up until Mr Ps 65th birthday. It indicated a cost of less than £21 a 
month. But didnt provide any comparison with the benefits or drawbacks of transferring. I 
dont think that this was a balanced way of presenting this option to Mr P.
Basing the quote on the transfer value of Mr Ps pension benefits essentially assumed that 
he would pass away on day one following the transfer, and that isnt realistic. Tuto knew that 
its recommendation was that Mr P took immediate TFC to the value of £22,000. Immediately 
reducing the amount available as death benefits to a sum lower than was being quoted for 
life insurance purposes. Really, Tutos starting point ought to have been to ask Mr P how 
much he would ideally like to leave to his partner, and this couldve been explored on a 
whole of life or term assurance basis, which may have been even cheaper to provide. 
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr P. And I dont think that 
insurance was properly explored as an alternative.Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility and potential for higher death benefits on offer through a 
personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr P. But Tuto wasnt there 
to just transact what Mr P might have thought he wanted. The advisers role was to really 
understand what Mr P needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr P was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr P was very likely to obtain 
lower retirement benefits and in my view, there were no other particular reasons which would 
justify a transfer and outweigh this. Mr P shouldnt have been advised to transfer out of the 
scheme to repay a debt that was affordable or to fund some house improvements that could 
have waited or been funded another way. And the potential for higher death benefits wasnt 
worth giving up the guarantees associated with his DB scheme.
So, I think Tuto shouldve advised Mr P to remain in his DB scheme.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr P would've gone ahead anyway, against Tuto's 
advice. Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr P wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme, against Tutos advice. I say this because Mr P was an 
inexperienced investor with a lowest medium attitude to risk and this pension accounted for 
the majority of Mr Ps retirement provision. So, if Tuto had provided him with clear advice 
against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I 
think he wouldve accepted that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr Ps concerns about his death benefits were so great that he 
wouldve insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose expertise he 
was paying for, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his best interests. If Tuto had 
explained that Mr P could meet all of his objectives without risking his guaranteed pension, 
I think that wouldve carried significant weight. So, I dont think Mr P would have insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme.
In light of the above, I think Tuto should compensate Mr P for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr P, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr P would have 
most likely remained in the occupational pension scheme if suitable advice had been given. 
Tuto must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
For clarity, Mr P has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age of 65, as per the 
usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with PS22/13 and DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should 
be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of 
notification of Mr Ps acceptance of the decision.If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Tuto should:
calculate and offer Mr P redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr P before starting the redress calculation that:
- their redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently 
(in line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the 
calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their defined contribution pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr P receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr P accepts Tutos offer to calculate how much of their redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr P for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of their redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ps end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr P as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits that 
would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, Tuto may 
make a notional deduction to allow for income tax that would otherwise be paid. Typically, 
25% of the loss could be taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according 
to Mr Ps likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional 
deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
I agree with our investigators recommendation that Tuto, in addition to compensating Mr P 
for his financial loss, must pay Mr P £200 for the distress and inconvenience it has caused 
him. He has suffered a considerable period of uncertainty about whether or not he will be 
worse off in retirement. Tuto failed to respond to his initial complaint. And, in spite of our 
requesting its business file in March 2022, it only issued its final response to the complaint in 
February 2023. And only provided us with its business file in March 2023. Thus creating an 
unnecessary period of uncertainty and distress for Mr P.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Tuto Money Limited to 
pay Mr P the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of 
£160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Tuto Money Limited pay Mr P the balance.
If Mr P accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Tuto Money Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr P can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr P may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 July 2023.
 
Gary Lane
Ombudsman