DRN-3074712
The complaint
Mrs F complains that Origen Financial Services Limited (Origen) advised her husband, the 
late Mr F, against transferring the value of his former employers defined benefit (DB) 
pension in 2020. Mr F was a deferred member of the DB scheme.
Mr F died in April 2020 and Mrs F says if Origen had progressed the request to transfer out 
of the pension scheme, she would now be much better off financially.
Mrs F explained that when her husband received the financial advice for him not to transfer 
out of his pension scheme, they both made it clear to Origen that they wanted to go ahead 
anyway, on an insistent client basis. Put another way, they wanted to go against Origens 
advice, mainly because of the late Mr Fs poor health at the time. 
What happened
In 2019, Mr Fs pension scheme decided to offer members including Mr F an enhanced 
transfer value (ETV). In Mr Fs case, more than one offer was made, but ultimately, the ETV 
finally offered was around £110,000 in total funds, around 25% above the cash equivalent 
transfer value (CETV) that would ordinarily have been available to Mr F. The offer came with 
certain time limits.
Origen had been appointed by Mr Fs former company to provide members of the scheme 
who might be interested in taking an ETV, with free regulated financial advice (as is required 
by legislation). However, after consulting with Mr F and carrying out an assessment of his 
financial situation and needs, Origen said it was better for Mr F to remain where he was and 
not leave his DB scheme.
At the time, Mr F was 54 and said to be in relatively poor health. As a result of medical 
problems hed endured for some time, hed had to give up his job. He was on medication as 
a consequence of other medical problems too. Mrs F was also 54, in good health at the time, 
working and had her own DB pension scheme.
Mr F was also inexperienced in investment matters and was assessed as being very 
cautious in his attitude to risk (ATR) with no capacity for loss. Its fair to say Mrs F was 
involved and supportive in the decision making about these financial matters, so although 
this was Mr Fs pension, Mrs F participated in the meetings and decisions. Mr Fs DB 
deferred pension had been accrued with 9 years service and was the only pension he had, 
other than an entitlement to the state pension at 67 (in around 13 years time).
The advice not to transfer from his DB scheme came about after a November 2019 
telephone consultation between Origen and Mr and Mrs F about his pension options. A 
recommendation report summarising this was sent to Mr F on 6 March 2020 but Mr F didnt 
agree with some of the findings and so he and Mrs F made it clear he wanted to transfer out 
anyway. They also made it clear Mr Fs health had deteriorated since the consultation with 
Origen. 
In mid-March 2020 an insistent client request was made in that Mr F confirmed he still 
wanted to transfer out, however, Origen turned this request down and said it didnt want to 
be involved in this; unfortunately Mr F died on 29 April 2020. As a result, Mrs F was able to 
access a widows pension comprising of a lump sum of around £10,000 and an annual 
pension of around £1,200.
Mrs F complained that had the transfer out gone ahead, the whole pension would now be 
available to her in a lump sum, with certain tax advantages. But Origen says it didnt do 
anything wrong at the time and it had told the late Mr F it wasnt willing to progress his 
request to transfer out of the pension. As the complaint couldnt be resolved, Mrs F has now 
asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry to hear of the difficult times Mrs F has had to face since the loss of her 
husband. However, having looked at the complaint with great care, Im afraid Im not 
upholding it. I understand this will be a disappointment to Mrs F.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in its Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS) that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it 
is unsuitable. So, Origen should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly 
demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Fs best interest (COBS 19.1.6). COBS 19.1.6R 
says: 
(2) When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined benefits 
occupational pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits whether to 
transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a transfer, conversion or 
opt-out will not be suitable. 
(3) A firm should only then consider a transfer, conversion or opt-out to be suitable if it can 
clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the transfer, conversion or opt-out is in 
the clients best interests. 
When Origen advised Mr F against the transfer option, these were some of the main 
observations: 
the investment return or critical yield required to match the defined benefits at 
retirement was 5.49% per year, and 4.29% if he took a tax-free cash element and a 
reduced pension. Broadly speaking, these figures were said to substantially exceed 
what could reasonably be achieved with Mr Fs ATR  in short, a personal pension 
would likely provide lower benefits than the DB scheme
that overall, it would cost an extra £67,031 to provide the same level of benefits from 
a personal pension than from the existing scheme he was in. This was established by 
using a transfer value comparator - a type of valuation of how much extra it would 
cost to buy benefits (at a future date) equivalent to the existing plan benefits
his current pension represented a very large proportion of his overall retirement 
provision and it also provided a safeguarded income. The current scheme retirement 
benefits would increase each year and provide protection against the impact of rising 
costs of living over time. (Mr F had indicated that protection against inflation was 
important)The existing scheme pension also provided a tax-free lump sum if needed
If Mr F were to pre-decease his spouse, there were pension death benefits available. 
These things summarise a long report, dated 6 March 2020, that was produced for Mr F. It 
concluded that transferring out of his current pension wasnt recommended, even with the 
ETV which had been offered.
The main complaint point now is basically that Mr Fs death was somewhat foreseeable 
given his health problems, which by March 2020 Mrs F says had become worse. She says 
the recommendation took insufficient account of this and she and her family would be better 
off now if her husband had transferred to a personal pension scheme where she would have 
inherited a large death benefit lump sum.
However much I respect her views on this, Im afraid I dont agree with Mrs F. For instance, I 
have seen that when conducting the financial review, the Origen advisor took note of Mr Fs 
age and health, and he used predicted longevity data to help understand Mr Fs life 
expectancy. In my view, the adviser was using the facts available to him at the time. He was 
trying to tread a sensitive path between Mr F having very limited retirement provision  and 
his current state of health. He was also aware that Mr and Mrs F did have some retirement 
aspirations and outline plans which were recorded on the fact find. So, I agree with our 
investigator who pointed out that when the review was carried out, there was no indication  
such as a terminal illness, for example  that Mr F was going to pass away so soon. In 
saying that, I do accept Mr F had underlying health issues that were significant and these 
made him vulnerable to other illnesses, but Ive seen evidence that Mr F ultimately died 
somewhat unexpectedly in April 2020, albeit in a hospital setting.
So, everything Ive seen leads me to say that the advice at the time was suitable. Based on 
the information Origen had about Mr F at the time of the advice, I dont think there were 
compelling enough reasons to recommend that Mr F transfer out of an index-linked pension 
which wasnt exposed to investment risk. There was no evidence of imminent death and 
whilst Mr F had indicated he thought he probably had a lower than average life expectancy, I 
cant see evidence that it was foreseeable when the advice was given that he would pass 
away so soon. The adviser needed to take into account the possibility that Mr F would need 
retirement income for longer than he expected and access to his DB scheme provided that. 
I completely accept that in wanting to go against Origens advice, Mr and Mrs F were opting 
to plan for the worst. But I do think its possible to be affected by what we now know 
happened  that Mr F did sadly pass away  and come to the conclusion that the pension 
savings ought to have been transferred to a more flexible arrangement. Still, as of the time in 
question, I dont think Origen did anything wrong in giving the advice it did.
Timeliness
I have looked carefully over the timeline of events until Mr Fs death to help determine 
whether I think Origen did anything wrong and whether it is responsible for the losses Mrs F 
says she has suffered. 
Mr and Mrs F arranged an appointment with Origen which was set up for late November 
2019. Origen says it took some time to get the necessary information from Mr Fs DB 
scheme and that this caused the delay in getting the finished advice report out. An initial 
draft of the report was produced in late January 2020 and sent for checking, with the full 
recommendation report eventually being delivered out to Mr F on 6 March 2020. In my view, 
its plausible that detailed information from third parties were required to produce the Origen 
recommendation report and my understanding in any event is that the ETV deadline which had been set first for January 2020, then March, had ultimately been extended to 28 May 
2020. This meant that Mr and Mrs F had until that date to do something about their wish to 
transfer the pension, even in the light of Origen not wanting to be involved in progressing 
their request.
Origen also sent Mr F a certificate on 6 March 2020 showing it was authorised to give 
transfer advice and had done so. There was further dialog between Mr and Mrs F and 
Origen throughout mid-March 2020 during which Origen asked for a detailed questionnaire 
to be completed outlining Mr Fs wish to transfer out, against advice, and evidence 
supporting his understanding of the risks. After considering Mr Fs responses, Origen 
declined, in late March 2020, to facilitate the transfer out request.
Mr F was initially hospitalised on 8 April 2020. He was sent home on 12 April but re-admitted 
the following week when his health deteriorated and then he suddenly died. However, 
overall, I havent seen evidence Origen caused any unreasonable delays here.
Insistent client
There is some limited guidance about situations where clients  insistent clients - go 
against the recommendations of a financial adviser. However, I would say this case is 
relatively uncommon in as much as no transfer-out transaction ever went through i.e. the 
pension transfer didnt happen due to Mr F becoming unwell and subsequently passing 
away. 
So, I dont think the guidance from the regulator on this aspect adds much in this particular 
case. By mid-March 2020 Mr F indicated he wanted to go ahead and transfer out, but with 
Origen declining to facilitate this. What then followed were numerous email communications 
between the parties over the next few weeks, although by this time Mr and Mrs Fs focus 
would clearly have been on the more important matter of his immediate health. Mr and Mrs F 
subsequently asked for their own financial adviser to become involved but unfortunately, 
events overtook this and no more activity occurred around the transfer out request because 
Mr F passed away on 29 April 2020.
However, it is important for me to point out that businesses in these circumstances are 
entitled to decline to facilitate a transaction they deem to be unsuitable for a client. And so 
Mr F was free to seek another firm or advisor to facilitate what he ultimately wanted to do. Of 
course, Origen could have potentially offered to provide updated advice based on the new 
information concerning Mr Fs health, but it was under no obligation to do this. My 
understanding is that the initial advice was provided free as part of the overall CETV uplift 
offer, so further advice might have been charged for. And even if Origen had offered to carry 
out Mr Fs transfer out request as of mid-March 2020, its uncertain whether his health 
situation would have changed Origens advice. In this scenario Origen would probably have 
wanted to look into Mr Fs health in a lot more detail and its uncertain whether a transfer 
could have been executed in time before Mr Fs death.
Mrs F has asked me to consider why Origen did not ask for or instigate a medical report into 
Mr Fs circumstances when, in March 2020, it became clearer that his health was 
deteriorating. Ive thought carefully about this, but Im afraid Origen had no specific obligation 
or duty to do this, mainly for the reasons I have outlined above; Origen was within its rights 
to decline to facilitate the transfer out request. 
Summary
In considering if a DB pension transfer is suitable, we usually take the view that there has to 
be a reasonable prospect that the consumer will be better off financially by transferring out. The adviser needs to be able to show that a comparison was made between the benefits 
that would be given up in the ceding scheme and the benefits that the new arrangement 
might provide. In my view, the advice which was provided at the time was based on a 
reasonable analysis of Mr Fs overall situation. 
I accept that Mr F was not experienced in these types of financial matters, but the option was 
there for him to take his business and Origens refusal (to either recommend the transfer or 
act for him in an insistent client capacity) to his pension trustees or another firm. 
I acknowledge that it may seem easy for me to say this now, but this was Mr Fs pension and 
for him to make the decisions he felt were right. But I also recognise the very unfortunate, 
difficult and indeed unforeseen circumstances that subsequently unfolded at around the time 
the advice was delivered and shortly thereafter. 
The question here is whether Origen did anything wrong and if it did whether the mistakes 
have caused Mrs Fs losses now. For the reasons I have given, Im afraid I cant say this is 
the case here. 
Im really sorry to have to disappoint Mrs F.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
I do not require Origen Financial Services Limited to do anything else.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2022.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman