DRN-4126701
The complaint
Miss N complains that Advanced Payment Solutions Limited trading as Cashplus
(Cashplus) failed to refund a transaction she didnt recognise.
What happened
What Miss N says
In October 2021 Miss N received an email notification from Cashplus that a bank transfer for
£900 had been made from her account. Miss N didnt recognise the payment and contacted
Cashplus to advise them of the situation and seek a refund.
Miss N says she tried several times to get an update on her claim from Cashplus with little
success. She said her online banking access was blocked and she didnt hear anything for
some time, eventually contacting Cashplus in June the following year.
Cashplus declined to refund Miss N and she made a complaint.
What Cashplus say
Cashplus received Miss Ns notification about the unrecognised payment and looked into the
transaction. They said that they couldnt determine how it had happened and wanted more
information from Miss N in order to investigate it. They said they tried to contact her without
success which meant they had no further information to determine if it was unauthorised or
not.
Cashplus later accepted that they could have done more to find out the additional
information they needed from Miss N. When they again looked into the circumstances of the
payment, they identified that a new device (mobile phone) had been added to Miss Ns
account as a trusted device on the day of the disputed transaction. Cashplus confirmed
that in order to do this, a message is sent to the current registered phone with a one-time
passcode (OTP) which is needed to authorise the new phone.
Cashplus couldnt determine how this could have happened without Miss Ns knowledge and
didnt believe theyd made an error. Cashplus awarded Miss N a small payment for the way
they handled her dispute and the delay.
Cashplus confirmed that theyd contacted the beneficiary bank who received the disputed
transaction and hadnt heard anything from them about whether any funds remained.
The investigation so far
Miss N was left unhappy with how Cashplus dealt with her situation and brought her
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service for an independent review where it was
looked into by one of our investigators.
Both parties were asked for information about the complaint.
Miss N was able to say that:
She doesnt remember receiving any OTP that day from Cashplus.
Shed changed her phone a couple of weeks prior to the disputed transaction
occurring.
No one else knew her login details for her Cashplus account and no one else used
her phone. Her phone was also protected by biometric security and a code.
Miss N had received an unusual text about the payment of delivery charges. Shed
paid them using an account she held with another bank.
Miss N confirmed shed spoken with someone at this time (likely a scammer) but
hadnt told anyone the details about her Cashplus account.
Cashplus provided details about their investigation and information about the account
including:
Evidence of the text with the OTP that was sent to Miss Ns registered mobile phone.
A list of devices, IP address data and timings that had accessed the account.
Payment details related to the disputed transaction.
Evidence of their attempts to retrieve the funds.
After considering the evidence, the investigator didnt think that Miss N was responsible for
the disputed transaction and recommended it be repaid including interest. He thought that:
A new device was used to make the payment with a different IP address to the ones
normally used by Miss N.
There was proof that Miss N had been speaking with fraudsters.
She was tricked into passing details about her account including the OTP to them so
they could register a new device and move the funds from the account.
Cashplus disagreed with the investigators outcome and only thought the complaint was in
relation to the delay in their investigation and not the failure to make a refund. Cashplus
maintained that they were never given the appropriate information by Miss N in order to
substantiate her claim, which is why they never refunded it.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has now been passed to me for a
decision.
I issued my provisional findings on the merits of Miss Ns complaint on 14 April 2023. In my 
provisional findings, I explained why I intended not to uphold Miss Ns complaint and offered 
both sides the opportunity to submit further evidence or arguments in response. An extract of 
that decision is set out below and forms part of this final decision:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Extent of this complaint
Cashplus argued that the complaint was only in relation to the delay, rather than the
disputed transaction. I disagree here as its apparent that Miss Ns situation was driven by
the failure to make a refund, rather than the delay in isolation. I think Cashplus had the
appropriate information and time to look into the matter. It follows that our service is able to
consider the complaint.
Authorisation
The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017. The
basic position is that Cashplus can hold Miss N liable for the disputed payment if the
evidence suggests that its more likely than not that she made it or authorised it.
Cashplus can only refuse to refund unauthorised payments if it can prove Miss N authorised
the transaction, but Cashplus cannot say that the use of the internet banking app
conclusively proves that the payments were authorised.
Unless Cashplus can show that consent has been given, it has no authority to make the
payment or to debit Miss Ns account and any such transaction must be regarded as
unauthorised. To start with, Ive seen the banks technical evidence for the disputed
transactions. It shows that the transactions were authenticated using the payment tools
issued to Miss Ns. Ill now need to consider the information provided by both parties to
determine whether theres sufficient evidence to hold Miss N responsible for the disputed
transaction or not.
It's Miss Ns case that she received suspicious calls from someone she later believed was a
scammer and a new device was registered on her account which enabled the payment to be
made without her permission. Miss N is adamant that she never divulged information about
her Cashplus account to the scammer, only her other bank details. Miss N has confirmed
she never received the OTP from Cashplus.
Cashplus have provided evidence that they sent the OTP to the registered phone (which
remains the same one used by Miss N including the same number given to our service).
Once this OTP was entered into Cashpluss system and together with the relevant login
details for Miss Ns account, this allowed the device to then be used to transfer funds from
the account.
Miss N has provided evidence that she purchased a new phone shortly before the disputed
transactions took place. She said she didnt have the particular version of the phone that
was registered by Cashpluss system that made the disputed transaction. Ive examined the
data related to the devices logged on to the account around the time of the disputed
transaction. That information shows that three devices logged on to the account the day of
the disputed transaction. Two of the devices have a history both before and after that day of
logging on to the account, so it seems reasonable to conclude they were known to Miss N
and used by her. Its also apparent that both of these devices were in use prior to the
purchase of the new phone.
The third device appears for the first time just before 6 pm that evening when the OTP is
sent to Miss Ns phone and shortly afterwards made the disputed transaction. The IP
address (used to identify information about the network used by a device) is different to the
ones usually used by Miss Ns other devices. Over the next few hours, all three devices log
on to the account. The third device was last used the following day in the early evening.
Cashplus later deregistered it after Miss N told them about her issue.I have some trouble with the current case that the scammers were responsible for the
payment from her account and thats because Miss N denies telling them about the
Cashplus account in her call and also that she says she didnt receive the OTP (which its
been argued was given to the scammers by Miss N). Miss N couldnt have passed these
details to the scammer if, as she says, she didnt receive it?
It also seems unlikely that scammers could obtain the necessary login details for the
Cashplus account, without which it wouldnt seem plausible they could gain access to the
account. They would also need the OTP to register the new device.
The evidence Ive examined shows a new device was registered after an OTP was sent to
Miss Ns phone and then the payment made from her online account. Miss N has said she
hadnt told anyone else about it (including the scammers), so it seems implausible that they
could be responsible for making the payment from the account.
Currently, there is no alternative explanation that Ive seen that third parties were
responsible for the disputed transaction. Theres no point of compromise that explains how
third parties could have obtained the login details and the OTP, both of which were needed
to access the account.
Delay
There was also some confusion and delays with the investigation carried out by Cashplus,
they didnt believe they had enough to investigate the transaction and were waiting for Miss
N to speak with them, while Miss N thought that Cashplus were investigating and was
waiting for an outcome. I can see that this took too long and Cashplus recognised this in
their award to Miss N which I dont propose to change.
Overall, my current thoughts are that the evidence doesnt show a third party was
responsible for the disputed transaction, without which I couldnt uphold the complaint.
My provisional decision
Im currently intending not to uphold this complaint.
I invited Miss N and Cashplus to give me any more evidence and information they wanted 
me to consider before issuing my final decision. Cashplus didnt have anything further to add 
and Miss N didnt disagree with my assessment. Although, she still doesnt remember 
receiving the OTP and asked for evidence of it being sent to her phone. She repeated her 
disappointment in the way that Cashplus treated her.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and as neither party had anything further to add that would change my 
opinion, I see no reason to reach a different conclusion. So, this final decision confirms the 
findings set out in my provisional decision.Ive included an image of the OTP being sent to Miss Ns phone as per her request. I hope 
she understands why, based on an objective assessment of the available evidence, Ive 
reached the conclusion not to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept  
or reject my decisi
on before 13 June 2023.
David Perry
Ombudsman