DRN-4053699
The complaint
Miss C complains that Atlantic Money Ltd didnt transfer money in the time scale it said it 
would.
What happened
Miss C says she paid Atlantic £11.04 to use its express service to transfer money in January 
2023. She says the product was advertised as being an instant transfer, but the money was 
not received in the recipients account instantly. Miss C says Atlantics advertising is 
misleading and she would like the payment refunded.
Atlantic says it makes clear the payment or transfer should be immediate, but it explains 
there may be reasons why it isnt. It says it transferred Miss Cs money immediately, but the 
recipient bank took until the following business day to credit the recipient. Atlantic says it 
makes clear that may take place but says it offered Miss C a free transfer which she has 
accepted.
Miss C brought her complaint to us, and our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator thought Atlantic made clear that a transfer should be received the same day but 
with no guarantee. The investigator thought Atlantic had sent the money straight away.
Miss C doesnt accept that view and maintains Atlantic makes clear the recipient should 
receive the money instantly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint.
I have looked carefully at the screenshots both Miss C and Atlantic have provided. I can see 
that it says the recipient should receive the money instantly. I think the crucial word is 
should and that Atlantic isnt providing a guarantee, which I dont think it could do in any 
event as it clearly isnt responsible for another banks actions.
Im satisfied that Miss C paid for an express service which is what she received as compared 
to Atlantics normal standard service. Im also satisfied that account terms and conditions as 
well as other documents make clear that a transfer should be instant but there are factors 
that may prevent that. So, I would have expected Miss C to have reasonably appreciated 
what those other documents said as I think she had agreed to the account terms and 
conditions.
In any event I can see the recipient received the money the following business day and there 
doesnt appear to have been any urgency over the transfer. I can also see that Atlantic has 
fairly offered Miss C a free transfer which she has either accepted or used. 
Overall, Im satisfied that Miss C paid for a service she received, and that Atlantic didnt 
make any guarantees to her but made the transfer process clear. This now brings an end to 
what we in trying to resolve this dispute informally can do.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 September 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman