DRN-4160130
The complaint
Mr A, a sole trader, is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC defaulted his Bounce Back Loan 
(BBL) while he was in a payment holiday. 
What happened
Mr A successfully applied to Barclays for a BBL in November 2020 and received the loan 
funds that same month. Monthly payments towards the BBL began in December 2021.
In April 2021, Mr A spoke with Barclays and agreed a six-month Pay As You Grow (PAYG) 
repayment holiday. However, Mr A later discovered that Barclays had defaulted his BBL for 
non-payment in June 2021  while the PAYG payment holiday was in force. Mr A wasnt 
happy about this, so he raised a complaint. 
Barclays responded to Mr A and explained that he had already missed three payments 
towards the BBL before the PAYG payment holiday had been put in place. And Barclays 
also said that it had been explained to Mr A when he applied for the payment holiday that he 
would need to come to an arrangement with them to clear the outstanding BBL arrears  
which Mr A didnt do  or the loan could be defaulted for non-payment. Mr A wasnt satisfied 
with Barclays response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they felt that Barclays explanation to 
Mr A had been accurate. And because of this they didnt feel that Barclays had acted unfairly 
in how theyd managed the situation. Mr A remained dissatisfied, so the matter was 
escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. Instead, this service is an informal, impartial 
dispute resolution service. And while we do take relevant law and regulation into account 
when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed on determining whether we feel a fair or 
unfair outcome has occurred  from an impartial perspective, after taking all the factors and 
circumstances of a complaint into consideration.
I also note that Mr A has provided several detailed submissions to this service regarding his 
complaint. Id like to thank Mr A for these submissions, and I hope he doesnt consider it a 
discourtesy that I wont be responding in similar detail here. Instead, Ive focussed on what I 
consider to be the key aspects of this complaint, in line with this services role as an informal 
dispute resolution service. 
 
This means that if Mr A notes that I havent addressed a specific point hes raised, it 
shouldnt be taken from this that I havent considered that point  I can confirm that Ive read 
and considered all the submissions provided by both Mr A and Barclays. Rather, it should be 
taken that I have considered that point but that I dont feel it necessary to address it directly 
in this letter to arrive at what I consider to be a fair resolution to this complaint.
When Mr A took the BBL, the monthly payments were set to be paid from his business 
current account (BCA) which he also held with Barclays. And the BBL statements show 
that Mr A did make the first two scheduled BBL payments  In December 2021 and January 
2022  by direct debit from his BCA.
Bur Mr A didnt make the February 2022 BBL payment, with the direct debit being returned 
because of a lack of available funds in the BCA. And following this, Mr A cancelled the direct 
debit that was set up to make the BBL payments from the BCA, and he didnt make any 
subsequent BBL payments by any other means.
This meant that when the PAYG payment deferral plan was set up for Mr A, following a 
phone call between Barclays and himself in April 2022, Mr As BBL was already three 
months in arrears. And Barclays records confirm that it was explained to Mr A at that time 
that while no further payments would be required on the loan for the next six months, Mr A 
was expected to come to an arrangement with Barclays to clear the three months of arrears 
that had already accrued on the BBL at that time. And Barclays further explained to Mr A on 
the phone call in April 2022 that if he didnt come to an arrangement to clear the BBL 
arrears, the loan might be defaulted for non-payment.
Barclays explanation to Mr A on this matter seems reasonable to me. This is because I feel 
that it would be expected that a bank would look to default an account when the account 
holder has failed to meet their payment obligations as per the credit agreement and would 
generally do so when the arrears on the account have built up to an unacceptable level  
which is most often when the account holder is between three and six months in arears.
As such, Im satisfied that it was reasonable for Barclays to have required Mr A to come to 
an arrangement to clear the arrears on the BBL. And I note that when Mr A didnt come to an 
arrangement with them to do so, that Barclays issued a formal demand to him on 12 May 
2022 which gave Mr A until 9 June 2022 to clear the arrears that were present on the BBL. 
And given that Im satisfied that Barclays were acting as would be reasonably expected of 
them in this regard, Im consequently satisfied that they werent acting unfairly.
Im also satisfied that Barclays did make their position clear to Mr A, including that his BBL 
might be defaulted if he didnt contact them to come to an arrangement to clear the account 
arrears, both in the telephone conversation they had with him and in the formal demand 
notice they sent to him in May 2022.
Mr A has said that he didnt understand what he was being told by Barclays during the April 
2022 telephone call. But having reviewed a full transcript of the telephone call I feel that Mr A 
did understand what was being explained to him. And I note that during the call Mr A said 
that he felt a solicitor would tell him that he wasnt required to repay the loan and noted that 
if Barclays did commence recovery action against him for the BBL balance that they wouldnt 
be able to touch his car or personal possessions.
Furthermore, if Mr A didnt understand what he was being told by Barclays, then I feel that 
this was a failing on Mr As part and not anything for which I would consider holding Barclays 
accountable for. This is because it was Mr As responsibility, as the BBL account holder, to 
have understood the terms of the loan that he had applied for. And this includes any 
potential recovery action that might take place if he didnt make the contractually required 
loan payments that Mr A consented to when accepting the BBL agreement.   
Mr A has also said that he didnt receive the letters Barclays were sending to him about the 
BBL. But Im satisfied that Barclays sent the letters to Mr As correct address  the address which Mr A has himself provided to this service. And this service wouldnt hold a business 
accountable for the non-delivery of correctly addressed letters, given that the delivery of 
letters is undertaken by a postal service over which a business has no direct control.   
Also, the non-receipt of letters from Barclays doesnt absolve Mr A of his responsibilities as 
the BBL account holder to have understood the position of the loan and to have met his 
contractual payment requirements towards it. And given that Mr A cancelled the direct debit 
that was set up to make payments to the BBL following the first missed payment in February 
2022, and had several conversations with Barclays about the loan, Im satisfied that he was 
aware that the BBL was in arrears. 
And Im also satisfied, as previously explained, that Barclays did clearly explain to Mr A, 
during the phone call in April 2022, that unless he came to an arrangement to clear the 
arrears on the BBL, the loan might be defaulted for non-payment in the near future. 
All of which means that Im satisfied that Barclays havent done anything wrong or acted 
unfairly in how theyve administered Mr As BBL, including how they defaulted it for non-
payment. And I feel it was the non-payment of the BBL and the actions of Mr A  who I dont 
feel has reasonably met his responsibilities as the BBL account holder, despite being kept 
clearly informed of the position of the loan by Barclays  which has led to the BBL being 
fairly defaulted by Barclays.
Mr A has also said that Barclays didnt inform him when he applied for the BBL about the 
recovery action that could be taken against him if he didnt make the loan payments. But this 
information was included in the BBL application that Mr A submitted and also in the BBL 
agreement which he signed and accepted. And given the unique circumstances that 
surrounded the BBL scheme, it was the responsibility of applicants such as Mr A to have 
understood the terms of the loan for which they were applying. 
I also feel that its one of the basic tenets of borrowing that borrowed money has to be repaid 
and that action might be taken by a lender against a borrower who doesnt repay the money 
that theyve borrowed and which they owe. And if it were the case that Mr A was of the 
understanding that he wouldnt be required to repay the BBL as per the contractual terms 
that hed agreed to, then this understanding was incorrect. 
Mr A is also unhappy that Barclays also made the decision to close his BCA. But in much the 
same way as a customer can choose to leave a bank, so a bank is able to choose to no 
longer provide its services to a customer and to close their accounts. 
Barclays right in this regard is stated in the terms and conditions of the BCA, which confirm 
that Barclays can take such action immediately and without the provision of prior notice 
under certain conditions. And one of these conditions is where Barclays reasonably believe 
that Mr A would be unlikely to be unable to pay debts owed to the bank when those debts 
become due. 
In this instance, Mr As BBL had been defaulted for non-payment and his BCA had become 
overdrawn without an agreed overdraft facility in place. Additionally, Mr A wasnt engaging 
with Barclays about his situation as per their requirements  for instance, by providing the 
income and expenditure information Barclays asked him for which may have enabled them 
to provide some alternative support to him. And because of this, I think it was reasonable for 
Barclays to believe that Mr As financial position had deteriorated such that the invoking of 
the clause referenced above, to affect the immediate closure of the BCA, was fair. 
Finally, Mr A is unhappy that Barclays have passed his debt to a debt collection agency who 
are now contacting Mr A. But the transferal of debt to a debt collection agency is a common practice and one which is addressed and permitted by the terms of the BBL agreement  
specifically, section 18  which Mr A agreed and consented to when he took the loan. And 
Barclays didnt require any further authorisation from Mr A beyond this to transfer the debt to 
a debt collection agency as they did.
All of which isnt to say that Mr A wasnt in a difficult financial position in 2022 which led to 
him being unable to meet his BBL payment commitments. But it is to say that lenders such 
as Barclays werent and arent expected to provide financial support to a customer in 
financial difficulty indefinitely. 
Its also to say that I feel that Barclays did provide support to Mr A, in the way that would be 
expected of them, and gave a fair opportunity for Mr A to engage with them and come to a 
reasonable arrangement with them. Finally, Im satisfied that Barclays did clearly explain to 
Mr A the potential consequences of his not coming to an arrangement to clear his arrears 
with them, and that Barclays acted fairly in defaulting Mr As BBL when he failed to do so. 
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr A was wanting, but it follows from all the above that I 
wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Barclays to take any further action. I hope 
that Mr A will understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision I have. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman