DRN-4486960
The complaint
Ms N's complaint is about esure Insurance Limiteds handling of a claim made under her 
household insurance policy. 
Ms N has been represented in this complaint but for ease, I will refer to Ms N throughout. 
What happened
In June 2022, Ms N contacted esure to make a claim as she had found a water leak in the 
hallway of her property. The leak was found to be from the main water pipes. The policy with 
esure does not cover the repair of the pipes themselves but does cover the repair of damage 
caused by the leak, including any damage done to find the leak.  
Once Ms N had found the source of the leak and had it repaired, esure appointed a surveyor 
to assess the damage.  It agreed to get its contractors to do the work, rather than require   
Ms N to get her own contractors.
However, there have been a number of issues with the work to repair the property. Ms N 
raised a complaint with esure and it accepted that the claim had not been progressed as 
quickly as it could have been and that thered been unnecessary delays. In April 2023 it 
apologised for this and offered £200 compensation. 
Ms N remained unhappy. She said there were still repairs outstanding, a number of 
snagging issues and there were issues with the standard of some of the repairs and 
redecorating. Ms N also said that esure told her the kitchen was ready to use but the 
electrical sockets had not been connected properly, which caused a fault. esures 
contractors rectified this but told Ms N the contractors that had done the work on the sockets 
initially were not suitably qualified. This caused her additional concern about the standard of 
the work. 
Ms N did not accept that the compensation offered by esure reflected the trouble caused to 
her and she also wanted reimbursement for the additional electricity costs incurred in drying 
out the property. Ms N says she has health conditions made worse by stress and this matter 
has had a significant impact on her wellbeing. 
One of our Investigators looked into the matter. She thought that the compensation should 
be increased to £700 in total (so an additional £500) and that esure should also reimburse 
Ms N the additional electricity costs. The Investigator also said that the remaining works 
should be carried out without further delay. 
esure did not accept the Investigators assessment. It said the £200 already offered was 
reasonable compensation for the issues with the claim up to the date of its final response 
letter in April 2023. esure also said it had paid £303.06 for electricity costs. 
Ms N did not consider the compensation the Investigator recommended to be proportionate 
to the stress and trauma caused to her and her pets by the matter.
esure considered the further concerns raised by Ms N about the way the claim was being 
managed after April 2023 and issued a further complaint response about this on 2 October 
2023. esure accepted there had been further delays and snagging issued; it offered a further 
£200 (it says this was paid) for the issues since its April 2023 letter.   
I also understand that as of beginning of November 2023 all the work has been completed. 
Ms N has confirmed she is satisfied with the completion of the works but has said one of her 
cats now has long-term health condition, which was made worse by the stressful 
environment in the property. 
The Investigator reviewed the developments since her initial assessment and said she 
thought a total of £800 (to include the £400 offered already by esure) was more appropriate 
for both complaints. 
Ms N has confirmed she has now received the £400 from esure (in two separate payments) 
and the payment for the electricity costs. 
esure does not accept the Investigators assessment and maintains that the £400 
compensation already offered is reasonable. 
As the Investigator was unable to resolve the complaint, it has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The repairs required to Ms Ns property were quite extensive and would have taken some 
time to assess and complete. The property also had to dry out before repairs could be done. 
There would also always have been a level of inconvenience, given the nature of the repairs 
need. For instance, Ms N was unable to use her kitchen while the work was being carried 
out. However the repairs took around 16 months in total, which is longer than should have 
been necessary. I can see that there were a number of issues, mainly characterised by lack 
of communication and delays in esure actioning matters that had been agreed. There were 
also snagging issues and problems with some of the workmanship. esure accepts there 
were delays that were avoidable and I dont think it has disputed any of the issues raised by 
Ms N. 
I do not therefore consider that I need to go into exactly what went wrong at each step and 
why. I have considered everything Ms N has said and all the evidence provided to me. 
I accept that Ms N had to repeatedly chase esure for progress, had to raise a number of 
issues with the work done on her property and had the inconvenience of the repairs going on 
for several months longer than should have been reasonably necessary. I also accept all of 
this would have made an already stressful situation worse than it needed to be. Ms N has 
said the matter also impacted her wellbeing, given her existing health issues, and also 
impacted the wellbeing of her pets. 
I can understand that managing pets while repair work is going on can be stressful. 
However, there is no independent evidence that the medical condition developed in one of 
Ms Ns cats was solely due to anything esure did wrong. And I bear in mind that the repairs 
would have been necessary anyway. However, I accept there were additional attendances 
and the work went on for longer than should have been the case which would have impacted 
the household. Having considered everything, I agree with the Investigator that the total sum of £800 is 
reasonable compensation in this case. It is in line with awards made in similar cases. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require esure Insurance Limited to pay Ms N the sum of £800 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its handling of her claim. (This 
is to include the £400 already offered by esure. I understand it has already paid the £400, so 
it only now needs to pay the remaining balance of £400.) 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2024.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman