DRN-4245269
The complaint
Mr R has complained about the handling of his motor insurance claim by West Bay 
Insurance Plc and about the service he received.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so it serves no purpose to 
repeat the details here. In summary Mr R was unhappy with the progression of his claim, 
with the valuation offered and the settlement for his personal belongings.
Our investigator thought West Bays valuation of Mr Rs car was fair, and Mr R accepted this. 
As this aspect of his complaint as is now resolved I wont comment further. Our investigator 
didnt recommend that further compensation was offered but agreed that the settlement 
proposed in respect of the missing belongings was reasonable. Mr R didnt agree. As no 
agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im aware Ive summarised the background to this complaint. No discourtesy is 
intended by this. Instead, Ive focused on what I find are the key issues here. Our rules allow 
me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because Ive 
ignored it. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome. Ive fully reviewed the complete file and having done 
so I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and 
fairly. And that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, 
amongst other things, the terms of the insurance contract to decide whether I think 
West Bay treated Mr R fairly.
It is clear that this matter caused Mr R much stress and inconvenience. Timescales 
given by West Bay werent adhered to and Mr R had to keep chasing for updates. His 
car was moved without Mr R being advised. There was a delay in getting the repair 
estimates and then the repair date given was two months away. When Mr R 
confirmed that his car wasnt drivable the date was brought forward. He was keen to 
get the repairs carried out expediently and I can see why he was unhappy with the 
service he received and the delay he experienced in get ing the matter resolved. 
However West Bay have accepted that the service Mr R received was less than he 
could expect. It apologised and offered compensation of £250. Having looked at the 
timescales and inconvenience caused to Mr R I find compensation was merited, but 
that the sum offered is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mr R has said that several personal belongings went missing from his car. He says 
that they werent removed from his car as originally it was just going in for repair. He 
believes that his things were stolen whilst in the care of West Bay or its agents. 
Although it is not possible for me to conclude on the evidence when the items were 
removed from the car, West Bay has agreed to cover this aspect of Mr Ws claim and 
has considered the receipts Mr R submitted. It has now offered £160.17. Im satisfied 
that this is a fair settlement under the policy. Mr R feels that his extra tax and 
warranty should be covered too  but as these arent covered by his policy, I dont 
require West Bay to make any payment for these items. For completeness I would 
add that I dont find that this sum should be paid as compensation rather than under 
the policy benefits.
My final decision
West Bay Insurance Plc has already made an offer to pay £250 in compensation, and to 
settle Mr Rs claim for his contents under the policy terms in the sum of £160.17. I think this 
offer is fair in all the circumstances. 
So my decision is that West Bay Insurance Plc should pay Mr R the above sums, if it hasnt 
already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2023.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman