DRN-4311261
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as D, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc unfairly terminated 
its Bounce Back Loan agreement and closed its bank account.
Mr and Mrs S are Ds directors, and have brought the complaint on the companys behalf.
What happened
D banked with HSBC. It took out a loan of £16,750 from the bank under the Bounce Back 
Loan Scheme in May 2020.
Mr S, one of Ds directors, also runs a separate sole tradership business. He held facilities 
with HSBC for that business, including a Bounce Back Loan. 
In January 2021, HSBC conducted a review of Mr Ss sole trader accounts. It concluded that 
Mr S hadnt been eligible for the Bounce Back Loan hed obtained for that business and 
deemed his application to have been fraudulent. This led HSBC to withdraw all facilities from 
Mr S and any businesses with which he was associated, including D.
HSBC wrote to D on 5 August 2021 to advise that it was closing all of the companys 
accounts and that a formal demand for full repayment of all debts owed to the bank would 
follow shortly. 
HSBC subsequently applied the closing account balance of £1,431.40 to reduce the amount 
D owed on its Bounce Back Loan and issued a formal demand requesting immediate 
repayment of the remaining debt (of around £15,000).
In response to complaints about how HSBC had treated Mr S and his businesses, the bank 
maintained its position and said that it had conducted a thorough review before withdrawing 
the facilities in accordance with the applicable terms and conditions. So Mr S asked us to 
look into things.
HSBCs handling of Mr Ss sole trader accounts was the subject of a separate complaint, 
which was escalated to us for review and ultimately to me for a final decision. I concluded 
that although HSBC had legitimate cause to question whether Mr S was eligible for the 
Bounce Back Loan hed obtained as a sole trader, I didnt think it had investigated the 
position thoroughly enough. Had it done so, I didnt think it would have deemed the 
application to have been fraudulent. Although I thought the bank would still have had 
legitimate grounds to consider that Mr S hadnt met the eligibility requirements, I didnt think 
it was fair or reasonable to consider him to have acted fraudulently.
This leaves the question of how HSBC has treated D, which is the subject of this decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint last month, setting out why I intended to 
uphold it and setting out what I thought HSBC needed to do to put things right. I said:
HSBCs decision to withdraw facilities from D was based solely on the banks 
conclusion that Mr S had acted fraudulently in obtaining the Bounce Back Loan for 
his separate sole trader business. But as summarised above, in the separate 
complaint brought to us by Mr S I didnt think that it was fair or reasonable for HSBC 
to deem Mr S to have acted fraudulently. 
It follows that I dont think HSBC had legitimate grounds to withdraw facilities from D 
in the manner it did. While I found that the bank could reasonably have concluded 
that Mr S hadnt been eligible for his sole trader loan, I dont think this apparent 
ineligibility alone would justify the immediate termination of Ds facilities. And Ive not 
seen that the bank had any concern  or cause for concern  as to Ds eligibility or 
entitlement to the loan, or with any of its business activity.
So I think HSBC made an error in closing Ds account and terminating its Bounce 
Back Loan facility.
D was impacted in two ways by HSBCs actions. Firstly, its bank account was 
withdrawn without notice. The terms and conditions of the account allowed for its 
immediate closure in certain circumstances, but I dont think that was warranted for 
the reasons Ive explained. 
HSBC may still have decided to end its relationship with D in light of its review, but  
even if it had done so  I think it ought to have provided the company with 60 days 
notice as provided for by the terms and conditions. This meant that D had to find 
alternative banking facilities at very short notice, with its day-to-day operations  such 
as making and receiving payments  made much more difficult.
When the complaint was originally raised, D was looking for its account to be 
reinstated. As Ive noted, HSBC may always have opted to end its relationship with 
the company  so I dont think it would be reasonable for me to require the bank to 
reopen the account. And I understand that D will have made alternative 
arrangements by now. The company is also free to apply to HSBC for a new account 
in the future, if it wishes.
Secondly, D was affected by the termination of its Bounce Back Loan facility. Again, 
the terms and conditions allowed for its termination in certain circumstances  but I 
dont think that any applied here, given that I didnt think HSBCs concerns about 
fraud on Mr Ss part were justified. The termination of the facility meant that HSBC 
utilised all of the funds held in Ds account to reduce the debt  depriving D of access 
to this working capital, again making its day-to-day operations more challenging. 
With the loan still active but having been defaulted, I think HSBC should restore the 
loan to its status prior to termination. It should be transferred out of the banks 
recoveries and collections department and into its business as usual processes. 
This should also involve the reactivation of Ds access to the Pay As You Grow 
(PAYG) flexible repayment options. And the bank should arrange for any adverse 
information registered about D and the loan  including the default and any 
subsequent non-payment  to be removed.
That will leave the question of payment of the loan moving forward. Had the loan not 
been defaulted, D wouldve had to start making monthly repayments by now. But 
none of those payments were made. I dont think it would be reasonable to require D 
to make up all of these payments immediately (unless it is able and willing to do so), 
not least as the company may have chosen to defer or reduce the expected payments through the PAYG options. Instead, I would suggest that HSBC work with 
D to agree a mutually acceptable repayment arrangement to bring the account into 
order, such that it will be fully repaid by the end of the loan term. 
HSBC utilised the closing balance held in Ds account to pay down the amount owing 
on the Bounce Back Loan. That shouldnt have happened. But it has had the effect of 
paying down the balance that D owes on the Bounce Back Loan (so the company 
hasnt suffered a loss as such). Given this, and the amount of time that has passed 
and in which matters have moved on, I am not proposing to instruct HSBC to return 
this sum. 
Ive also thought about how to fairly compensate D for the impact of what HSBC did 
wrong. And in doing so, Ive considered what its directors have said and provided to 
us. Ive not been provided with any evidence of any particular financial losses that D 
incurred as a result of its HSBC facilities being withdrawn or being deprived of the 
use of the balance held in its account. Mr and Mrs S have sent me some letters, 
including notice of unpaid sums and arrears notices from other credit and service 
providers  but none of these seem to relate to agreements in Ds name and instead 
relate to agreements either in their own names or the name of their other businesses. 
As I can only award compensation to D, I cant factor in any losses that may have 
been suffered by Mr and Mrs S as individuals or by their other businesses.
I can see, though, that D wouldve been inconvenienced, in having to make 
alternative arrangements  both with customers and suppliers  at very short notice, 
during what was already a challenging time for businesses. Mr and Mrs S, as its 
directors, were taken away from the day-to-day running of the company to deal with 
the sudden withdrawal of its banking facilities  and have had to spend a lot of time 
dealing with HSBC, including by way of complaint, to get matters resolved. 
So in addition to the actions Ive set out above, Im also intending to require HSBC to 
pay D compensation of £500.
I invited both parties to respond with any further points or evidence they wanted me to take 
into account before I made a final decision. HSBC didnt send me anything else to consider. 
Mr and Mrs S replied to say, in summary, that:
While appreciating that HSBC may have had reasonable grounds to doubt Mr Ss 
eligibility for a Bounce Back Loan in his sole trader capacity, that couldnt be said for 
D  as it had been trading since 2018 and had the right to apply for the loan.
HSBCs actions had stopped D from growing, which was evidenced by the company 
being turned down for finance elsewhere in 2022. With no access to funds, theyd 
also been left unable to pay for fuel to attend jobs and earn money. And once direct 
debits had been cancelled, theyd had to pay for certain expenses  like car 
insurance and tax  in one upfront lump sum, rather than by instalments.
The matter had also impacted their personal life significantly, depriving them of 
income and leaving them without access to money for day-to-day living  causing 
them unimaginable stress.
In light of the above points, they didnt feel that £500 compensation was sufficient.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive not reached a different view of the complaint  either in terms of what 
went wrong or how it should be put right  to that set out in my provisional decision. 
The only additional points Ive been sent are those by Mr and Mrs S which, as summarised 
above, make their case for an increase to the amount of compensation I award. Ill explain 
why their further points havent led me to a different view on this.
Firstly, this complaint is brought by D. Under our rules, it is only D to whom I can make an 
award for compensation. I cant make any award to Mr and Mrs S  in their personal 
capacity  for any losses, distress or inconvenience they may have suffered as a result of 
what HSBC did wrong in respect of Ds accounts. So while I can appreciate that the 
problems with their companys accounts would inevitably have had some knock-on effects 
on their personal finances and day-to-day lives, Im afraid that isnt something I can factor 
into the amount of compensation that I award D. 
In terms of compensation for the company, I explained in my provisional decision that I 
believed this only to be warranted for the inconvenience that D had been caused by the 
errors on HSBCs part. This was because Id not seen evidence of any particular losses that 
D had suffered. While Mr and Mrs S have replied to say that the companys growth was 
inhibited by the restriction of its funds and facilities, theyve not provided me with any detail 
as to how these losses were sustained or what they might amount to, or any evidence to 
substantiate any such claim.
Mr and Mrs S have provided a copy of an email exchange that shows a finance application, 
purportedly in Ds name, was turned down. But theres nothing to show that this was due to 
any of the issues with HSBC  and there are many other reasons why an application may 
not succeed. And even if it was the result of something HSBC did wrong  such as the 
Bounce Back Loan being marked as defaulted by credit reference agencies  Ive not seen 
how the absence of this facility caused D any financial loss. The finance facility itself 
wouldve been a cost  and theres nothing to show me that D wouldve utilised that loan to 
make a profit. 
So I still think the redress I proposed in my provisional decision represents a fair way to 
resolve this complaint. That is, for HSBC to pay D compensation of £500, arrange for the 
removal of any adverse information recorded about the Bounce Back Loan in light of its 
termination and restore the loan to its status prior to termination. The latter may be 
somewhat complex, but with no objection to the approach described in my provisional 
decision I think the bank should achieve this by:
Transferring the loan out of the banks recoveries and collections department and 
into its business as usual processes; 
Reactivating Ds access to the Pay As You Grow (PAYG) flexible repayment 
options; and
Working with D to agree a mutually acceptable repayment arrangement to bring the 
account into order and ensure that any arrears and missed payments are fully repaid 
over the course of the loan term. My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and require HSBC UK Bank Plc to:
Restore Ds Bounce Back Loan agreement to its status prior to termination in the 
manner described above; 
Arrange for the removal of any information registered both internally and externally 
with credit reference agencies about the default of the loan or any related non-
payment; and
Pay D compensation of £500.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2023.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman