DRN-3755357
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) unfairly 
delayed their claim as a result of RSA mis-diagnosing the cause of a leak under their home 
insurance.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C made a claim to RSA when they noticed a leak coming through their kitchen 
ceiling. They were advised that the home emergency aspect of their policy wouldnt cover 
them for the repair due to the intermittent nature of the leak.
Mr and Mrs C were advised they were covered for any damage caused by the leak up to a 
value of £5,000 and for finding the cause of the leak. RSA appointed a loss adjuster to 
review the damage caused and a separate contractor to carry out the trace and access work 
to find the leak.
RSA said the leak was caused by a faulty silicone seal around the bath and it said once Mr 
and Mrs C had this fixed (as the repair wasnt covered by the policy) it would arrange for the 
property to be dried and the damage to be rectified.
Mr and Mrs C were unhappy with this as they said the leak wasnt coming from the bath but 
was coming from under the sink. Mr and Mrs C said the contractor had said this verbally to 
them. However, RSAs written response denied this was the case and said its contractor had 
checked the waste from the sink and it was dry.
Mr and Mrs C said the leak continued when they werent using the bath. Mr and Mrs C felt 
they couldnt have their damage rectified until the leak had properly been identified and 
fixed. As RSA wouldnt do what Mr and Mrs C commissioned his own plumber to review the 
problem. Mr and Mrs Cs plumber reported that the bath wasnt leaking and said the leak 
was caused by a faulty u-bend under the bathroom basin. He fixed this by tightening it. Mr 
and Mrs C wants to be compensated as they thought RSA had caused avoidable delays to 
their claim.
Our investigator decided to uphold the complaint. She thought it was clear from the 
circumstances that the leak had been ongoing and wasnt due to just the bath sealant. She 
thought Mr and Mrs C had experienced distress and inconvenience, from the delay that the 
misdiagnosis caused to the timescales of the rectification works and in having to commission 
their own plumber. She said part of the plumbers invoice should be reimbursed if Mr and 
Mrs C could provide a breakdown of the costs. RSA disagreed, so the case has been 
referred to an ombudsman. 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this on 5 October 2022. I said:
RSA didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint as it said its contractor had correctly identified 
the cause of the leak, so it didnt think it had caused Mr and Mrs C a delay in getting their 
damage repaired. I dont agree and Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs C has explained that RSAs contractor told them the sink was the cause of the 
leak. RSAs written testimony contradicts this statement. As I dont have any evidence to 
support what was said verbally, I wont be able to consider this any further. Ill only base my 
decision on the evidence I have before me.
I have reviewed what RSAs contractor wrote in his report of the incident. The report states 
The moisture ingress appears to be coming from the bathroom directly above the kitchen. 
The customer believes it may be coming from the sink but when I checked the sink all 
wastes and connections were dry. When I tested the silicone seal on the bath water started 
to pour onto the floor and into the void below. I believe the ingress is caused by a faulty 
silicone seal on the bath. I have reviewed the photographs the contractor has provided 
alongside his report. Photos 15 and 16 do show water falling down the wall under the bath, 
so I think the contractor has been reasonable in concluding that the sealant was faulty and 
was causing water damage.
However, Mr and Mrs C said they stopped using the bath, but the leak continued in the 
kitchen. They have shared photographs and a video of this. So, whilst RSAs contractor 
identified one source of the leak, I think its clear there was also another leak. When Mr and 
Mrs C told RSA the leak was continuing even after their bath wasnt used, RSA referred 
back to the report provided by its contractor. Ive considered this. 
RSA had already confirmed it would cover the damage from the leak, so I dont think there 
was any incentive or reason in Mr and Mrs C delaying this work themselves unless there 
was another problem. Therefore, Im persuaded there was another issue. RSA had asked for 
Mr and Mrs C to provide their own plumbers report.
Mr and Mrs C werent keen to do this at first, as they thought RSA shouldve supported them 
in their time of need. RSA wouldnt review its position or re-inspect the fault. So, Mr and Mrs 
C felt they had no choice but to get their own plumber in to find the leak and stop it, so 
allowing them to get the damage repaired.
Mr and Mrs Cs plumber wrote a report to support what he observed. The plumber had 
observed the sealant around the bath had been renewed but the report explained the leak 
was visible from the u-bend under the bathroom basin. Inspection revealed that a fitting was 
loose and simply needed tightening up. The plumber fixed the leak by tightening the U-
bend.
RSA said [The report commissioned by Mr and Mrs C] was completed almost a year later 
and cannot therefore be relied upon to reflect the issues visible and identified when the claim 
was originally reported as it is in no way contemporaneous. Ive considered this, as Mr and 
Mrs C commissioned the report after RSA issued its final response and the inspection was 
carried out 11 months after the reported leak. 
I think this evidence should be considered. RSA said in its final response you are of course 
entitled to appoint your own engineer (at your own expense) to undertake their own leak 
investigations, and if they are found to significantly contradict those of [our contractor], our 
claims team will review them further (and potentially reimburse you for any costs incurred in 
the provision of your own report). Mr and Mrs C has done what RSA advised. I dont think 
RSA has honoured what it said to Mr and Mrs C, I dont think RSA has considered the 
contradictory information at all. I think the correct course of action wouldve been to accept it 
had got it wrong, or to send its contractor to the property to re-inspect the issue. Therefore, I 
uphold this complaint. I think the evidence points to the likelihood of a second leak.Mr and Mrs C paid £300 for the report and for the fix of the leak. I dont have a breakdown of 
this but given most of this charge will be for the call out itself, I think its fair to assume it 
should be split 50/50 for the report and repair respectively. The repair isnt covered by the 
policy, but I intend for RSA to refund £150 of this cost for the report  as this wouldnt have 
been required had RSA dealt with the complaint fairly.
Mr and Mrs C have also experienced distress and inconvenience from this claim. RSAs final 
response was 11 months after the incident for what was a simple claim. I think this is too 
long and this delayed Mr and Mrs Cs ability to move forward and to get their damage 
rectified. This wouldve been frustrating, and they will have lived with the damage during that 
time. Theyve also had to appoint their own contractor to escalate the claim. I think it will 
have been distressing when RSA dismissed this report when RSA themselves had 
suggested Mr and Mrs C get the report done only 3 months earlier. Therefore, I intend to 
award £300 in compensation for this.
Responses to my provisional decision
RSA said, there is no concrete evidence that the second leak had either started at the same 
time or was occurring at the same time as that identified by our contractor. However, RSA 
accepted the provisional decision.
Mr and Mrs C didnt say whether they accepted or rejected my provisional decision. They 
said:
I have no proof of what was said to me verbally, but it highlights the main problem that 
[RSAs contractor] could not determine the source of the water damage at their first 
inspection, and demonstrates why I was so shocked when RSA said that they had attributed 
this entirely to a small area of the bath seal. I had hoped that RSAs own internal 
investigation would reveal that [RSAs contractor] had intended to return to our property to 
complete investigations which is why we held off precuring the services of a further plumber. 
As RSA did not complete their internal investigation for 6 months this resulted in a significant 
delay.
I would also like the ombudsman to consider further the actual breakdown of reimbursement 
for the extra plumbers report. Rather than a 50/50 split for call out fee and repair, I would 
propose that a more realistic calculation would be 80/20 for the call out/repair respectively.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given neither party has provided any new information, I see no reason to change my 
provisional decision. My decision took account of the delays that RSA caused, and I think 
the compensation awarded is fair for this.
I have considered the breakdown of the plumbers invoice as Mr and Mrs C requested. 
However, I dont agree an 80/20 split of the plumbers invoice is reasonable. As I set out in 
my decision, the majority of this cost I think is likely to be the cost of the call out itself  as 
the time required to either produce the report or to fix the leak would have both been small. 
As Mr and Mrs C wouldve had to pay for a plumber to be called out to fix the leak, even if 
RSA hadnt made mistakes, I think a 50/50 split of the invoice is the fairest conclusion.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance 
Limited to pay Mr and Mrs C:
£150  for reimbursement of their plumbers report
£300  for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 November 2022.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman