DRN-2150652
The complaint
Miss M complains that Mobile Money Limited didnt do enough checks before lending to her.
What happened
Miss M took out a logbook loan with Mobile Money on 20 October 2017. She borrowed £675 
for 18 months with scheduled repayments of £106.38. The loan was repaid on 31 May 2019.
Miss M says if Mobile Money had done better checks it would have seen she had other 
short-term loans on her credit file, along with defaults and County Court Judgements (CCJs). 
She says that the interest on the loan was £1,442.89, but that Mobile Money had partially 
accepted her claim and offered a full and final settlement of a £500 refund. But Miss M says 
it should never have issued the loan in the first place as she was missing payments on other 
financial commitments because the repayments were unaffordable to her. Miss M says she 
couldnt risk the car being repossessed as she used it daily to get to work. She adds that the 
daily calls from Mobile Money when she got behind with the payments caused her a great 
deal of stress and she ended up taking a further short-term loan to make the repayment.
Mobile Money says it completed a full assessment of Miss Ms income and expenditure that 
included verifying her income and checking her credit file. It says its affordability calculation 
showed Miss M had a monthly surplus of £45.21 after making the repayments, most of which 
were made on time. However, it says some of the information provided warranted further 
checks and accepts it could have done more to ensure the loan was suitable for Miss M. On 
that basis it offered Miss M a £500 refund in full and final settlement of the complaint.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint should be upheld. She found that Mobile 
Moneys checks showed Miss M had a disposable income of £45 per month which she 
wasnt satisfied was enough considering the chance of unexpected costs. She added that 
the recent CCJs and defaults should have indicated to Mobile Money that Miss M was 
already struggling with existing credit commitments and was unlikely to be able to 
sustainably repay the loan. Our adjudicator recommended that Mobile Money should refund 
any payments Miss M made above the principal (plus 8% statutory interest) and ensure that 
any associated negative information is removed from her credit file.
Mobile Money responded to say, in summary, that it had already taken into account a 5% 
income contingency when calculating the £45, so the true surplus was nearer £118. It 
acknowledged that its checks should maybe have gone further given what was on Miss Ms 
credit file, but could not conclude that Miss Ms bank statements showed the loan was 
unaffordable given her expenditure on discretionary items.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when Mobile Money lent to Miss M. 
Its rules and guidance obliged it to lend responsibly. As set out in the regulators Consumer 
Credit Sourcebook (CONC), this meant that Mobile Money needed to take reasonable and 
proportionate steps to assess whether or not a borrower could afford to meet its loan 
repayments in a sustainable manner over the lifetime of the agreement.
CONC 5.3.1G states that:
1. In making the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required  a firm 
should take into account more than assessing the customer's ability to repay the 
credit.
2. The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required  should include the 
firm taking reasonable steps to assess the customer's ability to meet repayments 
under a regulated credit agreement in a sustainable manner without the customer 
incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequences.
Repaying debt in a sustainable manner was defined as being able to meet repayments out 
of normal income while meeting other reasonable commitments; without having to borrow 
further to meet these repayments; without having to realise security or assets (CONC 5.3.1G 
- 6) or without incurring or increasing problem indebtedness (ILG 4.3).
(The Office of Fair Trading was the previous regulator and it produced a document entitled 
Irresponsible Lending Guidance which the FCA referenced in its consumer handbook. 
CONC 5.3.1G  6 specifically referenced ILG 4.3.)
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
borrower of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance, potentially by carrying out more detailed checks
the lower a persons income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the borrower is required to make payments for an extended 
period).
In addition, as per CONC 5.3.1G  4b: it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for 
its assessment of the customer's income and expenditure, on a statement of those matters 
made by the customer.
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Miss Ms case, I have considered the 
following questions:Did Mobile Money complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing 
Miss Ms loan applications to satisfy itself that she would be able to repay the loan in 
a sustainable way? 
oIf not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown? 
Did Mobile Money make a fair lending decision?
Did Mobile Money act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
With regard to the first question, Im not satisfied that Mobile Money made reasonable and 
proportionate checks. I say that because:
Miss Ms credit file showed shed had three CCJs since September 2016, the latest 
of which was awarded four months earlier;
There was a default on Miss Ms account from just three months earlier;
So I consider Mobile Money should have carried out a full financial review before approving 
the loan because it seems from the information it had Miss M was having ongoing problems 
managing her money. Ive had a look at Miss Ms bank statements to see what such a 
review is likely to have shown.
I can see Miss Ms regular expenditure, excluding credit, was roughly in line with what shed 
told Mobile Money (£1,108), although her income was a little lower. I can also see regular 
monthly payments to a doorstep loan company, a debt recovery company and a credit card 
company totalling £122. In addition to this, Miss M was paying £160 per month to a bailiff.
Taking all this into account, Miss Ms disposable income was just under £200, without the 
£160 bailiff payment. She also appears to have had financial commitments other than those 
about which Mobile Money knew. There are regular payments to other personal accounts 
and a one-off payment of £1,000 in October 2017 which caused four direct debits to be 
returned unpaid and appears to have led to Miss M significantly underpaying her rent.
So I can also see from Miss Ms statements that there were indications she was already 
struggling financially. She regularly spent all her money, and sometimes more, and then had 
to pay unplanned overdraft charges. Given Miss M was going to have limited disposable 
income each month, was already behind with priority bills, and the term of the loan was 18 
months, I find it unlikely she would have been able to sustainable repay her loan.
I acknowledge that Mobile Money says Miss M was spending money on discretionary items 
so cannot have been in financial difficulties, but I cant conclude that was the case. It is clear 
from Miss Ms credit file, and her bank statements, that she was struggling to manage her 
money and so I find it was irresponsible for Mobile Money to have approved the loan.
So, in summary, I cant agree that Mobile Money made a fair lending decision, although Ive 
seen no evidence that it acted unfairly or unreasonably in any other way.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. Mobile Money Limited should:A. Add together the total of the repayments made by Miss M towards interest, 
fees and charges on the loan, including payments made to a third party where 
applicable, but not including anything already refunded;
B. Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Miss M 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Miss M 
originally made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled;
C. Pay Miss M the total of A plus B;
D. Remove any negative information recorded on Miss Ms credit file regarding 
the loan, up to this point.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mobile Money to take off tax from this interest. Mobile 
Money must give Miss M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for 
one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 November 2020. 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman