DRN-3133084
The complaint
Mr P has complained that JD Williams & Company Limited trading as Jacamo irresponsibly 
lent to him.
What happened
Mr P opened a shopping account with JD Williams in August 2016. His account limit was 
initially very low - £150. Over the course of the next three years Mr Ps account limit was 
increased eight times until, in July 2019, it was £2750.
Mr P says that he couldnt keep up with the payments and that he got further into debt trying 
to meet them. Mr P says that JD Williams shouldnt have lent to him. He says that he tried to 
contact JD Williams to discuss his financial difficulty, but he was told he couldnt be provided 
with a payment schedule and that not paying would affect his credit file. 
JD Williams says it did all the necessary checks before it lent to Mr P  and when it 
increased his credit limit. JD William says that it had no record of Mr P contacting it to 
discuss his financial difficulties.
Our adjudicator thought that Mr Ps complaint should be partially upheld. They thought that 
the initial credit given to Mr P was acceptable, but that by the time his credit was increased 
for the fourth time, JD Williams didnt act fairly or reasonably in doing so. They also said that 
there wasnt evidence available to suggest JD Williams had refused to help him when he 
was in financial difficulty.
Our adjudicator said that JD Williams should pay back interest and charges it made as a 
result of the credit that was unfairly extended to Mr P.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when considered Mr Ps complaint.
J D Williams needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr P
could afford to repay what he was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the
repayment amounts and Mr Ps income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the
early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and
proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that JD Williams should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr P. These factors include:
Mr Ps income, reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan repayments 
to a given loan amount from a lower level of income;
The amount due to be repaid, reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a higher 
repayment from a particular level of income;
The frequency of borrowing and the length of time Mr P had been indebted, reflecting 
the risk that prolonged indebtedness may signal that the borrowing had become, or 
was becoming unsustainable.
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that that the lending was unsustainable. 
Our adjudicator set out in some detail why they thought JD Williams shouldnt have provided 
Mr P with any further increases in credit from January 2017 onwards. JD Williams said that 
the checks it completed when Mr Ps credit was extended were sufficient and that it is 
inappropriate to say that income and expenditure checks should have been completed, 
because it is not explicitly required in CONC (the Consumer Credit sourcebook which sets 
out the obligations of businesses engaging in credit-related activities). JD Williams stated 
that the full credit limit offered was never fully utilised and Mr P often paid more than the 
minimum payment due. It says that was how it monitored the account to ensure that the 
lending was suitable. 
When Mr P opened his account in August 2016, JD Williams has told us there were no signs 
of financial difficulties based on the checks it did. Having reviewed the checks, I dont think 
there is anything to suggest that it would have been unreasonable for JD Williams to have 
approved the account. JD Williams didnt ask about Mr Ps income, and this may have 
helped it begin to build a picture of Mr Ps financial circumstances. But even if it had, at this 
stage, I dont think it would have made a difference to its decision to extend the credit. Mr Ps 
income was around £1,400 a month and the initial credit limit was £150.
In November 2016, JD Williams increased Mr Ps credit limit to £250. In December 2016 it 
increased the limit to £400. And in early January 2017 it increased Mr Ps credit limit to £600.
JD Williams did a credit check before each increase. The credit check showed that there 
was a historic default on Mr Ps credit file. But the account history shows that Mr P was 
making regular payments above the minimum amount required which showed he was 
maintaining the account well. While I think it would have been appropriate for JD Williams to 
have checked Mr Ps income for these limit increases (to help build a picture of his 
circumstances) I havent seen anything to suggest that JD Williams ought to have thought 
the credit was unaffordable for Mr P at this time. So I dont think JD Williams did anything 
wrong providing these increases.
However, in late January 2017 the credit limit was raised to £900. And then in February 2017 
it was increased to £1,300. I think it would have been proportionate for JD Williams to have 
found out more about Mr Ps committed expenditure, such as his living costs, at this point as 
well as his income. I say this because at this stage JD Williams appears to have still had no 
understanding of what Mr Ps financial circumstances were outside of the credit check it 
completed. Ive seen that in January 2017, Mr P had been significantly overdrawn on his 
current account for a prolonged period of time, I think its likely this would have been visible 
on any credit check JD Williams completed. This would indicate Mr P would likely be 
repaying JD Williams with other credit (his overdraft) rather than from any disposable income he may have had. For this reason, I think it was proportionate for JD Williams to have carried 
out more thorough checks before lending.
 
I cant be sure what JD Williams would have found out if it had asked. I think it would be 
reasonable to place significant weight on the information contained in Mr Ps bank 
statements to indicate what most likely would have been disclosed.
 
Having reviewed three months of bank statements leading up to the lending decision in late 
January 2017 I can see that Mr Ps committed expenditure was around £1,830 for things like 
rent, council tax, utilities and food. A joint party was also responsible for some of that 
expenditure and I can see they made regular payments of around £500 into the account. 
However, this still didnt leave Mr P with a reasonable amount of disposable income to 
sustainably afford the additional borrowing.
So I dont think it was fair or reasonable for JD Williams to have increased the limit from 31 
January 2017. 
Mr P has also said that he tried to contact JD Williams to discuss his financial difficulties and 
to enquire about getting a payment extension but was informed it would affect his credit 
score negatively.
JD Williams has provided us with copies of the contact notes for Mr Ps account and have 
said they have no record of Mr P contacting it to advise of his difficulties.
 
I have reviewed the contact notes and cannot see any evidence that Mr P made contact with 
JD Williams about his financial difficulties before he raised this complaint with them in 
December 2019. I note that the account was repaid in full on 6 November 2019 and no 
further purchases have been made since then. So I dont think JD Williams acted unfairly in 
respect of this element of Mr Ps complaint.
Putting things right
I think its fair and reasonable for J D Williams to refund any interest and charges incurred by 
Mr P as a result of the credit unfairly extended to him. I dont think the limit should have been 
increased from 31 January 2017 onward therefore J D Williams should:
remove any interest and charges incurred after 31 January 2017 as a result of any 
increases (including any buy now pay later interest). That is, J D Williams can only 
add interest accrued on the balance up to the credit limit of £600 - being the credit 
limit before 31 January 2017.
J D Williams should work out how much Mr P would have owed after the
above adjustments. Any repayment Mr P made since 31 January 2017
should be used to reduce the adjusted balance.
If this clears the adjusted balance any funds remaining should be refunded to
Mr P along with 8% simple interest per year* - calculated from the date of 
overpayment to the date of settlement.
All adverse information regarding this account should be removed
from the credit file from 31 January 2017.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires J D Williams to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must give Mr P a 
certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if he asks for one. If it intends to apply the refund to reduce 
an outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting the tax.My final decision
I think JD Williams acted unfairly when it extended further credit to Mr P on 31 January 2017 
and on each occasion after that. To put this right I direct JD Williams & Company Limited, 
trading as Jacamo, to pay compensation as explained in How to put things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2022.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman