DRN-2755965
The complaint
Mr C is complaining about the customer service he received from Santander UK Plc after he 
made some credit card applications.
What happened
In August and September 2020 Mr C made three credit card applications to Santander. The 
applications were declined.
 
Mr C had used a different email address to the one Santander held on file for him, and 
Santander sent him an email explaining this. The email was returned as undelivered so it 
also sent him a copy by post, with a covering letter. The covering letter said once youve 
received your account details, please check and update the email address we hold for 
you 
Mr C sent an email asking Santander when hed be receiving his account details. He 
attached the covering letter and the copy of the email hed received. But he sent his email to 
an address that wasnt for Santander UK Plc. So he was directed to the correct contact 
details on Santanders website.
Mr C sent the same query to Santander. It replied to say his credit card application had been 
declined, as detailed in the letter. Mr C replied to say that the letter hed attached said he 
would be receiving his account details.
Santander asked Mr C to clarify what his enquiry was, and Mr C said he wanted to complain. 
Santander sent Mr C a final response letter. It said Mr C still hadnt given the full details of 
what he was complaining about. But it explained it had made a commercial decision not to 
open any accounts for him.
Mr C brought his complaint to us. He said his complaint wasnt about his credit card 
applications being declined; it was about the customer service hed received from 
Santander.
Mr Cs complaint was looked into by our investigator, who didnt think there had been any 
serious customer service failings. Mr C didnt agree. He replied to say, in summary:
Santanders letter referring to his account details was contradictory;
Santander didnt pass his first email to the correct area;
Santanders letter referred to Mr C attaching two letters, but actually he had attached 
one letter and one attachment;
It was clear that his email was asking for details of the account the letter referred to;
Santanders final response letter ignored the explanations of his enquiry, and it was 
incorrect for Santander to say he hadnt provided full details of his complaint;
Santander didnt understand his complaint was about customer service failings and 
hasnt provided an acceptable resolution; and
Santanders use of the word vexatious in its response to him was disgusting and 
disgraceful. 
Mr Cs complaint has now been passed to me for review and a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Mr Cs complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
Santanders letter to Mr C gave him instructions to update his email address once hed 
received details of his new account. I can see why this may have been confusing, because 
the letter assumed any application would be successful. But Mr C was already aware that 
Santander would not be opening any accounts for him. It had explained this to him in 2011, 
and it had also closed some accounts hed opened in 2013. So, I dont think Mr C would 
reasonably have been expecting his applications to be successful on this occasion.
Mr C initially sent his enquiry about the letter to Santander Consumer Finance, which is 
separate from Santander UK Plc. So Santander UK Plc isnt responsible for the reply he 
received to this email, directing him to the contact details on Santanders website.
In its first reply to Mr Cs enquiry, Santander referred to a letter that said his credit card 
application had been declined. But it looks like Santander had sent emails to say Mr Cs 
applications had been declined. Because the email address was different to the one it held 
on file for Mr C, and some of its emails had been returned undelivered, it had followed up by 
post asking him to change his email address.
So it may have been more accurate if Santander had referred to its email rather than its 
letter in its first reply to Mr Cs enquiry. But this doesnt affect the overall point of Santanders 
response, which I think was clear; Mr Cs applications had been declined, so he wouldnt be 
receiving any new account details. 
 
I dont think it was unreasonable for Santander to ask Mr C for more information about his 
enquiry when it continued to receive emails from him. Im satisfied it was asking for this 
information to try to provide a response to his enquiry, and subsequent complaint, that 
addressed the issues he was concerned about. Although I appreciate Mr C will disagree, I 
dont think his concerns were clearly explained in his correspondence with Santander.
I understand Mr C is unhappy about the language used in Santanders correspondence with 
him. But taking into account the overall circumstances around Mr Cs enquiry and complaint, 
and the tone of his correspondence with Santander, I cant reasonably conclude Santander 
has been unfair to Mr C by using the language it has.
Overall, like the investigator, I dont think there have been any substantial customer service 
failings on Santanders part. So Im not going to ask Santander to do anything else.
My final decisionMy final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint, for the reasons Ive explained.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2021.
 
Helen Sutcliffe
Ombudsman