DRN-4484216
The complaint
This complaint is about three buy-to-let (BTL) mortgages Mr B holds with 
Barclays Bank UK PLC. It arises from an earlier complaint Mr B brought us about Barclays 
failing to update his correspondence address and not allocating payments correctly. That 
case has been settled, but this new case is about the ongoing impact on Mr B of the way 
Barclays allocated payments to the BTL mortgages, and reported them on his credit file.
 
Its caused problems with getting a new interest rate deal on the residential mortgage Mr B 
holds, jointly with his wife, with another lender Ill call H. They say they ended up on a higher 
rate that theyd have been able to achieve but for the adverse entries Barclays recorded, at a 
cost to them of around £8,500 over the life of the new interest rate product.
What Ive decided  and why
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mr B and Barclays. Im also aware 
that the investigator issued a detailed response to the complaint, a copy of which has been 
sent to all parties, and so I dont need to repeat the details here. 
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information that might 
result in Mr B being identified. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. If I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us. Its for me to decide what the material issues are 
that will affect the eventual outcome. Its also my judgement on what evidence I need to see 
and consider, in order to reach a fair decision.
Ill also provide some context to who the eligible complainant is here, under our rules. When 
Mr B brought the complaint to us, we also said Mrs B should join it, because the mortgage 
with H is in joint names and we needed her authority to request information from H. 
However, Mrs B isnt a joint borrower on the BTL mortgages with Barclays that are the 
subject of the complaint, so we were wrong to add her a joint party to the complaint. The 
case is now back in just Mr Bs name. 
As for the loss claim, even though Mrs B is party to the financial service where the claimed 
loss has occurred  i.e. the mortgage with H - Mr B has joint and several liability for that loss. 
That allows me to award redress to him for the jointly-incurred loss in the event that I find in 
his favour.  
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, these are my conclusions, and the reasons for them.
This isnt a complaint where I have to decide fault; thats admitted. Rather, its one where 
I need to decide what a fair settlement should be.
The new rate Mr B and his wife secured on their mortgage with H was 3.48%, running from 
1 October 2022 to 31 January 2028. By taking this deal they forfeited the final three months 
of their existing rate, which was due to expire on 31 December 2022, and that is factored 
into their claim. But the main bulk of the claim arises from a comparison with the rate Mr B 
believes they could have secured from 1 July 2022  the earliest date allowed under the 
contract with H  but for the delays caused by the adverse credit reporting. 
The reference point Mr B has used is a fixed rate of 2.74% that Barclays was offering at the 
time. The problem was that no re-mortgage application was made to Barclays, which is why, 
initially our investigator asked Barclays to assess, retrospectively, whether such an 
application would have been accepted, and if so on what terms. However, things have 
moved on from there. Ill explain why.
Barclays had offered to provide a letter confirming it was to blame for the adverse entries; 
the motivation for this was that it should have enabled Mr and Mrs B to get the rate they 
wanted from H in July 2022. In his most recent opinion, the investigator was minded to find 
Barclays at fault for not having provided that letter when asked to do so, and to remedy that 
by providing a mortgage to repay H at the most appropriate rate that would have been 
available in July 2022.  But he revised that position after listening to recordings of phone 
conversations between Mr B and Barclays. 
These supported Barclays position that Mr B had never asked it to fulfil the offer to provide 
the letter, in contrast to his assertions that he had done so. In that light, the investigator took 
the view that Barclays had made a reasonable attempt to help Mr B mitigate the impact of 
the adverse reporting, but he hadnt taken up the offer. That left the other action Barclays 
had already taken which was to remove the adverse entries from Mr Bs credit file (which 
has been done) and offer him £300 compensation.
The investigator thought that was fair in all the circumstances, and after having considered 
everything that both parties have said and provided, Ive reached the same overall 
conclusion. I cant know, and wont speculate on, whether a letter from Barclays would have 
resulted in H agreeing to a new deal sooner, and at a lower rate that it provided in 
September 2022. But making the offer was the right thing to do on Barclays part. Insofar as 
the available evidence doesnt point to Mr B having taken the opportunity to try and mitigate 
his situation, I cant fairly order Barclays to take further steps to remedy the loss he is 
claiming. 
I said at the outset that I wouldnt be commenting on every single point, and I havent. I have, 
as I said I would, confined myself to those matters that I consider have a material effect on 
the outcome. I can see how strongly Mr B feels. Thats a natural, subjective reaction, and 
entirely understandable. 
Be that as it may, I have to take a different approach. Im impartial and I have to look at 
things objectively, sometimes taking a step back from the minutiae, focussing on the broader 
picture. Thats what Ive done. My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should be settled by Barclays Bank UK PLC paying 
Mr B £300. I make no other order or award. 
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2023. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman