DRN-2624471
The complaint
Mr E complains that Cofunds Limited failed to provide clear and accurate advice about how 
to encash his funds quickly. Various advisors contradicted each other and this resulted in 
him losing £300 as a result of the delays. He wants it to pay this sum along with £150 in lieu 
of its repeated errors and the time and effort he had to put in to sort things out. 
What happened
An investigator at this service did not feel his complaint should be upheld. This is a summary 
of her conclusions:
On 24 February 2020 Mr E called Aegon (Cofunds) wanting to encash his investment 
and close his account due to the falling market, health concerns and a desire to 
access to his money for the immediate future
The agent said that the quickest way to withdraw his funds and close his account 
would be to do this online
But when Mr E said he hadnt set up an online account and would therefore have to 
set one up just to close his account, the agent said that the easiest option would to 
complete paper withdrawal forms which he would email to him. Mr E would need 
send these back by post as they needed a wet signature and it would take 14 days 
before the money arrived in Mr Es account i.e. the time required to turn his stocks in 
cash
Aegon sent this form via email but Mr E had difficulties with it due to the password-
protection
He contacted Aegon again and was told that the quickest way to close his investment 
and account was to do it online
After several conversations with Aegon about setting up an online account, he was 
eventually able to do this but by the time his funds were liquidized their value had 
fallen
On both calls the agents offered to help Mr E set up an online account to encash his 
funds and close his ISA account. But in the first call Mr E decided to use the paper 
withdrawal method
Mr E didnt withdraw all the money in one go as he wasnt told his money would be 
protected from the market after one day. He did query the date on which hed receive 
the money, but didnt ask when it would be safe from risk i.e. the funds would be 
encashed
During this first call the agent explained how long it would take for the stocks to be 
turned into cash, deposited into Cofunds bank and then sent to his bank account
During these phone calls Mr E didnt ask how long it would take to disinvest and keep 
his money safe from the market
When Mr E did bring this issue up on 18 March 2020, he didnt ask how long it would 
take, but rather he said that his money was now safe from the market, to which the 
agent confirmed
Each time Mr E asked how long the process would take he was advised that from 
start of withdrawal to when he received the money in his bank it would be 14 days - 
this being generally the time required
Mr Es only expressed concern was how long it would take for the funds to be in his 
bank account and for his account to be closed. He didnt say anything which should 
have led the agents to assume that his main concern was when the money would be 
safe from the market
While Mr E couldnt open the attachments due to experiencing a problem with the 
password-protection. But she, the investigator had been sent the same email by 
Aegon and had been able to open the documents. She didnt think the evidence 
demonstrated that Aegon was to blame for this problem
Overall, she felt Aegons agents provided a reasonable service, answering all Mr Es 
queries including helping him set up an online account
Having listened to all the calls, she didnt accept that the agents had told Mr E that 
one of the methods was the best
Mr E did not agree, explaining the background to his complaint, the reasons he sought to 
encash his funds and what he expected from the agents. He reiterated the timeline of events 
and many of the points he had raised earlier. In my view, his key reasons for rejecting the 
investigators conclusions were:
He accepted that the first agent said that the quickest way to facilitate his withdrawal 
and closure of his account was via online but he then said that probably the easiest 
way to close his account was by using a withdrawal form
The word probably was vague; either it is easier using the form method or not
While the agent said it would take 14 days to complete the process, he also referred 
to a timeline of five to six working days which he found confusing
The advisor got confused about the two unique product numbers relating to his two 
accounts, quoting them correctly initially and then getting them the wrong way 
around
He needed correct information, clarity and accurate guidance; he didnt get this. He 
got the impression the agent didnt know what he was talking about
In the second call, a different agent stated that as simple as it is doing the form, it 
can get a bit complicated with the password protected documents
The form method had now changed from probably the easiest method to simplest 
method to complicated method. He was even more confused at this point to say the 
least. This agent apologised for the password protected WORD document 
attachment via email, not being able to be opened and said that it may have been 
a problem with the way that it was encrypted
Another different agent concurred that the online method was the quickest and 
easiest method. This totally contradicts the first agent stating that the FORM was the 
easiest method. Why do all these agents keep defining withdrawal/closure methods 
so differently? 
He explained to this agent that an email attached, Adobe PDF, showed switched 
unique product numbers. He apologised for it being a typo error that had reversed 
the unique product numbers
Later on during the conversation, this agent stated that the earlier agent should have 
presented to him all the available options regarding withdrawing money from the 
account, i.e. closing the account via online or form method. He also should have 
explained all these options and the different times they would take. He should have 
made clear that the quickest method of the withdrawal process was indeed via the 
online platform and that this could be used to almost close the account by 
effectively leaving in either £1.00 or even £0.00, but the account still be active to be 
possibly finally fully closed at a later date
He also stated that the form method using the post, is longer! 
He further stated that some stuff had happened and he was trying to fix it as best 
as he could. During the above conversation, he mentioned the process of DE-INVESTING could take up to 5 working days. Mr E did not know what this meant but 
found out by making a test withdrawal of £500 on 16 March 2020
This happened within one day
Once he found out the much quicker actual timeline of one day to make my money 
safe from the markets, he quickly attempted to remove a further £200 to make his 
money safe from the markets
Why couldnt the earlier agent have explained what DE-INVESTING actually meant 
i.e. that the share funds were safe from the markets?
Several bouts of severe illness aggravated by all the stress from AEGONs agents 
had taken its toll on his time and concentration levels and he was deeply confused 
by the all the long timelines quoted
A friend of his had recently closed their Investment ISA with a high street bank and 
the whole process from the initial phone call to obtaining the cash in their bank 
account took 4 days maximum!
On 20 March 2020 he spoke to yet another agent because £196.52 rather than the 
requested £200.00 was sold down. He was told that a processing error had 
occurred and possibly the wrong number of units were entered into the system
He eventually got the outstanding balance of £3.48 on 3 April
He had been constantly worried about his financial situation and the money he has 
lost, for nearly a year now
Although he was sent some of the recordings as zip files via email in the Autumn of 
2020, some important ones were still missing, even though he was told he had 
the full set. He eventually managed to get the full set on CD Rom in mid-December 
2020 after having to explain that he would possibly take legal action because he was 
entitled to this information under the Freedom of Information Act
During this second fiasco, an agent informed him that the reasons behind the severe 
delays in getting all the recordings ranged from no staff being available at the Head 
Office to burn the discs, files being too big to email, CD copying equipment and zip 
file copying equipment failures
Is that just bad luck or AEGON excuses or delay tactics to stop him from getting the 
information he needed in a timely manner?
This all added to the extra stress that AEGON had already caused
The experience of dealing with this company has been a complete and utter 
nightmare and he doesnt think he will ever recover from the financial hardship, 
stress and emotional trauma, all during a time of ever failing health
He wants to recover the £300.00 he lost in savings and also wants an additional 
£150.00 in compensation for all the administration costs (telephone calls, emails), 
time lost and stress endured
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I should explain that my role is to decide whether a business clearly did something 
wrong and, if so, whether the customer lost out as a result; not just whether a representative 
might have said or done something differently.
In this case, I fully understand Mr Es frustration at what happened, including the amount of 
time and effort it took to encash his investments and close his account. I dont doubt the 
stress this caused, particularly given his health issues.
But, largely for the reasons already outlined by the investigator, I am not convinced that the 
business did anything wrong.Crucially, the first agent made very clear that the quickest way to encash his funds and close 
his account was online and he offered to help if Mr E wished to do this. Mr E, instead, said 
he wanted to be sent withdrawal forms. Having queried how he would go about downloading 
and printing the forms, the agent offered to send them by post but Mr E said he wanted them 
to be sent via email.
In my view, he did not make clear that he wanted to encash the funds by the quickest 
method such that the agent should have reiterated that he should therefore do this online. 
Having explained this point at the outset, the agent rightly  in my view  proceeded to assist 
Mr E in getting the forms sent by email. He also clearly explained the 14-day time span for 
the funds to be encashed and his account closed.
So I am satisfied that Mr E chose to encash his funds by the slower route. In my opinion, it 
should have been fairly obvious that waiting for the forms to be sent by email, printing and 
filling them out and then sending them back by post would mean it would take longer to 
remove his money from the market.
I recognise that Mr E was unable to access the password-protected documents but I dont 
think there is sufficient evidence to say this was Aegons fault, particularly given the 
investigator was able to open the same documents via the same email.
In the second call Mr E sought help in accessing the funds breakdown as he said he wanted 
to look at their performance before deciding whether to encash at this point. This, in my 
view, contradicts his claim that he made very clear he wanted to encash as soon as possible 
and therefore the agents should have gone further in pointing out that he needed to do this 
online.
Due to various bouts of ill-health Mr E waited some weeks before making the online 
withdrawal instruction and unfortunately during this time the value of his funds fell. But I 
cannot agree that Aegon was responsible for this as it had provided Mr E with clear and 
appropriate help as to how to withdraw his funds from the market as soon as possible during 
his first two calls.
I accept there were several communication issues  such as getting the account numbers 
mixed up on one occasion  but I dont agree that any of these prevented Mr E encashing 
his money or caused the loss he complains about.
 
Overall, having listened to the calls, I dont accept the agents failed to communicate clearly 
or that they did anything wrong. I should explain to Mr E that I have listened to dozens, if not 
hundreds of calls between customers and businesses, and often find that call handlers are 
unclear or unhelpful. I did not find this to be true with any of Aegons agents in this instance.
I recognise there was a further delay as a result of Aegon insisting on certain verification 
documents, but I believe it was entitled to insist on these given current money-laundering 
and fraud requirements. Given this, I do not agree that Aegon should pay compensation for 
any loss Mr E suffered as a result of the fall in value of his funds.
I have then considered whether Aegons customer service was unacceptable such that it 
should pay Mr E compensation for the time and effort he took to make the withdrawals 
and/or bring a complaint.
In doing so, I am satisfied that Aegons agents, overall, were friendly, helpful and sought to 
provide accurate and easily-understandable information and advice throughout the very 
many phone calls and emails. I accept there were occasional lapses and failures to provide the additional information Mr E requested in a timely fashion. But given the enormous impact 
of Covid on all businesses, particularly due to staff illness and mass home working, I dont 
believe Aegons customer service overall was unacceptable. I do accept that Aegon 
mistakenly underpaid Mr E by £3.48 but I am satisfied that it then forwarded this sum once 
this was pointed out and in a timely fashion.
Nor do I believe its handling of Mr Es complaint was unacceptable. I should also say that 
complaint handling is not itself a regulated activity (i.e. within this services remit) except 
when any failures flow from or impact on a business failure regarding the complaint itself. So 
where we conclude that the business did not  as in this case  do anything wrong, we are 
unlikely to award compensation for any consequent complaint handling issue.
Finally, I should explain that my role and that of this service is to reach a fair and reasonable 
decision about an overall complaint. In doing so, we are not required to address every 
complaint point in any final decision. So while I accept I have not responded to every single 
point Mr E has raised, I am satisfied that I have considered and addressed what I believe are 
the key issues. I do not consider the other points sufficient to uphold his complaint.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 April 2021.
 
Tony Moss
Ombudsman