DRN-3671063
The complaint
Mr H complains about the level of service received from Hastings Insurance Services 
Limited following a claim against his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
The background to the complaint is known to all parties so I wont repeat it here. In my 
decision Ill mainly focus on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome I have. 
Mr H raised a claim after his car was damaged by an uninsured third-party in September 
2021. The insurer dealt with the claim and settled it in October 2021. Mr H was also told he 
had 30 days to add a new car to the policy or it would be cancelled. 
Mr H contacted Hastings by phone in November 2021 to obtain a quote for a new car. 
During the call, he was given incorrect information  he was told the policy would continue 
until its expiry date of June 2022 even if he didnt add a new car to the policy within the 30-
day period. Mr H says he didnt go ahead and add a new car to the policy within 30 days 
based on this wrong information. 
In November 2021, Mr Hs policy was cancelled as there was no longer an insurable interest. 
The insurer retained the full premiums Mr H paid given a claim had been paid. 
Mr H wasnt happy and complained. He says he would have purchased and added a new 
car to the policy within 30 days had he been given correct information during the November 
2021 call with Hastings. He says as a result, he lost out on roughly eight months of 
insurance cover hed already paid for and didnt have the funds to purchase a new policy, 
until June 2022. He also says being without a car until he could purchase one and new 
insurance until June 2022 caused him some inconvenience and disruption. 
Hastings responded to the complaint in January 2022 upholding it. They apologised for the 
wrong information given during the call, and paid Mr H £130 in total for any distress and 
inconvenience caused. Mr H didnt think this was fair, so he approached our service. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She thought the wrong information 
caused Mr H to experience distress and inconvenience, and the offer made by Hastings 
wasnt fair. So, she recommended they pay a further £300 compensation. 
Hastings didnt agree and said they would increase their offer of compensation to £200 in 
total. This was put to Mr H who accepted this on the basis he thought the offer was for an 
additional £200  on top of the £130 that had already been paid. That wasnt the case, so 
the case was passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
All parties accept Mr H wasnt given correct, clear information, so I dont need to make a 
finding on that. What I must consider, however, is the impact this had on Mr H. 
I listened to the call as my starting point. This followed an email sent to Mr H confirming he 
had 30 days to add a new vehicle to the policy or it would be cancelled. Im satisfied Mr H 
received this and was aware of the 30-day period, because he refers to this during the 
November 2021 phone call. 
The service provided to Mr H during this call, in my view, was poor. I dont think the agent 
seemed to grasp what Mr H was asking them to clarify, and I think this complaint could have 
easily been avoided had the agent handled things much better. This is a consideration I 
need to make a finding on in this complaint, because its material to Mr Hs overarching 
complaint. 
The purpose of Mr Hs call was to obtain quotes for cars hed been looking to purchase. He 
said had the correct information been given, he could have purchased a car within the week 
and added it to the policy, meaning he would have benefitted from eight months (roughly) of 
insurance cover that was left to run  even though it sounds like he may have had to pay a 
higher premium because of the car he was looking to purchase to replace his previous one. 
So, although Mr H ought reasonably to have been aware of the 30-day period and what 
would happen, Im most persuaded he would have acted differently here had the November 
2021 call been handled as it should have. I say this because he had the funds to purchase a 
car following receipt of the claim settlement in October 2021. 
Mr H says he didnt purchase a car until June 2022 as, although he had the claim settlement 
available to purchase a car, he was unable to pay for a new policy where he would have had 
to pay the full years premium  rather than an additional premium and stay on cover for 
another eight months. 
Im aware the insurer would have retained Mr Hs full premiums for the year on cover given a 
claim was settled during it. But I think Mr H lost the opportunity to continue on cover for 
another eight months or so based on the handling and lack of clear information provided 
during the November 2021 call. 
Ive considered what Hastings offered following our investigators view. All parties have now 
had the opportunity to provide their comments. Having considered this, I find £200 
compensation  in addition to the £130 Hastings originally paid  to be fair, reasonable, and 
proportionate. I say this given the way things were handled during the call, the failure to 
correctly advise Mr H, and the overall impact this had on him. 
Hastings say theyve paid Mr H a further £70 since our investigators view. So, Ill be 
requiring them to pay him an additional £130. 
Putting things right
Hastings Insurance Services Limited must now pay Mr H £130 compensation for any 
distress and inconvenience caused. This will bring the total amount of compensation paid to 
Mr H to £330  which Im satisfied is fair, reasonable, and proportionate in this case, for the 
reasons Ive outlined above. 
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold it. I now require Hastings Insurance Services Limited to pay Mr 
H £130 for any distress and inconvenience caused. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman