DRN-3248688
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy with the way Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard dealt with his 
section 75 claim.
What happened
In July 2020 Mr D signed up for a course with an international school and made a payment 
of £699 using his Barclaycard.
Mr D was unhappy with the course. He found the quality of the service to be poor and didnt 
think the examinations were fair.
Mr D raised a section 75 claim with Barclaycard. It rejected the claim on the basis that Mr D 
had been unable to provide an invoice or a contract to show the services he was meant to 
receive.
Mr D was unhappy with the response. He said hed asked the course provider for an invoice, 
but it hadnt provided one. Mr D also felt that Barclaycard hadnt advised him of other options 
he had to dispute the transaction. He brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said that in order for a section 75 claim to 
be successful, the consumer needs to show that theres been a breach of contract or a 
misrepresentation. She said that because Mr D hadnt provided any evidence to show that 
he had a contract with the international school, and what was to be provided under the 
contract, there was no way for Barclaycard to determine if there had been a  breach of 
contract or a misrepresentation. In relation to other options which may have been available 
to Mr D the investigator said there were no grounds for Barclaycard to raise a chargeback 
due to there being no evidence to support it.
Mr D didnt agree so Ive been asked to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Mr D wasnt happy with the course and I understand why he feels that he 
should receive a refund. However, I dont think Barclaycard rejected the section 75 claim 
unfairly. Ill explain why.
In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer a right to claim against a supplier of 
goods or a provider of credit. There can only be a valid claim under section 75 if payment 
was made under what is called a debtor credit supplier agreement, and if it can be shown 
that there has been a breach of contract or a misrepresentation.
One of the issues in this case is whether the debtor credit supplier relationship can be 
established. Its a requirement of section 75 that theres a contractual relationship between 
Mr D, Barclaycard and the supplier of the course. Mr D hasnt been able to provide an 
invoice or a contract with the supplier. So, theres no evidence to show that theres a valid 
debtor credit supplier relationship. In the circumstances, I dont think Barclaycard acted 
unfairly when it said it couldnt review the section 75 claim.
Ive also considered whether Mr D has shown that there was a breach of contract or a 
misrepresentation. Although Mr D has explained why he was unhappy with the course, 
theres no documentary evidence to show what Mr D was meant to receive from the course 
provider. So its impossible for me to say  without further evidence  whether theres been a 
breach of contract or a misrepresentation. In the circumstances I dont think Barclaycard 
acted unfairly in rejecting the section 75 claim.
Ive considered whether there were any other options available to Mr D at the time he raised 
his section 75 claim. Ive thought about whether Barclaycard should have attempted a 
chargeback. However, I dont think a chargeback claim wouldve succeeded. Mr Ds 
transaction for £699 was in July 2020, but he didnt approach Barclaycard until April 2021. A 
chargeback can only be raised within 120 days of the transaction date, so even if 
Barclaycard had attempted a chargeback, it would have been rejected as being out of time.
Based on everything Ive seen, Im unable to say that Barclaycard rejected the section 75 
claim unfairly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman