DRN-3956756
The complaint
Mrs S and Mr C complain that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) allowed their car to become 
further damaged whilst a claim under their motor insurance policy was being validated. 
I will refer to Mrs S in my decision for ease of reading.
What happened
Mrs S says she noticed a strong smell and found that water had been entering her car from 
the top of the windscreen/roof area. She contacted Aviva to make a claim. Aviva arranged 
for the car to be collected and taken to a garage so that it was protected from further water 
ingress, whilst it arranged an engineer to inspect. Mrs S says this is because she had 
nowhere the car could be stored out of the rain. 
Mrs S says it took just over two weeks for Aviva to tell her it wouldnt cover her claim. It told 
her the water ingress was the result of a known manufacturing fault with her car. Not 
something covered by her policy. Mrs S says when the car was returned it was very wet 
inside. She says this was because her car wasnt protected from the rain as it was supposed 
to be. 
Mrs S says mould was present on the seats and the car developed electrical issues as a 
result of the water ingress. She complained to Aviva. In its response it says its field engineer 
found no external damage but felt this was a manufacturing issue. It says it recognises the 
car had been with its garage for a number of days and so offered £200 as a goodwill gesture 
toward the cost of a full valet. 
Mrs S didnt think this was fair and referred her complaint to our service. Our investigator 
didnt uphold her complaint. He didnt think Aviva had done anything wrong in its handling of 
Mrs Ss claim. He thought its offer of £200 toward the cost of a full valet was reasonable in 
the circumstances. 
Mrs S didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. Let me explain. 
Ive read the terms of Mrs Ss policy to understand the cover it provides. In its letter declining 
this claim Aviva refers to section one of the policy terms that relates to loss or damage. This 
says if the car is lost, stolen, or damaged it will cover the cost of the repairs. But Aviva says 
there is no insured cause here as the damage is thought to be the result of a manufacturing 
defect. 
Ive read the engineers report. This says it wasnt possible to identify whether the water 
ingress was the result of wear and tear. The report suggests carrying out water tests to see 
where the water was coming in. In its decline letter it says following further investigation, it 
was found that a known issue involving a manufacturing fault was likely to be the cause of 
the water ingress. Aviva says it referred Mrs Ss concerns back to its engineer for review, but 
its decline decision was maintained. 
Its for Mrs S to demonstrate that she suffered an insured loss. Based on the information Ive 
seen she hasnt shown that an insured loss occurred. I think Aviva acted reasonably by 
instructing an engineer to validate the claim. But I dont think it treated Mrs S unfairly when 
declining to cover the repairs for the reasons it gave. 
Ive thought about Mrs Ss comments that the car was returned to her in a far worse state 
than when it was collected. She says there was a lot of water inside the car and the electrics 
had become faulty. Ive examined the photos she provided. These show evidence of water in 
the car, and I can see where mould has developed on the seats.
We asked Aviva how the car had been stored when it was at its garage. It confirmed that its 
garage stored the car outside, but that it was covered in crash wrap. I understand this is a 
protective layer used to protect accident damaged cars from the elements, by sealing off 
broken windows and/or doors that cant be closed. 
I acknowledge Mrs Ss view that the mould and dampness had got worse whilst her car was 
in Avivas care. But I dont think its been shown that the car was left open to the elements. 
Ive listened to the claim call when Avivas agent tells Mrs S the car will be kept in a safe, dry 
place. It doesnt appear that the car was kept indoors. But Im satisfied that the use of a 
protective cover was reasonable to prevent further water ingress. 
By the time Mrs Ss car was collected she confirms that water had already entered through 
the top of the windscreen/roof area. Based on this information, I cant reasonably conclude 
that damage occurred from Aviva failing to secure the car from further water ingress. Rather 
water was already present. This cant be discounted as the cause of the damp and electrical 
issues Mrs S describes. 
Its reasonable for an insurer to have the opportunity to validate a claim. But I accept that in 
the time Aviva had Mrs Ss car, it remained damp, and this resulted in a build-up of mould. In 
these circumstances I think it was reasonable that Aviva offered £200 toward the cost of a 
full car valet. It should pay her this amount if it hasnt done so already. 
In summary, Im sorry that Mrs S has experienced a fault with her car. This mustve been an 
upsetting experience for her. But I think Aviva behaved fairly when relying on its policy terms 
and declining this claim. Ideally the decline decision couldve been made quicker. But I think 
Aviva behaved reasonably when offering a payment toward the cost of a full valet of the car. 
So, I cant fairly ask it to do anymore.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 April 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman