DRN-1936047
 
The complaint
Miss E complains that Virgin Money plc gave her incorrect information about the arrears on 
her credit card account, then failed to correct its own error for some time, which meant her 
credit file was affected for longer than it shouldve been.
What happened
Miss E fell into arrears with her Virgin credit card. She was paying this off in instalments. 
Then in May 2019 she rang Virgin to ask how much she needed to pay to clear all of the 
arrears in one go. But Virgin gave her incorrect information. Although she paid the amount 
Virgin told her to pay, the arrears werent cleared. 
Miss E then tried to complain about this, but Virgin didnt take any action on her complaint. 
She rang a number of times to see what was happening, and no one told her a complaint 
hadnt been raised for her. She said in the meantime Virgin was chasing her to pay the debt. 
She eventually got a letter saying that her arrears were cleared, but then also got a response 
to her complaint saying she still owed the arrears to Virgin.
Miss E told us that this had put late payment markers on her credit file, and would affect an 
upcoming mortgage application. She said Virgin had sent her £150, but it hadnt actually 
solved the problem so she didnt want to accept the money it had sent. 
Virgin said it was sorry it had given Miss E incorrect information. It would pay her £150 to 
say sorry for that. But it wouldnt remove the arrears, which were for a bit less than £150. 
And it said it didnt think it had made a mistake by ringing her repeatedly to chase this debt. 
Our investigator thought this complaint should be upheld. She said Virgin shouldve paid the 
money it sent Miss E in compensation into her account instead, to clear the arrears. It should 
remove any late payment markers that had been caused by this mistake. And she said it 
should now consider making a compensation payment to Miss E.
Virgin said if it had made a credit to Miss Es account, that wouldnt replace a payment 
requirement or reduce her arrears. It confirmed Miss Es account was no longer in arrears. It 
would remove any late payment markers it had placed on her credit file from May 2019. It 
didnt offer any further compensation, and our investigator didnt tell it to pay more.
Miss E said that these late payment markers were still showing on her credit file. And she 
said that she couldnt cash Virgins compensation cheque now. She also thought Virgin 
should pay more, because she had recently remortgaged, and she thought these marks on 
her credit file may have affected this. Miss E wanted her complaint to be considered by an 
ombudsman, so it was passed to me for a final decision.
My provisional decisionI issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I proposed to uphold it. 
This is what I said then: 
Theres no dispute that Miss E was given incorrect information in May by Virgin. So 
she thought her arrears had been cleared, but they hadnt. And then she was pursued 
for a debt she believed shed paid off. Virgin knew it had made a mistake, but it took 
until the end of August to clarify this for Miss E. And, although Virgin realised it had 
made a mistake, it still left late payment markers on her credit file, which Miss E thinks 
may have affected her new mortgage.
Miss E has now cleared these arrears. So I dont think it would be appropriate for 
Virgin to make a payment onto her account. 
Virgin has agreed to amend Miss Es credit file. If it hasnt done so already, then it 
should now amend Miss Es credit file so that no late payment marker shows from May 
2019 to August 2019, inclusive of those months.
Miss E told us shed finally managed to remortgage early in 2020. She was hoping to 
do this in September 2019, when she first contacted us about this complaint. She was 
concerned that this had been affected by what Virgin had done.
I dont think its likely that the rate that Miss E was able to obtain for her new mortgage 
has been affected by the late payment markers Im asking Virgin to remove now. Miss 
E does have some other late payments on her credit file, including earlier late 
payments to Virgin which werent caused by its error. 
But I do think its likely that Miss E has had to delay remortgaging, in order to allow 
some time to elapse since these late payments were recorded. And I think that 
couldve been avoided if Virgin hadnt made this mistake in the first place, or if it had 
acted to put things right sooner. 
For those reasons, I dont think that Virgins offer of £150 in compensation is the right 
amount in this case to put things right. I think Virgin should pay Miss E a total of £250 
in compensation. Virgin can count towards that amount the payment of £150 that it 
originally paid Miss E, if it can show that cheque has been cashed. Otherwise, it 
should cancel that cheque and reissue a new cheque to Miss E for the full amount. 
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Virgin said it agreed. Its original cheque hadnt been cashed, so it had cancelled it, and 
would issue a cheque for the new amount if Miss E agreed to my final decision. Miss E 
thanked us for looking at this again, and said she was happy to accept the decision. She has 
confirmed she hasnt taken any steps to cash the first cheque, which Virgin has now 
cancelled.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I havent changed my mind.
My final decision
My final decision is that Virgin Money plc must amend Miss Es credit file so that no late 
payment marker shows on her Virgin Money plc account from May 2019 to August 2019, 
inclusive of those months. And Virgin Money plc must pay Miss E a total of £250 in 
compensation.If either party has anything further to add, they should do so by the date set out at the top of 
this provisional decision. I'll then reconsider the complaint before reaching my final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 July 2020.
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman