DRN-4008412
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Loans 2 Go Limited lent to her irresponsibly. 
What happened
Mrs M applied for and received the following loans from Loans 2 Go:
Date Amount Term Monthly 
repaymentAPR Total 
repayable
Loan 1 24 Aug 2019 £1,000 18 months £228.56 1,013.2% £4,114.08
Loan 2 3 Feb 2021 £500 18 months £114.28 1,013.2% £2,057.04
Mrs M complained to Loans 2 Go saying it didnt complete appropriate due diligence on her 
applications. If it had, she says, it ought to have refused to lend to her.  
Loans 2 Go looked into her complaint and rejected it. It said it had followed its usual process 
which included verifying her income and checking her credit report by using a credit 
reference agency. It also looked at information provided by the Office of National Statistics 
(ONS) which provides national averages for household expenditure. It said it was confident 
Mrs M could afford each loan at the time it was agreed. 
Mrs M didnt agree with Loans 2 Go and referred her complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into it. He said the information Loans 2 Go obtained shows Mrs M was 
unlikely to have been able to repay either loan sustainably. He upheld the complaint and 
explained how Loans 2 Go should put things right for Mrs M.  
Mrs M accepted what our investigator said, but Loans 2 Go only agreed regarding Loan 2. It 
felt its decision to lend Loan 1 was reasonable. It said Mrs M had no County Court 
Judgements (CCJs) and her existing credit commitments were either repaid or up to date. 
As there was no agreement, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im pleased to see Loans 2 Go have agreed with our investigator regarding Loan 2. By doing 
so, it has accepted our methodology for this type of complaint  which is also on our website 
- so Ill not restate it here. Instead Ill concentrate on my decision regarding Loan 1.
When she applied for Loan 1, Mrs M declared a monthly income of £2,800 and expenses of 
£750 per month. Following its checks, Loans 2 Go used an income of £2,549 and expenses 
of £2,040. So on a purely pounds and pence basis, a monthly repayment of £228.56 for the 
loan seemed to be affordable for Mrs M. But the purpose of the checks Loans 2 Go had to 
carry out are not solely to ensure pounds and pence serviceability of a loan, but to ensure 
any borrowing is sustainable for the applicant. That is, they should be able to repay the 
credit without undue difficulty, while being able to meet other commitments and without 
having to borrow further.
Mrs Ms credit report Loans 2 Go used at the time of the application shows she had a credit 
score of 362. The agency used classes this as a poor score. I acknowledge that 
Loans 2 Go specialises in lending to consumers with impaired credit ratings, so this alone 
wouldnt have given it any major cause for concern. But a closer look at her report shows 
she had several other forms of credit such as loans, credit cards, mail order and an overdraft 
totalling almost £23,000. She was currently up to date with payments to all her accounts, but 
she was up to the limit on all her credit card and mail order accounts as well as her overdraft 
(a total of 12 accounts). She had short term loans outstanding  one of which had been 
taken a month before this application. 
So the picture I see is someone who has a high level of debt and is taking short term loans 
in order to manage her finances. She was using 100% of credit available to her and 
continuing to borrow from short term lenders. She then applies for a modest loan of £1,000 
at a very high rate of interest with large monthly payments. I dont think this shows someone 
in control of their finances and with the ability to take on a further commitment of £228 per 
month sustainably. Adding in a further credit commitment of almost 10% of her monthly 
income alone, was very unlikely to be sustainable when the extent of her credit elsewhere is 
factored in. 
I dont think that Loans 2 Gos argument that she didnt have any CCJs and was up to date 
with her existing commitments is sufficient to say it reached a fair decision to lend. A CCJ 
will only generally be issued by a court after a debt has defaulted and the lender hasnt been 
able to collect the debt. While the absence of CCJs is clearly a good thing, I dont think its a 
benchmark for deciding whether a new loan is sustainably repayable. Furthermore, while its 
true that Mrs M was up to date with her current commitments, it can be seen that she had 
recently taken out short term loans in order to achieve this. In my view, this shows her 
borrowing was already becoming unsustainable. 
Overall I think Loans 2 Go should have refused to lend Loan 1 to Mrs M. It was evident she 
was relying on credit to meet her expenditure which is unsustainable. 
Loans 2 Go has already agreed it shouldnt have lent Loan 2, so Ill not comment further on 
that loan. For completeness however, Ive included it in what I believe to be a fair way of 
resolving this complaint. 
Putting things right
When I find that a business has done something wrong, Id normally direct that business to 
put the complainant in the position they would be in now if the mistake it made hadnt 
happened, as far as is reasonably practical. 
In this case, that would mean putting Mrs M in the position she would be in now if she hadnt 
been given the loans. But Mrs M was given the loans and used the money, so its right she 
should repay what she borrowed. 
So, I think Loans 2 Go should:
Calculate the total amount Mrs M received from Loans 2 Go and deduct from that 
figure the repayments shes made to each loan. 
oIf this results in Mrs M having repaid more than she received, any 
overpayments should be refunded to her. Interest at a rate of 8% simple per year should be added to any overpayments from the date they were made 
until the date of settlement*.
oIf the calculation means theres still a balance for Mrs M to pay, Loans 2 Go 
should let her know how much is outstanding and reach a suitable, affordable 
payment plan with her. I remind Loans 2 Go of its obligation to treat 
customers fairly. 
Remove any negative information recorded on Mrs Ms credit file regarding each 
loan. 
*If Loans 2 Go considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mrs M how much its taken off. It should also give her a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Loans 2 Go Limited should put things right 
for Mrs M as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 July 2023. 
Richard Hale
Ombudsman