DRN-3557988
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as C, complains about requests made by Barclays Bank UK 
PLC for information relating to its internal controls and about certain payments it received 
from customers.
Mr G, a director of C, brings the complaint on C's behalf.
What happened
In June 2021, Barclays requested information from C relating to Cs anti-money laundering 
policy, including its due diligence processes, and about certain payments it had received 
from customers between 2018 and 2020. Mr G was concerned about disclosing this 
information as it was sensitive and confidential, relating to Cs internal controls and its 
customers. Mr G asked Barclays whether it was authorised to request this information and 
expressed his concern about breaching the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). He 
asked Barclays to indemnify C against any action brought by either its customers or the 
information commissioner.
Barclays responded by reasserting that it required the information to comply with its legal 
and regulatory obligations.
This pattern continued. Barclays continued to chase C for the information, with Mr G 
continuing to express his concern about releasing it. In July, Barclays said that if the 
information wasnt supplied, it would have to review its banking relationship with C.
After further exchanges, in early July Mr G reluctantly provided Barclays with a partial 
response. However, Barclays said the response was insufficient and asked for more 
information, focussing on two specific payments.
Barclays continued to chase for this information, repeatedly explaining that it required it to 
comply with its legal and regulatory obligations. 
At this point, Mr G responded to Barclays expressing his frustration at the way he had been 
treated. Mr G said hed felt harassed, threatened and bullied by Barclayss requests, and 
there had been no recognition of his request for an indemnity. In July, he had also notified 
Barclays that he wished to be treated as a vulnerable customer, but he believed this had not 
been reflected in how Barclays had engaged with him. He said his mental health had 
suffered.
Barclays responded initially in August, saying that it had found nothing untoward. It said that 
its operative had been transparent and honest. Barclays repeated that Cs continuing failure 
to supply the required information would result in its banking relationship being reviewed.
Barclays later issued its financial response to the complaint, again saying that it required the 
information to be compliant with regulations. Barclays recognised Mr Gs vulnerabilities but 
was satisfied that the situation had been managed appropriately.
Mr G was not happy with this response and did not believe that Barclays had considered it 
adequately. He also believed that he still had not received a response to his request for an 
indemnity. Mr G said that C would provide the information if Barclays demonstrated that it 
was legally entitled to receive it.
Mr G brought Cs complaint to our service. 
Subsequently, in September, Barclays cited to Mr G the provisions of the GDPR relevant to 
its request. Later, it also explained to Mr G why it wouldnt provide C with an indemnity, but it 
did set out in slightly more detail how it would treat Cs information by reference to the terms 
and conditions of Cs account. 
In November, Barclays phoned Mr G giving him notice that it would be ending its banking 
relationship with him on all his business and personal accounts in 90 days.
Our investigator issued his view on Cs complaint, saying that Barclays had done nothing 
wrong in requiring the information, given its regulatory obligations. He said that Barclays had 
acted in accordance with the terms and conditions of Cs account. Mr G did not agree, so the 
matter was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in May 2022 and invited further responses from both C and 
Barclays. C did not respond. B said it agreed with my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am aware that Barclays has since ended its banking relationship both with C and with Mr G 
personally. However, the current complaint relates to Barclays actions in how it requested 
information from C between June and September 2021, and the interactions between Mr G 
and Barclays at this time. Mr G has also complained about how Barclays assessed his 
complaint but, as already explained by our investigator, this is not something we can 
consider in these circumstances. 
Therefore, my focus has been on whether Barclays acted fairly and reasonably in how, 
between June and September 2021, it asked for certain information from C.
Barclays operates under certain regulatory obligations and, having reviewed the information 
requested, I believe Barclays had legitimate reason to request this information.  
However, Mr Gs concern was not so much about Barclays reasons for requesting the 
information but whether he would be culpable for providing it given its sensitive and 
confidential nature. 
I accept that Barclays was under no obligation to provide an indemnity, and that it was for C 
to assess the risk of providing the information. However, I believe it was reasonable of Mr G 
to request more explanation from Barclays on how it would handle the confidential 
information C provided. 
In September 2021, three months after Mr Gs repeated requests, Barclays provided a fuller 
explanation, pointing to the relevant paragraphs in the terms and conditions of Cs account, 
and citing relevant clauses of the GDPR. I believe this provided Mr G with helpful context, 
and could have been provided three months earlier. Mr G isnt looking for compensation but an apology, and an acknowledgement that Barclays 
could have done better. I believe this is deserved to the extent that Barclays could have 
responded better upfront to Mr Gs concerns about providing confidential information. 
Barclays couldnt have said much but it could have provided Mr G with at least the 
explanations it offered later in September. 
I acknowledge Mr G says his health has suffered but, as C had the relationship with Barclays 
relevant to this complainant, I cant compensate Mr G for any distress he has experienced 
personally. Moreover, given I believe Barclays did nothing wrong in requesting the 
information, any inconvenience to C is limited to that caused by Barclays not responding 
more clearly earlier to Mr Gs concerns. For this, Barclays should pay C £150.
Mr G has also said that he didnt like Barclays threats to review its relationship with C if the 
information were not provided. However, in this regard I dont think Barclays did anything 
wrong. I dont believe these messages were malicious but rather sought to set out clearly the 
actions Barclays would take, in line with the terms and conditions of Cs account.
Mr G also believes his request to be treated as a vulnerable customer was not reflected in 
how Barclays communicated with him. I can see that Barclays continued to chase for the 
information it had requested and at times these requests were received by Mr G when he 
had important caring responsibilities. However, Barclays did ask Mr G to delegate the 
provision of the information to another representative of C, and I dont believe it acted 
unreasonably in continuing to seek the information. I have seen that Barclays recognised 
Mr Gs difficult circumstances, logged the information appropriately on its systems and, on 
occasion, sought to communicate with some sympathy.
I am aware that Mr Gs relationship with Barclays has broken down and Im sure he would 
like me to go further in my criticism of Barclays. However, I believe the information request 
Barclays made to C was legitimate and it communicated with Mr G appropriately. Where 
Barclays could have done better was in providing a reasonable response much earlier to Mr 
Gs concerns about releasing the information requested.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part, and require Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay C £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2022.
 
Andy Wright
Ombudsman