DRN-2577945
The complaint
Miss Y says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. AXA France 
IARD, as the insurer, have taken responsibility for the sale. To keep things simple, Ill only 
refer to AXA in this decision rather than any other business.
What happened
Miss Y bought the policy in 1996 over the phone, around a year after taking out her store 
card. The PPI covered her in case she was off work sick or lost her job.
I sent Miss Y and AXA a provisional decision on 11 January 2021, to explain why I didnt 
think the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
Based on what Ive seen so far, I dont think this PPI policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
This sale was well over two decades ago, and the account involved has long since closed. 
So I think its completely understandable that neither side still have the original records from 
the sale. Indeed, under data protection rules, AXA were required to dispose of Miss Ys data 
rather than hold onto it too long. Meanwhile, Miss Y doesnt remember buying PPI, and 
I also think thats understandable given that buying insurance is not often memorable and 
this sale was particularly long ago. Ive thought carefully about whats most likely to have 
happened based on the limited information I have.
It would have been a very serious failing for AXA to have misled Miss Y into buying PPI. And 
I have no evidence which shows thats what AXA did here. Nor have I seen any wider 
problems with their sales process from the time. And this particular sale was too long ago for 
me to reasonably require AXA to be able to produce evidence from the time to defend 
themselves now. Further, Miss Y had already had her store card for about a year by the time 
she was sold PPI, so she wouldve known she didnt have to buy a policy to get approved for 
her card. Overall, I dont have a fair basis on which to conclude that AXA misled Miss Y 
here. I think its more likely that they followed a relatively normal sales process, gave her a 
choice, and that she chose PPI at the time  though I can understand if she no longer recalls 
doing so after so many years.
AXA didnt give Miss Y tailored advice about buying PPI, so they didnt have to check 
whether it was right for her. They did have to give Miss Y enough information to decide for 
herself whether the PPI was right for her.
Its possible that the information AXA gave Miss Y about PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have changed 
her mind. Based on what Ive seen of Miss Ys circumstances at the time, it looks like she 
was eligible for the policy and wasnt affected by any of the main exclusions or limitations. 
The PPI wouldve paid out on top of Miss Ys work benefits and covered her for much longer. 
And she doesnt seem to have had any other equivalent protection in place. So the policy 
could have been useful for Miss Y in case something went wrong. And the PPI was paid on 
a rolling monthly basis, so Miss Y could cancel it at any time without a penalty. Overall, 
I dont think better information about the PPI was likely to have put her off taking it out.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
8 February 2021. But neither Miss Y nor AXA sent me anything new to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before.
My final decision
I dont uphold Miss Ys complaint in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss Y to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 March 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman