DRN-3694714
The complaint
Mr P complains that BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS), trading as Alphera 
Financial Services, were wrong to record adverse information to his credit file and were 
unresponsive when he was trying to sort things out with them.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr P, but I agree with the investigators opinion. 
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr P acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it. 
BMWFS have an obligation to report accurate information to the credit reference agencies 
about Mr Ps financial performance on his agreement with them. The credit file information 
suggests that the account was being reported as up to date until late 2020, early 2021, when 
arrears began to be reported.
Mr Ps original payment plan ended in June 2020, but he didnt contact BMWFS until 
October 2020 about that. So, by the time he was in contact with the business some arrears 
had built up and the monthly instalments he expected to be paying at the end of the 
arrangement were consequently higher, and unaffordable. 
BMWFSs system notes show that in January 2021 they were in contact with Mr P and 
thereafter Mr P paid what he could. But I cant see a new arrangement was put in place until 
late April 2021 and I dont therefore think it would be fair to suggest BMWFS were 
unreasonable to report the arrears on the account to the credit reference agencies. As 
arrears built up after the payment plan was agreed I also dont think BMWFS were 
unreasonable to report those and I can see from their system notes that Mr P was advised of 
the impact on his credit file.
So, I dont think I have sufficient evidence to suggest BMWFS were wrong to report adverse 
information to Mr Ps credit file.
I can see, however, that Mr P had a tough time getting in touch with BMWFS and they didnt 
respond to him when they should have done. They failed to respond to an online complaint 
he had made to them and they also didnt respond to Mr P when he contacted them in 
December 2020 and in August 2021. Mr P was clearly struggling to get in touch with the 
business and I think BMWFSs lack of responsiveness would have caused him distress and 
inconvenience. In the circumstances I think BMWFS should pay him £100 to compensate 
him for that.
 
Putting things right
Im asking BMWFS to put things right in the way Ive set out above.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint in part and tell BMW Financial 
Services (GB) Limited to pay Mr P £100 compensation in respect of the distress and 
inconvenience their actions have caused him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman