DRN-4206443
The complaint
Mr N complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Bank of Scotland) wont refund 
the money he lost after he fell victim to an authorised push payment (APP) scam.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat it all here. 
But briefly, and based on the submissions of both parties, I understand it to be as follows.
In September 2022, Mr N received messages through an instant messaging service from 
someone claiming to be his daughter. The messages said that Mr Ns daughter had lost her 
phone and was unable to make online banking payments, due to having a temporary 
number. Mr N asked his daughter to call him, but he was told calls couldnt be made or 
received with the replacement phone.
The messages said that she needed help paying a medical bill and that they would pay Mr N 
back when their online banking was working again. Mr N asked what the payment was for, 
as he said in the messages he suspected his bank would ask him, and he was then told 
more detail about what the medical procedure was. Believing the messages were coming 
from his daughter, Mr N went ahead and, on 30 September 2022, made a payment for 
£3,290.15 to the account details provided.
Shortly after making the payment, Mr N received a further message requesting another 
payment along with new account details. Mr N questioned why the payments were going to 
different accounts and told his daughter that this worried him. In response to this Mr N was 
told that his daughter had fallen behind with her payments and that if the payments are 
made there wont be any hassle.
In the messages Mr N then questioned things further, he said he couldnt find any details 
online of who had carried out treatment and that he thought it looked dodgy. But after 
exchanging some further messages, Mr N said he was going to pay the second bill, but that 
he was going to ask his bank to check for fraud. Mr N went ahead and made a second 
payment for £3,579.10, again on 30 September 2022, to the account details provided, but he 
didnt carry out any checks with his bank before doing so. We now know that Mr N was 
dealing with a fraudster and had sent his payments to accounts the fraudsters controlled.
Mr N has said he was convinced it was his daughter who was sending the messages. He 
said this as they referred to themselves as the eldest daughter, which is what he refers to 
her as. He added that his daughter had been going through some personal issues, he knew 
something was wrong but didnt know what it was. And when she didnt want to say much 
about the procedure or that she owed money, it resonated with him as she is a private 
person. He added that messaging is the usual way that he talks to his daughter and that she 
would always come to him if she was in trouble or needed help, so he didnt think it was 
strange.
Mr N realised hed been scammed when he received a similar message around 10 days 
later from somebody claiming to be his youngest daughter. He became suspicious that both 
of his daughters couldnt be in the same position.
Realising hed been scammed, Mr N raised the matter with Bank of Scotland. Bank of 
Scotland is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model 
CRM Code (the CRM Code). The CRM Code requires firms to reimburse customers who 
have been the victims of APP scams in all but a limited number of circumstances. Bank of 
Scotland looked into Mr Ns complaint and issued its final response on 14 February 2023, 
not upholding it. In summary, it said Mr N could have done more to verify it was his daughter, 
when he first received the messages and he should have spoken to her over the phone, 
before sending any money.
It added that it had done everything it could to protect Mr N and had provided relevant 
warnings at the time the payments were made. Bank of Scotland attempted to recall the 
money from the beneficiary banks (the banks to which the payments were made), but was 
only able to recover £0.93, which was returned to Mr N.
Unhappy with Bank of Scotlands response, Mr N brought his complaint to this service. One 
of our Investigators looked into things and thought the complaint should be upheld in part. In 
summary he didnt think Bank of Scotland had provided effective warnings in relation to the 
payments that were made. He added that he didnt think Bank of Scotland had been able to 
establish that Mr N didnt have a reasonable basis for belief when making the first payment. 
But by the time the second payment was made, there were enough red flags that should 
have alerted Mr N to the possibility this was a scam.
Overall, it was our Investigators view that Bank of Scotland should refund Mr N the full 
amount of his loss for the first payment, but that liability for the second payment should be 
shared and Mr N should receive a 50% refund for the second payment. Our Investigator said 
that interest should be added to the amount being refunded.
Mr N accepted our Investigators view as a reasonable compromise, but Bank of Scotland 
disagreed. In summary it said it thought Mr N was fully liable for the first payment. This was 
because it believed it had given a clear and specific warning when this payment was made 
and Mr N could have contacted his daughter on a trusted number to validate the request was 
genuine. But it agreed with our Investigators recommendation in relation to payment two 
and put forward an offer of refunding 50% of payment two, along with interest.
Mr N didnt accept Bank of Scotlands offer. As agreement hasnt been reached the 
complaint has now been passed over to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered Bank of Scotlands representations about the warnings it gave and 
whether Mr N had a reasonable basis for believing the transactions were genuine. But they 
do not persuade me to reach a different view to that reached by our Investigator. Ill explain 
why.
Payment OneBank of Scotland has shared details of the warning it provided with us. Having looked at the 
warning it has submitted, I dont think the warning Bank of Scotland presented would be 
considered as effective under the CRM Code.
While the warning, in part, intends to warn customers about potential scams they may be at 
risk of. The warning doesnt bring to life what the type of scam Mr N was falling victim to 
looked like or highlight the common features of these type of scams (such as specifically 
mentioning contact being made via social media messaging applications, being told by a 
family member that their phone is broken and that an urgent payment is required, with 
excuses being made as to why a verbal conversation would not be possible). The warning  
also doesnt make it clear that any money sent as a result of a scam would be lost and likely 
irrecoverable.
Ive gone on to think about Bank of Scotlands representations about whether Mr N had a 
reasonable basis for believing he was genuinely communicating with his daughter at the time 
this first payment was made. Having done so, Im not persuaded that Bank of Scotland has 
been able to establish that Mr N didnt have a reasonable basis for belief when he made the 
payment. Ill explain why;
- These types of scams are particularly cruel and play on the trust and emotive nature 
of the relationship between a parent and their child. Mr N has said he believed the 
messages were coming from his daughter. Hes said this way of communicating 
wasnt unusual and where the fraudster referred to his eldest daughter this was 
familiar language that he used to refer to her. So I can understand how the familiarity, 
in the style of the messages, reasonably led him to believe they were coming from 
his daughter.
- From what Ive seen, I dont think Mr N has proceeded here with a disregard for risk.   
He did ask to speak with his daughter before going ahead with the first payment and 
in doing so, Mr N has demonstrated that he has taken some steps to protect himself 
from possible risk. I think he was given a plausible reason as to why talking to his 
daughter wasnt possible. Hed also been given a plausible explanation for why his 
daughter wouldnt have been able to make the payment herself and why she needed 
Mr Ns help, in that online banking wasnt available on the temporary phone. I dont 
consider that by not pushing for a verbal conversation further, it would automatically 
follow that he didnt have a reasonable basis for belief. Im persuaded at this point the 
steps he took were proportionate when considering the circumstances.
- With the benefit of hindsight and the removal of the pressured environment, its 
easier to identify elements where Mr N may have thought and acted differently. But 
the convincing nature of these scams can often have a negative effect on a persons 
thought process. Especially in the absence of an effective warning around how these 
scams typically feel and play out. In the individual circumstances of this case, 
because of the situation and in the moment. It is understandable why Mr N was 
worried about his daughter and wanted to help.
Overall and on balance, Im not persuaded that Bank of Scotland has shown that Mr N 
lacked a reasonable basis of belief when he made the first payment for £3,290.15.
Payment Two
Bank of Scotland has agreed with our Investigators recommendation in relation to payment 
two. It agrees that the warning it gave for the second payment was not the most appropriate 
option, but that Mr N should also share some responsibility for this payment.Mr N has already agreed with our Investigators position regarding this payment, so I dont 
see the need to go into any great detail about the second payment. Suffice to say that I 
agree that shared responsibility for the second payment is fair and reasonable and in line 
with what I would expect under the CRM code.
Bank of Scotland hasnt provided an effective warning for this payment when it ought to have 
done. But I also find that there was enough going on that Mr N ought to have proceeded with 
more caution. When looking at the messages I think it is clear that by this point Mr N had his 
own concerns, he says he thinks it sounds dodgy and is questioning why the payments are 
going to different accounts. Mr N also expressed an intent to speak to his bank about the 
second payment to check that it wasnt fraud, something that he didnt go on to do.
In summary, Bank of Scotland didnt present an effective warning. But on the other hand, Im 
persuaded that Bank of Scotland has been able to demonstrate that Mr N didnt have a 
reasonable basis for belief when he made the second payment. With this in mind, I find that 
shared responsibility for the loss of this second payment is a fair and reasonable resolution 
when considering the CRM code.
Finally, Ive considered whether Bank of Scotland acted reasonably in attempting to recover 
Mr Ns funds. It is quite typical with these types of scams for fraudsters to move money away 
from the beneficiary accounts, straight after the payments are made, presumably to frustrate 
the efforts at this type of recovery. Sadly, that was the case here, with evidence Ive seen 
from the beneficiary banks showing that the payments were moved on shortly after the 
payments were made, and before Bank of Scotland were made of the scam by Mr N. It 
follows that I dont think Bank of Scotland has missed an opportunity to recover any more of 
the money that Mr N sadly lost.
 
Putting things right
For the reasons outlined above, Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax, should now;
- Refund Mr N £5,079.70 (being a full refund of the first payment made for £3290.15 
and 50% of the second payment that was made for £3,579.10)
- Pay 8% simple interest per year on that amount calculated from the date Bank of 
Scotland plc trading as Halifax originally declined Mr Ns claim until the date of 
settlement.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Bank of Scotland plc trading as 
Halifax in part. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2023.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman