DRN-3520489
The complaint
Mr M complains that Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc, has rejected the claim he made under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar panel system he 
says was misrepresented to him by the supplier (which Ill call S)
What happened
In June 2015, Mr M purchased a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at his 
home. Mr M financed the purchase through a fixed sum loan agreement with Mitsubishi that 
was repayable over seven years.
In November 2019, Mr M made a claim under section 75 of the Act to Mitsubishi. Mr M said 
that the supplier had made a number of representations about the system that had turned 
out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that had induced him to enter into the 
contract.
Mr M said the following misrepresentations had been made:
His monthly loan instalments would be covered by the electricity generated.
The system would pay for itself in three years, after which he would continue to profit.
He was originally told the system would have 16 panels but only 12 were installed.
His house price would increase as a result of having solar panels.
Mitsubishi issued a final response saying it did not uphold the complaint and told Mr M that 
he should contact the supplier.
Mr M then referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. One of our 
investigators looked into what had happened and initially upheld the complaint.
Mitsubishi disagreed. It said that it shouldve been clear to Mr M that the benefits of the 
system would not cover the monthly loan repayments.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
I issued a provisional decision explaining that I was not planning to uphold this complaint 
and inviting Mitsubishi and Mr M to provide any further evidence, information, or comments 
they wanted me to take account of when making my final decision. Neither party provided 
anything further by the deadline of 31 May 2022. So, this final decision is in line with my 
provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit.
As Mr M paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Mitsubishi agrees that section 
75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr M could claim against Mitsubishi, the 
creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier in the same way he 
could have claimed against S. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding what is 
fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr M and 
the supplier are deemed to have been conducted by S as an agent of Mitsubishi. 
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or their agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by both Mr M and Mitsubishi. These 
include the credit agreement and quote/contract. 
The quote/contract is a two-page document which sets out key information about the 
system, the expected performance, financial benefits, and technical information. Im satisfied 
that it formed a central part of the sales process (as it appears to have been completed at 
Mr Ms home prior to him agreeing to the purchase) and is therefore relevant, 
alongside Mr Ms recollection of the sale, when considering if there have been any untrue 
statements of fact.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, the 
total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments. Quote/contract
The quote/contract set out the cost of the system alongside the expected first-year benefits 
of the system as follows:
I think the sales contract is clear that the system would cost £7,665.00, of which £7,165.00 
was to be funded by a loan. It refers to this as FINANCE. I think Mr M wouldve understood 
this given he agreed at the same meeting to part-fund the purchase using the loan over 
seven years.
I think it is also clear that the first-year benefit of the system was expected to total £683.09, 
based on a self-consumption rate of 50%. This figure includes FIT payments and the value 
of electricity savings.
Self-consumption rate is the proportion of the electricity generated by the system that Mr M 
would use himself. The cost of the system and its first-year benefits are shown close to each 
other on the order form, just above where Mr M signed, so these figures couldve been 
compared easily.
I think it is clear from this that the system would not be self-funding. For monthly repayments 
of £106.32 per month, the repayments would be over £1,000 per year. This is significantly 
more than the estimated first-year benefit quoted of £683.09. I think this one-page document 
was an integral part of the sale and these figures would most likely have been discussed 
with Mr M.
So, I think it is unlikely that the salesperson wouldve misrepresented the solar panel system 
in the way Mr M has alleged.
Self-funding
Mr M may have been told the system would be self-funding over some period of time  such 
as its expected 25-year expected lifespan. A simple calculation would suggest that the 
system may be self-funding over 14 years if the benefit was in line with the estimate and 
remained about the same each year.
However, the FIT payments are linked to inflation, and electricity costs could reasonably be 
assumed to increase over time. So, Mr M couldve been told that the system was self-
funding over its lifetime (or over a shorter time depending what assumptions were made) 
without it being a misrepresentation. But I think it is unlikely that he was told the system 
would be immediately self-funding, or self-funding within three years.
Performance
Ive considered whether the performance of the system is in line with estimate in the order 
form. The order form sets out that the system is expected to produce 2,547 kWh per year. 
The MCS certificate shows it is expected to generate 2,547 kWh per year. I have looked at 
Mr Ms FIT statements and can see that his system is performing better than expected  
generating approximately 2,769 kWh per year in the first four years.
Only 12 panels were installed
Mr M has said that 16 solar panels were meant to be installed but only 12 were. I can see 
the initial quote was for a 16-panel system. But a second quote/contract was signed by Mr M 
which made clear the system would have 12 panels  with the performance and benefit 
estimates adjusted accordingly. I have commented on this quote above, since it is the most 
relevant in terms of the system that was installed and what Mr M ultimately agreed to. So, I 
do not think the change to the system specification, which was agreed to by Mr M at the 
time, provides any reason to uphold this complaint.
House price
I do not think Mr Ms allegation that he was told having solar panels would increase the value 
of his home would amount to a misrepresentation. When selling a home with solar panels 
their presence and value would be taken into account in the price. While a buyer may 
dispute the value added by solar panels, Mr M would be in control of whether or not to sell 
and at what price.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im 
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by the supplier that induced 
Mr M to enter into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold 
this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 5 July 2022.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman