DRN-3833441
The complaint
Mr A says Aviva Insurance Limited gave him misleading advice about uninsured expenses 
after he made a claim on his motor insurance policy.
What happened
After a non-fault accident, Mr As car had to be assessed to determine whether it was a total 
loss. A hire car wasnt available immediately. One of Avivas advisors said if Mr A needed to 
use taxis, he should keep the receipts, as hed be able to recover his expenditure. When he 
sent the receipts (totalling £229) to Aviva, it said he should contact the other insurer directly. 
But that insurer said Aviva would have to put the claim to it. Aviva then said as Mr As policy 
didnt have legal cover, hed need to appoint a solicitor to pursue the matter. Mr A said he 
wouldnt have used taxis had he thought thered be a problem recovering the cost. 
One of our investigators reviewed Mr As complaint. He said as Mr As policy didnt include 
hire, Aviva didnt have to cover transport costs arising before Mr A got hire from the other 
insurer. He also said that as Mr As policy didnt include legal cover, Aviva was right to say 
hed have to pay a solicitor to pursue the cost of the taxis. The investigator said there was no 
evidence that Aviva had said it would reimburse Mr A or pursue the other insurer for him. He 
thought it was reasonable that Aviva had told Mr A how to pursue the matter himself.
Following Mr As objections, the investigator asked Aviva to provide call recordings. Aviva 
said there was only one call - and after hearing the recording, the investigator didnt change 
his view. He still thought there was no evidence that Aviva told Mr A it would reimburse taxi 
fares. He said he assumed what the advisor had meant to get across in the call was that 
he'd be able to recover the cost of taxis from the other insurer, through his own solicitor. The 
investigator thought Mr A may have misunderstood what was said, but in his opinion, there 
was nothing to show that Aviva had given him inaccurate information. 
Mr A asked why the onus was on him to interpret what the advisor meant. He said she 
should have made the situation clear. As there was no agreement, the complaint was 
passed to me for review. I issued a provisional opinion - upholding Mr As complaint - along 
the following lines.
I said the suggestion about using taxis came from Aviva and Mr As first receipt for a taxi 
was dated the day after the conversation in which it arose. So I thought he was influenced by 
Aviva in that respect. I noted that Mr A had told us he only needed transport for the school-
run, that initially hed relied on other parents to assist him and that had he known hed have 
trouble recovering the cost of taxis, hed never have used them. Instead hed have continued 
to rely on other parents for the short time he was without a hire car. I thought that sounded  
plausible and that there was no reason to doubt what Mr A had said.
I thought it was relevant to consider the whole of the conversation Mr A had with the advisor. 
Initially, he asked about whether the policy excess (an uninsured loss) was still payable by 
him if the other insurer accepted liability for the accident. The advisor said it was payable 
and asked Mr A whether he had legal cover. As he said he didnt, she said hed have to 
pursue the other insurer directly for a refund. Mr A asked how to do that. The advisor then 
said as Aviva would be in contact with the other insurer, it would ask that insurer to issue the 
refund to Aviva  - and it would then be passed on to Mr A. She said it would be easier if 
Aviva did it, as Mr A would save on solicitors costs.
I noted that Mr A had never made a claim before and wasnt aware of the usual process. He 
didnt realise that the excess was an uninsured loss, as the advisor didnt use those words. 
As far as Mr A was concerned, the excess was going to be refunded by the other insurer, not 
by Aviva, but Aviva was happy to assist him in getting the refund. In these circumstances, I 
thought it was reasonable for Mr A to assume that what the advisor had said reflected how 
the system usually works in cases like his. 
I said the advisor should have made it clear later in the conversation, when the cost of taxis 
(another uninsured loss) was discussed, that Aviva wouldnt be covering that expense - nor 
would it be helping him to recover it from the other insurer. But all she said about the issue 
was that he should keep the receipts, as he could recover the cost of transport. As the 
advisor didnt say that Mr A would have to contact the other insurer directly, I thought it was 
reasonable for him to assume he wouldnt have to do that, especially given what shed said 
only a few minutes earlier about the recovery of the policy excess. 
I thought it was more likely than not that had the advisor told Mr A hed have to contact the 
other insurer directly, he would have asked her how  just as he did when he was told 
initially that hed have to do that to get a refund of the excess. Presumably, the advisor 
would then have said that as he didnt have legal cover with the policy, hed have to pay a 
solicitor. I didnt think Mr A would have run up taxi expenses had he known that hed have to 
pay to recover them, as the cost of that might well have exceeded the cost of the taxis. 
I accepted that as the cost of taxis is an uninsured loss, Aviva wouldnt normally be involved 
with it - and that it had no obligation to liaise with the other insurer about uninsured losses. 
But I said I had to consider what was fair and reasonable in this particular case. I didnt think 
it was for Mr A to try to interpret the unclear advice given to him by the advisor. As she told 
him that if he used taxis, the cost would be refunded (and didnt explain what hed have to do 
to get the refund) I said I thought Aviva should have assisted him when he did that, and the 
other insurer wouldnt deal with him directly. 
I concluded that - based on what Id seen so far - it would be fair and reasonable for Aviva to 
refund the cost of Mr As taxis, based on the receipts hed provided. I also thought it should 
pay him £100 compensation for distress and inconvenience, as hed been worried about not 
recovering the taxi fares and inconvenienced by having to go back and forth between Aviva 
and the other insurer. 
I asked the parties to comment on my provisional findings. Both Mr A and Aviva accepted 
them without further comment. 
    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party made any comment on my provisional findings, theres no reason to depart 
from them. So, for the reasons set out above, Im upholding Mr As complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Aviva Insurance Limited to do the following:
refund the money Mr A spent on taxis to him
pay Mr A £100 compensation for distress and inconvenience
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2022. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman