DRN-2571055
The complaint
Mr A complains about several issues with Clydesdale Bank Plcs handling of his credit card 
account. Hes also unhappy with the service hes received.
What happened
In March 2020 Mr A exceeded the agreed credit limit on his credit card account.
Mr As main complaint points are:
- he shouldntve have been allowed to spend more than he had available
- he shouldve received a text alert notifying him hed reached his limit
- the mobile banking application is mis-leading and doesnt update correctly
- his direct debit was more than he was expecting which he wasnt told about
- the interest applied to his account is being calculated incorrectly
- hes unhappy with the customer service hes received
Clydesdale investigated Mr As concerns. It acknowledged that on occasions it couldve 
provided better customer service to Mr A and that hed received differing information when 
hed applied for a payment holiday. It also acknowledged Mr A had been told his complaint 
should be looked into quicker than it was. By way of an apology Clydesdale paid Mr A £50.
But, Clydesdale said Mr As credit card account was self-managed so didnt accept it was at 
fault for exceeding his agreed limit. It said Mr A had received a near-limit alert, but no further 
alerts are sent. Clydesdale also said there were multiple factors why a transaction may not 
appear on its mobile application straightaway and that it was important for customers to keep 
track of transactions they make.
Clydesdale also found both the minimum payment itd claimed from Mr A, and the interest 
being applied to his account had both been calculated correctly. It also disagreed it hadnt let 
Mr A of the amount due to be taken as this was shown on the previous statement itd sent 
him. 
Mr A remained unhappy, so he referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator looked 
into Mr As concerns but didnt think Clydesdale needed to do anything more. In summary, 
he felt £50 compensated Mr A fairly for the shortcomings in Clydesdales customer service 
but found no evidence to suggest Clydesdale had done anything further wrong. 
Mr A asked for an ombudsmans decision. He said the mobile application he uses with 
another bank shows transactions differently and more clearly, and because Clydesdale dont 
do the same its application is mis-leading. Mr A also maintains the interest being applied to 
his account is wrong. So this complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the opinion of our investigator about Mr As complaint. Ill 
explain why. But first, Im aware Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than has 
been provided, and Ive done so using my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. 
Instead, Ive concentrated on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do 
this.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every detail to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Clydesdale has in place a system to notify its customer by text alert or email when their 
spending has reached 90% of the agreed limit. I can see Mr A was sent a text alert at this 
point. I understand Mr A thinks he should have received a further alert once his limit was 
reached  however this isnt a service Clydesdale offer.
Ultimately, its the responsibility of the cardholder to manage their spending on a credit card. 
And by alerting Mr A that hed used 90% of his available credit, Clydesdale made him aware 
he needed to be cautious with regards to further spending.
I understand Mr A thinks Clydesdales mobile banking application doesnt work. And by it not 
listing every transaction hed made straightaway, he was mis-led into thinking hed spent 
less than he had. Mr A says he uses another banks application which does show 
transactions straightaway  so Clydesdales should to. But it doesnt. And its not for me to 
tell Clydesdale how it should run its application.
There are various factors which may cause a delay between a customer using their credit 
card, the merchant obtaining authorisation from the bank and then that merchant claiming for 
the funds. Clydesdale say it can be a few days before a transaction will reflect on its mobile 
banking application however, the balance will update as soon as it authorises it. Im satisfied 
the application is not mis-leading and that its reasonable to expect a customer to be aware 
of the most recent transactions theyve made. So, I cant say Clydesdale have made any 
errors here.
Due to having exceeded his credit limit, Mr As minimum payment due in May was larger in 
order to bring his account back in order. Mr A says Clydesdale didnt tell him it would be 
claiming a larger amount. But I can see that it did. I can see on Mr As April credit card 
statement Clydesdale advised him of the exact amount it would be claiming for the following 
month and the date on which it would be claimed. Clydesdale also provided an explanation 
as to why the payment was higher saying  
Your account balance currently exceeds your agreed credit limit. This amount will be 
claimed on (due date) with your next direct debit payment. To avoid any embarrassment in 
the meantime please refrain from using your card.
I note Mr A says his statement was late that month. But I can see Clydesdale sent it when 
they should have. So I cant say they were at fault here either.
Ive next investigated the interest being applied to Mr As card. I understand Mr A believes 
hes being charged too much  and hes specifically referred to the amount of interest 
applied to his account almost doubling between his April and May statements. But Ive seen nothing to suggest Clydesdale arent calculating interest fairly and in line with 
the terms and conditions of Mr As account. The terms and conditions of his account say we 
add interest to your account on the date of your statement each month, they go on to say 
we calculate interest on your daily account balance for each day.
Clydesdale also say we won't charge interest on purchases added to your General Balance 
since your last statement if you pay us in full by the payment date. Otherwise, we'll charge 
you interest from the date a purchase was added to your account. I can see Mr A cleared 
his balance in full in February. So its understandable that as Mr As balance grew in the 
following months and only the minimum payment was made, so greater amounts of interest 
accrued and was carried throughout the whole month.    
Finally, Clydesdale have acknowledged the service it provided to Mr A couldve been better 
on occasions. What I need to decide is whether Clydesdale acted fairly and reasonably in 
how it dealt with it. Clydesdale have acknowledged its errors and apologised for them, 
paying £50 in compensation. Ive given thought to that level of compensation and I do think 
that it is reasonable. Taking into consideration the circumstances of this case, I think it is fair.
I know Mr A will be disappointed with my decision, but Im satisfied Clydesdale have treated 
him fairly, so Im not going to ask it to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Clydesdale Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2021.
 
Sean Pyke-Milne
Ombudsman