DRN-2447550
The complaint
 Miss U complained about the amount of compensation Canada Square Operations Limited 
(Canada Square) offered to settle her complaint about the mis-sale of a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy taken out alongside a loan. 
What happened
  Miss U took out a loan of £5,000 for her own use in December 2005 and at the same time 
agreed to take out a PPI policy to cover the repayments. The PPI premium was £727.65, 
and this amount was added to the amount Miss U borrowed. In January 2006 Miss U 
cancelled the PPI policy, which was within 30 days of taking it out. 
In 2019 Miss U complained to Canada Square that the PPI had been mis-sold. Canada 
Square agreed to uphold the complaint and offered to pay Miss U £135.17 in compensation. 
The offer letter indicated this was the amount of interest Miss U had paid as a result of the 
PPI being added to her account. It said the PPI premium had been refunded in full when the 
PPI was cancelled, and no compensatory interest was due to be paid. 
Miss U wasnt happy as she said she had never received a refund of the PPI premium and 
she should get compensatory interest on amounts she had been out of pocket. So she 
brought her complaint to this service.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in November 2020 explaining why I thought 
the offer made by Canada Square was fair compensation, but also indicating I was intending 
to direct Canada Square to pay an additional £50.00 due to the unclear and poor information 
it had provided when dealing with this complaint.
Both parties have responded indicating they agreed with my provisional decision and raising 
no further issues.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
  In my provisional decision I set out in some detail why I thought what Canada Square had 
offered as compensation should be considered fair. In summary I explained that: -
The cost of the PPI premium of £727.65 was added to the loan amount Miss U 
borrowed. In January 2006 Miss U cancelled the PPI policy, within 30 days of taking 
out the loan and the start of the PPI. The terms and conditions of the policy were that 
if the PPI was cancelled within 30 days the premium would be refunded in full.
The premium refund was not paid to Miss U, but was taken off the balance 
outstanding on the loan in January 2006, reducing what Miss U had to repay for her 
loan by £727.65 over the loan term which was 60 months
When Canada Square removed the premium from the loan it didnt adjust the 
account to remove any interest caused by the premium, from the date it was added 
to the loan in December 2005 to the removal in January 2006. So it had to pay to 
Miss U this interest caused by the PPI.  
Canada Squares explanations of why the compensation should be £135.17 indicated 
this amount was interest paid caused by the PPI and the amount she had paid in 
interest because of the PPI. 
However, the £135.17 was the total amount of interest Miss U would have paid on 
the PPI premium if it had remined part of her loan for the full term, but it didnt. 
The actual interest caused by the PPI being in the loan from 29 December 2005 to 
26 January 2006 was only £4.32. This is what Canada Square should have said was 
the interest caused by the PPI that Miss U paid. Compensatory interest on this 
amount would be just under £5.00 to the date Canada Square made its offer of 
compensation.
Canada Square eventually explained that to ensure customers were not 
disadvantaged when PPI is cancelled within 30 days, it awards as compensation, the 
full amount of interest that would have been caused by the PPI, as if the PPI was 
never cancelled. So here that is £135.17.
I thought, looking at the total amount of interest paid on the loan over the full term, 
and what would have been paid on the amount of the PPI premium, had it stayed 
part of the loan, that £135.17 was in line with the amount of interest that would have 
been caused by the PPI over the loan term. 
I explained if Canada Square paid Miss U the £135.17 then she would get far more 
than she ever paid for the PPI interest costs she actually did pay, which would have 
been less than £10.00.  
But Canada Square had stated that it takes the approach to pay as compensation the 
full amount of interest that would have been caused over the whole period of the 
loan, to ensure a consumer is not out of pocket, when a policy is cancelled within 30 
days. As Canada Square said this was its standard approach, I said I thought it was 
fair for Canada Square to still pay that amount to Miss U. 
However, I didnt think Canada Square had dealt with this complaint well. The 
information it had provided about the compensation was unclear and very 
misleading. This had led to upset and confusion for Miss U whilst this complaint was 
dealt with.
So, I said Canada Square should pay an additional £50 in compensation for the 
trouble and upset caused to Miss U for the way it had poorly informed her and dealt 
with this complaint. 
Both parties responded to my provisional decision indicating they agreed with my findings 
and raised no further issues or comment.
Putting things right  As both parties have agreed with what I said in my provisional decision, I have no reason to 
change my provisional findings.
I am directing that, as set out in my provisional decision and outlined above, Canada Square 
should pay the £135.17 it offered to Miss U as total compensation for the interest caused by 
the PPI being added to the loan before cancellation of the policy. This if fair compensation 
for the costs Miss U paid for the PPI, including compensating her for being out of pocket.
Also, Canada Square should pay an additional £50.00 for the trouble and upset caused to 
Miss U by its poor information and handling of this complaint. 
Therefore, in total Canada Square should pay Miss U £185.17.
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive set out above, and as explained in detail in my provisional decision, 
Canada Square Operations Limited should pay to Miss U £135.17 in compensation for the 
mis-sold PPI on her personal loan and a further £50.00 for the trouble and upset she had 
been put to, making a total payment of £185.17. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss U to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 January 2021.
 
Chris Fraser
Ombudsman