DRN-4285601
The complaint
A company which I will refer to as F, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont reimburse 
the money they lost following an Authorised Push Payment (APP) scam.
What happened
The background to the complaint is known to both parties and so I wont repeat it at length 
here. 
Briefly, in July 2019, F was in correspondence with one of their suppliers about some 
pending payments to them. As part of that, the supplier emailed F stating that they made an 
error in the final account invoice. They enclosed a revised one with the details of their bank 
account with HSBC to which the payment was required to be made.
The following day, F received another email purportedly from the supplier stating that they 
made another error in the invoice which they sent the previous day. The email said that the 
suppler had updated their bank account details, which they failed to amend in the invoice 
sent the previous day. The email provided details of a new bank account, which was also 
with HSBC. Unfortunately, unknown to F, this email was from a scammer who had 
intercepted the previous email exchanges between F and the supplier. 
One of Fs staff attempted to make the payment to this account, but it appears that they 
encountered some difficulties in relation to the sort code. So, they emailed back asking for 
confirmation of the account details. The scammer reconfirmed the details but also said that if 
F had any issues, they could provide yet another account details with another bank to send 
the money to. It appears that meanwhile the staff managed to resolve the issue and 
proceeded to make the payment.
The scam came to light few weeks later when the genuine supplier pursued F for the 
payment. F contacted their bank, who in turn contacted HSBC. Unfortunately, by that time, 
the funds had been removed from the recipients account. 
In early 2022, F complained to HSBC through their representative. The representative said 
that HSBC failed to properly verify its customer and allowed them to open a bank account in 
the name of the genuine supplier. Further, the bank subsequently failed to monitor its 
customers account when Fs payment arrived. It was a large sum of money and was out of 
character to the recipients account and therefore required the bank question its customer 
about this. The bank should also have stopped and questioned large payments being sent 
out of the account. Had it done so, the fraud would have been prevented. 
HSBC did not accept it made any error.
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint. They didnt think that Fs loss was caused 
by any act or omission by HSBC  either when the recipients account was opened or 
subsequently when the funds were received or when responding to notification of fraud. So, 
they didnt think HSBC had to compensate F for the loss. F did not agree.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The bank has provided relevant information to our service to allow us to investigate the 
complaint. I am limited as to how much information I can share because it relates to a third-
party account.  But Id like to assure F that Ive carefully reviewed everything before reaching 
my decision. 
The recipients account was opened a couple of years prior to the date of the relevant 
transaction. And from what I could see, there wasnt anything particularly suspicious about 
the customers identity when the account was opened. It later turned out that the account 
was involved in a scam, but there isnt anything to suggest that HSBC could reasonably 
have foreseen - when the account was opened - that it would later be used to receive 
fraudulent credit.  
Fs representative has said that the bank allowed a scammer to open a bank account in the 
name of the genuine supplier. But that wasnt the case. The name on the account is different 
to that of the genuine suppliers name.  However, the bank wasnt obliged to automatically 
check the name on the account with the name of the intended payee when the money was 
received. So long as the key identifiers were correct  which usually are the sort code and 
the account number  the bank would allow a payment through to the account. This is unless 
the transaction was unusual or there were other signs that might indicate risk of fraud.
I have reviewed the account activity since it was opened. It was an active account with large 
amounts coming in and going out of the account regularly. Some of them much higher in 
value than Fs payment. So, I cant say that Fs payment ought to have stood out as unusual.  
Fs representative has suggested that the other incoming payments too may be from victims 
of fraud. However, the account had been operating for over two years and there is no 
evidence of any prior claims of fraud. 
Overall, having looked through the account activity since the account was opened, I cant 
say that Fs payment or the transactions following it stood out as unusual or suspicious for 
the bank to have intervened. So, I cant fairly conclude that HSBC missed an opportunity 
here to prevent Fs loss.
Finally, upon notification of the scam, the bank is expected to take action immediately to 
prevent any further loss of funds. In this instance, by the time HSBC was notified of the 
scam, its customer had already removed the funds from the account. So, there wasnt much 
the bank could do to prevent Fs loss. Nevertheless, I can see that the bank placed an inhibit 
on the account after it was advised of the scam and following its investigation, it went on to 
close the account.
I am sorry to have to disappoint F. But I can only make an award against a bank if that bank 
has done something wrong, which has led to a loss. In this case, from what Ive seen there 
hasnt been a failing by HSBC which has resulted in Fs loss. As such I cant fairly or 
reasonably ask it to refund their loss.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2024.
 
Raj Varadarajan
Ombudsman