DRN-3547867
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy with the service they received from U K Insurance Limited (UKI). 
What happened
Mr and Mrs M were on holiday in January 2020 when Mr M was involved in an accident. He 
fractured his humerus and was admitted to hospital for treatment. Mr M is unhappy that UKI 
didnt repatriate him to the UK for treatment on the NHS. Instead, he had surgery in France. 
He says that the surgery has caused long term health problems and left him disabled. Mr M 
is also unhappy with how UKI handled the claim. He says that medical bills werent paid and 
that they had to contact UKI a lot in order to resolve the claim. 
Mr and Mrs M made a complaint to UKI. In their final response letter UKI said that theyd not 
refused to bring Mr M home. But they acknowledged that Mr and Mrs M had been given 
some incorrect information and that there were delays in claims handling. So, they offered 
£350 for the poor service theyd received. Unhappy, Mr and Mrs M complained to our 
service. 
Our investigator looked into what happened and didnt uphold the complaint. He didnt think 
UKI had acted unreasonably by not bringing Mr M back to the UK for treatment. And, whilst 
he acknowledged that there were delays in handling the claim and settling the medical bills, 
he thought that the compensation UKI had offered was fair. 
Mr M didnt agree and provided information from a third-party business who provide 
assistance to UKI customers (H) which confirmed that theyd never been involved in his 
case. The investigator asked UKI to comment on this information. UKI confirmed that the 
case had not been referred to H. However, they said that theyd have needed more medical 
information and there were no concerns that Mr M wasnt receiving the right level of care. 
They also said that, even if theyd been able to get more information from the treating 
hospital at the relevant time, it was for the hospital to decide what treatment Mr M needed. 
The investigator reviewed the complaint again, as more evidence had been provided. He 
noted that it was disappointing that UKI hadnt provided the right information about Mr Ms 
case being referred to H. But, he thought UKI had acted appropriately as they were guided 
by the information provided by the treating consultants. And, he still thought that the 
compensation offered was fair. 
Mr M said that the further information showed there were more failures in how UKI had 
handled the case. In summary, he said H should have been involved in his case and hadnt 
been. And he questioned who Mrs M had been speaking to when she contacted the 
insurance company for help. He thought it was clear they had no medical training and that 
Mrs M was never told that they werent medical or that medical people werent involved. So, I 
need to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that UKI has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. 
Its not disputed that UKI didnt pay the medical bills as quickly as they should have done or 
that there was a delay in settling the claim. However, the central issue is about the service 
Mr and Mrs M received during the time they were abroad. Mr M says that he should have 
been given the option to come back to the UK to be treated by the NHS. And, hes also 
unhappy that his case wasnt referred to H as it should have been. 
Mr M has made a number of detailed points which Ive considered carefully. Our service is 
an informal alternative to the courts. And so, Ill focus on the points which I think are most 
relevant to the outcome of this complaint. 
Im not directing UKI to do anything further to put things right. I think the compensation 
theyve offered is fair. I say that because: 
UKI isnt responsible for the treatment provided by a hospital abroad. Mr M considers 
he wasnt treated appropriately, although Ive seen no medical evidence to confirm 
that this was the case. Nor have I seen medical evidence that Mr M has ongoing 
health issues which are linked to the operation he had abroad. But, even if I had 
been provided with that evidence, I dont think it is something UKI are responsible for. 
Mr M can refer his concerns about the surgery to the hospital concerned. 
It was unfortunate H werent directly involved in Mr Ms case. But, ultimately, it is for 
the treating doctor to recommend the most appropriate treatment and UKI would not 
be in a position to dictate what treatment Mr M should receive. Had there been 
concerns about the care Mr M was receiving then Id have expected UKI to respond 
appropriately. But there wasnt Mr M was being treated in the EU in a public hospital 
under the reciprocal health agreement. 
I dont think UKI should have automatically offered Mr M the option to return to the 
UK for treatment. There were no specific concerns raised about the conditions that 
he was being treated in or the proposed surgery. He was stable and receiving 
appropriate treatment. Ive taken into account what Mr and Mrs M have said about 
being interrupted during a phone call where Mrs M attempted to raise the issue of 
returning to the UK. But I think that, if this was something that was particularly 
important to Mr and Mrs M, they could have raised it again. I appreciate that Mrs M 
was influenced by stress and emotion, but I still think she could have spoken to UKI 
about this further if shed wanted to.The type of fracture Mr M had can be treated with surgery and so, even if H had been 
involved in the case, Im not persuaded it would have led to Mr M being returned to 
the UK for treatment in the circumstances of this case. There was no obvious reason 
or benefit to Mr M returning to the UK for treatment. And, if the consultant had 
recommended surgery, UKI would have had to have compelling reasons to act 
against that recommendation. So, based on the evidence available to me, Im not 
persuaded that UKI should have advised Mr M against the surgery. 
Mr M considers that UKI didnt have his consent for treatment. But it was the hospital 
that was providing treatment, not UKI. And, in any event, its common for joint 
policyholders to deal with an insurer where one of the party is injured or unwell. So, I 
think it was reasonable for UKI to speak to Mrs M in the circumstances. 
Its unfortunate that Mr M contracted an infection whilst abroad. I understand that this 
meant hes had to have some further invasive and uncomfortable procedures as a 
result. However, I dont think I can fairly hold UKI responsible for this. Mr M was 
admitted to hospital as an emergency patient as he needed treatment. So, he had to 
use the hospital facilities abroad and inevitably there is always some risk that a 
patient may contract an infection which they might not be exposed to in their usual 
healthcare system in the UK.   
Mr M says that he is familiar with the regulations relating to the provision of care. 
Hes particularly concerned that Mrs M was speaking to someone with no medical 
expertise when she got in touch with the frontline assistance team, which Ill refer to 
as T. He questions the purpose of T. I appreciate Mr M feels strongly about this but I 
dont think its central to the outcome of this complaint. Under the insurance 
regulatory framework there is no specific requirement for UKI to have medical staff 
answering frontline calls. And, in any event, I consider that the guidance UKI gave in 
relation to the hospital was reasonable for the reasons Ive explained above. If Mr M 
considers that T or H has breached the regulations relating to the provision of care 
then hell need to refer those concerns to the appropriate organisation. I dont 
consider it necessary to know the name and qualifications of whom Mrs M was 
speaking to. 
Ive considered that during the investigation into this complaint it has become 
apparent that Mr Ms case was not referred to H as it should have been. Mr M says 
that for these additional failures he should receive increased compensation. But, Im 
not persuaded that the failure to refer the case to H has caused Mr M to lose out. As 
Ive outlined above it seems most likely hed have stayed abroad for treatment given 
the recommendation of the treating doctor. I appreciate that Mr M feels that the 
surgery abroad has led to him needing corrective treatment and longer-term health 
issues. Im sorry to hear this but Ive not seen enough evidence to persuade me that 
this stems from anything UKI did wrong when handling his case. And I think the 
compensation offered fairly reflects the distress and inconvenience caused to 
Mr and Mrs M during the claim. 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 21 July 2022.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman