DRN-3307846
The complaint
Mr S complains that BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS) wrongly registered 
adverse credit information against his name in relation to a debt that was in dispute. 
What happened
In December 2015 Mr S entered into a four year hire purchase agreement for a new car. 
Under the agreement, he had an annual allowance of 8,000 miles, or 32,000 miles in total. If 
the agreement ended early, that allowance would be apportioned according to the number of 
months he had had the car. Excess miles would be charged at 6.43p a mile. 
Mr S ended the agreement in April 2019  that is, around eight months early. That meant his 
mileage allowance was 26,667 miles, but he had covered 30,885 miles. BMWFS invoiced Mr 
S for an additional 4,218 miles, totalling £271.22. Mr S did not pay, but instead complained 
about the charge. 
BMWFS said that it was entitled to make the charge and, on 26 June 2019, wrote to Mr S to 
say that he could refer the matter to this service. If he wanted to do that, he should do so 
within six months. 
BMWFSs internal notes indicate that it decided in about August 2019 not to pursue the sum 
it said was due and that in December 2019 the debt was written off. It continued to send Mr 
S annual statements but took no further action to recover the £271.22.
In or around July 2021 Mr S noticed that his credit file reflected a debt due to BMWFS. He 
complained about it, saying that the debt was in dispute and that he had been told that no 
action was needed on his part. He said too that BMWFS had not dealt with the matter 
properly in 2019 and that, had it done so, it would have been resolved. 
Unhappy with the response from BMWFS, Mr S referred the matter to this service and one of 
our investigators considered it. The investigator said that he could not look at what 
happened in 2019, but that he thought BMWFSs response from July 2021 had been slow 
and that it should therefore pay Mr S £50 in recognition of that. He did not recommend that 
BMWFS amend any information it had provided to credit reference agencies. BMWFS 
accepted the investigators findings but Mr S did not and asked that an ombudsman review 
the case.      
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the investigator noted, Mr S had six months from the letter of 26 June 2019 to refer his 
complaint about the excess mileage charge to this service. He did not do so, and so we have 
no power to consider that complaint. I can however Mr Ss complaint about his credit file and 
BMWFSs subsequent handling of the matter. 
Mr S says that he believed the matter had been resolved. I take that to mean that he thought 
there was an agreement that he did not in fact owe the money to BMWFS. I do not think 
however that he can reasonably have held that belief. The letter of 26 June 2019 said that 
the balance on the agreement was £271.22, for which he was liable. He had received an 
invoice and annual statements showing it due, but nothing to suggest that BMWFS had 
accepted, as he had argued in 2019, that it was not. 
I accept that BMWFS had not actively pursued the debt. That is consistent with its own notes 
saying it had been written off. But writing off a debt internally does not mean that it is not 
owed. I note in any event that Mr S said in response to the investigators view that the debt 
had not been written off. Nor was BMWFS under a duty to pursue the debt; the usual 
principle is that it is for someone who owes money to find and pay the creditor, not for the 
creditor to pursue the debtor.
In the circumstances, I do not believe that BMWFS acted unfairly in notifying credit reference 
agencies of the debt. It is likely that it is required to do so by agencies to which is a 
subscriber.   
Putting things right
I note that BMWFS accepted the investigators recommendation  
My final decision
Your text here
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2022.
 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman