DRN-2669555
The complaint
Mrs S has complained about CarCashPoint Limited (CCP). She says she was lent loans 
she couldnt afford. 
What happened
CCP lent Mrs S five loans secured on her car. From the information provided, the loans are 
as follows:
Loan 
numberStart date Amount 
(£)Repayment* 
(£)End date
1 2 July 2014 3,260 328.73 15 June 2015
2 13 November 2014 560 60.92 15 June 2015
3 4 August 2015 2,560 209.56 10 April 2017
4 24 May 2017 1,560 144.74 Outstanding
5 8 January 2018          560 87.12 Outstanding
 *monthly loan repayment amounts.
Mrs S complained to CCP about its lending, but it didnt uphold her complaint it said it carried 
out checks before lending and the results of the checks suggest that Mrs S could afford the 
loans. Unhappy with CCPs response, Mrs S referred her complaint to this service where it 
was looked at by one of our adjudicators.
Our adjudicator thought that CCP shouldnt have lent Mrs S any of the loans and 
recommended that her complaint be upheld in full. CCP didnt respond to the adjudicators 
opinion and as the complaint remains unresolved, it has been passed to me an ombudsman 
for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice 
at the time the loans were offered.
Before lending money to a consumer, a lender should take proportionate steps to 
understand whether the consumer will be able to repay what theyre borrowing in a 
sustainable manner without it adversely impacting on their financial situation. 
A lender should gather enough information for it to be able to make an informed decision on 
the lending. Although the guidance and rules themselves didnt set out compulsory checks, 
they did list a number of things a lender could take into account before agreeing to lend. The 
key thing was that any checks needed to be proportionate and had to take into account a 
number of different things, including things such as how much was being lent and when what 
was being borrowed was due to be repaid. 
CCP has said it didnt carry out any formal credit checks, so it didnt search Mrs S credit file 
but it wasnt required to carry out a formal credit search on Mrs S. But it has provided 
evidence to show that before lending most of the loans, it asked Mrs S about her income and 
expenses and requested bank statements and payslips for some of the loan applications.
CCP has said when it considers Mrs S ability to repay the loans, it took into account the joint 
household income. However, the evidence provided shows that none of the loans were joint 
loans and were solely in Mrs S name and so I dont think it was reasonable for CCP to base 
Mrs S affordability on the joint household income.
From the information CCP obtained, I think it saw enough to realise that Mrs S couldnt 
afford the loan repayment for loan 1. At the time Mrs S was unemployed and was receiving 
benefits. Her total benefits were around £514, this is shown on the bank statements CCP 
obtained and is made up employee and support allowance and child benefit. CCP knew 
Mrs S had a dependent child and the repayment on loan 1 was around £328 per month. This 
repayment amount made up a significant portion of Mrs S income and as she was 
committing to repay the loan over the next four years, CCP should have been aware that it 
was likely Mrs S would struggle to repay the loan over the term.
About four months into loan 1, CCP granted Mrs S loan 2. This meant she had to repay 
loans 1 and 2 and the same time and she had a monthly commitment of around £389 
towards these loan repayments. Mrs S told CCP that she was now self-employed and 
earning £500 per month on a business she only recently started. Given the debt burden and 
length of time Mrs S would be repaying these loans, I think CCP should have wanted to 
understand more about Mrs Ss circumstances and this new income she declared. I dont 
think the information it had showed that Mrs S could sustainably repay both loans over their 
terms. Also, I can see that Mrs S was showing signs she was struggling to repay loan 1 and 
she had at least two late payment fees added to her account at the time of loan 2 and I 
question why CCP knowing her repayment history thought it would be reasonable to lend 
further to her in those circumstances.
The evidence suggests that Mrs S was already struggling to repay loan 1 and I dont think it 
was reasonable for CCP to increase her debt burden and so I dont think it should have lent 
her loan 2.
Turning to loan 3, loan 3 had a term of five years and the monthly repayment was nearly 
£210. From what I can see, Mrs S circumstances at the time of this loan were similar to loan 
2. Mrs S declared self-employment income of around £600 and she was still in receipt of her 
benefits.
Im concerned that Mrs S repayment history showed that she had problems keeping up with 
the repayments of loans 1 and 2. Im not satisfied that because Mrs S managed to repay 
both loans 1 and 2 early meant that her circumstances had improved, and she was now able 
to afford this loan. Also, the fact that she needed to borrow so soon after repaying her 
previous loans should have also concerned CCP. Overall, I think there was sufficient 
concerns about Mrs S finances and CCP shouldnt have lent this loan to her.
During the term of loan 3, I can see that Mrs S provided evidence from the NHS to show that 
she was struggling mentally and that this was impacting her ability to repay the loan. I can also see that in July 2016, Mrs S wrote to CCP explaining that due to her health, she 
couldnt carry on with her self-employment which meant that she had less income and had 
also gone into a payment plan. Given all this information CCP had about Mrs S, it shouldnt 
have been lending her further loans. But it lent her loan 4 less than two months after she 
repaid loan 3 and while she was still repaying loan 4, it agreed to lend her loan 5 as well. I 
think by this stage of the lending relationship, CCP knew enough about Mrs S that showed it 
she couldnt afford these loan repayments and that she was struggling and so it wasnt 
reasonable for it to lend to her. Also, I can see that Mrs S complained to CCP about the 
affordability of her loans around January 2017 and even after this complaint CCP issued two 
further loans.
CCP obtained enough information from Mrs S to make an informed decision but overall, I 
think it failed to respond to the information it saw. I think that was borne out in the number of 
late payments Mrs S incurred as a result of those loans, CCP also sent Mrs S a number of 
default notices as she showed her inability to fully repay loans 4 and 5. 
So, I dont think CCP should have lent Mrs S any of the loans and it needs to put things right 
for Mrs S. 
Putting things right  what CCP needs to do
refund all the interest and charges applied as a result of loans1 - 3; and
remove all interest and charges applied to loans 4 and 5 and treat all payments Mrs S 
has made as payments towards the capital amounts;
CCP may apply the redress above to any outstanding balances on loans 4 and 5 (this 
should be outstanding balance after reworking the accounts as stated above);
after doing the above, if there are overpayments, CCP should add interest at 8% per 
year on the overpayments from the date they were paid, if they were, to the date of 
settlement;
if theres still an outstanding balance, CCP should agree a suitable repayment plan with 
Mrs S;
remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs S credit file as a result of the interest 
and charges on these loans.
HM Revenue & Customs requires CCP to take off tax from this interest. CCP must give 
Mrs S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.  
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should be upheld. CarCashPoint Limited should put 
things right as set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2021.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman