DRN-1910149
The complaint
Mr E complains that he was unaware that Interactive Investor Services Limited (II) had 
acquired TD Direct Investing (TDDI) and that he was charged a monthly fee without his 
knowledge. He also says that his shares were sold which could have resulted in a financial 
loss to him. 
What happened
Mr E opened a share dealing and savings account with TDDI in 2004. In 2017, II acquired 
TDDI and all accounts were migrated to the II platform during December 2017.  
Mr E recently became aware that II had been taking monthly fees from his bank account and 
had been doing this for around two years. He contacted II via telephone on 28 October 2019 
to complain that he had been charged monthly fees which he did not agree to.  Mr E was 
looking for these fees to be refunded.
II informed Mr E that they had sent various emails to him following the acquisition and before 
accounts were being moved over to the new platform.  These emails described the various 
changes to the service including how much it would cost. II says that these emails gave 
options on what to do if clients did not wish to move to II.
Mr E says that II sent so many emails that he considered them to be spam and did not read 
them.  Mr E says that II hid details about charging in the small print.
II investigated Mr Es complaint but did not think they had done anything wrong as they 
believed that they had provided Mr E with sufficient information regarding the acquisition. As 
a gesture of goodwill, they did agree to refund half of the fees taken from Mr Es nominated 
bank account.  Mr E was not happy with this and referred his complaint to the service.
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Es complaint but did not think that the business had 
done anything wrong and didnt uphold Mr Es complaint. Unhappy with the investigators 
response, Mr E asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons.  
When a firm acquires another business, there is a contractual and regulatory obligation to 
notify clients of that change and the impact that it will have on them. In many cases, firms 
will send an initial email and will follow up with reminders so that clients are aware of the 
changes. It appears that II sent an initial email and follow up reminder to Mr E to notify him of 
the change of service.  
It is important to note that Mr E does not dispute that multiple emails were sent  indeed, this 
is part of his complaint. In investigating his complaint, I need to consider if Mr E ought to 
have known that his account was changing and that he needed to act.  
II says that emails were sent to clients in two separate mailings  23 October 2017 and 7 
November 2017.  These were sent to Mr Es registered email address.  II have said that 
there was no evidence that these emails were not received by Mr E and Mr E does not 
dispute receiving these emails.
These emails included details on the key changes, new terms for the service and what it 
would cost for clients using the new service. It also included next steps for transferring 
accounts over to the new platform and what options were available to clients if they did not 
wish to stay with II.
On balance, I think that the mailings sent to Mr E were reasonable and sufficient notice was 
provided to Mr E on what changes were going to occur on his account.  These emails also 
included details on what options clients had if they chose not to move to II.  Mr E held stock 
in his account and there were various options available to him if he chose not to transfer his 
account to II.  These included moving to another provider at no cost or re-certificating his 
shares.
Mr E says that he was forced to sell his shares which may have resulted in a financial cost to 
him. From what I have seen, had Mr E acted on the emails that were sent following the 
acquisition he could have retained his shares either by transferring to another provider or re-
certificating his shares.  This option was open to clients for a period of 12 months so I dont 
believe that Mr E was forced to sell his shares.
Mr Es says that he received so many emails from II that he considered them to be spam.  
He also says that charges were hidden in the small print.  Ive considered both points but I 
dont think that the business has done anything wrong.
Mr E was sent two emails from II before accounts were due to be moved over. As Mr E did 
not take any action following receipt of these emails, I think that it is reasonable to assume 
that II thought of him as a new client and wanted to tell him of new products or services that 
they offered. In line with data protection rules, Mr E would have had the ability to 
unsubscribe to these emails at any time.
Mr E says that the charges were hidden in the small print.  Ive looked at what was sent and 
the mailings were four page documents with pricing information clearly shown on the first 
two pages.  There was also a link in the mailing to the complete set of charges. On balance, 
I cant agree with Mr E that these were hidden in the small print.
In summary, I think that II acted reasonably in making Mr E aware of what changes were 
happening on his account and that he was given enough notice. Mr E was provided with 
several options if he didnt wish to move his account over to II. II was providing Mr E with a 
service and I think its reasonable for it to charge for that service, having given him notice of 
the charges and his options if he didnt want to accept them. The business has already 
refunded Mr E half of the fees that were taken from his account and I wont be asking the 
business to do anything else.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or reject my decision before 4 September 2020.
 
Brian Gray
Ombudsman