DRN-2771218
The complaint
Mr U is unhappy that SN Marketing Services Ltd (trading as My PPI Refund) pursued claims 
for mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI). Mr U says he did not instruct it to act on his 
behalf, and in particular in relation to one lender it contacted. 
What happened
Mr U has explained that in late 2019 he was aware of there being a deadline for making 
claims in relation to mis-sold PPI. He said that at that time he wasnt really considering 
pursuing a claim but was interested to find out how he might go about this  and so looked 
for information online.
At this point, Mr U visited a website which he said he thought might provide him with 
information. And, whilst on this website he did provided some personal details, and his 
electronic signature, and pressed send. Mr U said he thought nothing further of this.
But, in January or February 2020 he started to receive phone calls in relation to PPI from My 
PPI Refund. Mr U said that at this time, he told the caller he didnt want to give any further 
information, or to pursue any claim for a refund.
However, he later received contact about two claims My PPI Refund had made on his 
behalf, in relation to mis-sold PPI. This was for PPI provided on borrowing with two different 
lenders  who Ill call lender A and lender B.
Mr U was told that in respect of lender A, he was due a refund of £40.28. And that in respect 
of lender B, he was due a refund of £2,707.07. In addition to this, he was told by My PPI 
Refund, that because it had carried out work on his behalf to secure these refunds, he would 
need to pay its success fees, of 20% plus VAT, on the compensation amounts he had been 
awarded.
Mr U didnt agree he owed any fee to My PPI Refund. He said that he hadnt received any 
contact from My PPI Refund until early 2020 and had assumed it wasnt pursuing a refund 
with lender A, because he knew this would be for a small amount. And, because of the small 
amount potentially due back to him from this lender, he hadnt wanted to pursue any claim 
anyway. Mr U also said he hadnt provided My PPI Refund with any details about lender B, 
or provided his authority for it to pursue a mis-sale claim against this lender on this behalf. 
So, he felt My PPI Refund has acted incorrectly in the action it had taken.
In addition to this, Mr U said My PPI Refund had been harassing him, and other relatives by 
phone, when he made it clear he didnt want to talk. 
Because Mr U was happy, he raised a complaint with My PPI Refund. It looked into the 
complaint but confirmed its position on the matter remained the same. It said it had correctly 
dealt with claims on behalf of Mr U, after receiving his authority to do so. And it said the 
contact it had made was to assist it with its work. And it didnt think these calls were 
unreasonable. 
Mr U remained unhappy with My PPI Refunds position. And so, he referred his complaint to 
this service for an independent review.
Our investigator considered this complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. She said Mr 
U had accepted that he submitted an electronic signature online. And she noted that the 
form Mr U had signed online did explain My PPI Refund would pursue claims on his behalf. 
She said this form didnt specify a particular lender, and that by signing it, Mr U had agreed 
for My PPI Refund to represent him. 
Our investigator also said she had listened to some phone call recordings and considered 
contact notes in relation to the calls made from My PPI Refund to Mr U and his relatives. 
And, she didnt consider these calls to be unreasonable or harassing. She noted these calls 
were in relation to claims My PPI Refund were making, after receiving authorisation, and that 
these were relevant and reasonable attempts for My PPI Refund to seek additional 
information.
Mr U didnt agree. In summary, he explained he still considered the contact received from 
My PPI Refund to have been harassing in nature. And that he hadnt provided authorisation 
for My PPI Refund to act on his behalf  particularly for lender B.
Because Mr U remained dissatisfied, his complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I appreciate this will 
disappoint Mr U, and I understand he does feel strongly about this case. But Ive explained 
why Ive reached this decision below.
Authorisation to act of Mr Us behalf
Mr U accepts that he visited a website in order to gain information on how to go about 
claiming for mis-sold PPI. And My PPI Refunds has provided this service with the 
information it received during this website visit. It has shown that Mr U visited the website in 
August 2019, and provided his name, contact number and email address. In addition to this, 
it has said Mr U completed an online form, providing his electronic signature, agreeing for it 
to act on his behalf for PPI mis-sale claims. And it has provided a copy of this form.
Mr U has confirmed that he didnt read the print provided to him on the form but did give his 
electronic signature. Ive considered what it is Mr U signed, and what the terms and 
conditions of this document said. 
This document is the terms of engagement form providing authorisation for My PPI Refund 
to act on Mr Us behalf. Looking at the copy of this form, I can see Mr U has provided his 
electronic signature. And the form says that by providing his signature, Mr U was agreeing to 
the terms and conditions of the agreement. And the document said;
By signing this letter you are making a legally binding agreement with My PPI Refund.in 
relation to the Payment Protection Insurance policy (the PPI policy) or policies you were 
sold.We agree to carry out a PPI check to identify whether PPI has been sold to you. If PPI has 
been sold to you, We also agree to review the circumstances of your case and make a 
complaint on your behalf to claim compensation for the mis-selling of your PPI policy.
Looking at the above, I can see the terms of engagement Mr P signed did make it clear that 
My PPI Refund would be carrying out a general search for PPI and raising complaints about 
any PPI located. The form didnt specify a particular lender. So, Im satisfied that on 
receiving Mr Us signed form, it was fair and reasonable of My PPI Refund to act in line with 
the agreement, by searching for PPI, and then raising claims when it found some. 
Successful PPI mis-sale complaints
Ive seen the claims history notes from My PPI Refunds internal system. And this shows that 
PPI was identified on accounts with lender A and lender B. My PPI Refund therefore raised 
complaints about this. And, both lenders responded, saying Mr Us PPI mis-sale complaints 
had been successful, and he would be receiving a refund.
Lender A said the refund would be £40.28 and lender B said the refund from it would be 
£2,707.07
As My PPI Refund had represented Mr U in two successful claims, it asked Mr U to pay the 
success fees it said were due to it. This was 20% + VAT of the value of any compensation 
awarded on each successful claims. This being £10.74 for its work in relation to lender A, 
and £649.69 for the work in relation to lender B.
Looking at the terms and engagement document in relation to this, Im satisfied it is clear in 
explaining that the above fee of 20% + VAT would be due on any successful claim. And Im 
aware that it is because of My PPI Refunds work representing Mr U, that he received these 
funds. Therefore, in asking Mr U to pay this, Im satisfied My PPI Refund is acting fairly, and 
in line with the terms of the agreement signed. And so, I dont require it to do anything 
differently in respect. 
Contact with Mr U
Mr U has said the contact received from My PPI Refund was excessive and harassing in 
nature. So, Ive reviewed the contact notes provided by My PPI Refund, as well as call 
recordings for some of these calls.
Having reviewed these, I agree with our investigator. The calls My PPI Refund made were to 
assist with it moving forward with claims Mr U had authorised it to. And, My PPI Refund were 
calling back, after it had been unsuccessful in being able to speak to Mr U about the claims 
where it needed to. So, I dont think the calls it made to Mr U were unfair or unreasonable.
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. So, I dont require SN 
Marketing Services Ltd (trading as My PPI Refund) to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2021.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman