DRN-3895660
The complaint
Mr H complains Zurich Assurance Ltd (Zurich) increased the monthly premium payable for a 
whole of life policy without giving notice and debited his bank account without his authority. 
He also disagrees with Zurichs reasoning for the premium needing to increase.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
Our Investigator shared some documents with Mr H prior to me reaching my decision and 
asked for any comments he may have. Ive not received a response from Mr H, so Ive 
reached my decision on the information available to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the overall conclusion reached by the investigator. Im not 
upholding this complaint. Ill explain why:
Mr H indirectly applied for the whole of life policy through a financial adviser in a bank 
who Ill refer to as X. Its important for me to say my decision focuses solely on the 
actions of Zurich who this complaint is against. Im not able to comment on the action 
of X. 
Zurichs original quote for Mr Hs policy was produced by X via the advisor portal in 
October 2020 and said: 
The cover and premiums shown are based on our standard rates and your current age and 
information youve provided on your height and weight. These may change once weve fully 
assessed your application.
So, I think Zurich made clear from the outset both the cover and premium were 
subject to possible change.
Zurich received Mr Hs medical report on 10 November 2020 but after review 
required further information. Another request to Mr Hs GP was made the following 
day and a response chased twice before it was received on 8 December 2020.
After assessing the information, Zurich confirmed the terms of the policy being 
offered on 11 December 2020. Im satisfied Zurich acted promptly throughout and I 
dont think they caused any unnecessary delay between providing a quote and 
confirmation of the terms being issued.
The terms of the policy say in section 8:
Your Confirmation of terms shows how much your premiums will be.
Whilst I understand Mr Hs initial quote provided cover of £52,379 for a monthly 
premium of £150.00, Zurich issued and uploaded confirmation of the terms to his 
customer portal on 11 December 2020. The terms confirmed the premium would be 
£151.98, an increase of £1.98 a month due to him being older than when the initial 
quote was given.
Confirmation of the terms were issued to the portal one month prior to the policy 
commencing on 12 January 2021, which Zurich say had to be accepted by X in order 
for the policy to proceed. So, I dont agree Zurich didnt inform Mr H, or X who 
applied for the policy on his behalf, in advance that the terms offer had changed and 
the premium had increased.
Further, on commencement of the policy Zurich issued a policy schedule on 12 
January 2021. This again confirmed the premium payable to be £151.98 a month and 
advised should Mr H want to cancel the policy:
You can cancel your policy by emailing, phoning, or writing to us. If you cancel within 30 
days of receiving this letter, well refund any premium youve paid, as long as you havent 
made a claim. If you cancel after 30 days, any premium you have paid will not be refunded.
I appreciate Mr H feels strongly an amount he didnt agree to is being taken out of his 
account and has asked what law allows Zurich to do this. 
But for the reasons Ive explained above, Im satisfied Zurich provided sufficient 
notification of the terms they were willing to offer the policy on. And those terms were 
accepted which then allowed the policy to proceed. Im satisfied the documentation 
provided allowed Mr H to decline the policy prior to cover starting and up to 30 days 
after, without any cost to him, if he was unhappy with the terms.
Im also satisfied Zurich acted fairly and reasonable by increasing the premium for 
the reason they did in-between initially providing a quote and confirming the policy 
terms on offer.
I understand Mr H was advised not to cancel the policy upon his account first being 
debited. This was a decision for Mr H to make, however as the policy remained 
active, Zurich have taken on the risk of cover since the policy commenced. And as I 
dont think Zurich have made an error here, I wont be asking them to repay any 
premiums paid to date.
In summary, Im satisfied Zurich have acted fairly and reasonably so I wont be asking them 
to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint about Zurich Assurance Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2023.
 
Sean Pyke-Milne
Ombudsman