DRN-3102178
The complaint
Mr S complains that Aviva Insurance Limited has unfairly declined a claim he made under
his travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr S travelled abroad on 10 January 2020. He was due to return home on 11 March 2020,
but around a week or so before this date began to feel unwell with cold and flu-like
symptoms that can be associated with Covid-19.
Mr S says he followed the information available at the time, which was to, as far as possible,
stay at home and isolate. Hes explained he mainly stayed in his condo and only went out to
get food for short periods. And he felt it was best to extend his stay, rather than travel home
on an aeroplane in close proximity to other people.
Mr S was able to negotiate a lower rate to extend his stay in his accommodation. He also
rescheduled his flight home. He contacted his bank through which he had a travel
insurance policy underwritten by Aviva. The bank told him to inform the insurers of his
situation. So Mr S promptly emailed Aviva using the contact details provided to him by the
bank.
Mr S has explained that he had various issues sorting out visas. And a number of return
flights he had booked to get home were cancelled. He was eventually able to travel home on
24 April 2020.
Mr S submitted details of the costs hed incurred to Aviva. But Aviva declined his claim. It
said Mr S hadnt provided any evidence of his illness, or to show that it was necessary for
him to extend his stay.
During his time away Mr S also lost two pairs of glasses which he also claimed for under his
policy. But Aviva also declined to cover this loss and referred Mr S to one of the special
conditions of his policy which states that 5. You must report any loss or theft to the police
within 24 hours or as soon as reasonably possible following discovery, and get a written
report (where it is not possible to obtain a police report, you must provide other independent
proof of the loss or theft, such as a letter from your transport company, hotel, vehicle hire
company or repairer).
Mr S doesnt think Avivas stance on these matters is fair. He feels it is making requests
which are unreasonable in light of the Covid-19 pandemic. And has told us that it didnt offer
him support or check on his welfare whilst he was abroad.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ss complaint but felt Aviva had acted reasonably when it
declined his claim. The investigator said the onus was on Mr S to prove he had a valid claim.
And that in these circumstances hed need to provide medical evidence to show he was unfit
to travel home on 11 March 2020. The investigator felt Mr S could have contacted a medical
professional such as a local GP. And also noted that the policy terms state that an insured
person should call Avivas Medical Emergency Assistance line if they fall ill whilst away 
which Mr S hadnt done.
Mr S didnt accept this view. He says he was trying to be prudent with the information
available and believes he conducted himself with best endeavours in the circumstances.
Hes advised that he contacted Aviva prior to returning home, and prior to his original return
date. And that Aviva didnt reply to him for a considerable time and didnt request that he
make an appointment with a medical professional.
Mr S also says he doesnt feel anything would have been gained from attending a medical
appointment as these events took place before Covid-19 tests were available. And he
reiterated that the advice in the country he was staying in was to remain at home if you have
cold and flu-like symptoms. Similarly hes explained the airline he was due to fly with was
advising that you wouldnt be allowed to board a plane if you looked unwell.
The case has been passed to me to review and make a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision to both parties on 14 September 2021. I set out the relevant 
policy terms and conditions and explained that I wasnt intending to uphold Mr Ss complaint. 
I said:
I dont think it was unreasonable for Aviva to ask Mr S to provide it with medical
evidence of his illness. There is an onus on the policyholder to prove that they have
a valid claim that meets the terms and conditions of the policy.
Mr Ss policy provides for Emergency Medical Treatment and Associated
Expenses. Mr S did not seek emergency medical treatment. And theres no
documentary evidence that he was too ill to travel home as planned on 11 March
2020. Or that he was required to self-isolate at that time.
Nor is there any documentary evidence that he was not expected to be fit to fly, or
was required to self-isolate, up until 8 April 2020 which is when flight and
accommodation bookings indicate he initially arranged to extend his stay until.
I can understand why it might be difficult for Mr S to provide Aviva with documentary
evidence. However, even though this was in the early days of the Covid-19 pandemic
Id still expect him to be able to show something to support that he was required to
self-isolate for this period, or that he wasnt well enough to fly home.
Mr S says he was following general advice hed seen about Covid-19 on the internet.
And that he didnt feel he needed to see a doctor or medical professional. But I
havent seen any evidence to suggest that it wouldnt have been possible for him to
have sought advice from a medical professional. Mr Ss testimony suggests he could
have travelled to a doctors surgery or clinic as he has referred to the fact he went out
to get food from a supermarket and on occasion to eat locally. But even if he was
unable to do so, or felt it best not to in the circumstances, I think he could have tried
to call a medical advice line or a local doctor to discuss his symptoms. I also note
that in an email to Aviva when explaining the length of time hed extended his stay
for, Mr S said, I never requested a test as it then may have been taken out of my
hands. Which suggests to me a reluctance to seek more specific medical advice.
The policy terms state that a policyholder should contact the Medical Emergency
Assistance helpline prior to making arrangements. Mr S has told us that he contactedAviva prior to his original return date of 11 March 2020. However the earliest notes
on Avivas claim file are from 19 March 2020, after hed originally been due to fly
home. And this ties in with the dates on emails provided to us by Mr S. I note Mr S
emailed his personal banker on 18 March 2020 prior to contacting Aviva. But again,
this contact was made after hed been due to return home.
I cant see that Aviva actually requested any medical evidence confirming Mr S
hadnt been fit to fly until 7 May 2020. Whilst I appreciate Mr S hadnt contacted its
Medical Emergency Assistance helpline, I do think it should have asked for this a lot
sooner given it had contact with him on a number of earlier occasions. However, I
also dont think that this had a significant bearing on this claim. I say this because the
date on Mr Ss accommodation booking receipt suggests he took steps to extend his
stay on 5 March 2020. Which was some two weeks before he first contacted Aviva
on 19 March 2020. By which point it would already have been difficult to evidence his
fitness at the time he extended his stay.
Mr S has told us Aviva didnt offer him support or check on his welfare during his
extended stay abroad. I understand he is disappointed with the level of service he
received. Aviva has explained that the Covid-19 pandemic has impacted its travel
claim response times. Its also told us that Mr S would have received a different
degree of service had he contacted its Medical Emergency Assistance team as per
the directions in its policy. I understand Mr S contacted Aviva using the details he
was given by his personal banker. And I can understand why he did this. But Aviva is
a separate business to the bank. And I can see the contact details for Avivas
Medical Emergency Assistance team are clearly set out in its policy.
Our investigator did not comment on the matter of the glasses Mr S lost whilst
abroad. I can see Mr S told Aviva he lost a pair of prescription sunglasses during his
stay which he believes must have fallen off the top of his head whilst he was out. And
another pair of glasses went missing in the airport. Avivas policy states that the
policyholder should report a loss to the police as soon as reasonably possible and
gain a written police report or, where not possible, other independent proof of the
loss. This isnt an unusual term  its common practice for insurers to ask for a police
report or other supporting documentation when presented with a claim for loss or
theft. And I dont think its unreasonable for Aviva to request evidence to support Mr
Ss testimony.
Mr S advised Aviva that he didnt report the loss of his prescription sunglasses to the
police. Hes not suggested he reported it to anyone else, for example his
accommodation provider, either. Ive also not seen or heard anything which indicates
to me that Mr S wouldnt have been able to report the loss of his prescription
sunglasses. Even if he was isolating I think its reasonable to suggest he could have
telephoned the local police station to file a report.
Mr S has explained that he gave his name and contact number to an immigration or
security officer at the airport so that they could contact him if the second pair of
glasses was found. Unfortunately he doesnt have anything in writing to confirm this. I
appreciate he may have been under time pressure to catch his flight, but I dont think
its unreasonable to suggest that he could have tried to contact the airport after his
departure to follow up on the matter.
I can understand why Mr S is so frustrated that his claim was declined. I do
appreciate what hes told us about acting on his best endeavours to take precautions
in light of the emergence of Covid-19. And that he took steps to minimise theadditional costs incurred during his extended stay. But, based on all of the
information provided to me, I dont think it would be reasonable for me to ask Aviva to
pay this claim in the absence of any supporting evidence about Mr Ss illness or self-isolation
requirements, or the loss of his glasses.
Responses to my provisional decision
Aviva didnt respond to my provisional decision. Mr S sent a detailed response, all of which 
Ive taken into consideration. In summary hes said:
Airlines advise against travelling if you feel unwell.
You dont need to attend a hospital or see a doctor every time you are unwell, why 
should this be different to comply with insurers stipulations.
He feels that in my provisional decision I have strongly adhered to the rules set by the 
insurer and negated the advice at that time regarding Covid-19.
Aviva did very little to help or advise him, and his actions were taken in the absence of 
any advice from Aviva. It didnt request that he see a medic, and he feels I have 
overlooked these omissions.
It isnt reasonable to expect him to collate evidence that he was self-isolating and that we 
could contact the Embassy to check whether his assertions about self-isolation guidance 
are correct. It is current good practice that if you do not feel well, you isolate yourself.
His only reluctance in visiting a medic was in keeping with a nationwide request, and he 
doesnt feel Ive seen the bigger picture when reaching my provisional decision.
He didnt extend his stay abroad because it suited him. He tried to fly home on a number 
of occasions, but these flights were cancelled by the airline at short notice.
Hes explained that he did contact the condo office to see if his prescription sunglasses 
had been handed in. And hes clarified that in respect of the second pair of lost glasses 
he spoke to a security officer at a UK airport upon his return home. And he followed up 
with a phone call to the airport the next day. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont doubt that Mr S felt unwell, and that he took what he felt were the best steps to 
protect himself and others by delaying his flight home and isolating in so far as possible. I 
also appreciate that he has been left considerably out of pocket as a result of this  and that 
these costs further increased when two of his flights home were cancelled by the airline, 
which led to his stay being extended even further through no fault of his own. 
But as I said in my provisional decision, it is a fundamental principle of insurance that the 
onus is on the policyholder to prove they have a valid claim under the policy. That means it 
is Mr Ss responsibility to provide Aviva with sufficient evidence to support his claim. And I 
would expect him to take reasonable steps to provide this evidence, even if it might require 
him to take actions he wouldnt have done had he not been making an insurance claim. I do accept that, even in the early stages of the emergence of Covid-19, (the World Health 
Organisation declared it to be a pandemic on 11 March 2020), it may have been more 
difficult for Mr S to provide the type of evidence Aviva would normally expect to see in 
circumstances like this. But as Ive said, Id still expect him to be able to provide something. 
The fact remains Ive not seen any form of supporting evidence to show that he was unwell, 
or that he was required to self-isolate and discouraged from seeking medical advice. 
Mr S has now suggested that his self-isolation requirement can be verified by the Embassy 
of the country he was staying in. It is open to him to provide this additional information to 
Aviva if he wishes. The role of this service is limited to investigating the merits of this 
complaint. It doesnt extend to gathering new claims evidence from third parties. 
I do still think Aviva should have asked for medical evidence when Mr S first contacted it. 
And I appreciate Mr S feels strongly about the lack of guidance he received from Aviva. 
Whilst I think Aviva could have done better here, its my role to look at the impact on Mr S of 
any mistakes Aviva made. The terms of Avivas policy are clear that medical assistance and 
evidence should be obtained at the time of illness rather than afterwards. Mr S didnt contact 
Aviva until two weeks after he had made his own arrangements to extend his stay. So even 
if Aviva had asked him to provide medical evidence at this point, Im still not persuaded that 
this would have impacted the outcome of this claim. 
I thank Mr S for providing further clarifications regarding events surrounding his lost pairs of 
glasses. Most, if not all, travel insurance policies require documentary evidence reporting a 
loss regardless of the value of the item(s) lost. And as I said in my provisional decision, 
Avivas policy states that the policyholder should report a loss as soon as reasonably 
possible and gain a written police report or other independent proof of the loss. Whilst I 
appreciate his testimony, Mr S hasnt provided any contemporaneous evidence of reporting 
these losses anywhere, so I still dont feel I can fairly ask Aviva to alter its stance on his 
claim.
Mr S has referred to medication for pre-existing conditions which he had to purchase due to 
his extended stay. As I dont feel his extended stay is covered in these circumstances, it 
follows that his claim for the additional medication he had to purchase isnt either.
I know Mr S will be very disappointed by my decision. As Ive said above, if he is able to 
provide any evidence about guidance in place at the time of events leading to this claim, it is 
open to him to provide this to Aviva for its consideration.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2022.
 
Jenette Lynch
Ombudsman