DRN-1158106
 
The complaint
R, a limited company, complains that Bank of Scotland plc, returned a cheque paid in 
through an immediate deposit machine (IDM).
What happened
The director of R went into a branch to pay in a cheque to its account for £1,239 on 31 July 
2019. She had difficulty using the IDM and a member of staff helped her to deposit the 
cheque. She was unhappy to find that the cheque was rejected that day and R could not get 
the original back. The payee name on the cheque was different to that for R and she thought 
that the member of staff should have noticed this. R incurred overdraft costs and 
inconvenience as the credit had not been applied to its account. Bank of Scotland said it had 
not made a mistake but paid R £50 for poor customer service when it raised this issue.
Our investigator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that Bank of 
Scotland could only credit the cheque if the payee name matched that of R. He thought that 
the person helping the director in branch wouldnt have known the name was incorrect. That 
was fairly the responsibility of R. A physical cheque submitted through an IDM is not retained 
- but an image of it is.
R did not agree. The director said she was hugely disappointed by what had happened. And 
she did not think that the IDMs were fit for purpose.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Bank of Scotland has provided this service with information about its IDMs. And it states that 
for sterling cheques the use of an IDM can allow clearance on the next business day instead 
of taking up to six days. That relies on the cheque being cleared which is only possible if the 
name of the payee is correct. And a physical copy of the cheque is no longer retained.
Im afraid I dont see there was any reasonable expectation for R of it being able to credit a 
cheque to its account with the wrong payee name. Here the director found out the next day 
as the cheque credit had been reversed on the day it was paid in. R would always have 
needed to obtain a replacement cheque or means of payment with that related 
inconvenience. And I understand the related issue with the overdraft on its account.
I agree with our investigator that the person helping the director of R use the machine 
wouldnt have also been reasonably expected to confirm the payee details for the cheque. 
Im afraid that the consequences of trying to pay this cheque in were fairly the responsibility of R. I can see that Bank of Scotland has paid R compensation for poor service when the 
director contacted it about what happened. I wont be asking it to do anything more.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 July 2020.
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman