DRN-3044410
The complaint
Mrs M complains that British Gas Insurance Ltds engineer misdiagnosed the cause of a 
leak, when she made a claim under her home emergency policy. 
What happened
Mrs M made a claim under her policy to British Gas when she noticed a leak had discoloured 
her ceiling. The company sent a plumber to visit in February 2021. He investigated the leak, 
which originated from an en-suite shower. He found the shower tray required re-sealing and 
the shower cubicle door was also allowing water to escape. 
Mrs M paid for a plumber to carry out work to reseal the shower tray and replace the door at 
a cost of £945.90. This is because the work was not covered under her policy with British 
Gas. However, shortly after the work was carried out, a leak was again noticed in the same 
place. Mrs M contacted British Gas again.
Another plumber was sent to investigate In March 2021. He found there was a hairline crack 
in the shower tray. This was allowing water to penetrate through and meant the tray needed 
replacing. 
Mrs M says she paid for work that was unnecessary because of the misdiagnosis made by 
the first plumber. She asked for the cost of this work to be reimbursed. 
British Gas says none of the work required is covered by Mrs Ms policy. It also says there is 
no evidence that the hairline crack was present in February when its first plumber attended. 
It says this could have happened afterwards or when work was carried out by Mrs Ms 
plumber. However, it paid £50 to Mrs M in compensation by way of an apology for any 
inconvenience she had been caused. 
One of our investigators looked into the matter. She decided not to uphold the complaint. 
She thought the plumbers diagnosis was reasonable that the cause of the leak was the poor 
condition of the shower tray sealant and the cubicle door. She said the crack in the shower 
tray was not visible in the photo the plumber had taken. The investigator also noted the 
plumber Mrs M employed hadnt noticed a crack either. 
Mrs M disagreed with this outcome and asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. 
This has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided not to uphold Mrs Ms complaint. I appreciate this is not the 
response she wanted, but I will explain why I think this is fair. 
The first plumber who investigated the leak took a photo of the shower tray. This was in the 
en-suite bathroom immediately above where the leak was found. I have reviewed this image 
but Im unable to identify a crack around the plug hole, as Mrs Ms described in her 
complaint, or elsewhere in the tray. 
The crack was described as hairline by the second British Gas plumber who visited in 
March. I accept this could mean it wouldnt be visible from the photo. However, its also true 
to say a crack wasnt noticed by the plumber who first attended in February, or the plumber 
Mrs M employed.
Mrs Ms plumber carried out work to replace the sealant around the shower tray and replace 
the cubicle door. This will have involved the plumber being at close quarters to the shower 
tray. I think its reasonable to expect this plumber would stand a good chance of noticing a 
crack when this work was carried out. However, it wasnt, or certainly wasnt brought to Mrs 
Ms attention.   
British Gas says its engineer tested the shower waste pipe and didnt find any leaks. But 
when testing the silicone seals and shower door, both areas leaked. The photo taken by the 
plumber in February shows the sealant in and around the shower tray. This was clearly in a 
poor condition. 
Based on this, the diagnosis that the seals and cubicle were the cause of the leak seems 
reasonable. Particularly as there is no evidence a crack existed at this time.  
The company confirms the plumber who attended in March said the shower tray wasnt 
supported correctly, which had caused a crack in the tray. Advice was given to Mrs M not to 
use the shower until it was replaced. 
I note British Gass view that the crack could have happened later, perhaps when the work 
was carried out by Mrs Ms plumber. This is a possibility.
In my view the fact that two plumbers, one sent by British Gas and the other employed by 
Mrs M, didnt notice a crack, despite the latter spending some time working in and around 
the shower cubicle, suggests that no crack was visible at this time. 
I can sympathise with Mrs M that she needs to pay for further work to be carried out. This 
must be frustrating and clearly inconvenient. However, the terms of the policy dont cover 
this work and I think British Gas explanation of its first plumbers diagnosis is reasonable. 
I note British Gas says its plumber could have provided a quote to complete work outside of 
its policy cover. It provided £50 to apologise that this didnt happen and for any 
inconvenience caused. I think this was reasonable in the circumstances. 
In considering all this, I dont think British Gas acted unfairly when diagnosing the cause of 
the leak as it did and in relying on the terms of the policy when handling the claim. So, I cant 
reasonably ask it to do anything more to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2021.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman