DRN-3687539
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) applied a higher rate of 
interest to loans for  Mr Hs  than for  loans for Mrs H. Mr H would like to be reimbursed the 
difference in interest rates over a five year period.
 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again here 
instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
Mr and Mrs Hs feel that, as they have  joint accounts, the loans they took out with 
Barclays should have had the same rate of interest but didnt. Unfortunately, whilst I 
appreciate their frustrations Mr and Mrs H took out individual loans in 2015 and 2017. 
So, Barclays would have looked at their applications individually.  Banks consider a 
range of factors when offering loans, it doesnt necessarily follow that as Mr and Mrs 
H had joint accounts they would have been offered the same interest rate. So, I dont 
think Barclays was wrong to offer Mr H a different interest rate to Mrs H. And, of 
course, Mr H didnt have to accept the loans if he wasnt happy with the interest 
rates.
I have seen the loan agreements and pre contract information for the loans Mr H took 
out. The paperwork seems correctly addressed so I see no reason why Mr H didnt 
get it . I am also  not sure why, if he didnt get any documentation  he didnt ask for it. 
The documents clearly show  a standard 14-day cooling offer period so if Mr wasnt  
happy with the interest rates he  could have chosen not to go ahead with the loans. 
The pre contract information and agreements themselves make the interest rates 
clear so from the point of taking out the loans Mr H would have known his interest 
rates were different to Mrs Hs. He could have cancelled if he wasnt happy but chose 
not to do so.
Barclays cant provide signed contracts for Mr Hs loans, I dont think thats surprising 
as the loans were taken out some considerable time ago and banks dont have to 
keep records indefinitely. I think if  Mr H did accept the terms of the two loans he took 
out , had he not done so I think its reasonable to say we would have expected him to 
take some action sooner than he has.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs H arent happy they were cold called about the loans. 
Barclays explained that with the account Mr and Mrs H had, they had a relationship 
manager service. I dont see any problem with the relationship manager contacting 
them about loans  they didnt have to take any suggested products out. I have no 
evidence they were pressured to do so  but even if they felt they were the loans in 
question had the cooling off periods I have already referred to which they could have 
taken advantage of to cancel any loans but didnt do so.  Mr H has made the point 
they had  had no other contact with the relationship manager  if he feels he didnt 
get other services that he should have had from the relationship manager then he 
needs to raise this with Barclays in the first instance as that didnt form part of the 
initial complaint to us..
Considering all the information that I have I dont feel Barclays has done anything 
wrong, so I have no grounds to ask Barclays to refund the interest Mr H has 
requested.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman