DRN-4151707
The complaint
Miss D complains about the way Erudio Student Loans Limited has handled her accounts 
with it.
What happened
Miss D has four student loans with Erudio. The loans were taken out in subsequent years 
starting in 1999 and ending in 2002. All of the loans are still active.
Erudio took ownership of three of the loans in 2014. The fourth loan was taken under a 
shared borrower status. This meant there was more than one administrator for the loan and 
created a situation where Miss Ds loans were covered by three separate accounts. 
Miss D complain about the way these accounts have been handled by Erudio. She says 
Erudio has caused significant distress and inconvenience to her via the way it requires her to 
make the repayments. Miss D suffers with issues of ill health. She also said she believed 
Erudio had indirectly discriminated her due to her ill health and in particular during a period 
of time she was unable to work. Due to Miss Ds ill health the repayments for the loans were 
deferred for a number of years. These deferments ended after 2020 when Miss D went back 
into employment. Miss D is complaining about the way Erudio has handled these accounts, 
in particular the way in which she is required to make the repayments and Erudios actions 
when payments are made late.
Our investigator set out a detailed timeline of events in their initial view to this complaint. I 
wont repeat the background in this decision for the sake of brevity. I will only refer to key 
events for context to the decision Ive reached.
In summary our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. He felt an appropriate 
outcome would be for Erudio to:
No longer charge interest on the loans (this is something which had already been 
agreed by Erudio)
Work with Miss D to come up with a suitable repayment plan to cover the remaining 
balance of the loans
Provide Miss D with £350 compensation to reflect the distress and inconvenience 
which had been caused.
Miss D responded to the view, and whilst not agreeing with it in total, attempted to mediate a 
settlement with Erudio. Erudio responded with confirmation of the settlement figures it would 
require for Miss Ds accounts to be closed. Miss D did not accept these settlement figures as 
she was concerned there would be negative markers left on her credit file. As no mediation 
or agreement could be reached the matter has been passed to me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill start by saying that there is a large amount of information on this case. I appreciate the 
time and effort that Miss D has put into this complaint. And I understand her strength of 
feeling on this matter. I can assure her that I have carefully considered all of the information 
she has provided, as well as all of the information which Erudio has been able to provide. 
Whilst I may not reference all of the information which we have on file, I can assure Miss D I 
have very carefully considered everything.
In resolution of her complaint Miss D explained that she would like to repay her balances 
without additional interest, and for Erudio to recognise the distress which has been caused.
In response to our investigators view Erudio agreed to remove interest and charges and 
provided an updated settlement figure for each account. It also confirmed if Miss D paid 
these settlement figures the accounts would be closed with no information being reported to 
the credit reference agencies outside of the required balances. 
Miss D maintains that Erudio has not engaged correctly with her complaint and with our 
service. She remains unhappy Erudio has not provided all of the calls which she feels are 
important to her complaint.
As has been agreed by all parties, I can only look at events which have happened in the six 
years prior to Miss D raising her complaint. All parties also agree there are balances 
outstanding on the loans. 
Ill deal with the financial and non-financial elements of Miss Ds complaint in turn.
Financial element - Settlement of the accounts
Erudio has confirmed that interest has not been charged on the accounts since 2016. It has 
provided an updated settlement figure for each of the accounts. Miss D has not disputed this 
amount, and Ive no reason to doubt the accuracies.  
Considering Miss D has not been charged interest on the loans since 2016, Im satisfied that 
Miss D has not suffered a financial loss during the period of time which I can consider. 
Erudio has provided Miss D with early settlement figures to close her accounts with it. Erudio 
has also confirmed that it will only be providing information it is required to do to the credit 
reference agencies. If Miss D wishes to settle her accounts in line with these figures, then 
she will need to contact Erudio directly to discuss this. Im satisfied this offer of settlement is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
If no agreement over these settlement figures can be achieved, I agree with our investigator, 
that Erudio should work with Miss D to come up with a suitable repayment plan for the full 
outstanding balance of the accounts. I would remind Erudio of its ongoing obligations 
towards Miss D and to follow the relevant guidance on forbearance where applicable.
Non-Financial element  Distress and inconvenience caused
Miss D complains that Erudio required her to make separate phone calls each month to 
make manual payments towards her separate loan accounts. She says during these calls it 
was clear she was distressed by the repayment method  namely that she didnt want to set up direct debits and found being asked forbearance questions each month upsetting. She 
also complains in other calls it was clear she was distressed and Erudios representatives 
were not supportive. Miss D also complains that Erudio raised a complaint on her behalf 
during a call which was against her wishes at the time. Miss D has also raised concerns 
about Erudio not merging her accounts into one single account, and says she has been 
indirectly discriminated against due to her health.
Erudio has been able to provide some, but not all of the calls between itself and Miss D. In 
response to our investigators view Miss D reiterated her desire that all of the telephone calls 
be provided. Erudio have confirmed it has provided all calls it is able too. I appreciate this will 
come as a disappoint to Miss D, but when there is incomplete or conflicting information, Im 
able to make a finding on the balance of probabilities. And that is what Ive done here.
From listening to the calls I have available to me, it is clear Miss D has been caused distress 
and inconvenience. Erudio has provide conflicting information regarding the repayments and 
the operation of the accounts. Miss D is clearly upset on the calls, and Im satisfied the 
handlers couldve done a better job of understanding Miss Ds circumstances, and the wider 
context of her account. In particular, there is conflicting information over how Miss D is 
required to pay and the methods of payment which are available to her. 
Whilst I accept that Erudio are required to ask Miss D the necessary repayment questions 
each month, Im satisfied it couldve done this in a more understanding manner, especially 
considering it wouldve been aware of the wider circumstances of Miss Ds account. Instead, 
from the calls Ive listened to, it does fell like Miss D is required to go over similar questions 
and reiterate the same issues. Im satisfied this added to the distress and inconvenience 
which was experienced by Miss D.
As mentioned above, Miss D has asked for specific calls to be provided. Erudio has 
confirmed it has provided everything it can. Ive taken everything Miss D has said in relation 
to the calls, as well as what Ive listened too, when considering any award for distress and 
inconvenience. I appreciate Miss Ds frustration over this matter, but this is the approach our 
service takes in complaints of a similar nature.  
In connection with having to make direct calls to Erudio, Miss D also complains about not 
having the accounts merged into one account and given access to this online. She says this 
added further distress and inconvenience to her interactions with Erudio. Whilst I can 
understand the point Miss D has raised (and this is noted in the calls above), Erudio has 
provided a reasonable explanation to this issue. It has outlined that due to the history of the 
account, in particular they were bought over, and consisted of three separate accounts, it is 
unable to merge them into one online account. Due to the individual nature of Miss Ds 
accounts I dont find this unreasonable, as each loan account will have different repayment 
terms to them. Whilst I appreciate Miss D says she finds having to make separate calls in 
relation to her account, I cant say Erudio has acted unfairly given they are all separate 
accounts. 
In relation to the other aspects of Miss D concerns regarding customer service including  
raising a complaint against her wishes  Im satisfied Erudio has acted reasonably. Whilst I 
note above Erudio may not have handled calls in the manner Id expect, outside of that, I can 
see it has engaged with Miss D in a reasonable way. It has sent her necessary documents 
such as notices of arrears, when required to do so. Whilst I appreciate this feeds into the 
wider aspect of her complaints about service, it is something which Erudio needed to do. 
This is similar to logging complaints when they are raised. Whilst I appreciate this mayve 
been against Miss Ds wishes at the time, ultimately Erudio has acted reasonably when a 
consumer has expressed a form of dissatisfaction (which Miss D had) to record it and to 
investigate those concerns. Finally, Miss D has raised concerns over indirect discrimination due to her health. Im 
satisfied that our investigator set the rationale of this aspect of Miss Ds complaint well. 
Namely that Miss D was not required to make any payments during the period of time she 
had not met the required threshold, but the business was entitled to apply interest. This 
would be the same as any other borrower in the same circumstance, namely that if they had 
not met the threshold then no payments would be due. So, Im not persuaded Miss D has 
been treated differently, either directly or indirectly, as a result of her health. As explained 
previously Erudio have since removed all interest from Miss Ds account from 2016 onwards, 
meaning that there has been no financial detriment since Erudio has taken over the loan, or 
during the period I can consider. 
So overall, in relation to the non-financial loss element of Miss Ds complaint, Im satisfied 
that Erudios actions have caused Miss D distress and inconvenience. And whilst I may not 
agree with all of the points Miss D has raised, I am satisfied that Erudio has caused Miss D 
significant distress during its handling of her account. And as such it needs to make a 
payment to recognise this.
Putting things right
Although Im satisfied Erudio does not need to do anything further in relation to Miss Ds 
financial loss; Im satisfied that Erudios actions have caused Miss D distress and 
inconvenience. Namely that it gave Miss D conflicting information over her accounts during 
the communications it had with her, and that it added to the distress she was already clearly 
suffering. Im satisfied Erudio shouldve been sufficiently aware of Miss Ds circumstances 
and couldve done more to help her at points during its communications with her. Im 
satisfied this distress and inconvenience occurred over a number of interactions over a 
sufficiently long period of time, and as such warrants an award which recognises this. Im 
satisfied the award of £350 recommended by our investigator is an appropriate level, and is 
similar to an award I wouldve made had none been before. This is in line with our published 
guidance on awards for distress and inconvenience. 
In order to resolve this complaint, I require Erudio Student Loans Limited to:
Work with Miss D to come up with a suitable repayment plan for the outstanding 
balances if she does not wish to settle the loans early;
Pay Miss D £350 for the distress and inconvenience it caused her.
As a reminder, should Miss D wish to settle her accounts early with Erudio then she will 
need to contact it directly to discuss this. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Erudio Student Loans Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 August 2023.
 
Tom Whittington
Ombudsman