DRN-3416249
The complaint
Mr R complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited is responsible for mishandling a
claim on the insurance policy for his motor vehicle.
Where I refer to RSA, I include claims-handlers and others insofar as I hold RSA responsible
for their acts or omissions. 
What happened
Mr R had a vehicle on contract hire from a company that provides vehicles for drivers with
disabilities. I will call that company the operations company.
For about three years from September 2019, RSA and the operations company covered the
vehicle under arrangements set out in a Cover Booklet.
On 28 August 2021, Mr R and a third party were involved in a traffic incident. 
By about 8 September 2021, Mr R had complained to RSA about progress towards getting 
CCTV from the scene of the incident. He said it would show that he hadnt been at fault. 
He later complained that  while his car was being repaired - RSA had provided an 
unsuitable courtesy car.
By a final response dated late September 2021, RSA partly upheld the complaint about the
handling of the claim - and offered Mr R £50.00.
Mr R brought his complaint to us in mid-October 2021. About a week later, RSA told our
investigator it would increase its offer from £50.00 to £200.00.
In about November 2021, Mr R complained about the repairs to his car. By a final response
dated early December 2021, RSA offered Mr R £300.00 to resolve all his complaints.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator dealt with the complaints about CCTV and the courtesy car. The
investigator recommended that RSAs offer of £200.00 was fair.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr R  
and to RSA on 10 March 2022. I summarise my findings:
RSAs offer to pay compensation of £200.00 is at least as much as it wouldve been 
appropriate for me to direct. I found it fair and reasonable to hold RSA to its offer.
Subject to any further information from Mr R or from RSA, my provisional decision was that I 
intended to direct Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to pay Mr R (insofar as it hasnt 
already paid him) £200.00 for distress and inconvenience.
Neither Mr R nor RSA has added any further information in response to the provisional 
decision. So I see no reason to change my view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman Service deals with a consumers complaint against an insurance
company or other regulated firm about regulated activities. We are bound by the Financial
Conduct Authoritys dispute resolution rules (DISP). 
The effect of one of those rules is that we will have to deal separately with Mr Rs complaint 
about the quality of repairs.
From my reading of the Cover Booklet, it was the operations company rather than RSA that
was responsible for paying for the repair of Mr Rs vehicle. It follows that it was the
operations company rather than RSA that was responsible for any attempt to recover its
outlay from the third party. So, whilst RSA was involved in the handling of the claim, it was
acting on behalf of the operations company.
In any event, RSA made a request for the CCTV within a week of the incident and followed
up with further requests. That is what I would expect a claims-handler to do. I dont consider
that RSA fell below a reasonable standard of service in that respect. But I dont think that it
communicated with Mr R as well as it shouldve done.
From my reading of the Cover Booklet, I havent seen any obligation, while Mr Rs car was
being repaired, to provide him with a replacement vehicle, let alone a like-for- like
replacement vehicle.
In any event, Im satisfied that RSA made reasonable efforts to try to find a replacement
vehicle that Mr R was happy with.
Overall, Ive weighed up the shortcomings Ive found in RSAs service, and the effect of them
on Mr R. I find that there were times when he was frustrated by hanging on the telephone
and worried that he wasnt receiving the service he reasonably expected.
Putting things right
RSAs offer to pay compensation of £200.00 is at least as much as it wouldve been 
appropriate for me to direct. I find it fair and reasonable to hold RSA to its offer and to direct 
RSA to pay Mr R (insofar as it hasnt already paid him) £200.00 for distress and 
inconvenience.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I direct Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Limited to pay Mr R (insofar as it hasnt already paid him) £200.00 for distress and
inconvenience.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2022. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman