DRN-3955624
The complaint
Mr N complains that Amtrust Europe Limited unfairly declined a claim he made on his 
commercial property insurance policy.
Reference to Amtrust includes its agents
What happened
Mr N holds a commercial property insurance policy with Amtrust. He was contacted by the 
police after they discovered a cannabis farm on one his properties he let out to a tenant. 
Mr N made a claim for the damage caused to the flat.
Amtrust declined the claim. It said Mr N wasnt covered for any malicious damage caused by 
someone lawfully allowed on the premises. It said the damage was malicious, and likely 
caused by the tenant or someone they let on the premises.
Mr N didnt think this was fair and complained. He said the tenant was known to the police 
and hadnt been charged, so didnt think the damage was likely caused by them.
Amtrust didnt change its stance, so, Mr N brought his complaint to us.
One of our investigators didnt recommend it be upheld. She thought the damage was most 
likely caused by someone lawfully allowed on the premises.
Mr N didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it. I understand this will be disappointing for Mr N. Ill 
explain my reasoning.
Mr Ns policy clearly says hes not covered for Malicious damage caused by a 
person lawfully allowed on Your Premises.
The damage caused by the cannabis farm can be considered malicious. It was 
caused deliberately with little if any regard to the consequences.
The cannabis farm was in the flat above a shop. Mr Ns tenant said he allowed his 
son to look after the property. And when questioned by police the tenant and son fled 
and didnt pay the outstanding rent. I appreciate no arrest have been made, but that 
alone doesnt mean the farm wasnt set up by the tenant, their son or someone else 
known to them.
Ultimately, its not for me, or Amtrust to find or determine exactly who caused the 
damage. Amtrusts role is to determine whether the damage is covered by the policy, 
and my role is to determine whether its decision is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances.
Amtrust thinks that on balance, the damage was caused by someone lawfully on the 
premises. And Im satisfied thats reasonable. Theres no sign of forced entry. And 
anyone allowed access to the property, either actually or implied, is lawfully on the 
premises. So, whether it was the tenant, the tenants son, or someone the tenants 
son let on the property, its likely they were lawfully allowed on the premises.
And I find it more likely that the farm and the subsequent damage was caused by 
someone lawfully on the premises. I find that more likely than someone stealing a 
key and setting up the cannabis farm upstairs in the flat without the tenant or their 
son knowing  and subsequently allowing.
I understand Mr N disagrees and has pointed to the amount of key thefts and the 
access to this property. I understand they think thats more likely on a numbers 
basis. But simple numbers arent the only consideration here. I find it more likely the 
party responsible for the damage was allowed on to the property. The scale of the 
operation would make it occurring undiscovered by the tenant or their son unlikely.
Therefore, Im satisfied Amtrusts decline of this claim on the basis that its malicious 
damage caused by someone lawfully allowed on the premises is fair and reasonable 
and in line with Mr Ns policy.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2023.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman