DRN-3558747
The complaint
Mrs G complains that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) has declined a claim on her motorhomes 
roadside assistance policy. 
What happened
Mrs G says she tried to start the motorhome in November 2021 and found the battery was 
flat. As the motorhome wouldnt start, she called out UKI. UKI sent a mechanic and recovery 
vehicle from a company Ill refer to as R.
R came out to Mrs G and initially diagnosed a fuelling problem. Because the battery was flat, 
Rs mechanic used a booster pack to try and start the engine, which would turn over but 
wouldnt start. 
Mrs G says that Rs mechanic also tried to start the motorhome using jump leads from a 
battery on his recovery vehicle.
The motorhome wouldnt start and Rs mechanic said he thought the battery was dead. So 
the motorhome was recovered a few days later to a garage which Ill call P.
P said that when the motorhome was recovered to it, P couldnt diagnose the problem as the 
motorhome had no power. The motorhome had an isolator switch fitted to the battery as part 
of its conversion and P checked that it was set to on but there was no power to the 
motorhomes systems. 
On raising the bonnet, P commented on a burning smell which itd noticed since the 
motorhome was brought in. P then found that the Engine Control Unit (ECU) had suffered a 
catastrophic failure due to voltage overload.
P also thought other components of the motorhome might have been damaged by the 
voltage overload such as the dashboard.
Mrs G thought that R had caused the damage to her motorhome so she complained. UKI 
investigated the complaint and didnt uphold it. It said R only used a 12 Volt booster pack 
and carried no jump leads, so it couldnt have burned out the ECU. UKI also said that its  
engineer had examined the motorhome and said he couldnt see any scorch marks to the 
battery terminals which he would expect to see if sufficient voltage had been passed through 
them that would have caused the ECU to fail. 
Mrs G paid P to replace the ECU for £2,590.07. The dashboard was also replaced by P for a 
further cost of about £1,500.
Mrs G remained unhappy and brought her complaint to this service. In her view, our 
investigator said she didnt think that either UKI or Mrs G had been able to supply any 
definitive evidence about what had happened so on balance she didnt uphold Mrs Gs 
complaint.
As Mrs G didnt agree with the view, her complaint has been passed to me to make a final 
decision.
I issued a provisional decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. 
This is set out below:
When damage has been caused to a vehicle, its necessary to establish what was the root 
cause. This is important here, because its Mrs Gs responsibility to reasonably prove that 
UKI caused damage to her motorhome. This service must then examine the evidence that 
its been provided and assess what the most likely cause is on the balance of probabilities.
Having read the entire case I can see there are several areas that Mrs G and UKI disagree 
on and this is further complicated by two external companies being involved  R as the 
recovery provider and P as Mrs Gs expert. Ps evidence has also been used by UKI to turn 
down her claim.
Throughout reading this complaint I am minded that Mrs G has told this service that shed 
owned her motorhome for two years before this incident and she hadnt had any problems 
with it before the incident in question. Clearly sometime around the time of the incident there 
was an issue with the motorhome as it had recently passed its MOT, but within two months 
the ECU had been destroyed.
The call out
I can see from UKIs case notes that Mrs G called it out because her motorhome wouldnt 
start. The problem was initially diagnosed by Rs mechanic as a fuelling issue but as the 
battery on the motorhome was flat, Rs mechanic had to carry out a jump start. 
Theres agreement from all parties that Rs mechanic initially tried to start the motorhome 
using a booster pack, which is a 12 Volt pack carried by recovery vehicles which is designed 
to start engines.
Mrs G has said that he couldnt start it with the booster pack on its own so she says Rs 
mechanic found a pair of jump leads in his vehicle and also connected them to her 
motorhome. 
UKIs evidence seems to me to mainly state that the damage caused to the ECU couldnt 
have been caused by its mechanic. I understand that booster packs contain protection 
against components being damaged by a surge of power so its unlikely that was the source 
of it. 
Mrs G thought it likely that Rs mechanic might have caused the damage when he jump 
started the engine, so UKI asked R about this. R told UKI that its vehicles did not carry jump 
leads. It also said that it wouldnt use them, unless it was an emergency, and its mechanics 
would have to obtain these leads from a customer. 
But Mrs G has provided evidence that Rs vehicles do in fact carry these leads. She has 
been able to get other parts of Rs company to explicitly say that its vehicles do carry such 
items, and has provided other circumstantial evidence. She also confirmed that she did not 
possess a set and so Rs mechanic must have brought them with him. Mrs G even describes 
how Rs mechanic was looking for an earth under the bonnet when he had the booster pack 
connected to the battery in the passenger footwell and he struggled looking where to earth 
them from under the bonnet. 
I dont think UKI have done enough to clarify this point. R may well have an internal 
company policy that its vehicles dont carry jump leads, but I would have expected that UKI should have asked for a statement from the actual mechanic who attended Mrs G given the 
extent of the damage.
On balance, Im persuaded by Mrs Gs carefully gathered evidence, alongside her 
description of the mechanics actions, that Rs mechanic did bring a set of jump leads with 
him when he attended Mrs Gs motorhome. And that he did use them to attempt to start it 
alongside the booster pack.
Garages opinion
The motorhome was recovered a few days later to P who noticed the burning smell and 
carried out some diagnostic work.
P said it thought that two options were likely:
The motorhome has an isolator switch that had been fitted as part of the conversion 
work. Rs mechanic wouldnt have been aware of this switch, and if the switch wasnt 
correctly in position then its possible that starting the engine might mean the ECU 
was fried by the current being earthed through it. However, P also pointed out that 
the motorhome had functioned correctly for some time with this switch and its 
associated wiring and P also said that when the vehicle was recovered to it, the 
switch was in the correct position; or
That Rs mechanic had overloaded the ECU by applying too high voltage or current 
when he was trying to start the engine using jump leads.
I can see from Ps evidence that it has tried to present both Mrs G and UKI with opinions as 
to how the damage to the ECU could have been caused. P has also told this service that in 
its opinion if Rs mechanic had the booster pack connected and then applied jump leads 
under the bonnet, that would have applied too much voltage to the electrical system and 
damaged the ECU.
P has also said that if both the jump leads and booster pack were connected correctly, then 
no damage should be caused.
UKIs opinion
UKI have examined photos of the battery provided by Mrs G and have said that having the 
booster pack hooked up incorrectly to the battery then it would have left scorch marks. Mrs 
Gs battery doesnt show any of these so UKI say its very unlikely that Rs mechanic did this 
and caused the damage.
UKI dont seem to have considered whether jump leads could have caused the damage as R 
told it that jump leads werent used.
Did the jump leads cause the spike or was the ECU already damaged?
It falls to me to consider whether UKIs decision to refuse to pay for the damage to the ECU 
and dashboard was fair and reasonable. And from the evidence I have, I dont think it was. 
Having read the notes I think its very unlikely that the ECU was already damaged when Rs 
mechanic attended. I say this because in Rs notes I can see that there was an initial 
diagnosis of fuel injectors stuck open from a diagnostic tool being plugged in. But when the motorhome was later recovered to the garage, P was unable to establish any fault due to the 
ECU being fried and it first needed to change the battery to access the vehicles systems. It 
seems to me that the vehicle systems were therefore operating to some extent when R 
attended, but were unusable shortly afterwards.
I think Ps evidence saying about the burning smell when the motorhome arrived in Ps 
garage is also very persuasive. If the ECU had been burnt out some time before, then I 
would suspect that the smell would have dissipated. But for P to comment on it suggests to 
me that the ECU has been recently damaged, certainly within the previous few days, which 
leads me to think R caused the damage when it tried to start the motorhome.
I have asked Mrs G for an update on the motorhome and she has said that once the ECU 
and dashboard were repaired, there have been no further issues with it. And no problems 
have emerged with the injectors or fuel system.
From the evidence I have, its my opinion that the damage to the motorhome was reasonably 
caused by R on behalf of UKI. So I think its fair to expect UKI to refund Mrs Gs payments to 
replace the ECU and dashboard it damaged.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mrs G agreed with my provisional decision. In further communication, she confirmed that 
shed never used the isolator switch as shed never felt the need to. Whilst this does mean 
that Mrs G didnt check its position before she tried to start her motorhome, I think its 
reasonable to say that the isolator had been in its correct position and had been 
continuously.
Mrs G also advised that she hadnt had the dashboard repaired.
UKI confirmed that Rs mechanic had actually carried jump leads and had used them on Mrs 
Gs motorhome. But UKI stated that the use of the jump leads didnt cause the damage to 
Mrs Gs motorhome and that it was caused by the isolator switch. It says this was confirmed 
by P.
UKI said they thought it was likely that Mrs G had tried to start the motorhome with the 
isolator in the wrong position, or not fully in the correct position, or that she had tried to jump 
start the motorhome herself which had caused the damage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It seems to me that UKI have maintained its position throughout based on two key pieces of 
evidence. The first of those was that it insisted Rs mechanic didnt carry jump leads in their 
recovery kit, and didnt use them when trying to start Mrs Gs motorhome. When Mrs G 
provided evidence that R would routinely have them and that its mechanic used them, UKI 
said that wasnt right. 
After I issued my provisional decision, UKI then confirmed that the jump leads were actually 
carried and had been used by Rs mechanic in conjunction with a jump pack to try to start 
the motorhome. It also said itd used the manufacturers guidelines for jump points, which 
dont account for modifications on a vehicle.
The second key piece of evidence is the isolator switch. UKI said P had confirmed that itd replaced several ECUs for the same issue. I can see from Ps statements, which have been 
provided to this service by both parties, that it has been helpful to both of them at different 
points during the claim and subsequent complaint. 
But because of this, Ps evidence can be contradictory and I think thats an important point I 
need to make. I think Ps evidence is helpful but not persuasive. Having replaced several 
ECUs before seems to indicate a problem may exist with the design and installation of the 
isolator switch; but my understanding of Ps evidence is that it seems to rely on the position 
of the switch itself. And Mrs G has confirmed that she didnt use the isolator switch at all. 
She said she never felt the need to.
So, UKIs position that Mrs G caused the damage by starting the vehicle when the isolator 
switch wasnt in its correct position is, in my view, a moot point. Mrs G has said shed never 
had issues with the motorhome before, so never used the isolator switch. And I can see from 
UKIs evidence that it was in the correct position when recovered to P.
I am minded that Mrs Gs evidence to this service has been clear, consistent and reasonable 
throughout her complaint, and I am very much persuaded by her version of events. 
On balance from the evidence I have, I think its reasonable to say that R caused the 
damage to Mrs Gs motorhome when Rs mechanic tried to start it, so I think its fair and 
reasonable to ask UKI to repair the damage.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct UK 
Insurance Limited to pay Mrs G:
The cost of replacing the damaged ECU, £2,590.07.*
The cost of repairing the dashboard. Its my understanding that Mrs G hasnt had the 
work done, so I ask UKI and Mrs G to liaise and arrange for the work to be done at 
UKIs expense.
* As Mrs G has already paid for the repairs, UKI must also pay interest on the repairs from 
the date Mrs G paid for them, to the date she tells us she accepts my final decision 
(assuming she does) at 8% a year simple.
If UKI considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mrs G how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs G a certificate 
showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2022.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman