DRN-2736434
The complaint
Mr H complains about the amount Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited paid to a third party 
after it made a claim on his motor insurance policy. He complains too about the impact this 
pay out had on his insurance premium at renewal. Reference to Admiral includes its agents.
 
What happened
Mr H was involved in a minor road traffic accident where he hit the back of another van at 
low speed. Mr H notified Admiral of the incident but ultimately didnt claim on his policy for 
the damage to his vehicle. Mr H said the damage was minimal and took pictures of the 
damage to both vehicles at the time of the incident.
Mr H was surprised to find his policy had almost doubled in price when it was time to renew 
it. He contacted Admiral about this. It told him the third party had claimed for the damage to 
their van, and based on the circumstances of the incident, it accepted liability for the incident 
and agreed to pay the third partys claim. Mr H was further surprised that the cost of the third 
partys claim was over £5,000.
Mr H complained to Admiral. He thought it was unreasonable for it to have paid so much on 
the third partys claim. He thought Admiral should have inspected both vehicles. He didnt 
think Admiral had done enough to limit the costs it had paid and didnt think it was fair it 
increased his premium at renewal based on the cost of this claim.
Admiral didnt change its stance. It maintained the amount it paid out was fair, and that the 
premium increase was justified. It agreed it could have done more on the claim in terms of 
customer service and offered Mr H £220 compensation to acknowledge this.
Mr H wasnt happy with this and brought his complaint to us. He didnt think it was fair his 
premiums increased because Admiral had overpaid on the third partys claim.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Hs complaint and didnt recommend it be upheld. He 
thought based on the circumstances Admiral was acting reasonably, in line with Mr Hs 
policy when accepting liability for the incident and paying the third partys claim. He thought 
Admiral was entitled to rely on the report provided by the third partys engineer and thought it 
reasonable it paid the claim based on this report. He also thought the premium at renewal 
was in line with Admirals underwriting criteria.
Mr H disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. He doesnt think its reasonable 
that Admiral paid over £5,000 to the third partys insurer when the damage to his vehicle cost 
just £67 to fix. And he doesnt think its fair how this has impacted the price of his policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint. I understand his strength of feeling, and 
so understand this answer wont be the one he was hoping for. Ill explain my reasoning.
Mr Hs policy says Admiral can Conduct the defence and settlement of any claim... on Mr 
Hs behalf. This means the final say on how any claim, made by Mr H on his policy, or by 
any third party on his policy, lies with Admiral. Naturally this means at times, it might make a 
decision that Mr H isnt happy with.
I understand Mr H has said Admiral hasnt really acted on his behalf, its acted on its own 
behalf. But I disagree. This term allows Admiral to decide whether or not to accept liability for 
any incident, and it allows it to decide what it wants to pay on any claim. If this term wasnt 
there, Admiral would effectively need Mr Hs agreement to accept liability and to agree how 
much to pay out on any claim. This could cause issue because if Mr H disagreed he was at 
fault for a claim, the case would likely end with a court making the finding, increasing the 
cost of insurance for all. This term allows Admiral to settle claims without needing Mr H to 
agree with it, and it is a term we consider fair.
That said, Admiral needs to rely on this term fairly. Which means it needs to carry out a 
sufficient investigation into any claim, and base its decision on all the available evidence. 
And in this case, who was or wasnt responsible for the accident doesnt seem to be in 
dispute. But what is in dispute is the extent of the damage to the third partys vehicle.
I can understand why Mr H is unhappy. He didnt claim for the damage to his vehicle and 
paid for the repair himself at a cost of £67. The total paid on the third partys claim is around 
£5,000 which is a huge difference. Mr H has pictures of the damage to both vehicles. And 
that damage does look minimal. But pictures dont tell the full story.
The third party sent in an engineers report of the damage to their vehicle. This report 
outlines the damage caused and the cost to repair that damage. That report says that due to 
the cost of the repair, and the value of the vehicle, its not recommended the vehicle gets 
repaired. Instead it recommends the vehicle is written off. The cost to write the vehicle off 
was more than the cost to repair it. But its common practice that insurers chose not to repair 
vehicles if the repair costs exceed 60-70% of the vehicles market value. So its fair that the 
third partys insurer wanted to write the vehicle off and look to recover the costs of doing so 
from Admiral. 
I think its reasonable Admiral rely on that report. The engineer who provided it can be 
considered an expert in their field, and the damage being claimed for is consistent with the 
circumstances of the reported incident. I understand Mr H thinks Admiral should have 
instructed an engineer too. But this isnt something it needs to do on every claim. Again, 
doing so would ultimately raise the cost of insurance for all. Where it has concerns with the 
report, its entitled to appoint an engineer of its own. But in this case, it had no concerns. The 
damage was consistent with the reported incident. The report also has pictures, and 
admittedly the pictures dont show a lot of damage, but as mentioned pictures alone dont tell 
the full story. The report explains what parts are damaged, what needs replacing, and the 
cost of the materials and labour to do so. Im satisfied Admiral acted reasonably when it paid 
the costs the third party claimed for.
Ultimately, its in Admiral best interests to not over pay on a claim to a third party. I 
understand Mr H will disagree and argue that itll just pass on those costs to him. But the 
costs Admiral will pay on a claim will likely far outweigh any increase in Mr Hs premium as is 
the case here.
Insurers can choose what factors they consider when pricing a policy. And insurers can 
decide what weight they want to apply to those factors. Allowing insurers to decide what factors it wants to consider and what weight it applies to those factors allows for competition 
in the market. The factors an insurer considers and the weighting it applies to those factors 
is called its underwriting criteria. And that criteria is commercially sensitive information which 
cant be shared.
I understand Mr H isnt happy with the effect this claim has had on his premium. And I can 
see why. His policy was almost double the price when it came to renew. In this case, Mr H 
was involved in an incident, which was deemed his responsibility. The third party made a 
claim for damage which was paid by Admiral. Regardless of how much Admiral paid out, his 
premium was likely to increase as a result of that incident. But as set out above, Im satisfied 
Admiral acted reasonably when paying out the amount it did on this claim. And Ive seen the 
relevant part of Admirals underwriting criteria, and Im satisfied Admiral priced Mr Hs policy 
fairly, in line with that criteria.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2021.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman