DRN-3546090
The complaint
Mr I complains about Big Warranties Ltds (BWL) refusal to provide a refund when he
cancelled the renewal under his household warranty.
What happened
Mr I says his policy was set up in November 2020 to cover two gas hobs. The policy
renewed 12 months later and a payment of £51.02 was taken. Mr I contacted BWL to say he
had asked for the renewal to be cancelled earlier that same day. He then asked for a refund
but was told that wasnt possible.
BWL says Mr I was made aware when he took out the policy that it would contact him 21
days prior to the policy renewal via email. If he wanted to cancel the policy and stop it
renewing, he should make contact within that period.
Mr I referred to the 14-day cooling off period the policy allowed. BWL says this is applicable
for the first 14 days after the policy start date but isnt applicable from subsequent renewal
dates. Mr I didnt think BWL was being fair and referred his complaint to our service.
Our investigator upheld his complaint. She says the policy terms state Mr I can cancel within
14 days of receiving policy documents. They dont say this isnt applicable to renewals.
When the new policy period began in November 2021, a new set of policy documents
shouldve been sent. Our investigator thought this meant Mr I had cancelled his policy within
the 14-day cooling off period allowed by the terms.
BWL disagreed. It says the cooling off period relates to the date the policy documents were
sent in November 2020. This means Mr Is cancellation request was a year too late. Our
investigator responded to say she was maintaining her decision. BWL says the Financial
Conduct Authoritys (FCA) handbook on the right to cancel supports its position. It says this
allows 14 days to cancel from the conclusion of the contract, which it maintains was in
November 2020.
Our investigator didnt change her decision so BWL asked for an ombudsman to consider Mr
Is complaint.
Its been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in April 2022 explaining that I was intending to uphold Mr Is 
complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I note from its final response to Mr Is complaint, that BWL says no refunds are due
and it wont be offering any redress. But in its submission to our service it says Mr I is due a
pro-rata refund minus an administration fee. I cant see that this was explained to Mr I
although this condition is set out on page nine of his policy terms. However, this doesnt
impact on my findings as Ill explain.
I have read through the policy booklet in full to understand whats expected in these
circumstances. The terms say:
If You cancel this Policy within 14 calendar days of receiving policy documents. You will
receive a full refund of any Premiums You have paid to Us.
BWL says that the policy documents were sent in November 2020 when the policy was
originally agreed.
If this is the case, Mr Is request to cancel in November 2021 was 12 months too late.
I have thought about BWLs reference to the FCAs handbook and what this says about
cancelling an insurance policy. The FCA has set out rules and guidance for insurers in the
Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS). ICOBS 7.1 The right to cancel says:
A consumer has a right to cancel, without penalty and without giving any reason, within:
2) 14 days for any other contract of insurance or distance contract.
And:
Start of the cancellation period
The cancellation period begins either:
(1) from the day of the conclusion of the contract, except in respect of a pure protection
contract where the time limit begins when the customer is informed that the contract has
been concluded; or
(2) from the day on which the consumer receives the contractual terms and conditions and
any other pre-contractual information required under this sourcebook, if that is later than the
date referred to above.
BWL says the terms and conditions were sent to Mr I the day after his policy was agreed 
the day of conclusion of the contract - in November 2020. So, according to BWL his request
to cancel In November 2021 is outside the 14-day cancellation period set out here, as well.
I acknowledge BWLs comments, but I dont agree that cancellation rights dont apply in
these circumstances. When the policy renewed in 2021 this was the start of a new contract.
The policy has a new 12-month term and a new premium which had increased from £33.92
to £51.02. I accept that BWL sent an email in October 2021 informing Mr I his policy will
renew within the next 30 days - and provided its contact details should Mr Is circumstances
have changed. But I dont think giving him notice of the renewal, supersedes Mr Is right to
cancel under the ICOBS rules.
The ICOBS rules allowed Mr I to exercise his right to cancel within 14 days of the conclusion
of the new contract. A new contract was concluded in November 2021 and Mr I contacted
BWL well within 14 days. So, I think it was reasonable for him to expect a full refund of the
premium.
In considering all of this, I dont think BWL treated Mr I fairly and it should refund thepremium it collected in full.
I said I was intending to uphold this complaint and BIG Warranties Ltd should:
refund the full premium paid by Mr I for £51.02 plus 8% simple interest from the date
the payment was taken until it is refunded.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
BWL responded to say that Mr Is renewal policy is not a new contract. It says this is an 
extension of an existing contract. Whilst the premium has increased, the level of cover and 
the terms of the policy have not changed, and therefore, this should not be classed as a new 
contract. 
BWL says that Mr I pays quarterly and a pro-rata refund would not be due. It says the terms 
regarding this can be found within the final response letter that it sent to Mr I.
Mr I didnt provide any further comments or information in response to my provisional 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge BWLs comments that Mr Is renewal is not a new contract but rather it is an 
extension of an existing contract. I have thought about its view that a cancellation period 
didnt apply with respect to the ICOBS rules because of this. But I dont agree. 
The policy was originally put into force in November 2020 for a period of 12 months. This 
period ended in November 2021, at which time a new contract period came into force, with a 
higher premium. I can understand BWLs point. The cover provided by the policy was 
effectively the same after renewal as it was before. And BWL had given notice of the 
renewal to Mr I in advance with instructions on how to cancel. 
However, I dont think this means that Mr I wasnt able to exercise his right to cancel the 
policy, within the 14-day period allowed under the ICOBS rules or that the policy terms 
supersede this. A new contract period began in November 2021. I dont think BWL has 
shown that because the cover provided was essentially the same, the new policy entered 
into in November 2021 didnt constitute a new contract. Because of this BWLs further 
comments havent persuaded me that I should change my decision.
BWL says Mr I pays quarterly, and a pro-rata refund is not due. It refers to the policy terms in 
support of this point. 
I have read Mr Is policy terms. The relevant excerpt, which BWL included in its final 
response letter to Mr I, says:
Cancellation of Monthly and Quarterly Policies
You will not be charged any more Monthly or Quarterly Premium amounts but You will not 
receive a refund of any Premium You have paid to Us.
I agree that the policy terms do not provide for a premium refund in these circumstances. But the ICOBS rules do allow Mr I to cancel the policy when he did. Mr I cancelled on the same 
day the policy renewed. The ICOBS rules say:
(1) When a consumer exercises the right to cancel he may only be required to pay, without 
any undue delay, for the service actually provided by the firm in accordance with the 
contract.
(2) The amount payable must not:
(a) exceed an amount which is in proportion to the extent of the service already provided in 
comparison with the full coverage of the contract; and
(b) in any case be such that it could be construed as a penalty.
As Mr I cancelled his policy on the morning of the renewal, under the ICOBS rules, I think 
this reasonably means hes entitled to a refund of the premium that was taken. Because of 
this Im not persuaded that I need to change my decision, and its fair that BWL should 
returns Mr Is premium to him plus 8% simple interest.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Is 
complaint. BIG Warranties Ltd should:
refund the full premium paid by Mr I for £51.02 plus 8% simple interest from the date
the payment was taken until it is refunded.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman