DRN-3124050
The complaint
Mr D, through his representative, complains that Morses Club PLC lent to him irresponsibly. 
What happened
Using information from Morses, here is a brief table of approved loans. Loan 8 was 
withdrawn within 14 days of its inception and the statement of account for that loan indicates
that any monies credited to Mr D were returned and any monies paid by him were refunded.
And so, no loss has been established in relation to loan 8.
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments 
(weekly)Amount Highest Combined 
Repayment**
1 24/09/2016 20/02/2017 33 £300.00 £15.00
2 29/12/2016 26/05/2017 33 £200.00 £25.00
3 20/02/2017 28/07/2017 33 £500.00 £35.00
4 17/08/2017 23/03/2018 33 £800.00 £40.00
5 23/03/2018 26/10/2018 33 £800.00 £50.00
6 23/03/2018 26/10/2018 33 £200.00 £50.00
Five month gap in lending
7 26/03/2019 31/01/2020 52 £1,000.00 £35.00
8 03/09/2019 19/09/2019 33 £400.00 £55.00
**Where loans overlapped, the total weekly repayments due on all active loans has been 
calculated and where applicable, it is reflected in the highest combined repayment column.
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and thought that Morses should put things 
right for Mr D in relation to loans 5 to 8 because he considered that the overall pattern of 
lending was harmful - bearing in mind the type of credit as well as the relevant rules, 
guidance and good industry practice at the time.
Our adjudicator did not have enough information from Mr D about his financial situation for
loans 1 to 4 to be able to make an assessment on those.
Morses agreed that it ought not to have lent to Mr D for loans 5 and 6 but it said that the five
month gap before loan 7 meant that it broke the chain of lending and as such loan 7 should
be assessed differently. It said that loan 8 was withdrawn. So, it disagreed with our
adjudicators view about loans 7 and 8.
This resolution on loans 5 and 6 was put to Mr D but his response was that he agreed with
our adjudicators view and did not accept Morses resolution.
The complaint remained unresolved and was passed to me to decide and I issued a 
provisional decision on 22 November 2021 in which I gave reasons why I thought that 
Morses should put things right for Mr D in relation to loans 5 and 6 only. Morses had already 
agreed to that. 
My provisional findings are set out here in smaller type face to differentiate it. 
My provisional decision dated 22 November 2021
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. We have set out our general approach to complaints about short-
term lending - including all the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Morses needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it did not lend irresponsibly. In practice this 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr D could repay the loans 
in a sustainable manner. These checks could include several different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure.
In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Morses should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was for the consumer.
These factors include:
having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan repayments 
to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a level of income);
having many loans and/or having these loans over a long period of time (reflecting the risk 
that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable);
coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also suggestive 
of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. Our adjudicator thought that this applied to Mr Ds 
circumstances from loan 5. I return to this later in the provisional decision.
Morses was required to establish whether Mr D could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether 
the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. The loan payments 
being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could sustainably make their 
repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This is because the Consumer Credit 
Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being the ability to repay without undue difficulties. The 
customer should be able to make repayments on time while meeting other reasonable commitments, 
and without having to borrow to meet payments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought 
fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower will not be able to make their repayments sustainably 
if they need to borrow further in order to do that.
I have carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context and 
what this all means for Mr Ds complaint.
Mr D has accepted our adjudicators view and so I take it from that acceptance that he agrees with the 
outcome for loans 1 to 4 and as these appear to have been resolved then I have not reviewed them.
As Morses has agreed to put things right for Mr D in relation to loans 5 and 6 then these are resolved 
and I have not reviewed them. The redress section below reflects what I am planning to ask Morses to 
do for loans 5 and 6 as it has agreed to do.
The unresolved loans are 7 and 8. As I outlined in the what happened section of the provisional 
decision, I do not consider that loan 8 is one on which Mr D has suffered a loss. On current evidence 
he withdrew from that loan within the fourteen day entitlement period to do so and I have no evidence to suggest that he was left out of pocket on that loan. And so, I am planning to disregard it for the 
purposes of his irresponsible lending complaint. If Mr D has different evidence about this loan then he 
has two weeks within which to send that additional evidence to me.
Turning to the gap between loans 6 and 7, then I agree with our adjudicator that a five month gap 
after 18 months of lending to Mr D would not  in my view  break the lending relationship and I have 
approached this as one lending chain from September 2016 to September 2019.
However, I do think that the five month gap between loans 6 and 7 does not fit with the concept of 
repetitive lending and so I looked again at loan 7. I think that after 18 months of lending, for Mr D to 
reapply for a £1,000 loan over a 52 week period  the longest term to date - then Morses ought to 
have done more to verify the income and expenditure figures it had obtained from him. I say this 
because of the amount and term of the loan, and the position in the lending relationship at which Mr D 
had reapplied for a large loan. And so, a full financial review of Mr Ds situation was warranted as a 
proportionate check in my view. I do not think Morses did that.
Here is a summary of the figures Mr D gave to Morses for loan 7. The expenditure figures did not 
include any payment commitments towards other loans. It only included rent, utilities, media costs, 
council tax and groceries.
Income Expenditure Disposable income 
£250 £140 £110
I do not consider this to have been enough to demonstrate proportionate checks for a £1,000 loan 
after 18 months. Morses couldve verified his expenditure several ways. It couldve asked for copies of 
his bank statements or it couldve asked to see copies of bills, rent agreement or any other 
documentary evidence that it felt it needed to see.
I dont think Morses carried out a proportionate check before approving loan 7, but for me to be able 
to uphold Mr Ds complaint about loan 7, I would have to be satisfied that had Morses carried out a full 
review, it would likely have discovered that Mr D couldnt afford the repayments he was committed to 
repaying for 52 weeks.
But Mr D has not sent to us any details of his financial situation in March 2019 and so I am not able to 
take this further. On current evidence I am planning not to uphold loan 7 and I make no finding on 
loan 8 as no loss occurred. Mr D can send to us additional financial evidence within two weeks for me 
to review if he wishes.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We have set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Since the provisional decision was issued, we have received Mr Ds response that he 
accepts the findings in it. And so he agree with the outcome that loans 5 and 6 are the ones 
being upheld.
Morses has been sent the provisional decision and we have written to it again recently. We 
have not heard from it but as I know from its earlier response that it was content to agree to 
the uphold outcome on loans 5 and 6 then it its not likely its response would differ when my 
provisional decision came to the same outcome. 
In the circumstances I have decided to issue my final decision which is that I repeat the 
provisional findings and reasoning here so that they become part of this decision. I uphold 
Mr Ds complaint about loans 5 and 6. Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it not lent to Mr D for loans 5 and 6, as Im satisfied it ought not to have. 
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Mr D may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between him and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mr D in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable 
to conclude that Mr D would more likely than not have taken up any one of these options.
So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morses liability in this case for what Im satisfied it has 
done wrong and should put right.
Morses has agreed to put things right for loans 5 and 6 and this is how I plan to direct that it 
does that:
A. Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr D towards 
interest, fees and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third 
party where applicable, but not including anything it has already refunded.
B. Morses should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Mr D which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr D 
originally made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Morses should pay Mr D the total of A plus B.
D. The overall pattern of Mr Ds borrowing for loans 5 and 6 means any information 
recorded about them is adverse, so it should remove these loans entirely from 
Mr Ds credit file. If Morses has sold any of the loans Morses should ask the debt 
purchaser to do the same.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to deduct tax from this interest. Morses should 
give Mr D a certificate showing how much tax Morses has deducted, if they ask for one.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ds complaint in part and I direct that Morses Club PLC 
does as I have outlined above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 Rachael Williams
Ombudsman