DRN-4511787
The complaint
Mr S complains that Loans 2 Go Limited (Loans 2 Go) irresponsibly gave him two loans that 
he couldnt afford. 
What happened
On 27 September 2019 Mr S applied for a loan with Loans 2 Go. The loan was for £500, the 
term 18 months and it was repaid on 19 November 2019. I will refer to this as Loan 1.
On 18 December 2019 Mr S applied for a loan with Loans 2 Go. The loan was for £300, the 
term 18 months and it was repaid on 19 November 2019. I will refer to this as Loan 2.
In 2023, Mr S complained to Loans 2 Go to say that the loan accounts shouldnt have been 
opened for him because they werent affordable. Loans 2 Go declined to uphold the 
complaint and Mr S brought his complaint to us.
Our investigator thought that the complaint about both loans should be upheld. Loans 2 Go 
agreed that Loan 2 was unreasonable lending. But they disagreed that Loan 1 was 
unreasonable. So, the complaint passed to me to decide. 
As there appeared to be no argument about the unreasonableness of Loan 2, I had little to 
say about it in my provisional decision.
I issued my provisional decision on 24 November 2023 in which I said that I did not intend 
to uphold the complaint about Loan 1 but did intend to uphold the complaint about Loan 2. 
I set out an extract below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive read and considered the whole file, 
but Ill confine my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific 
point, its not because Ive failed to consider it but because I dont think I need to comment 
on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider context. My remit is to 
take an overview and decide whats fair in the round. 
Loans 2 Go will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
Mr S thinks the lending for Loan 1 was not reasonable. So, it is my job to see if I think Mr S 
is entitled to more redress than he has already been offered. So, I need say no more about 
the lending for Loan 2, except to say that I agree that that lending decision was 
unreasonable. So, this decision will now focus on the provision of Loan 1. 
Having considered all the submissions made in this case, I dont think that Mr S is entitled to 
more than he has already been offered. Ill explain why I say that. 
Mr Ss complaint is that Loans 2 Go made credit available that was unaffordable. Loans 2 
Go has explained that it relied in part on information that Mr S provided at the time of 
application to assess affordability. Mr S told Loans 2 Go that he was employed with a take 
home income of £1,600 per month. Loans 2 Go were entitled to rely on the information Mr S 
declared to them in the completion of his application, to an extent. 
Even so, Loans 2 Go tested the income by referring it to a credit reference agency that 
obtained details of Mr Ss monthly net income from his current account turnover. From that 
Loans 2 Go had confirmation that money was indeed coming into Mr Ss bank account, but 
that there was less of it than Mr S declared. But the loan was for a modest amount 
compared to Mr Ss income and existing financial commitments and the monthly payments 
for that credit were also relatively modest. 
Based on the modest lending that Loans 2 Go was being asked to offer, I do not think they 
needed to look more deeply into Mr Ss finances at that time. But had they done so, I dont 
think Loans 2 Go would have changed their mind about providing modest lending. I say that 
because, having seen the bank statements that Mr S has provided, I have noted that they 
show that Mr Ss account enjoyed regular payments made into it. 
I have also considered that Loans 2 Go said they carried out a credit search in Mr Ss name 
to assess his level of debt at that time and to understand how he had been managing that 
debt. With that information and using their own scoring metric, Loans 2 Go decided to agree 
to the loan of £500. The Loans 2 Go checks showed that Mr S had only a modest amount of 
other borrowings compared to his income. So, there was some assessment of affordability at 
the time of the lending decision. And I consider the checks to have been proportionate for 
such a modest amount of credit. 
And I have noted that Loans 2 Go told us they found some adverse records on Mr Ss credit 
file. Mr S was engaged in an arrangement to pay on an account. I dont necessarily see this 
as an example of financial difficulty so bad as to make the lending on Loan 1 unreasonable. 
It could be argued that the arrangement to pay was evidence of someone taking steps that 
could be called sensible to manage themselves out of financial difficulty. And so, I am not 
persuaded that this ought to have barred Mr S from being considered and approved for more 
credit because of it. 
And so, I dont think that the information that Loans 2 Go had at the time of the lending 
decision, would have led them to feel they ought to make more searching enquiries of Mr Ss 
financial situation. 
I have to look at the information that was available to Loans 2 Go at the time it made its 
lending decisions and not to use hindsight. And I have seen insufficient evidence that the 
other information that Loans 2 Go acquired or had presented to it at the time of the lending 
decision, would have led them to think that the relatively modest credit they were offering 
was unreasonable. 
So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, I have seen insufficient 
evidence to think that Loan 1 was unreasonable. Because I think the loan was reasonable, I 
think the redress that Loans 2 Go should pay should be for Loan 2 only and should be as 
detailed below. 
Putting things right  what Loans 2 Go needs to do 
To settle Mr Ss complaint Loans 2 Go should do the following:To add up the total amount of capital Mr S received as a result of having been given 
Loan 2. If any repayments were made these should be deducted from this amount.
Any overpayments should be refunded along with 8% simple interest (calculated from
the date the overpayments were made until the date of settlement). 
To remove any negative information recorded on Mr Ss credit file as a result of the 
interest and charges on Loan 2.
If HSBC considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from
that interest, it should tell Mr S how much its taken off. It should also give Mr S a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customer if appropriate.
I asked the parties to the complaint to let me have any further representations that they 
wished me to consider by 8 December 2023. Both parties have acknowledged receiving the 
decision and told us they did not want to make any further submissions. So, Im proceeding 
to my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered afresh all the submissions made to me in this case and given that theres 
no new information for me to consider following my provisional decision, I have no reason to 
depart from those provisional findings. So, I have nothing further to add. 
Putting things right
Loans 2 Go Limited should put things right in the way set out above.
My final decision
For the reasons set out, my decision is that the lending on Loan 2 was not reasonable and 
so I uphold that part of the complaint. Loans 2 Go Limited should put things right in the 
way set out above. For the reasons given above, I have seen insufficient reason to uphold 
the complaint about Loan 1.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2024. 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman