DRN-3853760
The complaint
Mr M complained that he was given unsuitable advice to transfer his defined benefit (DB) 
British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS), to a type of personal pension plan, in 2017.
Openwork Limited is responsible for answering this complaint and so to keep things 
consistent, Ill refer mainly to Openwork.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ms employer announced that it would be examining options to 
restructure its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation 
with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, which 
included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined 
benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could transfer their 
benefits to a personal pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) made the announcement that the terms of 
a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said 
that, if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new 
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Ms employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were being sent a Time to Choose letter which 
gave them the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to BSPS2 
or transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choices was 
11 December 2017 (and was later extended to 22 December 2017). 
Mr M was concerned about what the announcement by his employer meant for the security 
of his preserved benefits in the BSPS. He was unsure what to do and was referred to 
Openwork which is responsible for providing the pension advice. Information gathered about 
his circumstances and objectives at the time of the recommendation were broadly as follows:
Mr M was 57 years old, married and had no financial dependents. He had accrued 
over 31 years worth of service with BSPS.
The cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of Mr Ms BSPS was approximately 
£677,900. The normal retirement age (NRA) was 65.
Mr M had another pension which was a newly started defined contribution (DC) 
scheme. He also had some additional voluntary contributions (AVCs) valued at 
approximately £18,000. Mrs M also had pensions of her own which consisted of a DB 
scheme with an estimated annual pension of around £10,766 per year, and also a 
DC scheme with around £72,000 in it. 
Mr and Mrs M earned around £45,000 and £34,000 per year respectively and lived in 
a home they owned outright. They had no other debts recorded. They had around 
£59,000 in joint savings.
Openwork set out its advice in a suitability report on 3 December 2017. In this Openwork 
advised Mr M to transfer out of the BSPS and invest the funds in a type of personal pension 
plan. Openwork said this would allow Mr M to achieve his objectives. Mr M accepted this 
advice and so transferred out. In 2022 Mr M complained to Openwork about its advice, 
saying he shouldnt have been advised to transfer out to a personal pension but Openwork 
didnt uphold his complaint. 
Mr M then referred his complaint to our Service. One of our investigators looked into the 
complaint and said it should be upheld. In response, Openwork said it hadnt done anything 
wrong and was acting on the financial objectives Mr M had at the time. 
As the complaint hasnt been resolved, its come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Openwork's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability and the provisions in COBS 19 which 
specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.
I have further considered that the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in 
COBS 19.1.6 that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is 
unsuitable. So, Openwork should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly 
demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Ms best interests. 
Ive used all the information we have to consider whether transferring away from the BSPS 
to a personal pension was in Mr Ms best interests. In particular, I have also carefully 
considered the final response letter from Openwork. Ive carefully considered too, the 
various other responses made to the points contained within our investigators view.
Having done all this, Im upholding Mr Ms complaint. Introductory issues
After our investigator issued their view letter, Openwork produced what it says was 
evidence from a Review that was carried out by the financial regulator (the FCA). As the 
FCA Review appeared to have a substantially different tone and outcome as that 
recommended by our investigator, Openwork asks how this can be. I understand the point 
being made.
The comments Ive been shown about the FCA Review are generic ones, although I accept 
they portray an apparent degree of satisfaction from the reviewer about the file in question.  
However, Im not aware of the full terms of reference of the FCA Review, the depth it went 
into, or whether it was making any judgement about whether the advice here was ultimately 
suitable. The Review was also carried out without the benefit of Mr Ms later points of 
complaint which means it is one-dimensional and not reflective of his complaint as it is now.
My role also isn't to provide an analysis of the regulator's actions and we dont have the 
same function. Unlike the FCA for example, our job is not a regulatory one. We are tasked 
with looking beyond simply whether a firm has complied with its basic regulatory 
requirements. Instead, we consider information from all parties and decide, while having 
regard for relevant law and regulations, what we consider to be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint. 
So, I dont think the fact that the regulator had evidently carried out a separate Review 
impacts on my consideration about this particular complaint. Nor does it prevent me from 
reaching my findings independently of the FCAs previous considerations. And having done 
so, for the reasons set out above, I'm satisfied that Openworks recommendation that Mr M 
should transfer away from his DB scheme wasnt in his best interests. In my view, the advice 
he was given wasnt suitable for him for the reasons Ill now set out below. 
I think its also important to clearly set out that Openwork commissioned a transfer analysis 
in late 2017. Ive used Openworks transfer analysis document  often referred to as a 
TVAS - which is dated 29 November 2017 to help me look into Mr Ms complaint. However, 
it seems to me that Openwork used the existing BSPS to make comparisons against even 
though we know that staying in the BSPS wasnt an option going forward for him; Mr M 
needed to decide whether to move to the BSPS2, the PPF or transfer away completely to a 
personal pension arrangement. 
Using the BSPS in the TVAS was therefore basing the comparison on old data and 
therefore not giving Mr M the most up to date information available. I accept there was some 
uncertainty at the time, but as of November 2017 it seemed very likely that the BSPS2, for 
example, was going to be going ahead. Mr M had also been sent his Time to Choose 
document by the pension trustees. Nevertheless, we do also know that the BPS2 
comparisons would have been somewhere between the old scheme (BSPS) and the PPF 
although much nearer to the former.
I also want to point out that this was, by most standards, a large pension. Openwork also 
charged a considerable amount for its advice so clearly it was of the utmost importance that 
all the analysis was up to date and reflective of all the options Mr M had.
I also think its important for me to point out that Mr M was 57 at the time of this advice. The 
relevance of this is that he was intending to retire quite soon. Hed mentioned 58-to-60 as 
being a possible age range at which he would retire and this coincided with Mrs M starting to 
wind down her own work commitments, although she was a little younger than Mr M. Ive 
borne this in mind when looking at the analysis and comparisons from the time. I dont think there was ever any real doubt that Mr M would retire early, so the comparisons in the TVAS 
against a retirement at the age of 60, rather than 65, are much more relevant in his case.
Financial viability 
Openwork referred in its TVAS and suitability report to critical yield rates. The critical yield is 
essentially the average annual investment return that would be required on the transfer 
value - from the time of advice until retirement - to provide a fund large enough to give the 
same annuity benefits as the DB scheme. The critical yield comparison was a requirement 
from the regulator at the time when advising clients on DB transfers. Its also important to 
point out that the critical yield comparison is only one of a number of different metrics Ive 
used to compare the different schemes. 
Openwork said that the critical yield required to match the benefits of the BSPS at the age of 
60 was 18.8%. This was based on him taking a tax-free lump sum and a reduced pension 
upon retiring, which I think is fair. If retiring under the PPF at 60, the critical yield was 10%.
I think these yields should have immediately shown the adviser that if retiring at around the 
age of 60, then the chances were that Mr M would be highly likely to receive lower overall 
benefits in retirement. I say this with the following in mind. 
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017 and it 
was only 2.7% per year for around 2 years to retirement (age 60), which is well below the 
critical yield figures Ive referred to above. Even if assuming Mr M did work on a little longer, 
which would give him more time to smooth out his investment returns, the discount rate for 
a retirement at 65 was still only 3.4%. This therefore implies that reaching a rate of growth 
that made transferring worthwhile from a financial perspective, was very unlikely when 
viewed from the prism of 2017 and the economic picture at that time. 
In its final response letter to Mr M about his complaint Openwork referred to an annual 
growth rate of only 3% being required. This comes from a phone call meeting Mr M had 
with the adviser at the time. However, this isnt comparing like-with-like as it isnt comparing 
the recommended personal pension with the full range of guarantees and benefits found in 
Mr Ms existing BSPS or the opportunities he would have had with either BSPS2 or the PPF. 
Quoting a growth rate of only 3% therefore needed to be accompanied by a substantial 
warning about what was actually being compared.
Ive also kept in mind that the regulator's upper investment growth projection rate at the time 
was 8%, the middle projection rate was 5%, and the lower projection rate was 2% although 
these hadnt been updated for some time. Bond yields and interest rates had been very low 
for years, so if anything the projected returns would realistically be lower. Openwork itself 
offers no explanation as to how reaching growth levels of around 10% or above would be 
possible and dismisses the use of the critical yield comparison as a blunt tool. However, I 
dont agree with this and in any event, this was a comparison it was obliged by the regulator 
to provide. To dismiss it completely is therefore not reasonable in my view.At the time, Openwork assessed Mr Ms attitude to risk (ATR) as balanced. Ive seen other 
comments on the documentation which in my view show Mr M being someone who didnt 
want to introduce much risk into his financial portfolio. I therefore dont think the adviser had 
enough information or evidence to recommend transferring away from a DB scheme based 
on a financial comparison basis. I say this because the growth assumptions close to the 
regulators lower / middle projections and also to the discount rate were most relevant here 
in my view. So, I think growth assumptions of around 2 -to-5% were much more realistic. 
These were significantly below the critical yield figures for the BSPS and I believe they would 
have been well below those for the BSPS2 and the PPF too, so I think this showed that 
achieving the critical yield(s), year-on-year, upon transferring out, was very unlikely. The 
likelihood was that although close to retirement, Mr M still probably had another couple of 
years left at work.
Even if I were to accept the chances of reaching even the lower PPF critical yield of 10% 
was slightly better than reaching that of the existing BSPS, Id still need to factor in that there 
would be costs and charges associated with a personal pension which were not present in 
the DB scheme Mr M had (or one which he was able to move into in due course such as the 
BSPS2 or PPF). And in any event, there would be little point in transferring - from a financial 
comparison point of view  unless there were clear indications that growth would comfortably 
exceed the critical yield rate and so cope with any additional fees.
Ive also noted that using the anticipated retirement age of 60 under the PPF, Openworks 
own transfer analysis said that in order to purchase an annuity to provide benefits of equal 
value to the estimated benefits provided by the scheme, the fund required was £811,098. 
Because this figure is well above Mr Ms CETV, it represents, in my view, a revealing 
window into the value of the guaranteed pension Mr M could be giving up by transferring 
away to a personal plan.
I therefore think its fair to say that from a financial comparison perspective, Openworks own 
figures showed that transferring to a personal pension plan would mean Mr M would likely 
receive lower pension benefits in the longer term, when compared against the available DB 
scheme. 
Ive also considered some projections Openwork used to help show that if he transferred out 
to a personal plan, the funds could last Mr M well into retirement. Again, I think most of these 
were based on growth projections which were based on past performance and they also ran 
out at certain ages, whereas Mr Ms DB scheme was guaranteed for life. Its also fair to say 
these were not comparing like-with-like. What Openwork was showing Mr M were 
comparisons with plans which lacked the guarantees and benefits of a DB scheme. 
Of course, according to Openwork, its recommendation that he should transfer out to a 
personal pension was not wholly based on the financial comparisons with his current 
scheme alone. Rather, Openwork said Mr M also had other reasons to transfer away. Ive 
therefore thought about all the other considerations which might have meant a transfer was 
suitable for him, despite providing the overall lower benefits mentioned earlier. 
Ive considered these below. 
Other reasons for transferring
Openwork recommended a transfer to a personal pension plan based on what it said were 
Mr Ms wider objectives. The suitability report mentioned that retiring earlier than 65 was 
something Mr M was very much hoping to do and I accept this was likely. I have also used 
all the documents we still have from the advice sessions to summarise the following themes 
as supporting the recommendation to transfer away. The following areas were set out in the suitability report effectively justifying the recommendation to transfer (which Ive 
summarised):
Mr M would be able to alter the timing of drawing his pension benefits to more suit his 
needs in retirement if he transferred to a personal pension plan.
Mr M would gain control over his pension and the investments if he transferred away.
He could access a higher tax-free lump sum.
The death benefits in a personal arrangement were better for him.
Openwork also said hed benefit from: 
Reduced investment risk by diversifying investments across a broad range of 
securities.
Having a spread of different fund management groups and asset managers who are 
best equipped to manage assets across the funds.
The lowest cost way to invest in a well-diversified range of funds that provides 
excellent value for money.
So, it seems the supporting reasons that Openwork recommended the transfer out to a 
personal pension was broadly for the flexibility and control it offered to Mr M. I have therefore 
considered these issues in turn. 
Flexibility
The adviser promoted a transfer partly to allow Mr M to retire early. They said Mr M had 
wanted to take control of your pension savings into a private arrangement and have the 
option to withdraw them as and when you need. But whilst there is nothing intrinsically 
wrong with such an objective, the adviser hadnt established any need for Mr Ms pension to 
be flexible to the extent that hed need to alter his income each year. In fact, looking carefully 
at all Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances, I think the opposite was true: what appeared to best fit 
their circumstances was a steady and dependable income in retirement. In my view, 
irreversibly giving up a DB pension scheme wasnt in Mr Ms best interests.
For example, no case whatsoever was made out for a flexible income and in any case 
flexibility wasnt really defined by the adviser. Instead, Mr and Mrs M had come up with an 
annual income figure which they said theyd need each year in retirement for them to 
maintain a reasonable standard of living and this broadly matched their current outgoings. 
So, Ive seen nothing explaining why Mr M wouldnt want to continue membership of a DB 
scheme and to use that scheme in exactly the way it was originally intended.
I say this because all the indications were that Mrs M could achieve most of their joint 
income requirements upon Mr Ms retirement from her current income sources as shed still 
be working. And shed have yet to access her own pension savings. 
An annual aspirational income of around £18,000 in retirement was mentioned in the fact 
find, but I think this might have been a net requirement, rather than a gross figure. So Ive 
therefore assumed a gross figure of around £24,000 per year as being the approximate 
amount of income Mr and Mrs M would need after Mr M took retirement from the steel 
industry and started to draw his benefits. It seems Mrs M would meet over half of their required amount meaning that the remaining income gap would need to be filled by Mr M 
and his pension income going forward. 
However, the figures showed that this would be easily achievable if Mr M moved to the PPF 
and retired close to his 60th year. Openworks own analysis showed that an annual pension 
in the PPF at the age of 60 would have been around £18,000  and this is with Mr M also 
accessing a six-figure tax-free lump sum upon his retirement. We know Mr and Mrs M 
already had substantial liquid savings between them, and there was no mention of a known 
need for a further or large capital sum. So I therefore think all the evidence was pointing to 
Mr and Mrs M being able to enjoy a reasonable retirement whilst him still maintaining all the 
benefits and guarantees of a DB type scheme. Mrs M would have probably retired sometime 
after Mr M and then switched on her own pensions. Both also expected full state pensions at 
the ages of 66 and 67 respectively.
All this means that I dont think theres anything showing Mr and Mrs Ms combined pension 
entitlements in both the DB and DC schemes wouldnt have fairly easily met their anticipated 
future income requirements when retired. This could be achieved without any need for Mr M 
to transfer away from a DB scheme. Of course, we know Mr M also had joined the new 
TATA DC scheme. I think its easy to discount this scheme because it had only really just 
started. However, it already had around £3,750 in it and there were substantial contributions 
from both him and his employer going in every month  some 16% of his overall salary. So 
even around two more years would see reasonable amounts going in, and hopefully, some 
modest growth. Mr M also had an AVC fund with around £18,000 in it.  
I therefore think that by retirement, whenever it eventually came, Mr M could have been in 
an agreeable position. On one hand hed have an existing deferred DB scheme of very 
considerable value. This would contain all the guarantees and benefits that such schemes 
normally bring which tend to include a promise to pay a known pension for life. Significant 
indexation guarantees also existed within BSPS2 and the PPF. On the other hand, hed 
have also built up a modest DC scheme total; its not unreasonable to say the total would 
have been over £30,000 by retirement. So if Mr M ever found he needed some flexibility, 
then hed be able to use the latter, rather than transferring away from the former. He and Mrs 
M also had cash savings.
Ive also seen no evidence that Mr M had either the true capacity or desire to exercise 
personal control over his funds. With his DB scheme, Mr M was being offered the 
opportunity to transfer to the new BSPS2 or PPF. Its true there were some differences in 
these schemes when compared to the original BSPS, but they remained DB type schemes 
nonetheless and were run for him by trustees. 
I accept that Mr M may have had an understanding of pensions and a reasonable grasp of 
wider financial matters. But theres no evidence he was an experienced money market 
investor. In fact, the documents Ive seen clearly say he was inexperienced. He had started 
another (DC) pension as a consequence of the BSPS being closed to new contributions 
several months before this advice was given. But Ive seen nothing showing the investment 
strategy for this pension was anything other than an off the shelf mix of investments 
commonly found in most company DC schemes. I think Mr M would have found the 
complexity, scale and responsibility of managing over £677,000 of his own transferred funds 
from his DB scheme to be onerous in the years ahead. This was a very large amount of 
money and what Ive seen tends to show Mr M would have required ongoing financial advice 
and support, all of which would cost him money which his DB scheme didnt require from 
him. 
Achieving higher tax-free cashI think Openwork promoted to Mr M that he could access more tax-free cash if he transferred 
to a personal pension plan. It said hed be able to access 25% of his pension as a lump-sum 
and that this was much more than hed get with the DB scheme. It said hed then be able to 
use the remaining funds more flexibly. 
Its usually the case that more tax-free cash can be accessed from a personal pension when 
compared against a DB scheme; this is because the values and benefits of the two schemes 
are calculated differently. But Openwork should have been telling Mr M at the time that extra 
tax-free lump sums being removed from a personal pension also came with consequences 
in that the amount left for his later retirement years would obviously decrease. 
I therefore dont think that accessing tax-free cash should have been used as rationale for 
Mr M transferring away from a DB scheme. The implication was that more tax-free cash 
would mean more money but as Ive shown above, this needed to be explained very 
carefully. What the higher tax-free cash meant was that his overall pension benefits were 
just being paid differently. And as Ive said, Mr M already had £59,000 in joint savings and 
would have released an even larger (tax-free) sum upon retiring from either the BSPS2 or 
PPF.
There was no indication that Mr M needed access to a large amount of tax-free cash and 
Ive considered the financial and economic environment during which this advice was given. 
In 2017, we were in a period of sustained ultra-low interest rates, low inflation and low bond 
yields. I therefore think the case for retaining a large cash amount which he didnt appear to 
have any use for was very weak, particularly when considering what Mr M would be giving 
up to access that extra cash.
Death benefits 
Death benefits are an emotive subject. When asked, I think most people would like their 
loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The BSPS2 and PPF contained certain 
benefits payable to his spouse if Mr M died. The benefits included related to both pre-
retirement and post-retirement and I see no need to set them out in detail here. However, as 
an example, Mrs M would have been entitled to 50% of Mr Ms pension whilst in payment, if 
he pre-deceased her. This would have lasted for the rest of her life.
I think the value of these benefits were most likely underplayed because the spouses 
pension provided by the BSPS2 or PPF would have been useful to Mrs M as Ive seen no 
evidence of why shed need a lump sum instead. Its true she had her own pensions, but 
overall whilst these were decent amounts, they couldnt be classed as high pensions. I 
therefore think his wife would have found an ongoing annual pension a source of comfort 
and security if Mr M passed away first. This was guaranteed and it escalated  it was not 
dependent on investment performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal 
pension was.
I think the adviser discussed with Mr M that hed be able to pass on the value of a personal 
pension, potentially tax-free, to anyone he nominated. So, the lump sum death benefits on 
offer through a personal pension was probably made to look like an attractive feature to him. 
But I cant see there was a clear direction from Mr M specifying that hed be wanting to pass 
on benefits to anyone other than his wife. And whilst I appreciate death benefits are 
important to consumers, and Mr M might have thought it was a good idea to transfer the 
BSPS to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to advise him about what 
was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily designed to provide income in 
retirement rather than to pass on to someone after death. Mr M was still only 57 and was in good health. An obvious drawback with a personal plans 
death benefits is that the amount left to pass on  to anyone  may be substantially reduced 
as the pensioner starts to withdraw his or her retirement income. To this end, if Mr M had 
lived a long life there could be very little left in his personal pension plan. However, Mr M 
could also have nominated a beneficiary of any funds remaining in his other DC schemes. 
I cant say if, or the extent to which, life insurance was discussed. At 57, a short term 
insurance policy might also still have been affordable. So, if a lump sum, rather than an 
annual pension really was so important, this might have been a useful product in the medium 
term if Mr M passed away first. It could have been a source of payment, for example, if Mr M 
passed away before Mrs M reached state pensionable age. So, to this end, Mr M already 
had some alternative options if he really did want to leave a cash lump-sum legacy, although 
we know that they had access to reasonable amounts of cash comprising their existing 
savings and the likely tax-free lump sum if Mr M took a reduced pension from either the 
BSPS2 or PPF.
Overall, in this case I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a 
personal pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr M. I think this 
objective, listed as it was in the suitability report, was no more than a generic comment and 
not meaningful to Mr Ms situation. 
Concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme 
Its clear that Mr M, like many employees of his company, was concerned about his pension. 
His employer had recently made the announcement about its plans for the scheme and 
Openwork said he lacked trust in the company. Hed heard negative things about the PPF 
and Openwork said he could have more control over his pension fund. So, I think its quite 
possible that Mr M was also leaning towards the decision to transfer because of the 
concerns he had about his employer and a negative perception of the PPF. However, it was 
Openworks obligation to give Mr M an objective picture and recommend what was in his 
best interests. By the point of the advice being delivered details of BSPS2 were known and it 
seemed likely it was going ahead. So, I think this should have alleviated any concerns about 
the scheme moving to the PPF.
However, even if there was a chance the BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead, I think that Openwork 
should have reassured Mr M that the scheme moving to the PPF wasnt as concerning as he 
thought. The income available to Mr M through the PPF would have still probably provided a 
significant portion of the income he would have needed at retirement, and he was still 
unlikely to be able to exceed this by transferring out, given his ATR and the effect of pension 
charges and fees. And although the increases in payment in the PPF were lower, the income 
was still guaranteed and was not subject to any investment risk. So, I dont think that these 
concerns should have led to Openworks recommendation to Mr M to transfer out of the DB 
scheme altogether.
Other issues
I mentioned above, three bullet-pointed themes Openwork put forward at the time of the 
advice which it told Mr M you will benefit from as a result of transferring. But I think these 
were just some of the consequences of transferring. Essentially, Mr M didnt really benefit 
from any reduced investment risk by diversifying investments across a broad range of 
securities because if hed remained in a DB type scheme all this type of thing was looked 
after for him. Also, his money was already likely invested in a spread of different fund 
management groups and asset managers. And the lowest costs Mr M would incur was by 
not transferring but by moving to either the BSPS2 or the PPF; there were next to no costs involved in this for Mr M. Therefore, the adviser raising these apparently positive issues was 
completely meaningless.
Suitability of investments 
Openwork recommended that Mr M invest his funds in a personal pension. As Im upholding 
the complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt suitable for Mr M 
and I dont think he would have insisted on transferring out of the scheme if clear advice had 
been given to him, it follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the investment 
recommendation. This is because he should have been advised to remain in a DB scheme 
and so the investment in the new funds wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice had been 
given. 
Summary
I dont think the advice given to Mr M was suitable. He was giving up a guaranteed, risk-free 
and increasing income within either the BSPS2 or PPF. By transferring to a personal 
pension, the evidence shows Mr M was likely to obtain lower retirement benefits. And as Ive 
comprehensively explained, I dont think there were any other particular reasons which 
would justify the transfer and outweigh this. So I think Openwork ought to have advised him 
against transferring away from the BSPS for these reasons.
Openwork was the regulated party here. So its job wasnt to transact what Mr M  an 
inexperienced person in these matters  might have thought was a good idea. It was being 
paid a substantial fee for the advice and the advisers job was to look carefully into Mr Ms 
circumstances and make recommendations that were in his best interests. For the reasons 
Ive given, I think there were shortcomings in many areas.
In certain cases, usually where the consumer is closer to their chosen retirement age, the 
PPF offered the more attractive retirement tax-free lump sum and ongoing annual pension. 
Our investigator pointed out that this scenario appeared to apply here. So I think Mr Ms 
circumstances here were aligned to him transferring to PPF and retiring from that when he 
felt he was ready to do so. I dont think it was in Mr Ms best interests for him to transfer to a 
personal pension when he had the opportunity of opting into the PPF. 
I have considered, given the circumstances of the time, whether Mr M would have 
transferred to a personal pension in any event. I accept that Openwork disclosed some of 
the risks of transferring to Mr M, and provided him with a certain amount of information. But 
ultimately it advised Mr M to transfer out, and I think Mr M relied on that advice. Im not 
persuaded that Mr M would have insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme, against 
Openworks advice as this pension accounted for almost all of his retirement provision at the 
time. I think if Openwork had provided him with clear advice against transferring out of the 
DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I think he would have accepted 
that advice.
In light of the above, I think Openwork should compensate Mr M for the unsuitable advice, 
using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr M, as far as possible, 
into the position he would now be in but for Openworks unsuitable advice. I consider Mr M 
would have most likely opted to join the PPF, rather than transfer to the personal pension if he'd been given suitable advice and compensation should be based on an early retirement 
age of 60. Openwork should use the benefits offered by the PPF for comparison purposes.
Openwork must then undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
Openwork should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A 
copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr M and our Service upon completion 
of the calculation together with supporting evidence of what Openwork based the inputs into 
the calculator on.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ms 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Openwork should:
calculate and offer Mr M redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr M before starting the redress calculation that:
- the redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest the redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr M receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr M accepts Openworks offer to calculate how much of the redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr M for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of the redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ms end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr M as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, Openwork may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum 
payments to take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their 
pension. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would 
have been taxed according to Mr Ms likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 
20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.Our investigator recommended that Openwork should pay Mr M for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the unsuitable advice. I have considered the impact this would 
likely have had on Mr M in his particular circumstances. This pension at the time represented 
most of his retirement provision and it was a very large amount. In his situation I think the 
thought of losing material benefits would have impacted upon Mr M. So I agree the 
recommended payment of £300 for distress and inconvenience. Openwork should pay Mr M 
this amount in addition to the redress Ive set out above.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I am upholding this complaint and I now direct Openwork 
Limited to pay Mr M the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
Openwork Limited pays Mr M the balance. I would additionally recommend any interest 
calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr M.
If Mr M accepts my final decision, the money award becomes binding on Openwork Limited. 
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr M can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr M may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2023.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman