The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complained that they were mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy associated with their mortgage by HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC).
What happened
In July 2000 Mr and Mrs M took out a mortgage with HSBC. 
In 2013 Mr and Mrs M contacted HSBC to check if they had been mis-sold PPI. HSBC at the 
time said it could not identify a policy had been sold with their mortgage. 
However, in 2019 HSBC reviewed some of its cases and found that it had not always 
checked with the insurer if a PPI policy had been in place. In the case of Mr and Mrs M when 
a check was made the insurer indicated there had been PPI taken out.
The information provided indicated that at the same time Mr and Mrs M took out their 
mortgage in July 2000 they also took out a PPI policy to cover only Mr M. This policy was 
free for six months. At the end of the free period in January 2001 the policy was cancelled.
Then in October 2001 Mr and Mrs M took out a new PPI policy.  This policy covered Mr M 
only, for a benefit to be paid if he was off work through sickness or accident or was made 
unemployed. This PPI policy was cancelled in November 2002. 
In September 2019 having found out about the PPI on Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage HSBC 
contacted them and told them of the error that had been made in 2013. It said in relation to 
the policy taken out at the same time as the mortgage, that Mr and Mrs M hadnt made any 
payments for the policy so it was not considering the matter further.
HSBC wrote again to Mr and Mrs M in February 2020 about the second policy taken out in 
2001 and said it didnt think this policy had been mis-sold and wasnt upholding the 
complaint.
Mr and Mrs M were unhappy with what HSBC said, so brought their complaint to this 
service. 
Our adjudicator said they didnt think the PPI was mis-sold and what HSBC had said was 
fair. 
Mr and Mrs M remained unhappy and asked for an ombudsman to consider their complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
DRN-1866381Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ms case.
With regard to the first policy taken out at the same time as the mortgage in July 2000, Mr 
and Mrs M have said that if HSBC has shown nothing was paid for this policy then they 
accept that and agree there is no need to further consider this policy as no compensation 
would be due. 
I would reassure Mr and Mrs M that I have seen the computer records relating to this policy 
and these clearly indicate that when the free six-month period for the PPI ended, the policy 
was cancelled In January 2001. These records also indicate that no premiums were ever 
paid by Mr and Mrs M for this policy.
As Mr and Mrs M have agreed there is no need to consider this policy further I shall in this 
decision focus on the policy that was taken out in October 2001.
When Mr and Mrs M first brought their complaint to this service they said they had taken out 
the PPI to ensure they would not lose their house in case of sickness or loss of job. But felt 
the PPI was mis-sold because they understood PPI was not fit for purpose.
Mr and Mrs M have during this complaint indicated on several occasions that HSBC should 
not be given the benefit of the doubt about any matters. Mr and Mrs M have said they are 
not satisfied that at the time the PPI was sold it was made clear it was optional. Also there is 
no evidence that all the information about the policy was made provided and that if all 
information about the limitations on the policy were not made clear at the time, then it should 
be deemed mis-sold. They say they did not ask for the PPI but it was actively sold to them.
I have to make my decision based on the evidence presented by both parties and what is 
most likely to have happened where there is not full records and evidence available. 
Mr and Mrs M didnt take out this particular policy at the same time they took out their 
mortgage. So Mr and Mrs M must have known they had a choice about having the PPI as 
they already had their mortgage in place and had cancelled the previous PPI at the end of 
the free term. 
It isnt clear how the policy was sold in October 2001. It may have been HSBC contacted 
Mr and Mrs M about the possibility of taking out a policy to replace the one that had been 
cancelled earlier that year. Or Mr and Mrs M may have contacted HSBC about something 
and at the same time the issue of PPI was raised and discussed. I note Mr and Mrs M took 
out additional borrowings in May of 2002, so it may be that in October 2001 they contacted 
HSBC about options for any further borrowings.
Whatever the reason there was some contact in October 2001. And however the sale took 
place, be it by telephone or in the local branch, Mr and Mrs M would have had some 
discussion about the policy and what it could offer them. So it was offered to them and they 
agreed to take it out. 
From what they have said when they brought their complaint, at the time I think they thought 
the policy would provide a good benefit if they needed it. 
Mr and Mrs M originally could provide little information about what happened and their 
circumstances at the time of the sale. During the course of the complaint they have provided 
additional information, for example about what Mr Ms work benefits may have been if he 
was off work sick. From all the information provided it seems Mr M was working in full-time employment and 
was eligible for the policy. Mrs M was only working part-time on what seems to have been an 
occasional basis. So it is reasonable that the cover was taken out to only cover Mr M.
I have considered if the policy was suitable for Mr M, as he was the only one covered by it.  I 
cannot be sure exactly what was said at the time of the sale and if full details and any 
restrictions of the policy were explained to Mr and Mrs M. 
I have seen nothing to show Mr M was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the 
PPI cover. Mr M was not suffering from any pre-existing medical conditions so would not 
have been caught by any restrictions on claims relating to medical issues. 
Even though Mr M had some employment benefits to cover him if he was off sick, the PPI 
would have paid out in addition to this and would have enabled other income to pay for other 
household and living expenses, so it would have been useful to Mr and Mrs M to have the 
cover. And Mr and Mrs M have said they had no savings. 
Its possible the information HSBC gave Mr and Mrs M at the time of the sale about the PPI 
wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. But I think they chose to take out the PPI at the time  
and from what they have said it looks like they wanted this type of cover. So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would have put Mr and Mrs M off taking out the cover as 
Mr M wasnt affected by any restrictions.
I know Mr and Mrs M have heard that PPI was not fit for purpose, but that is not the case 
with many policies. PPI wasnt always mis-sold. Providing the purchaser wasnt affected by 
any of the restrictions, PPI could provide a useful benefit. 
Ive also taken note of Mr M and Mrs Ms concerns that HSBC didnt properly investigate 
their complaint when it was first made in 2013. They think that if a full investigation had been 
carried out at that time, more evidence would have been available. But I am not satisfied that 
was necessarily the case. At the time the records HSBC had indicated there was no PPI. It 
was only because HSBC made an error and did not check with the insurer that the PPI was 
not found. 
As the PPI ended in 2002 it is most likely that no additional documents would have been 
available in 2013 other than the computer records that are available now have been 
provided. Generally, businesses are not legally required to keep documents for more than 
six years. 
In summary, I have seen nothing to show the PPI was mis-sold to Mr and Mrs M. That is 
because I think, as this PPI was taken out at a different time to the mortgage Mr and Mrs M 
would have known it was an optional, separate product to their mortgage and they had a 
choice whether to take it out. 
I think they did agree to take it out as they felt it would be of benefit to them should they 
need to claim. As Mr M, who was covered by the policy, was not caught by any restrictions in 
the terms and conditions, further information would not have had any effect on their decision 
at the time to take out the policy. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold by HSBC Bank Plc to 
Mr and Mrs M and Im not upholding this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 July 2020.
Chris Fraser
Ombudsman