DRN-4023893
The complaint
F, a limited company, is unhappy that Starling Bank Limited (Starling) wont reimburse the 
money it lost when it fell victim to a purchase scam.
F is represented by its directors Mr C and Mr Y. But Ive referred to F throughout this 
decision.
What happened
Both parties are aware of the circumstances of the complaint, so I wont repeat them all 
here. But briefly F lost £5,388 after it purchased event hospitality tickets from a cloned 
events company  I will refer to as V. F never received the tickets.
Starling originally said this was a civil dispute (on the basis that the emails and invoice from 
V looked legitimate) and therefore it said there was no recourse through the bank. 
But our investigator explained the evidence indicated that this was a scam. She further 
explained that F should get a full refund under the Lending Standards Board Contingent 
Reimbursement Model Code (the CRM Code). This was because she didnt think Starling 
provided an effective warning and she also considered F had a reasonable basis for belief.
Starling didnt agree and - whilst it accepted that F had a reasonable basis for belief - it 
considered it had provided F with an effective warning which F ignored. On this basis it didnt 
agree to fully refund F.
Starling said it provided the following warnings:
Fraudsters can easily take over email and social media accounts or set up similar accounts 
so the contact looks legitimate. They can also 'spoof' phone numbers, meaning that their call 
looks like it is from a different number. They pretend to be from a genuine company or 
someone you know.
Fraudsters commonly advertise items or services online which they have no intention of 
providing to you. Where possible, we recommend you see the item in person or receive the 
service before sending a payment.
It felt the warnings were directly linked to this circumstance. But the investigator explained 
she didnt think the warnings were effective for a purchase scam.
Because the case couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law and 
regulations; regulatory rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Starling has signed up to the CRM Code and it was in force when F made the payment. 
Under the CRM Code, the starting principle is that a firm should reimburse a customer who 
has been the victim of an Authorised Push Payment (APP) scam. But the Code is quite 
explicit that it doesnt apply to all APPs. It says:
DS2(2) This code does not apply to:
(b) private civil disputes, such as where a Customer has paid a legitimate supplier for goods, 
services, or digital content but has not received them, they are defective in some way, or the 
Customer is otherwise dissatisfied with the supplier.
Starling originally argued this was a civil dispute. But, having reviewed all of the evidence 
weve received in this case and for the same reasons the investigator has given, Im 
persuaded F did not pay a legitimate supplier and has fallen victim to an APP scam. In 
summary:
Evidence from the receiving bank suggests there were other victims to the same 
scam
The payee name has no links to the cloned company name
Reviews on trust pilot show others have been scammed by the same cloned 
company
Starling has not provided any further evidence or arguments to the contrary and I dont 
intend to explore this issue in any further detail.
The CRM Code requires firms to reimburse any customer who has been the victim of an 
APP scam in all but a limited number of circumstances, If Starling declines to reimburse its 
customer in full, it is for Starling to establish that one, or more, of the listed exceptions set 
out in the CRM Code itself apply. Those exceptions are: 
the customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that: the payee 
was the person the customer was expecting to pay, the payment was for genuine goods 
or services, and/or that the person or business with whom they transacted with was 
legitimate; or
the customer ignored an effective warning by failing to take appropriate steps in 
response to that warning.
There are further exceptions within the CRM Code, but none of these are applicable here.
The CRM Code says that, where firms identify APP scam risks, they should provide effective 
warnings to their customers. It sets out that an effective warning should enable a customer 
to understand what actions they need to take to address a risk and the consequences of not 
doing so. And it says that, as a minimum, an effective warning should be understandable, 
clear, impactful, timely and specific.
Starling did identify a scam risk in this case, and I dont think that was unreasonable given 
the sum involved. Starling says it provided an effective warning. But I am not persuaded that 
any of the information that Starling says was shown to F was impactful enough in the context 
of this scam to meet the minimum requirements of an effective warning under the CRM 
Code. Nothing Ive seen really brings alive what a scam of this nature looks and feels like. 
Spoof calls and email interceptions didnt apply here, and I think it is usual to buy tickets 
such as these remotely. There is no mention of cloned companies and the warnings dont prominently explain the potential consequences of making an irrevocable payment. I think 
this wouldve been important information that would have had a material impact. 
I have carefully considered Starlings representations about the warnings it gave. But they do 
not persuade me to reach a different view. It follows that I am not persuaded that Starling 
gave an effective warning to F, nor do I consider that F ignored one.
Starling has accepted what the investigator said about Fs reasonable basis of belief. And I 
agree broadly for the same reasons. From what I have seen, it would have been very difficult 
for F, or anyone else, to tell that this was a clone of a genuine business and there was also 
no reason for F to think it wasnt communicating with the genuine events company.
Im not persuaded that Starling has shown it can choose not to reimburse F under the terms 
of the CRM Code. It follows that under the provisions of the CRM Code, F should have been 
fully reimbursed for the loss. So, I think its fair that Starling now refunds the money F lost, 
along with interest. I consider 8% simple interest to be an appropriate award in the 
circumstances of this complaint because F has been deprived of the use of this money and 
its unclear how F would have otherwise used it.
It doesnt make a difference to the outcome here but for completeness, Ive also thought 
about whether Starling took reasonable steps to recover Fs funds once it was made aware 
F was the victim of a scam. The payment was made on 27 June 2022 and the scam was 
reported on 29 June 2022 at 17:00. Starling contacted the beneficiary bank the same 
evening, but no funds remained. From what Ive seen Starling has done what it shouldve to 
try and recover the funds.
Putting things right
To put things right, Starling Bank Limited should now:
Pay F a refund of the money that was lost to the scam 
As F has been deprived of the use of those funds, Starling should also pay 8% 
simple interest from the date Starling declined Fs claim under the CRM Code until 
the date of settlement
If Starling considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell F how much its taken off. It should also give F a tax deduction 
certificate if it asks for one, so F can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint and require Starling Bank Limited to put things 
rights for F as outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2023.
 
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman