DRN-2115905
The complaint
Mrs E complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) took too long to set up a new security 
device for her bank account. She also complains that a payment from her account was 
stopped and then reversed, even after shed called to confirm the payment was genuine. 
What happened
Ive previously made a provisional decision on this case. I looked at the comments and 
evidence Mrs E and HSBC sent our investigation, and found the following.
In response to Mrs Es complaint, HSBC accepted more could have been done to 
explain the likely wait times before she went to her branch for the new security 
device. They also suggested it might have been better to have an appointment for 
Mrs Es visit. I agreed that would have been a reasonable level of service.
I also felt something could have been done to prioritise Mrs E when she had to wait 
in a second queue at the branch, having already waited for half-an-hour. Or she 
could have been directed straight to the phone banking service, which was ultimately 
how the security device got set up. 
I accepted that the reversal of the payment from Mrs Es account on 4 September 
2019 arose from HSBCs valid concern the payment might not be legitimate. That 
created a need for HSBC to do some fraud checks before letting it go through. 
There was evidence of Mrs E calling and starting the process to complete a fraud 
check with HSBC on the day. But HSBC didnt have evidence of how that process 
finished. 
HSBC reversed the transaction, with their notes saying they hadnt been able to 
contact Mrs E to complete a fraud check. I found this was unreasonable  theyd had 
contact with her, and I couldnt see why that hadnt satisfied them the transaction was 
legitimate. 
Mrs Es online banking was then frozen because of the incident with the reversed 
payment. Given Id found the reversal was unreasonable, this freezing of the online 
banking was also unreasonable. 
Altogether, these failings caused trouble and upset for Mrs E that was clearly shown 
in her calls with HSBC and her written complaint. I found compensation of £300 
would acknowledge this impact on Mrs E. 
Mrs E didnt respond to my provisional decision. But HSBC did. They found a recording of 
the full fraud check theyd done with Mrs E on 4 September 2019. They noted that Mrs E 
wasnt told the checks had been completed  she was told an enhanced check would need 
to be done after the call. She was told this would lead to the transaction either going through 
in a few minutes, or a letter being sent if it couldnt go ahead. 
The case is now back with me with these details for further consideration. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going to revisit my findings about the time it took for Mrs E to get the security device 
for her bank account. No ones commented on my previous view, which was basically to 
accept that Mrs E and HSBC both agreed the service should have been better than it was. 
On the issue with the reversed payment, Ive listened to the fraud check call between Mrs E 
and HSBC on 4 September. Ive also looked again at the file notes that explain why HSBC 
reversed the transaction after theyd spoken to Mrs E. Having done so, Im still of the view 
HSBCs service, while well intentioned, was unreasonable. Ill explain why. 
The call recording tells me that Mrs E correctly answered the questions HSBC asked her to 
confirm her identity, before confirming she authorised the transaction. 
HSBC wrote a note on 4 September when they stopped and then reversed the payment. 
This said theyd tried to contact Mrs E to confirm the payment was legitimate, but theyd not 
been able to reach her. But given the call Ive heard, this wasnt accurate. 
A later note from HSBCs investigation of the complaint suggests another reason for the 
payment not going through. This was the closeness in the timing of Mrs E getting the new 
security device on 3 September and making the unusually large payment on 4 September. I 
can see why this led HSBC to suspect the payment might be fraudulent. 
But when following up on that suspicion they should also have been able to see Mrs E had 
attended a branch to get the new security device. Id have expected her identity to be 
checked at that point, and some record made that the device had been given to Mrs E in 
person. In any case, Mrs E confirmed her identity on the 4 September phone call, so I cant 
see that any concern could reasonably remain that someone else was using the security 
device. 
HSBC would have known when they spoke to Mrs E on 4 September that there was concern 
over the timing of the new security device being issued and the large payment being made. 
Once Mrs E confirmed her identity and explained why she was making the unusual payment, 
HSBC should have been able to explain that concern and what else they needed from her to 
confirm the payment was legitimate. Referring to an unspecified enhanced check didnt go 
far enough in my view. 
Its true that HSBC didnt guarantee the transaction would go ahead after the 4 September 
call. But without the explanation noted above, I can see why Mrs E felt shed done enough 
for the payment to go through  shed done everything HSBC had asked her to do. If there 
was more she needed to do, she could reasonably have expected HSBC to have told her so 
when she spoke to them. Particularly as shed stressed on the call how important the 
payment was to her planned building schedule. 
HSBC did need to take steps to confirm the payment was legitimate  the circumstances of 
the payment were a little suspicious. But the way that concern was then handled was 
unreasonable, as it unduly delayed a legitimate transaction without explaining to Mrs E why, 
or what she could do to better confirm her instructions to HSBCs satisfaction. 
As I provisionally found, it follows that HSBC shouldnt have frozen Mrs Es internet banking 
service on the back of the fraud concerns, as HSBC should have confirmed when they 
spoke to Mrs E that this was a genuine transaction, not a fraud. Putting things right
My view on the remedy needed for this matter is unchanged from my provisional decision. In 
summary:
Mrs E got her security device working, although it took longer than it should. And she 
did pay her builder, but using money in a different bank account. The longest delay 
looks to have been with her internet banking, which was reactivated about a month 
after being frozen.
Compensation would recognise that there was an emotional impact, but no financial 
loss for Mrs E. 
In my view, £300 reflects the combined frustration Mrs Es written about in her complaint, 
and the upset thats clear to hear in the call when she was told the payment to her builder 
had been reversed. But it also acknowledges that theres been limited lasting impact, other 
than Mrs Es feeling that her long standing relationship with HSBC has been significantly 
undermined by these recent events.
My final decision
I uphold Mrs Es complaints about HSBC UK Bank Plc. HSBC should pay Mrs E £300 to 
compensate her for the trouble and upset caused by these issues. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2020.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman