DRN-3843390
The complaint
Ms T is unhappy with WDP Insurance Limited because it declined her claim.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint arent in dispute, so Ill summarise the main points:
Ms T held a mobile phone insurance policy underwritten by WDP.
She got in touch with WDP to make a claim after her phone was stolen in 2022.
WDP declined the claim and cancelled the policy. It said two phone numbers Ms T 
owned were linked to policies that had previously had claims declined for fraud.
Ms T said she only owned one of the numbers WDP had mentioned. Shed had that 
number since 2018, when she bought it in a branch of a well-known phone shop. 
Shed made a claim in 2021, which had been accepted and settled by the insurer. 
WDP was referring to previous fraudulent activity, but shed never been informed she 
had been accused of fraud and didnt know what it might refer to.
Our investigator didnt think WDP had acted fairly. He said it hadnt shown enough 
evidence to support its position and should reconsider the claim.
WDP said it was shocked by our findings. It reiterated that it thought the phone 
numbers had been linked to policies that had been cancelled, and claims that had 
been declined, due to fraud.
Our investigator said WDP hadnt provided any evidence to support what it was 
saying  or that Ms T had acted fraudulently. WDP didnt provide any further 
evidence but did ask for an Ombudsman review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy says if WDP finds a claim to be fraudulent, it will decline the claim and 
cancel the policy.
Whilst I note the wording of the policy gives WDP the right to take action if it finds a 
claim to be fraudulent, Im not persuaded it would be fair for to do so unless it can 
reasonably show a policyholder has acted fraudulently.
Accusing somebody of acting fraudulently is a serious matter and can have 
significant consequences. As a result, I would usually expect to see persuasive 
evidence that the person has acted dishonestly in order to gain something theyre not 
entitled to. Its for WDP to provide such evidence.
In summary, WDP says it cancelled the policy and declined the claim because phone 
numbers it associates with Ms T have been the subject of previous fraudulent claims.
Whilst Ms T accepts she has owned one of those numbers since 2018, she doesnt 
accept that shes been involved in any fraudulent activity or had links to such.
WDP hasnt provided any evidence to show the numbers are linked to fraudulent 
activity. Or, even if they were, that Ms T was personally involved in that activity.
So WDP is effectively asking me to accept at face value that a link between the 
number and previous fraud exists. Even if I accepted such a link exists, which I dont, 
the policy wording requires the claim to be fraudulent. But WDP hasnt argued that 
Ms T has acted fraudulently in relation to her claim  only that her number is linked to 
previous fraudulent activity, possibly by others. So Im not satisfied WDP has shown 
that Ms Ts claim is fraudulent or that she has acted fraudulently at any time.
Without any evidence to support its position, Im not persuaded WDP has acted fairly.
To put things right, WDP should reconsider the claim according to the remaining 
terms and conditions of the policy. And, in line with our usual approach, it should 
remove any internal or external fraud markers it may have made about Ms T.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require WDP Insurance Limited to:
Reconsider the claim according to the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
Remove any internal or external fraud markers it may have made about Ms T.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2023.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman