DRN-3907350
The complaint
Miss H complains Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) rejected her Section 75 claim on the basis she 
did not respond to requests for information. Miss H disputes this. She would like the value of 
her  claim refunded.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
I appreciate Miss Hs frustration; she raised a claim with Lloyds for a  refund of 
£381.60 in relation to work carried out on her car. She has evidenced, and Lloyds 
has accepted, it didnt respond to emails Miss H sent in relation to her complaint. 
Lloyds apologised and credited her account with £50 compensation for poor 
customer service. I think this was appropriate as I dont doubt Lloyds lack of 
response caused Miss H considerable frustration.
Miss H would like Lloyds to refund the £381.60 cost she incurred for repair work on 
her car. For me to agree to that I would need to conclude that the information Miss H 
sent would have resulted in a successful claim. Unfortunately, I dont feel this is the 
case
From what I have seen Lloyds initially raised a chargeback claim with the merchant. 
The merchant successfully defended the claim with a diagnostic report which showed 
that when the starting motor was changed the vehicle started with no issues. The 
merchant also said the vehicle would need to be returned to see if the work had 
failed but this hadnt happened.. I think it was reasonable for Lloyds not to further 
pursue the chargeback  the merchants response was reasonable, and I cant see 
that Miss H provided any independent evidence to show the repair had failed.
In its final response letter Lloyds then offered to pursue a Section 75 claim for Miss H 
which I think was the correct course of action. But it said it would need more 
information as for a successful Section 75 claim there needs to be evidence of a 
breach of contract or misrepresentation. I cant see that Miss H provided evidence of 
this to Lloyds. So, I dont think Lloyds were wrong not to pursue this option.
I have carefully considered all the evidence Miss H provided which comprised the 
invoice for the work completed messages to the merchant and emails to Lloyds. 
Unfortunately, none of these confirm that the repair work carried out failed  for a 
claim to succeed it would need independent evidence, for example ,a report from a 
qualified mechanic showing  that the repair had failed. So, whilst I appreciate Lloyds 
customer service was poor I think even if it had responded to Miss Hs emails better 
the outcome would still have been the same in that her claim would have been 
unsuccessful due to insufficient evidence. On this basis I cant reasonably ask Lloyds 
to refund the cost of the work caried out as Miss H would like.
Finally, I am aware Miss H submitted copies of online reviews and a broadcast article 
on the merchant. Unfortunately,  I cant take these into account-  they dont relate 
directly to Miss Hs complaint ,and just because other consumers may have had 
problems with the merchant that doesnt automatically mean that there was a 
problem with the work carried out on Miss Hs car.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 July 2023.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman