DRN-3792537
The complaint
Mr B complained that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) unfairly declined his claim under his
home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr B made a claim under his policy when he noticed water staining in his downstairs ceiling
and hallway. AXAs contractor attended the property to find the leak under the trace and
access cover from the policy. The contractor carried out some testing of Mr Bs en-suite
shower, but he couldnt find the leak. So, a second visit was arranged, and the contractor
was authorised to remove part of the ceiling to conduct a full review of the void below the
bathroom.
AXA said, after flood testing the shower enclosure, leaks occur[ed] due to failed sealant, it
was clear this had been leaking for some time, with the chip board flooring underneath being
rotten. Based on the circumstances, our agent advised we would be unable to assist with
your claim. This is due to leaks from failed sealant / grouting are not covered and it would
have to be from a fixed water source in order to consider your claim.
The leak continued when the shower wasnt being used. So, Mr B appointed his own
plumber to investigate the leak. Mr B provided AXA with his own plumbers report which
outlined that a heating pipe had been penetrated with a nail which was rusting. It outlined
that the boiler system required draining and a damaged section of pipe was removed /
renewed and this resolved the issue.
AXA reviewed the claim but decided it couldnt cover the claim as it maintained that the leak
was caused by faulty seals in the shower, so it thought it was a maintenance issue rather
than a one-off insured event.
Our investigator decided to uphold the complaint. Having reviewed the reports and
photographs provided by both parties, he was persuaded that it was more likely the nail in
the heating system had caused the leak. He recommended AXA take reasonable steps to
correct the situation, including (if needed) meeting with Mr B and to decide what works AXA
are responsible for and make the required refunds. AXA disagreed, so the case has been
referred to an ombudsman.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this on 6 October 2022. I said:
AXA have covered the trace and access parts of the claim as it was covered by the policy.
However, it hasnt covered the damage caused by the leak as it said it was caused by a
poorly installed shower unit. So, I have considered whether it has been fair in declining this
part of the claim. I dont think it has, and Ill explain why I have reached this decision. But, I
intend to uphold this complaint.
Mr B has provided a detailed and comprehensive account and timeline of events to his claim
that I find particularly persuasive as it presents a consistent, logical and coherent description
of whats happened.
Mr B has explained that once he identified his leak, he stopped using his shower. I have no
reason to think this isnt true. So, I think it would be unlikely that a leak from the shower
seals as AXA have concluded wouldve continued past the point when Mr B last used the
shower. Mr B explained that the leak was identified towards the end of the day, after hed
been out all day  again this suggests the leak didnt originate from shower usage.
I think if AXA had been confident the leak was coming solely from the shower, then it
wouldve identified the source of the leak on its contractors first visit. Mr B testified that
AXAs contractor had explained to him that there is a very minor leak under one part of the
glass at the front of the shower, but you would need to be in there over two hours at a time
to cause anything like this damage". This casts doubt in my mind that the shower was the
cause.
Having viewed photographs provided, the damage is extensive and widespread. I think Mr B
reported the leak as soon as it happened  there is no reason why he wouldnt have done. I
dont think its likely that the damage observed downstairs in the property wouldve been
caused by a recent shower. And if it had happened over time, I think there wouldve been a
more gradual development to the pattern of damage, and it wouldve been noticed sooner.
This is supported by Mr Bs expert report from his plumber who stated in my 25 years of
working in the industry I have never known of a poorly sealed shower screen to cause the
intense damage that has been caused and it is clear to say that the damage was caused by
a nail/screw in a central heating pipe. This is what has caused the major damage and also,
the brown staining on the 2 number ceilings and all walls in hallway and front room.
I have studied the photographs that have been provided of the damage and can see there is
a heavy staining to the walls from the leak. Mr B described this as brown in colour. I also find
this evidence persuading. I wouldnt expect a leak coming directly from a shower to make
such as dirty stain on the ceiling and walls as is evidenced in Mr Bs property. I think its
more likely that dirty staining of this nature is more likely to have come from the water in the
heating system which generally is dirtier.
Mr B has provided photographic evidence that a nail was penetrating the heating pipe in the
vicinity of the leak. As the nail was rusted, AXA said the nail has been in situ for a long
period of time  even suggesting it pre-dated 2008. Mr Bs plumber has explained that this
was the cause of the leak. Once, the plumber had fixed the damaged pipe, Mr B said he no
longer experienced leaking in his property.
AXA said if this was the cause of the leak, it wouldve shown up much earlier. It said we
would have expected to see mould being present around the pipe and erosion to the
chipboard above the pipe, had it been leaking for 13 years, however, there is no evidence of
this. Also, had the leak been caused by the nail then this would be considered to be a poor
workmanship issue and wouldnt be covered under this policy.
However, I dont agree. I think the nail couldve penetrated the pipe and formed a seal, so it
didnt leak. I think its likely that over time the nail has rusted and fatigued, which has led to
that seal breaking. I think its likely this caused the damage that was evidenced. Therefore, I
wouldnt have expected signs of long-term leaking and mould as I think it was a recent
occurrence. And I dont think Mr B wouldve been aware of the nail in the pipe, so I cant say
its a maintenance issue.
AXA said there was evident water splashes above the pipe where the nail had penetratedand the floor under the shower was rotten. I think this does show there was some leakage
from the shower, however, I dont think this was the main cause of the damage for the
reasons Ive set out above.
I think Mr B has sufficiently proven that the nail in the pipe was the main cause of damage
and I dont think AXA has shown its more likely that wear and tear or poor maintenance is
the cause of the leak. Therefore, I intend that AXA settle the claim in line with the remaining
terms and conditions of the policy. It appears, Mr B has since had some repairs carried out,
so AXA should review the costs of these and use its knowledge from its reports to validate
the claim.
The delay in settling the claim has meant Mr B has had to put up with living in his house with
dirty stained walls and ceiling until he finally had the repairs done. I think this wouldve
caused some level of distress. And as the claim has gone on longer than it shouldve done, I
think Mr B has been unnecessarily inconvenienced. Therefore, I intend to award £300
compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Mr B said his shower plinth is still damaged from when AXA carried out the trace and access
activities. I intend AXA to review and validate this damage and take reasonable steps if
appropriate to put it right.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr B accepted my provisional decision and didnt have anything further to add.
AXA didnt respond to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given neither party has provided any new information, I see no reason to change my 
provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require AXA Insurance
UK Plc to:
settle the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy
pay Mr B £300* compensation for distress and inconvenience.
review and validate the damage to the shower plinth and take reasonable steps if
appropriate to put it right.
* AXA Insurance UK Plc must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it that Mr B accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on 
the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2022.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman