DRN-4154808
The complaint
Mrs M complains Plane Saver Credit Union Limited lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
Mrs M applied for and was granted seven personal loans between 2009 and 2015  the 
details are:
Date of loanLoan 
AmountAdditional 
borrowingMonthly
repaymentTerm 
(months)Total 
repayable
Loan 1 21/12/2009 £4,000 £4,000 £115 60 £6,904
Loan 2 25/08/2010 £6,258 £2,500 £180 60 £10,801
Loan 3 02/02/2011 £9,865 £4,000 £219 60 £13,166
Loan 4 08/08/2012 £17,497 £10,000 £389 60 £23,338
Loan 5 25/07/2013 £20,585 £5,600 £363 84 £30,465
Loan 6 03/04/2014 £19,058 £0.00 £363 75 £27,224
Loan 7 04/12/2015 £18,779 £3,500 £376 96 £36,098
Mrs M took out the second loan to cover the cost of car repairs. She took out the remaining 
loans to consolidate external credit card and overdraft debts. Mrs M also borrowed extra on 
her seventh loan to cover legal fees in connection with the sale of her property and her 
divorce. Plane Saver had initially declined her application for loan seven because Mrs M 
didnt have enough disposable income to afford the repayments but after Mrs M appealed 
the decision and explained her circumstances, it agreed the loan. It did so on the condition it 
would use some of the extra amount borrowed to repay two loans with another lender to 
reduce her existing credit commitments and free up enough disposable income to afford the 
new repayment.
Plane Saver considered Mrs Ms complaint and did not uphold it. It thought it completed 
appropriate checks before it approved lending to Mrs M and these showed the borrowing 
each time was affordable. It added that in clearing her other debts, it had intended to make 
Mrs Ms credit commitments more affordable. It also explained that it would not consent to 
the Financial Ombudsman Service considering the complaint if it was not referred in time.
Our investigator thought the complaint about the loans taken out between 2009 and 2014 
(loans 1-6) had been brought too late because Mrs M complained more than six years after 
she was given the loans in question, and she had not complained within three years of when 
she ought reasonably to have known she had cause to complain. Our investigator said 
Mrs M ought reasonably to have known that she had cause to make this complaint  at the 
latest  by August 2012 when she made her third application to borrow from Plane Saver for 
debt consolidation.
Mrs M explained that she had been in an abusive relationship throughout the time she 
borrowed from Plane Saver and her mental ill-health which followed had prevented her from 
bringing her complaint until she complained in July 2021.
Our investigator did look into Mrs Ms complaint about the loan she took out in December 
2015 (loan 7) because this was taken out within the six-year time limit. Having done so, he 
did not think that Plane Saver had lent to her irresponsibly. He thought that given the 
purpose for and the circumstances behind the loan, together with the fact Mrs Ms 
repayments to Plane Saver only increased by £13 and at the same time reduced her 
outgoings by £293, it was a responsible decision to lend on that basis.
As the investigator and Mrs M were unable to reach an agreement, the case has come to me 
to decide both the time limits which allow me to consider the complaint, that is whether I can 
consider loans 1-6, and whether Plane Saver lent responsibly on the loans I can determine.
In my provisional decision I explained that:
The parts of the complaint I can and cannot look into 
Our service follows the Dispute Resolution rules (DISP rules), found in the regulators 
handbook of rules and guidance. Amongst other things DISP 2.8.2R explains that, where a 
business doesnt consent, our service cant consider a complaint which is referred more than 
six years after the event being complained about or, if later, three years from when the 
person was aware or ought reasonably to have been aware they had cause to complain. 
As Plane Saver does not consent to the Financial Ombudsman Service considering 
complaints brought outside these time limits, I have reviewed the available evidence and 
arguments provided by both Mrs M and Plane Saver to decide if we can look at the 
complaint. Having done so, Ive decided that Mrs M has made her complaint about loans 1-6 
too late. Ill explain why.
Mrs M complains that Plane Saver did not adequately check whether she could afford her 
loans when she took them out between 2009 and December 2015. So, to start with she had 
six years from the date each loan was provided in order to complain. Mrs M didnt complain 
until July 2021, which is more than six years after she took out loans one through to six. So, 
her complaint about these six loans is out of time for this part of the DISP rules. Loan 7, 
however, was taken out within six years of Mrs Ms complaint and so I can consider her 
complaint about this loan.
Ive gone on to consider the next part of the rules and when Mrs M ought reasonably to have 
had cause to complain about loans 1-6. As part of the application process for her fifth loan 
that she took out in 2013, Mrs M needed to complete a budget plan, giving details of her 
income and expenditure. She also needed to give copies of her payslip, bank statement, 
council tax notice, evidence of the debts she was repaying with the proposed loan and 
consent to Plane Saver, amongst other things, for contacting her manager to confirm the 
details of her employment. And having validated Mrs Ms income and expenditure, Plane 
Saver confirmed the amount of income Mrs M would have at her disposal before she signed 
her application  on this application it was £1,093 a month. 
So, given Mrs M complains that Plane Saver did not adequately check whether she could 
afford her loans, I think she ought reasonably to have become aware she had cause to 
complain soon after the loan started. I say this because she was having the repayments 
deducted from her salary payment, so she would know early on during the loan agreement 
term if she was left each month without enough of her wage and I think that then extends to her knowing Plane Saver might have done something wrong by miscalculating the amount of 
her disposable income. 
I also note that this was Mrs Ms fourth consecutive loan taken to consolidate credit card 
and/or overdraft debt in under three years. I think the cumulative effect of needing to 
repeatedly borrow more to pay off credit card debt built up since taking out each previous 
loan ought, in my opinion, to have prompted Mrs M to question whether Plane Saver should 
have approved her applications given she was not in control of managing her existing 
finances
. 
I think, for similar reasons, Mrs M ought reasonably to have become aware at the latest by 
the time she took out her sixth loan in April 2014. 
It follows that I dont think that the three-year part of the DISP rules extends the time limit 
enough to bring the complaint Mrs M is making about loans 1-6 in time.  She still wouldve 
needed to have brought a complaint about loans 1-3 by April 2017, loan 4 by August 2018, 
loan 5 by July 2019, and loan 6 by April 2020.
I can consider a complaint that is brought to our service outside of the relevant time limits if 
there are exceptional circumstances to explain why the complaint has been brought late. Our 
rules set out that an example of exceptional circumstances might be where the complainant 
has been or is incapacitated. 
I have carefully considered all Mrs M has said about her time spent in an abusive 
relationship and the real impact this has had on her mental health and well-being. And my 
findings are not intended to minimise Mrs Ms circumstances or the experiences she has 
had. However, I cannot ignore that Mrs M referred several cases to us about complaints she 
had made to businesses in August 2019. So given I find that Mrs M ought reasonably to 
have been aware of cause for this complaint by April 2014, and allowing for her 
circumstances, I think she could have brought this complaint at the same time as she 
complained to those other businesses. It follows, Im unable to conclude that under our rules 
exceptional circumstances apply in Mrs Ms case, as I cant fairly say that she was 
incapacitated to the extent of being unable to bring this complaint until she did so in 2021.
In summary, Mrs Ms complaint about loans 1-6 is a matter I cant look into as Mrs M has 
brought it to this service outside of the time-limits I must apply. I dont doubt this is 
unwelcome news for Mrs M, but I cant act outside our statutory powers. Id be doing that if I 
considered this part of her complaint. I can only consider her complaint about loan 7 as it 
was raised within the six-year part of our rules, so it has been brought in time. 
Loan 7 - what I think and why 
Weve set out our approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on 
our website. Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ms complaint. 
Having done all of that, I have reached the same conclusions as those reached by our 
investigator for broadly the same reasons.
Plane Saver needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend to Mrs M 
irresponsibly. It should have completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that Mrs M would be able to pay the loan in a sustainable way. There is no set list of what 
reasonable and proportionate checks should look like, rather greater thoroughness might be 
reasonably expected where a person on a lower level of income may be borrowing a high 
sum, or taking out borrowing over a longer period which could potentially cost more in the 
longer term.As with Mrs Ms previous applications, she needed to complete a budget plan for loan 7 and   
give details of her income and expenditure, providing bank statements and a payslip in 
support. Plane Saver also reviewed Mrs Ms credit file and noted she defaulted on three 
accounts totalling £27,705. Having considered this information, Plane Saver declined Mrs 
Ms application, explaining that she didnt have enough disposable income to cover the 
increased loan repayment. 
Given her pressing need for the loan  its purpose was recorded as help with the cost of 
moving home and car repairs  Mrs M asked Plane Saver to reconsider her application. She 
explained that her then husband had walked out and this left her with a shortfall in income to 
cover the household expenditure. She also explained that she needed the loan short-term 
until the sale of her property and divorce had completed and that she would make the final 
payment on two loans within the next two months, increasing her disposable income.
Plane Saver reviewed this information and the application again. It suggested that Mrs M 
could consolidate two loans (the two she had mentioned would finish within the next two 
months) into the new loan. This was to reduce her outgoings at the time by around £295 a 
month against a modest £13 increase in her repayments to Plane Saver. Mrs M agreed to go 
ahead with the loan on this basis, with Plane Saver issuing her with cheques payable to the 
other lender of the loans she needed to repay and paying the balance into her bank account.
I must consider whether the checks completed by Plane Saver were reasonable and 
proportionate. I am satisfied they were  Plane Saver thoroughly explored Mrs Ms income 
and expenditure and got supporting evidence to validate the amounts declared. And Plane 
Saver clearly engaged with the information it obtained. 
Next, Ive gone to consider whether Plane Savers decision to lend to Mrs M was fair. Ive 
noted that when Plane Saver declined the application to begin with, this because Mrs Ms 
non-discretionary expenditure would exceed her income  which Mrs M later explained was 
down to the loss of her then husbands income. Ive also considered Mrs Ms difficult 
domestic circumstances and the significance of the purpose behind the loan  seeing 
through the sale of her property including the legal expenses, in order to leave an abusive 
relationship. So, while I may ordinarily take exception to the refinancing of the modest 
amounts of existing credit over a significantly longer term, I think in this case, taking account 
of the short-term need for the loan alongside all the circumstances I detail in the above, it 
was a fair decision to agree this loan. I say this because the benefit of doing so to Mrs M 
outweighed any detriment by far. 
Responses
I asked the parties to the complaint to let me have any further representations that they 
wished me to consider by 26 May 2023.
Plane Saver acknowledged my provisional findings and it didnt have anything further to add.
Mrs M replied and in summary, she said in respect of my findings on the time limit applying 
to loans 1-6, that I had failed to take sufficient account of her exceptional circumstances in 
reaching my decision. So, she repeated her previous statement for further consideration. 
Mrs M did not add comment on my findings in respect of loan 7.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed everything again. Neither Mrs M nor Plane Saver have provided further 
evidence or new information for me to consider. So, Ive not seen enough for me to alter my 
provisional conclusions.
I note Mrs Ms comments about not taking sufficient account of her exceptional 
circumstances in considering the time limit applying to loans 1-6. I explained in my 
provisional decision that Mrs M referred several cases to us about complaints she had made 
to businesses in August 2019. So, I dont think her circumstances were such that they would 
have prevented her from also bringing this complaint at that time, given that she could and 
was dealing with her other complaints.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my decision is the complaint about loans 1-6 isnt one we can look 
into, as under the rules I must follow it was referred too late. And I do not uphold Mrs Ms 
complaint about loan 7 or make an award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2023.
 
Stefan Riedel
Ombudsman