DRN-4147706
The complaint
Mr H complains that QBE UK Limited mishandled his claim on his minibus insurance policy. 
What happened
The subject matter of the claim and the complaint is a minibus, first registered in 2012.
By September 2021, Mr H had acquired the minibus for his business as a taxi driver.
For the year from mid-October 2021, Mr H had the vehicle insured on a comprehensive 
policy with QBE. Any claim for damage was subject to an excess of £500.00.
In late April 2022, the minibus passed an MOT test with a recorded mileage of about 30,000.
Unfortunately, in mid-September 2022, Mr H reported to QBE that a third party had caused 
accidental damage to the front bumper of the minibus.
Much of the complaint concerns acts or omissions of QBEs  accident management partners. 
Insofar as I hold QBE responsible for them, I may refer to them as acts or omissions of QBE.
In late September 2022, Mr H complained to QBE that it wouldnt replace the bumper and 
hadnt communicated with him.
In late October 2022, Mr H complained to QBE that it hadnt done enough to establish that 
the third party was liable.
By a final response dated 22 November 2022, QBE upheld his complaint about 
communication. 
Mr H brought his complaint to us in mid-December 2022. His complaint form included the 
following:
All I am asking for is to repair my vehicle back to how it was.
In December 2022, QBE wrote a further final response. 
In late January 2023, Mr H complained to QBE that it had unfairly increased his premium.
In February 2023, QBE wrote a further final response.
By about late March 2023, QBE had paid to replace the bumper (save for the excess).
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that QBE 
shouldve replaced the bumper sooner. He recommended that QBE should pay Mr H 
£150.00 in compensation.
Mr H disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that: 
The accident damaged his left hand.
He never refused to pay the excess.
The insurance was due for renewal in October 2022. He was charged extra due to 
the accident.
QBE was responsible for delay in contacting he third party.
There was no offer of a vehicle while his was being repaired. 
He was without use of the minibus, missed working and lost money until late March 
2023. 
He paid the excess without question.
This has made him ill.
The compensation should be more. 
He has appointed a solicitor to pursue an injury claim. 
We should look into his complaint against the police.
QBE also disagreed with the investigators opinion. It asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. It says, in summary, that:
Mr H was offered a commercially sound repair early on in his claim, which was 
delayed by him, due both to not wanting to pay his excess, and also due to his 
disbelief that the repair would be satisfactory.
The full bumper replacement was only authorised as a gesture of goodwill to prevent 
further complaints and protracted claims negotiations, as Mr H was in constant 
communication with the claims teams. The full bumper replacement was betterment, 
as his vehicle had substantial visible wear and tear.
Had QBE been given the opportunity to conduct the repairs when it was initially 
offered, there would have been no delays in settling the claim, and the uninsured 
losses could have been more proactively been pursued much earlier. 
Mr H confirmed that his vehicle was still roadworthy and was being used for social 
and domestic use. Mr H has not sent in any evidence that he reported the accident to 
the council, or that his vehicle was deemed unfit for private hire. Any claim for loss or 
earnings should be considered as part of the uninsured loss recovery claim, which is 
ongoing. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman Service is bound by the Financial Conduct Authoritys dispute 
resolution rules. We deal with an individual consumers complaint about regulated financial 
activities by a regulated financial firm. We have no jurisdiction to investigate complaints 
against any other organisation such as a police force.
QBEs policy terms included the following:Section 7  Loss or damage to your vehicle

7.3.14 Wear and tear - This section does not cover wear and tear or depreciation or 
that part of the cost of repair which improves your vehicle beyond its condition at the 
time of the loss or damage.
So the policy didnt cover betterment.
From a review of the call recordings, I find that Mr H questioned why he should pay an 
excess on a claim that wasnt his fault. However, I accept that he never refused to pay the 
excess.
From a review of its claims file, Im satisfied that QBE contacted the third partys insurer 
reasonably promptly and continued to chase a response.
I havent seen enough evidence to show that Mr H was correct in his belief that  when he 
first made the claim - QBE was offering a form of repair that would inevitably lead to a mis-
match of colour. In any event, I dont consider that QBE was obliged to repair the left side of 
the bumper in a way that matched the appearance of the right side insofar as that was 
caused by ageing. In my view, that was betterment.
I have no reason to doubt Mr Hs statement that he was injured in the accident, and he 
became unwell in the months that followed. However, I havent seen enough evidence to 
show that QBE was responsible for causing him ill-health.
In late January 2023, QBE approved an estimate for the replacement of the bumper. And a 
repairer finished that wok by late March 2023. Mr H and our investigator considered that 
QBE shouldve arranged this sooner.
However, QBE had offered a reasonable form of repair at a much earlier stage and Mr H 
refused to permit it. So I dont hold QBE responsible for the delay until late March 2023.
The renewal and the new premium took effect from early October 2022. Mr H didnt include a 
complaint about that when he brough his complaint to us in mid-December 2022. 
Nevertheless, QBEs final response in February 2023 said that (notwithstanding that Mr H 
had a protected no-claims discount ) the premium was affected by the open claim until such 
time as it was resolved in Mr Hs favour. I dont find that unreasonable.
I havent seen enough evidence to show that QBE shouldve offered Mr H a courtesy 
vehicle. I havent seen enough evidence to show that Mr H was unable to use the minibus 
for work while it had a damaged bumper. So I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct QBE 
to pay compensation for any loss of earnings.
QBE has acknowledged some shortcomings in its communication with Mr H. I accept that he 
felt it necessary to make repeated contact with QBE.
 
I conclude  that  by shortcomings in its communication  QBE caused Mr H some extra 
distress and inconvenience at an already difficult time. 
Putting things right
Keeping in mind our published guidelines, I consider that £150.00 is fair and reasonable 
compensation for such distress and inconvenience. My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct QBE UK Limited to pay Mr H £150.00 for distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2023.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman