DRN-2902274
The complaint
Mr L complains about Lynden Ltd trading as FindYourPPI (FYP) and the settlement fee 
theyve invoiced him following a successful claim for mis-sold payment protection insurance 
(PPI).
What happened
On 18 August 2019, Mr L instructed FYP to pursue a claim for mis-sold PPI on his behalf. He 
signed a letter of authority (LOA) which agreed for FYP to submit a claim on his behalf if PPI 
was identified on his account, due to the amount of time left until the PPI deadline. The 
following day, FYP sent a PPI information request to lender B. 
On 22 October, lender B asked FYP for another LOA as they didnt think the one theyd 
received was clear enough. FYP asked Mr L to sign a new LOA the same day. Mr L signed 
this LOA on 25 October, and it was received by FYP on 4 November. On 4 December, FYP 
submitted a full PPI claim on Mr Ls behalf with the new LOA attached.
Mr L says after this, he dealt with lender B directly. And on 14 September 2020, he received 
an offer letter from lender B, upholding his claim and providing a PPI refund. This letter 
wasnt sent to FYP at the same time.
FYP continued to chase lender B for a response to the claim they made. And on 15 January 
2021, lender B sent a copy of the original offer letter sent to Mr L. Later that month, FYP sent 
Mr L an invoice for their settlement fee. But Mr L wasnt happy about this, so he raised a 
complaint.
Mr L complained about the fee FYP were charging. He felt the claim had been successful 
due to the work he completed with lender B directly. So, he didnt think the fee FYP invoiced 
him for was fair and he wanted this to be reduced.
FYP responded and didnt agree. They thought the refund Mr L received had resulted from 
the work they completed. And that Mr L had authorised them to pursue this claim on his 
behalf. They recognised Mr L may have dealt with lender L directly after theyd submitted the 
claim, but they didnt think this impacted their fee as it was charged on a no win no fee 
basis. But, as a gesture of good will, they offered to reduce the outstanding invoice by 10% 
to resolve the complaint. Mr L didnt agree and asked for the invoice to be reduced by 25%, 
which FYP declined. So, Mr L referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. He thought by signing both 
LOAs, Mr L had authorised to make a claim on his behalf and was reasonably aware hed 
done so. And as lender B had provided FYP with a copy of the offer letter, he was satisfied 
the claim FYP made had resulted in the refund Mr L received. So, he thought FYP were fair 
to charge their settlement fee, in line with the terms and conditions of the account.
He also commented on the letter lender B sent Mr L stating they didnt recognise FYP as his 
representative. But he didnt think this changed his view, as lender B had contradicted this 
stance by sending FYP a copy of the offer letter. And as lender B sent this to FYP some 
months later than they did to Mr L, this led to a delay in FYP invoicing for their fees. But he 
didnt think this was FYPs fault. So, he didnt think they needed to do anything more.
Mr L didnt agree as he maintained the view the work he completed himself led to the refund 
he received. So, he thought the fee should be reduced substantially. As Mr L didnt agree, 
the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr L. Ive no doubt Mr L 
worked with lender B directly after FYP had submitted his claim and I recognise this 
wouldve taken time and effort. So, I can appreciate why Mr L thinks FYPs invoice should be 
reduced to reflect this. And I understand FYPs invoice came four months after Mr L received 
his PPI refund. So, I think Mr L wouldve been left surprised when it was received and this 
wouldve caused him some distress. But for me to say FYP should reduce the fee theyre 
charging, Id need to see one of two things. Either, they didnt hold the necessary 
authorisation to submit the claim in the first place. Or, if they did, that the work they 
completed was of no to little value for the refund Mr L received. And in this situation, I dont 
think thats the case.
I dont think its in dispute that Mr L authorised FYP to pursue a PPI claim on his behalf. Ive 
seen Mr L signed two separate LOAs at separate times. And Ive seen that by signing these 
LOAs, Mr L was agreeing to be bound by the terms and conditions of the agreement. And 
on both of these occasions, the terms and conditions were available to Mr L. If Mr L was 
unhappy with FYP pursuing his claim on his behalf, Id have expected him to raise this when 
the second LOA was sent to him. But I cant see that he did. So, Im satisfied FYP had the 
necessary authorisation to pursue a claim on Mr Ls behalf.
Ive then thought about the work FYP completed on the claim. Mr L himself has recognised 
he needs to pay FYP a fee. But he thinks it should be reduced, to reflect the work he 
completed with lender B directly. Ive seen FYP feel their full fee is due even though they 
offered a 10% invoice reduction as a gesture of good will. But Mr L wanted the invoice to be 
reduced by 25%, which FYP declined.
Ive seen FYP submitted the initial PPI information request. And from this request, lender B 
identified that Mr L had PPI on his account. And as part of this request, FYP asked lender B 
to automatically convert their communication into a claim if PPI was identified, due to the 
amount of time left before the PPI deadline. And Ive seen they followed this up when they 
provided Mr Ls second LOA.
Ive seen no evidence to show Mr L submitted a separate, new claim. So, I think its 
reasonable for me to assume the refund Mr L received resulted from the claim FYP made.
But I dont dispute Mr L dealt with lender B directly during the claims process. Although 
lenders like lender B are supposed to request further information through a customers 
representative, its common practice for them to continue a customer directly due to the time 
this saves. But I dont think I can hold FYP responsible for lender Bs decision to do this. I think Mr L shouldve been reasonably aware hed instructed FYP to act as his 
representative. So, when he received direct contact from lender B, Id have expected Mr L to 
make FYP and ask them to complete the work on his behalf, if thats what he wished to do. 
Ive seen no evidence to show Mr L did so. 
And the agreement Mr L entered into with FYP was a no win no fee agreement. So, the fee 
FYP charge isnt calculated on the work they complete. Instead, its a percentage of any 
successful PPI refund they obtain on Mr Ls behalf. So, as I think the refund Mr L received 
resulted from the initial claim FYP submitted, I think theyve acted fairly and reasonably 
when invoicing Mr L for their fee, in line with the terms and conditions he agreed to be bound 
by. And because of this, I dont think they need to do anything more.
I also want to reassure Mr L I did consider the letter he received from lender B which stated 
they had no record of his claim being represented by FYP. But I think this letter contradicts 
lender Bs actions previously, where they sent FYP a copy of Mr Ls offer letter and referred 
to him as FYPs client. So, I dont think this changes the decision Ive reached.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr L was hoping for. And as Ive referred to in my 
decision, I dont doubt he spent time dealing with lender B directly and I understand why hes 
unhappy about paying the full fee because of this. But I dont think Mr L had to do this 
because of anything FYP did wrong. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint about Lynden Ltd trading as 
FindYourPPI.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2021.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman