DRN-4036586
The complaint
Mr M and Mr S have complained that their claim on a Tech Pack was declined due to a 
change of the terms and conditions of the Tech Pack.
Mr M and Mr S say that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) failed to inform them that the 
Tech Pack no longer covered laptops.
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and they didnt think that Barclays has acted 
unfairly or unreasonably in this matter. 
Mr M and Mr S disagreed with the adjudicators assessment, so the matter was referred for 
an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed everything, Im unable to uphold this complaint  largely for the same 
reasons as the adjudicator gave. I will explain why.
Firstly, I think it will help to clarify that this complaint is against Barclays  not the Tech Pack 
insurer. As such, I am limited to consider whether Barclays did anything wrong. I therefore 
cant comment on or consider whether the claim was handled correctly by the insurer.
In terms of Barclays responsibility in this matter, it was responsible for informing Mr M an Mr 
S about the change to the Tech Pack whereby laptops were no longer covered.
Looking through the evidence provided by Barclays, it has provided evidence that it sent a 
letter to Mr S on 28 June 2022, which explained that changes were being made to the Tech 
Pack. This included, amongst other changes, the removal of cover for gadgets and laptops. 
The letter went on to explain that the changes will come into effect on 26 August 2022 and 
also explained that if the account holders are unhappy with the changes being made, they 
could cancel the Tech Pack at any time, and that was the case even if the account holder 
was still within the minimum term.
This letter looks to have been sent to the correct address, and as outlined by the adjudicator, 
there is no evidence that the letter was returned to Barclays as being undelivered. Barclays 
has also explained that a copy of the letter was posted to the cloud it area of the Barclays 
app. Although I understand that Mr M and Mr S say they couldnt see the document on their 
app.
Nevertheless, Im satisfied that Barclays had done what it was required to do to inform Mr M 
and Mr S about the changes made to the Tech Pack. And although I do understand their 
frustration and appreciate why they say that more couldve been done to inform them of the 
changes (such as having to opt-in to the changes), ultimately Barclays was able to 
communicate such changes to account holders via the methods that itd used.
Overall, it seems to be the case that the letter was most likely lost in the post. However, I 
can only find in Mr M and Mr Ss favour if I think that Barclays did something wrong. But, I 
dont think it did anything wrong and ultimately, I cant hold Barclays responsible if the letter 
was lost by the postal service.
As such, whilst I do empathise with the position that Mr M and Mr S found themselves in 
regarding the cover (or lack thereof) for their laptop, Im unable to find in their favour on this 
occasion. 
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 July 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman