DRN-4037428
The complaint
Mr M has complained about Santander UK Plc withholding a credit into his account.
What happened
Both sides are most familiar with the case, so Ill briefly summarise what happened.
In summer 2022, Mr M received a credit of £10,000. Santander had concerns about the 
payment and asked for proof of entitlement. Mr M sent some documents, but the sending 
bank also had concerns and were carrying out their own investigation, so Santander waited 
for them to finish to make sure everything was OK. 
There followed a long delay in releasing the funds. The sending bank say they told 
Santander they could release the money, whereas Santander say they didnt hear from the 
sending bank. Following a review, they decided to close Mr Ms account. Santander felt 
theyd acted fairly overall, but paid Mr M £30 compensation for the way they handled a 
phone call.
Our investigator looked into things independently and recommended that Santander release 
the payment, pay 8% simple interest between the date the sending bank confirmed they 
were happy for the funds to be released and the date they were released, and pay an 
additional £100 compensation.
Santander agreed, and the funds were released on 24 February 2023. Mr Ms representative 
disagreed. He said the matter had impacted him personally, that Mr M had been deprived of 
the use of the money, and that the simple interest should be backdated further. He asked for 
an ombudsman to look at things afresh, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should explain that Santander are required to be on the lookout for potential fraud, and to 
help prevent it. That will sometimes involve withholding payments, asking for proof theyre 
genuine, and carrying out investigations, like what happened here. Of course, I appreciate 
that it can be very frustrating for an innocent party to have to wait for these checks. But 
I dont think Santander were wrong to do them in the first place.
Like our investigator, I think Santander took too long to carry out these checks. I understand 
they wanted to see what the sending bank found, but on 20 December 2022 the sending 
bank confirmed theyd contacted Santander to let them know the payment could be 
released. Even if Santander didnt receive that, given how much time had passed by then, 
they should have proactively contacted the sending bank themselves by that point.
When someone is unfairly deprived of the use of their money, we often tell banks to pay 8% 
simple interest on the money for the period they were deprived. This is the same rate the 
courts use, to compensate someone for the time they were out of pocket. So it seems right 
that Santander should pay simple interest here.
In terms of when that simple interest should be calculated from, its worth reiterating that 
Santander didnt act unfairly by withholding the payment for checks in the first place. So 
while Mr M was deprived of the use of the money, it wasnt an unfair deprivation at first. 
Once the sending bank contacted Santander, I think it was unfair for Santander to continue 
holding onto the funds. So it makes sense to start the interest calculation at that point.
I understand why the representative would like the 8% simple interest to be worked out from 
an earlier date. But we dont have any evidence that the sending bank tried to contact 
Santander before 20 December 2022. 
I also understand why the representative would like to receive compensation himself. But 
I can only award compensation to the actual complainant  here, Mr M  for things which 
happened to the complainant. I cannot make awards to representatives. Further, I appreciate 
that the money in question originally came from a loan the representative took out, and that 
he was paying interest on that loan in the meantime. But even if Santander had never frozen 
the payment, and even if it had gone straight to Mr Ms account and stayed there, the 
representative would still have had to make those same interest payments anyway. And 
again, I wouldnt be able to award compensation for a representative in any case  only for 
an eligible complainant. So I cannot make any award there.
On that note, Ive considered the stress and upset that Mr M was caused here. I can see that 
Santander accept their customer service was not as good as it shouldve been. When a 
business gets things wrong, we often tell them to pay compensation, to recognise their error 
and the impact it caused. In terms of the amounts, its worth bearing in mind that were not 
here to issue fines or punish businesses. Here, I can see that Mr M was caused some real 
stress and frustration which an apology on its own would not be enough to remedy. We have 
guidelines about what levels of compensation to award, and I need to be consistent with 
those. Taking everything into account, I think the £100 additional compensation that our 
investigator suggested is fair.
Lastly, I can appreciate why Mr M may be unhappy that Santander closed his account. But 
much like Mr M can broadly choose who he banks with, Santander can broadly choose who 
banks with them. I can see that, following a full review, Santander decided to close the 
account, and they gave the appropriate notice under the terms. So I cant say that they did 
anything substantially wrong there.
Putting things right
I direct Santander UK Plc to:
pay simple interest to Mr M on the withheld payment, at the rate of 8% simple a year, 
payable from 20 December 2022 until 24 February 2023; and-
pay Mr M £100 compensation for the trouble and upset they caused. HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander to take off tax from this simple interest. Santander 
must give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. Mr M may be able 
to claim the tax back from HMRC if he doesnt normally pay tax.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out, I uphold Mr Ms complaint in part, and direct Santander UK Plc 
to put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman