DRN-4027675
The complaint
The member trustees of a Small Self-Administered Scheme (SSAS) pension trust (A), who
Ill also refer to individually as Mr R1 and Mr R2, complain that Atkins Bland Limited advised
them to invest twice in a complex, esoteric, overseas, non-standard investment which was
not suitable given [their] investment aims and objectives, as they were inexperienced and
unsophisticated in investments.
The complaint was originally brought by Mr R1, as he received the advice in question when
acting on behalf of both trustees. However the decision Im making affects the trust (A) as a
whole, and Ive already informed both parties that Im now considering it on that basis.
What happened
Mr R1 and Mr R2 had set up the SSAS in 2002 on Atkins Blands advice for the company
they jointly owned. In September 2004 a single employer pension contribution was made to
the SSAS with a view to buying shares in the sponsoring employer. However the funds were
deferred in cash and it was decided against doing this.
By the time of the advice under complaint, the SSAS had reached a value of £495,000
including a commercial property worth £260,000  for which £20,000pa rent was being paid
into the SSAS. The rest other than a bank account was invested in a portfolio with Transact.
In April 2007 Atkins Blands fact find showed Mr R1 and Mr R2 were aged 51 and 48
respectively and in good health. Neither of them had mortgages, although companies owned
a portion of each of their main residences. The attitude to pension risk shown on this fact
find of Historically Average but interested in Above Average if opportunity is sufficiently
attractive appears to be based on Mr R1s and is similar to the Above Average answer he
ticked for himself on a Customer Care Survey in October 2006. That was defined as:
I am happy to expose capital to a high degree of shorter-term volatility and have all or
most linked to the equity markets at home and abroad but preferring to maintain some
capital in average risk sectors to help balance the adventurous holdings.
Typical core investments are stock markets at home and abroad including specialist more
volatile funds.
The only higher option was High Risk. Mr R1 had also declared at that time that he had a
little knowledge of non-deposit based investments. Atkins Bland also noted on its fact find:
There is a preference to look at property based investment within the pension. [Mr R1] is
looking at building a property based income portfolio longer term with the proceeds from
the sale of the business one day. Using similar gearing based property investment is the
preferred option.
Need to be mindful of leaving enough in liquid investments to fund tax free lump sum
release at 50 due to changes going through on minimum retirement age by April 2009.
Mr R2 had also recently completed a risk questionnaire, which described him in two places
as speculative and able to weather periods in which your investment decreases in value.
However some of the answers reflected that in general he sought security and was only
willing to accept some risk. But in the future he was prepared to take a medium high
amount of risk. The overall conclusion of the questionnaire was:
Your total overall risk score puts you in the high risk category. People in this category
are willing to speculate with their investments You are generally interested in investments
which could provide high returns, but which therefore could also suffer high losses.
People in this category will be fairly tolerant of dips in the market, and will not usually
require immediate access to their capital.
Atkins Bland advised A to invest £50,000 of the available SSAS cash in shares in the Stirling
Mortimer Majestic Village No.3 (Spain) Fund. This was one cell of a Protected Cell Company
(PCC) registered in Guernsey. The offers for subscription for this particular investment said
that each Cell was an unregulated collective investment scheme (UCIS) and as such, the
offer had to be communicated by an authorised firm in the UK to persons who fell within
exemptions contained in either:
The Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) (Promotion of Collective
Investment Schemes (Exemptions) Order 2001 (which Ill refer to as PCIS Order); or
Chapter 3 of the Financial Services Authoritys Conduct of Business (COB) handbook.
Atkins Bland described the fund as an opportunity to invest for potentially as short a term of
two years with the potential for high growth. The fund would invest and then resell 'Right To
Purchase (RTP) contracts at the first stage in construction of properties. The contracts were
offered to the fund at a 20-30% discount on the off-plan price  a margin which was
expected to narrow to zero by the time the development completed. Three particular
developments of townhouses by the Majestic Group in Spain were listed in the prospectus.
Atkins Bland emphasized the bank guarantees affording protection of the sums paid (plus
15%) in the event that the property developer went bust. The 15% part of the guarantee,
backed by a cash deposit held with the Funds lawyers, was triggered if the RTPs couldnt be
resold into the market after two years. A return of the rest of the investment would also be
triggered if the RTPs were resold in years three or four for less than the off-plan price.
Otherwise and if the RTPs couldnt be resold after four years (at a penalty payable to the
fund of 2% in years 3 and 4), the fund was obliged to complete on the properties. That could
require borrowing that it would seek to cover through the penalty payments, rental income
and/or disposal of the properties. Borrowing could be at up to 250% of the net asset value of
the fund. The prospectus set out the various scenarios under which Spanish taxes would
have to be borne by the fund (or affect the price at which it could sell on the RTPs).
Atkins Bland said to Mr R1 that Our own appraisal of your circumstance is that you are in a
position to accept some risk to part of your capital. But it added, We really do not believe
this investment is suitable to anyone who is particularly risk averse.
In August 2007 Atkins Bland recommended A invest £25,000 in the Stirling Mortimer No.4
(Cape Verde) Fund. This was another Cell of the same PCC, but Stirling Mortimers view of
the regulatory status of this (and presumably therefore the other Cells) seems to have
changed. The offers for subscription said that the promotion should only be directed to
persons in the United Kingdom who were Qualified Investors or investment professionals.
This fund would work on essentially the same basis as the Spain fund, with RTPs on a
beach and golf resort. Atkins Bland made the same references to Mr R1s ability to take risk.
In April 2008, Mr R1 took his maximum tax-free cash sum and drawdown income from the
SSAS. A fact find at this time noted that he held £180,000 in cash deposits and was seeking
an arrangement (without borrowing) to buy out the companys 49% share in his home. Afurther attitude to risk assessment scored him as below average in respect of drawing
benefits from other pension arrangements outside the SSAS (which totalled £47,000).
The remainder of the Transact Portfolio was valued at £68,754, comprising £2,773 in cash 
and the rest divided between the following:
Aegon High Yield Bond Class A JM Finn Global Opportunities Fund 
ETFS Grains (AIGG) JPMorgan Europe A
F&C Progressive Growth Class 1 JPMorgan Natural Resources A
First State Global Listed Infrastructure A Lincoln Far East 
FTF-Franklin Global Emerging Markets Fund  M & G Recovery Fund X Class 
Gartmore UK Equity Income Retail Class New Star UK Property 
Invesco Perpetual Income Premier Pan European Property Share 
Invesco Perpetual Pacific Schroder Global Property Securities A 
J O Hambro UK Equity Income Retail Class Threadneedle Latin American Class 1
In January 2009, Atkins Bland wrote updating A about the status of both investments. It 
explained they had been affected by the financial crisis of 2007-08 and the maturity dates of 
both had been put back to January 2011. It reiterated that penalties would be paid to the 
fund, meaning at least a 15% compensation payment. The actual values of the investments 
were still reported on As SSAS statements at a higher level than the original amounts.
Mr R1 retired as director of the sponsoring employer and disposed of his shares in 
December 2009, although Mr R2 had resumed a directors appointment which he then held 
until he also retired and sold his shares in the company in March 2013. The SSAS has 
continued to own the commercial property and receive rent to pay pension income.
An update Atkins Bland sent in May 2010 summarised that it was anticipated  although not 
guaranteed  that the Spain fund would return the original capital invested, and the Cape
Verde fund could possibly deliver a profit to investors. In September 2011 the maturity date 
of the latter was extended to the end of July 2012, but as this again failed to materialise 
Atkins Bland continued to provide A with updates.
As 21 October 2011 statement showed the Cape Verde funds value dropping back below 
the amount originally invested  although it took until the 20 October 2016 statement for this 
to happen with the Spain fund. In November 2014 Atkins Bland had said There are no 
borrowings on the fund and therefore there are no secondary bank covenants to consider. At 
this stage we would suggest patience is the byword and confidence that the fund manager is 
doing everything they possibly can to sell the properties in the fund as rapidly as possible.
In May 2016 when he was age 60, Mr R1 started to want to understand the process and 
implications of splitting the SSASs value with his brother, so he could draw his entire share 
out and manage the commercial property as a joint asset outside the SSAS. The adviser 
emphasized the inheritance tax disadvantages of doing so and also weighed up the pros and 
cons of switching the SSAS to two SIPPs, which they decided not to do.
During these discussions in June 2016, Mr R1 acknowledged the possibility of the Cape 
Verde investment being written off, as he asked if it would be possible to offset that loss 
against the tax bill he might pay when accessing the rest of his SSAS entitlement. Atkins 
Bland regarded this as the point that Mr R1 (and by extension A) ought reasonably to have 
been aware of a cause for complaint. However its response at the time was:
I have attached a summary that we have put together of the position based upon fund 
manager newsletter releases, this gives a good overview of the current position rather
than rely on ill-informed speculation on the internet. However, as we have stated it isimpossible to know at this stage as to the eventual timetable for maturity on both funds or 
on the amounts that may eventually be returned to investors.
The conversations about the split in assets between Mr R1 and Mr R2 continued. Although 
the values of both investments had gradually declined as noted above, they then fell abruptly 
to zero in As 23 October 2017 statement (in respect of the Spain fund) and As 5 May 2018 
statement (in respect of the Cape Verde fund). Notably, the latter statement prompted Mr R1 
to tell Atkins Bland on 3 June 2018 that he was shocked that both funds had been delisted, 
and was concerned that I stand to lose a great deal of money. By 20 September 2018, 
Mr R1 had deflected his concern onto Atkins Blands involvement:
I want to express my concern in relation to the two Sterling Mortimer investmentsthat have 
been written down to zero, and I feel I need to raise this with you and see if we can agree on 
a way forward.
As you know, the Sterling Mortimer investments were supposed to be short term high yield, 
but the reality appears to be that I have lost all the invested funds with very little hope of being 
able to draw down on the cash in my lifetime.
From the research I have conducted, it is evident that these investments were never suited to 
my investment risk strategy as they were high risk unregulated investments. I am sure you will 
be aware several Sterling Mortimer investments have been the subject of a Serious Fraud 
Office investigation and the FSA [sic] are accepting claims for mis sold Sterling Mortimer No 4 
investments along with others (for companies that are no longer trading) and I suspect it will 
only be a matter of time before Majestic Village No 3 takes a similar course.
I have read your email of 12 June 2018 and cant say that it gives me any comfort. My 
experience in business has shown time and time again companies in this sort of difficulty 
usually end up paying very low dividends and often zero with a legal process dragging on for 
years. The only beneficiaries are usually the receivers / administrators with the creditors at the 
bottom of the pile !
I am aware there are plenty of companies eager to take on my case on a no win no fee basis, 
but I feel we have developed a good working relationship over the years, and want to give you 
the opportunity to address my concerns amicably.
Initially I would like to get your thoughts on the matter, but I dont want the situation continuing 
indefinitely.
I look forward to hearing from you.
The advisers reply of 15 October 2018 read in part (with my emphasis):
Thank you for your email of 20th September and I do understand your disappointment with 
the outcome of these investments.
As you say, they were designed to be reasonably short term and to provide potentially high 
returns from investing in overseas holiday property developments, but had, as you know, 
failed to deliver as a consequence of the collapse in the sector following the financial crisis 10 
years ago.
Since this initial failure to achieve their objectives, the managers have been trying to dispose 
of the assets they hold in a way which can generate some return of capital to investors but, so 
far, have been unsuccessful.
With regard the SFO investigation, the SFO did commence an investigation after an allegation 
of fraud back in last 2012 but then dropped this earlier this year, and I am unaware of any 
evidence of fraud or wrongdoing by the managers of these funds.
The impression I have always had is that the managers have been genuine in their attempts 
to recover some value for investors and, rather than being involved with fraud, have been the 
victims of it, as they have reported in their updates on the Spanish fund.Clearly, there is a probability that all the efforts from the managers will come to nothing and 
there will ultimately be no return to investors, but I do feel the record indicates they are doing 
their best against a very difficult background.
With regard your comment on claims management companies eager to encourage investors 
to complain and assist them on a no win no fee basis, this does seem to be one of the worlds 
current epidemics.
I wont comment in terms of my views on the relentless rise of the modern claims culture 
which is being driven by the claims management companies but, with reference your own 
position, I do feel that the ingredients to support a justifiable claim are absent.
The core issue here is that, as far as I am aware, successful complaints are predicated on 
either the investment having been promoted as low risk or it being unsuited to the investor 
due to their financial inability to accept the risk, or both.
In your own case, you were clearly in a financial position to accept the risk and were correctly 
classified as both a high net worth and a sophisticated investor, in terms of the regulatory 
classifications for these definitions. In addition, our correspondence with you from before the 
time the investments were arranged did clearly state that these investments involved the risk 
of losing the capital and were not low risk.
The letter then quoted back from the product summary Atkins Bland had supplied Mr R1 at the 
time of the investments, and added:
The overall risk preference we were applying to the portfolios, in line with our discussions and 
agreements, was average risk. To achieve any specific risk category in a portfolio it is normal 
to hold assets in categories above and below the overall target, thus widening diversification.
While the Stirling Mortimer funds were above average to high risk, and based on speculating 
in property development, their inclusion did not move the total for the portfolio, which was 
worth in excess of £500,000, beyond an overall classification of average risk.
We do, of course, know with the benefit of hindsight that investing in overseas holiday 
property in 2007 has proven a very poor strategy, but at the time the enthusiasm for this 
sector was massive and the Stirling Mortimer funds did seem an attractive way to gain access 
to the potential gains, for those happy to accept the potential risks.
I do hope that, on reading the above and recalling the background to this advice back in 2007, 
you will conclude that, although the advice to include these funds has produced poor 
results, this is the consequence of unforeseen events, and particularly the impact of the 
financial crisis on overseas holiday property developments, rather than any actions or 
inactions on the part of myself or Atkins Bland which justify a complaint.
As you say, we have always had a very good working relationship. I genuinely hope this can 
continue but will leave it with you to let me know how you wish to proceed.
Mr R1 engaged a legal representative who formally complained on 20 August 2019. 
Essentially, Atkins Bland responded that Mr R1 (and by extension, the trustees) had both the 
attitude and capacity for risk to make the investments, and had adequate experience and 
comprehension to understand the nature and structure of the Stirling Mortimer funds. 
Furthermore it said his classification as high net worth/sophisticated entitled him to receive 
promotions of the investments. It also believed that the complaint was raised outside the six- 
and three-year time limits that apply under DISP 2.8.2R(2) in the regulators handbook. 
An ombudsman decided that the complaint was brought within these time limits on 12 
October 2022, and then an investigator found that the complaint should be upheld on its 
merits.  
Atkins Bland has added:Mr R1 had selectively recalled his attitude to risk, which he lowered after the 2008 
financial crisis.
He hadnt been using As funds as his sole source of income in retirement. If the true 
value of the SSAS and 50% of his shareholding in the sponsoring employer were 
combined, Mr R1s half of the Stirling Mortimer Investments was about 5% of these.
He had the capacity to accept the risks involved given his ongoing income from that 
employer, which also paid £20,000pa rent into the SSAS.
The FSA thematic review into advice on unregulated investments in 2010 came after 
these events and was in all likelihood prompted by the 2008 financial crisis.
It wasnt correct of the investigator to state that the funds carried a substantial risk of 
losing the full capital value. She had exaggerated that risk.
Atkins Bland was entitled to point out the inbuilt protections to the fund at the time, 
and warned these couldnt be relied upon and the property boom could be reversed.
Mr R1 has added:
He has never been a sophisticated investor and his only expertise is in the retail 
sector his company traded in, as is borne out in the documents at the time. That was 
why he went to Atkins Bland for advice. 
He felt that reference to the funds being underwritten by bank guarantees gave the 
illusion of being watertight. 
Atkins Bland forced him into the position of having to seek legal advice to establish 
whether he had a claim against it, as a result of its email to him of 15 October 2018. 
So, he wanted his legal costs to be considered as a result.
The complaint was referred to me and I issued a provisional decision on 16 March 2023, 
which follows below. Firstly, on time limits:
The complaint is brought by two trustees, and the losses on the Stirling Mortimer 
investments have been suffered by them together. However its very much in evidence that 
Mr R1 was the contact point between Atkins Bland and matters relating to the SSAS. Not 
only was he following the values of the investments on SSAS statements, he also received 
the words of reassurance Atkins Bland gave at various times.
I agree with what my colleague previously said in her decision of 12 October 2022 about the 
extent to which Atkins Bland continued to reassure Mr R1 throughout the period since A 
made the investments, including in June 2016. And I would make the same observations 
about how  before the first one fell to zero on 23 October 2017  both investments still 
reported values on annual statements within a moderate range of their starting position. I say 
this bearing in mind that it is accepted that the trustees were prepared to take risk, and 
would have had some understanding  not least because Atkins Bland gave this to them  
that the investments had been affected by the financial crisis.
So, I would already have agreed with my colleague that Mr R1 complained within three years 
of when the trustees ought reasonably to have been aware of cause for complaint in October 
2017. However theres another reason why I dont think Atkins Bland could successfully 
argue that he should have complained within three years of his email of June 2016 (which is 
the one acknowledging the possibility of the Cape Verde investment being written off). I think 
Mr R1 did raise what amounted to a complaint within three years of that date anyway.
The regulator defines a complaint in its handbook as essentially, an expression of 
dissatisfaction  whether justified or not  about Atkins Blands provision of a financial 
service (i.e. the advice it gave the trustees, an activity which is covered by our service); and 
which alleges that they have suffered (or may suffer) financial loss. All these elements are 
present in Mr R1s email of 20 September 2018 which Ive quoted above.The timing of the email is relevant in indicating it was the confirmation of nil values for the 
investments and the potential involvement of receivers / administrators that triggered his 
concern. Its understandable that he found that development relatable to his own line of 
work, and it changed his willingness to take any comfort from Atkins Blands reassurances. 
However its also clearly an expression of dissatisfaction about the way Atkins Bland 
assessed, in its advice, that these investments were appropriate for the SSAS risk strategy. 
Its evident that Mr R1 now felt he had now lost all the amounts invested. He was looking to 
resolve the situation amicably, but that isnt an option open to Atkins Bland in the regulators 
handbook: it was required to treat Mr Rs concerns like any complaint. 
Atkins Blands response shows that it knew Mr R1 had made a complaint. It clearly thought 
the complaint wasnt justified, and said so. For the purposes of our jurisdiction, that was a 
complaint that stops time running under the time limits at DISP 2.8.2(2)R. And so Im not 
persuaded there are any grounds to say the trustees complaint was brought out of time.
Secondly, on the merits of the complaint:
Should the investments have been promoted to the trustees?
As Ive set out above, Stirling Mortimer said in the prospectus that the Spain fund would 
constitute a UCIS. Its possible that could be questioned, given subsequent funds were 
classified differently. But on the basis of the information it had at the time, Atkins Bland was 
bound to observe that promoting this investment to Mr R1 and Mr R2 would be in breach of 
the restrictions on promotion of these schemes, unless it fell under a valid exemption.
At the time, the exemptions under the PCIS Order would have required any individuals to be 
certified as high net worth, sophisticated or self-certified sophisticated investors. All of the 
exemptions required the individual themselves to sign a declaration in a prescribed format 
accompanied by a statement of the criteria for them to qualify as such, and explaining that 
they may be exposed to a significant risk of losing all the property invested. From what I can 
see, none of these requirements were contemporaneously satisfied  and so any promotion 
seeking to retrospectively rely on the PCIS Order would be unlawful.
Even if its arguable there was only a technical breach of the steps required (because the 
criteria themselves could have been met), in my view this could only apply to the exemptions 
for high net worth or self-certified sophisticated investors, because they were reliant on 
purely quantitative criteria which it appears Mr R1 and Mr R2 may have been able to satisfy 
(as a result of the value of their assets in their company, or in Mr R1s case being a director 
of a company with a high annual turnover). But as it happens, both of those exemptions 
were restricted to a scheme which invests wholly or predominantly in the shares in or 
debentures of one or more unlisted companies. From what I can see, the Spain fund bought 
and sold contracts, so I cant see these exemptions would have been available.
The other sophisticated investor exemption required Atkins Bland to carry out a qualitative 
test that the trustees met the criteria of being sufficiently knowledgeable to understand the 
risks associated with participating in unregulated schemes. Ive been provided with no 
evidence that theyd invested in such schemes before; and Mr R1  who was the trustee 
primarily engaging in these matters  had already declared that he only had a little 
knowledge of making investments at risk (i.e. not in deposits). 
The Cape Verde promotion could only be directed at Qualified Investors or investment 
professionals. Clearly the two trustees were not investment professionals. It appears that the 
funds prospectus wasnt approved by a home state authority, so it could therefore only be 
promoted to Qualified Investors at the time (ss.85-86 FSMA refer). This relates to EU Directive 2003/71/EC (the Prospectus Directive), which sets out that certain natural 
persons could expressly ask to be considered as Qualified Investors if:
(a) the investor has carried out transactions of a significant size on securities markets at 
an average frequency of, at least, 10 per quarter over the previous four quarters;
(b) the size of the investor's securities portfolio exceeds EUR 0,5 million;
(c) the investor works or has worked for at least one year in the financial sector in a 
professional position which requires knowledge of securities investment.
Its clear that criteria (a) and (c) wouldnt apply to the trustees in this case. And the size of 
the Transact portfolio in the SSAS once the commercial property was excluded cant have 
been more than £235,000, which was under €500,000 in 2007. So, Im not satisfied that 
Atkins Bland was lawfully able to promote these funds to the trustees as Qualified Investors 
or under any of the PCIS Order exemptions. But even if Im wrong on any of the above, it 
remains the case that Atkins Bland advised them to invest as well as promoting the 
investments. So, it also needed to ensure its advice was suitable as per the COB rules.
This is in effect little different to the other relevant exemption available (for promoting any 
funds which were UCIS) in the table at COB 3 Annex 5: a person for whom the firm has 
taken reasonable steps to ensure that investment in the collective investment scheme is 
suitable. So, to the extent to which either of the funds could even be lawfully promoted to 
the trustees at all, I will need to decide whether it was suitable advice for A to invest.
Did Atkins Bland give the trustees suitable advice?
No extensive fact-finding was carried out on Mr R1 and Mr R2s assets other than their 
homes and company, but we later learned in 2008 that Mr R1 already held £180,000 in cash. 
Theres no reference to any other assets invested at risk, and Mr R1s other pension 
arrangements were relatively small compared with his share of the SSAS. Mr R2 wasnt 
receiving a salary but only dividends from the company, and Atkins Bland didnt record any 
notable savings or investments for him at all. 
Given that a company owned part of each of their main residences, it seems to me that both 
trustees would be reliant on some of the savings and income they received to maintain their 
financial security. And when the company from which they derived their income was sold, 
which seems to have been aligned with their plans to both retire in the short to medium term, 
the SSAS would then become their primary source of income along with whatever proceeds 
they received from the company.
Atkins Bland noted that Mr R2 had a higher recorded attitude to risk than Mr R1. However 
the investments were being made by the trustees together, and they would form a significant 
part of the assets in the SSAS that werent tied up in the commercial property  particularly 
after Mr R1 started drawing his benefits, which was noted to be imminent. Atkins Bland 
believed that the beneficial interest in the SSAS assets was divided in roughly equal shares 
between Mr R1 and Mr R2, so I dont see how it could conclude that it was appropriate to 
expose investments that would likely be needed to fund both trustees retirement to a higher 
risk than they were both willing to accept.
I agree with Atkins Blands comments that Mr R1s lowering of his attitude to risk after 2007 
shouldnt inform my decision. However, Mr R1 already agrees that he was willing to take an 
average risk at the time - he just doesnt agree that he wanted to take more risk than that. 
And its not clear how Atkins Bland reached a high risk classification for Mr R2 either.
Whilst Mr R2 hasnt been directly involved in the submissions for this complaint, I have some 
doubt about the internal consistency of the risk questionnaire he completed. It seems unlikely to me that someone who had sought security in the past would then switch to the 
opposite end of the scale. He had himself only said at the time he was prepared to take 
average to high risk, so it appears that this was uplifted to high risk in order to fit with the 
risk profile of the investments being made.
Im prepared to accept from what was recorded at the time and given the value built up in 
their company, that Mr R1 and Mr R2 together had an appetite to take up to a medium-high 
level of risk. But theres another issue with the nature of the assets already in the SSAS, and 
the need to ensure it was adequately diversified and able to meet its aim of providing for 
their retirement. About half the SSAS was invested in a single UK commercial property and 
some of the Transact portfolio was already invested in property funds. Atkins Bland recorded 
that Mr R1 had a preference for further such property investment with the SSAS, but I think 
the adviser should have questioned whether it was appropriate to do so. 
In addition, much of the rest of the Transact portfolio was in a range of UK and regional 
equity funds, and other natural resources, commodity and infrastructure funds. In my view 
this already presented a medium-high risk, and the way to achieve overall balance in the 
portfolio was not therefore to make the property element even more overweight  but to 
invest in a wider range of other assets, potentially including other shares but also bonds.
To invest further into highly specialised, unregulated property funds was in my view going to 
exacerbate the problem of a lack of diversification. Theres already evidence from what Mr 
R1 himself said that he lacked experience of making non-deposit investments (which is in 
part why I dont think Atkins Bland should have promoted these investments at all). And 
these would take the overall risk profile of the SSAS outside what the trustees could tolerate.
Ive said that the value in Mr R1 and Mr R2s company meant the pensions werent going to 
be their only source of funds in retirement, and gave them the capacity to take more risk with 
their pension. But that doesnt mean it would be right to regard the company as part of the 
pension portfolio, because it clearly wasnt. There would be other demands on the company 
proceeds, including it seems giving them security over their own homes. So on that basis, 
the first investment they were advised to make in 2007 already came to 10% of the value of 
the SSAS  and would be progressively more as they each drew benefits from the SSAS.
I accept Atkins Blands comments that the regulator hadnt yet published its view on good 
practice for the proportion of unregulated investments to include in a portfolio. But Ive 
already questioned whether Mr R1 and Mr R2 had the appetite or capacity for making 
unregulated investments at all. On that basis putting as much as this in a single, 
undiversified, high-risk investment would clearly have been unsuitable for their needs. And I 
have significant doubts that they would have been in a position to appreciate and understand 
the multiple risks involved - even though these were highlighted to some degree by Atkins 
Bland in its reasons why letters.
I have some sympathy with Mr R1s argument that the bank guarantees were used to 
downplay the worst case scenario with the investments. Atkins Bland said: 
We are not in a position to confirm whether or not the protection strategy will actually prove 
successful and we feel it would be unwise to consider the investment really does carry no 
downside risk. However, significant due diligence has been carried out first by the Channel 
Islands Stock Exchange and by Grant Thornton. This leads us to be satisfied as far as 
possible on the nature of the protection mechanisms in place, although we are unable to 
absolutely guarantee this.
In my view this suggested that a failure to achieved the expected returns was a low 
likelihood indeed. And this was compounded by saying that the trustees only needed to be prepared to take some risk, a degree of risk, or not particularly risk averse, as it 
underplayed that these investments were very high risk. There was not yet an underlying 
physical asset to back up the contracts being purchased. And from what I can see, the return 
of (at least) the amount invested was only guaranteed if the developer was actually able to 
sell on the contracts. That calls into question the value of the guarantees.
Although it made brief reference to it in its commentary, Im not satisfied Atkins Bland put 
enough emphasis on the possibility that At the extreme this risk would, presumably, be loss 
of capital which could, in theory, occur in the event of the fund having to borrow to complete 
on properties and then the property values falling, causing the debts to exceed the assets.... 
But an even worse case scenario was of no property being built which the fund was able to 
complete on and sell to anyone at all. 
Instead, Atkins Bland appeared to suggest that the other assets in As portfolio also carried 
downside risk, and that the possibility of these negative outcomes should therefore be 
accepted by Mr R1 and Mr R2. Whereas in my view the Stirling Mortimer investments 
presented more risk than the trustees were willing to or should have been expected to take. 
So, I dont agree with Atkins Bland that the investigator has exaggerated the risk posed by 
these investments. If anything, Atkins Bland had done the opposite by downplaying the 
impact of the risks involved at the same time as it was highlighting them.
In conclusion, if Atkins Bland had correctly observed the restrictions on promoting these 
investments to Mr R1 and Mr R2, and (to the extent still necessary) appropriately advised 
and informed the trustees on their purchase, Im not persuaded that the SSAS would have 
purchased these investments at all.
Both parties responded to the provisional decision. Mr R1s representative said that its 
clients felt the decision was reasonable and they had no further comments. Atkins Bland 
said the following:
Time limits
- Important wording had been cropped from the end of the September-October 2018 
email exchange (at Atkins Blands request I have now included it in the summary 
above).
- The missing wording showed that Mr R1 didnt want his September email treated as 
a complaint until Atkins Bland had first commented, so Atkins Bland responded 
accordingly.
- Its argument that the complaint was outside the time limits didnt, in any event, pivot 
on the 2016 email exchange as Mr R1 had been aware of the matters complained 
about many years before that.
Merits
- Its understanding at the time of the advice was that the Stirling Mortimer investments 
were eligible for promotion to either a high net worth or sophisticated investor and 
that Mr R1s circumstances [I assume  the response referred to only one individual] 
qualified him on both measures.
- If that was incorrect (which Atkins Bland isnt sure about) it was due to a 
misunderstanding of the regulations rather than a disregard for them.
Redress
- The trustees decided to sell all of the investments by July 2016 and, beyond the 
amounts they chose to withdraw at various times, to keep the money within the 
Transact account but in cash.- The benchmark I recommended for comparison with the Stirling Mortimer funds in my 
provisional decision is therefore inappropriate, and the correct measure should be 
the interest paid on the Transact cash account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Time limits
As we are an informal dispute resolution service I was aiming  where possible  for brevity 
in my provisional decision. Id like to assure Atkins Bland that any wording cropped from the 
September and October 2018 emails was with that in mind, and not because I was seeking 
to downplay their significance. In any event, having reread the emails in their entirety, Im not 
persuaded the presence of the omitted wording changes the points I was making. 
I already acknowledged in my provisional decision that I could see Mr R1 was looking to 
resolve the situation amicably, but I said that wasnt an option open to Atkins Bland 
because of the definition of a complaint in the regulators handbook: it was required to treat 
Mr Rs concerns like any complaint. 
To be clear on this, the application of DISP 2.8.2R(2) which governs our six- and three-year 
time limits is not a matter of considering what is fair and reasonable, which is the basis on 
which Im required to determine the merits of a complaint. The extent of the reasonableness 
test included in that rule is where specifically stated:
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service:

(2) more than:
(a) six years after the event complained of; or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought 
reasonably to have become aware) that he had cause for complaint;
unless the complainant referred the complaint to the respondent or to the Ombudsman 
within that period and has a written acknowledgement or some other record of the 
complaint having been received
Atkins Bland hasnt provided any persuasive evidence for why it considers Mr R1 ought 
reasonably to have been aware of cause for complaint at a time when the reported values of 
the Stirling Mortimer investments had only fallen a moderate way below their initial levels. 
This was consistent with the trustees being willing to take up to a medium-high level of risk 
(according to the fact find, if opportunity is sufficiently attractive)  but remaining unaware 
that they lacked the capacity to take the level of risk involved in these two investments, 
because this wasnt properly assessed in Atkins Blands advice.
So, having reached the view that Mr R1 ought not to have reasonably been aware of his 
complaint until the first investment suddenly fell to zero in the October 2017 statement, there 
is no provision for me to consider whether it was reasonable for Atkins Bland to avoid 
addressing his concerns about the advice it had given as a complaint, simply because Mr R1 
preferred to resolve the matter amicably.
In any event, I dont think that was what Atkins Bland was doing in its response of October 
2018. The definition of a final response to a complaint includes that it may reject the complaint and gives reasons for doing so. Looking at the totality of Atkins Blands October 
email it said:
- The objective for the investments (to be reasonably short term and to provide potentially 
high returns from investing in overseas holiday property developments)
- The reason that objective hadnt been achieved was due to collapse in the sector 
following the financial crisis 10 years ago and the ongoing lack of success by the fund 
managers (who Atkins Bland didnt consider were behaving fraudulently) to alleviate this.
- A complaint against Atkins Bland wasnt justified, in part because it would be driven by an 
epidemic of the modern claims culture, and also because the complaint wouldnt 
succeed on its merits.
- That was because Atkins Bland didnt mis-describe the investments as low risk, Mr R1 
was a high net worth and sophisticated investor who was willing to take sufficient risk, 
and the investments were sold to achieve overall diversification of risk within a portfolio 
that was broadly average risk.
- It was only with the benefit of hindsight and realisation of unforeseen events that the 
strategy had been proven to be poor.
There is no doubt in my view that Atkins Bland was rejecting a complaint, and giving its reasons 
for doing so. (It simply omitted to include the other necessary parts of a final response, such as 
giving referral rights to this service.) So it cannot claim, at the same time, that it was not a 
complaint. 
Merits
I accepted in my provisional decision that it is possible Stirling Mortimer had wrongly 
classified the first (Spain) investment as a UCIS, given that it was part of the same PCC that 
was subsequently classed as intended for Qualified Investors rather than being a UCIS. 
Atkins Bland has provided no evidence that the Qualified Investors wording accompanied 
the promotion for the Spain fund, and I found no reference to the same in my review of the 
file. 
So, the question remains why Atkins Bland wasnt considering Mr R1 (and R2)s eligibility for 
promotion of UCIS at the time, and Ive set out in the provisional decision why they were not 
so eligible. I could understand Atkins Blands point if it turned out Mr R1 and Mr R2 were, in 
fact, Qualified Investors  but they also on my finding were not. I accept Atkins Bland may 
have been mistaken but it should have been more careful in familiarising itself with the 
regulations. Its mistake doesnt change the fact that the investments were likely promoted to 
the trustees in breach of the restriction on such promotions under FSMA. 
Moreover, nothing Atkins Bland has said has altered my view that the investments were 
unsuitable for the trustees, for the reasons I gave in the provisional decision.
Redress
Ive given further thought to Atkins Blands point on this. Im aware from the statements I do 
have that at the time the complaint was brought there was about £27,000 in total in cash 
within the SSAS, in various accounts. And that remains largely the case today. The only 
information I have from earlier statements is that the result of Mr R1 taking retirement 
benefits in 2008 left only £68,754 remaining in the Transact portfolio. I have no reason to 
doubt what Atkins Bland is saying - that in effect although the commercial property was 
providing rent to the SSAS which would pay ongoing pension income, the trustees later 
decided to liquidate the rest of the portfolio. It then seems the commercial property income proved to be insufficient, and/or they chose to draw down some more of the original £68,754 
sum in addition - as of course they are entitled to do.
However, Im not persuaded that this changes my overall view on whether the FTSE UK 
Private Investors Income Total Return Index is a fair and reasonable benchmark to use as a 
comparison. Ill explain why. 
Its understandable that the trustees would seek to leave a reserve fund in cash in the 
SSAS to meet immediate income needs, in the event rent was not paid from the commercial 
property. But it doesnt flow from that that they would want to leave a significant further sum, 
in all likelihood over £100,000 (had they not made the Stirling Mortimer investments) also in 
cash. As Atkins Bland itself says, they were prepared to take a risk.
If, as Atkins Bland may think, its more likely the trustees would also have chosen to draw 
these funds out of the SSAS for their personal use  and I was persuaded of that possibility 
 then my award would simply change to one for loss of use of those funds in Mr R1 and Mr 
R2s hands. In that eventuality our service will typically look to the rate applied by the courts 
of 8% per year simple. Of all of the possible eventualities I find it most unlikely that this much 
money would have been left accumulating in the SSAS bank account being eroded by 
inflation.
Having looked at the date range Atkins Bland argues the SSAS was invested in cash, it is 
unlikely that an 8% per year simple award would be more favourable to Atkins Bland. I 
already said in my provisional decision that I couldnt be sure exactly what the trustees 
would have done, but I considered an award that assumed the compensation sum remained 
invested in line with the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index was fair 
compensation. I remain of that view on the basis that an investment could feasibly be in the 
SSAS or in Mr R1 and Mr R2s hands  and I selected that benchmark because it was 
aligned with their attitude to risk.
Putting things right
My aim in awarding fair compensation is to put the trustees back into the position they would 
most likely have been in, had the SSAS not made the two investments in question. 
The Transact account contained a large cash holding prior to making these investments, 
which would have needed to be invested elsewhere. And the trustees would then reasonably 
make some changes to those investments in the intervening years. Im not in a position to 
say precisely what they would have done, but what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable 
given their circumstances and objectives when they invested. 
To compensate the trustees fairly Atkins Bland Limited should:
Compare the performance of the two Stirling Mortimer investments with that of the 
benchmark shown below. If the fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a 
loss and compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no
compensation is payable.
If there is a loss, it should ideally pay into the SSAS, to increase its value by the 
amount of the compensation and any interest. The payment should allow for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief. Atkins Bland shouldnt pay the 
compensation into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or 
allowance.
If Atkins Bland is unable to pay the compensation into the SSAS  which I expect is likely in this particular case if Mr R1 and Mr R2 have retired  it should pay the total 
amount of compensation directly to them, split in such proportions as they agree as 
trustees of the SSAS.
The payments direct to Mr R1 and Mr R2 should take into account that had it been 
possible to pay compensation into the plan, it would have provided a taxable income. 
Therefore, the compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for any income 
tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an adjustment to ensure the 
compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to HMRC, so the trustees 
wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr R1 and Mr R2s expected 
marginal rate of tax throughout retirement. I think its reasonable to assume that they 
are likely to be basic rate taxpayers, so the reduction would equal 20%. 
Provide the details of the calculation to the trustees in a clear, simple format.
Investment
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end
date)Further interest
Both Stirling
Mortimer 
fundsStill 
exists
but 
illiquidFTSE UK
Private
Investors
Income Total
Return Indexdate of
each
transfer
respectivelydate of
my final
decision8% per annum simple if 
not settled within 28 
days of receipt of the 
trustees acceptance of 
the final decision
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Atkins Bland considers that its required 
by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell the trustees
how much its taken off. It should also give them a tax deduction certificate in respect of 
interest if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax on interest from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid or payable from the investment at the end date. If, at the 
end date, the investment is illiquid (meaning it cannot be readily sold on the open market), it 
may be difficult to find the actual value of the investment. So, the actual value should be 
assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. Atkins Bland should take ownership of the 
illiquid investment by paying a commercial value acceptable to the SSAS provider. The 
amount paid should be included in the actual value before compensation is calculated.
If Atkins Bland is unable to purchase the investment the actual value should be assumed to 
be nil for the purpose of calculation. It may wish to require that the trustees provide an
undertaking to pay it any amount they may receive from the investment in the future. That
undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the
receipt from the pension plan. Atkins Bland will need to meet any costs in drawing up the
undertaking.
Fair value
This is what the investments would have been worth at the end date had they grown in line 
with the benchmark. Any withdrawal, income or other distributions paid out of the 
investments (rather than the SSAS itself) should be deducted from the fair value calculation 
at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that 
point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill 
accept if Atkins Bland totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end.Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
I think the trustees would most likely have wanted to obtain capital growth with a 
moderate amount of investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison
given the trustees circumstances and risk attitude.
Ive considered the arguments about the distress the sale of these investments has caused 
the trustees, and Mr R1s claim for the costs of using a representative. I note that Atkins 
Bland initially responded to the complaint by denying liability and not giving him the right to 
refer matters to this service. However, Im insufficiently persuaded that this in and of itself 
has caused Mr R1 costs that it would be appropriate for me to make an award for. 
Many firms do deny liability, and their customers bring their complaints to us nonetheless 
asserting why they feel the firm is liable. And I expect that any professional representative 
would have informed Mr R1 at the outset of his right to approach us himself if he did not feel 
he required representation. It would be exceptional for me to make an award for costs and 
Im not persuaded thats justified in this case. But, having regard to the impact the loss of 
these investments has had on the value of the SSAS, I require Atkins Bland to pay the 
trustees £300 for the distress caused.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Atkins Bland Limited to pay Mr R1 and Mr R2 redress as 
set out above. They are reminded that they should notify Atkins Bland when accepting this 
decision, in what proportion the redress should be divided between them.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R1 and Mr R2 
to accept or reject my decision before 13 April 2023.
 
Gideon Moore
Ombudsman