DRN-3024931
The complaint
Mr H complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax Building Society has added a 
marker about him at CIFAS, the national fraud database.
What happened
Mr H says that he had no knowledge of fraudulent activity on his account. Halifax has closed 
the account and the fraud marker is affecting his ability to get an account elsewhere and 
operate a business.
Halifax says that it received a report that two payments totalling £2,663.84 were received 
into Mr Hs account on 20 March 2020 as part of a scam. The money was withdrawn using 
his debit card. It said that it had grounds to close his account and register the marker at 
CIFAS.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said that there was  
high bar for adding a CIFAS marker. Mr Hs version of events had changed since he made 
the complaint. He now said that he had lost his wallet and as he was unsure whether his 
Halifax card was in it didnt report this. He had no knowledge of the credits to his account. 
He said he was at work at the time money was withdrawn using his debit card. But she said 
that there was still no clear way in which someone else would have been able to discover his 
PIN. 
Our investigator noted that the place where the card was used was within 30 minutes of       
Mr Hs workplace and he could have made those payments. She also said that in a call on 
23 March 2020 to Halifax Mr H had read his sort code and account number from the card. 
He had also told Halifax that he had agreed to allow a friend, who hed known for two or 
three years to send money to his account as that persons account had been closed. And he 
had provided that person with his sort code and account number.
Mr H didnt agree. He denied saying he had recognised the payments or that he had his 
card. He provided information showing that he had a card at a different bank replaced at this 
time and he says it refunded fraudulent payments from that account. He had provided a 
letter from his employer saying he was at work on 20 March 2020 until 20:00. And he had 
reported what happened to Action Fraud at the time.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to consider whether the report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, Halifax needs 
to have more than a suspicion or concern. It has to show it had reasonable grounds to 
believe that a fraud or financial crime had been committed or attempted and that the 
evidence would support this being reported to the authorities. 
Ive listened closely to the recording of calls Mr H had with Halifax. In a call on 22 March 
2020 he asks why his account has been suspended. He makes no mention of his card 
having been lost. The fraud team was closed at that time. When he called back the next day 
he was asked for his account number and sort code. He initially said he didnt have that and 
then says that he had his bank card there and reads those details. He is asked about the 
credits to the account and he says he recognises them, and these came from a friend whose 
account had been closed and that he did a favour for. He says he only expected this to be a 
lower amount. He is then told his account and that at any businesses in the same group as 
Halifax will be closed.
Ive looked at the entries to his account that day. The credits came in after 16:30. Two 
payments with his debit card and PIN were made before 18:00. And all of the remaining 
money was sent by a faster payment of £26.55 to a payee that seemed from the description 
to be Mr H.
Mr Hs explanation now is that he lost his card a few days earlier and didnt realise. There is 
no clear explanation of how his PIN would have been discovered. Mr H had used the 
account little before these credits and the balance was zero. His explanation must be that an 
unknown person found these details and arranged for a significant amount of money to be 
credited to his account. No checks were evident before that and that person risked detection. 
In addition, there was a transfer of some of the money using online banking  and there is no 
explanation for how someone could have accessed his account online using his security 
details.
Im afraid I dont find this a credible explanation. Mr H clearly said he had his card in March 
2020 and that he expected this money. I think it most likely he made the payments himself or 
allowed someone else to use his card to do so. I consider that he was responsible for the 
activity on the account and wasnt an unwitting participant in the movement of fraudulent 
funds from his account.
Halifax says that it applied the CIFAS marker because Mr H received fraudulent funds into 
his account. So, Ive looked at whether Halifax was fair to apply the marker, based on the 
evidence it had, and the investigation it carried out. CIFAS guidance says the business must 
have carried out checks of sufficient depth to meet the standard of proof set by CIFAS. This 
essentially means that Halifax needs to have enough information to make a formal report to 
the police. And that any filing should be for cases where there are reasonable grounds to 
believe fraud or financial crime has been committed, rather than mere suspicion. 
Having reviewed Mr Hs account of events and the evidence Halifax has provided, Im 
satisfied that Halifax had sufficient evidence for the CIFAS marker to be recorded. In coming 
to this view, Ive taken into account the following reasons:
- Mr H received fraudulent funds into his account and didnt report this to Halifax at the 
time.
- He authorised the withdrawal of the funds and so was in control of who had the 
benefit of this money.
- Halifax had grounds to believe that Mr H had used fraudulently obtained funds based 
on the evidence it had.
I dont think Halifax acted unfairly in closing his account and registering the CIFAS marker 
and I dont have a reasonable basis to require it to do anything further.My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman