DRN-3488724
The complaint
Mr M complains on behalf of his daughter Miss M that National Savings and Investments 
(NS&I) is responsible for a loss of interest on her Junior ISA (ISA) account. 
What happened
In May 2020, Mr M applied to transfer his daughters child trust fund from another financial 
business into a ISA with NS&I. He did this as he was also looking to do something similar for 
his son and noted that the account could be opened online, which he felt would mean that it 
wouldnt be impacted by the Covid pandemic.
After Mr M instructed the transfer, it didnt go ahead as quickly as he thought. So he called 
NS&I on a number of occasions and asked whether interest would be backdated to the date 
of his application and was told that it would be.
Eventually, the transfer was completed on 5 August 2020. As there was a difference in the 
interest rates between the old account and the new ISA, the previous provider reimbursed 
that difference between 15 July 2020 and 5 August 2020. But NS&I didnt offer to cover the 
remaining interest.
Mr M complained, saying that the delays were unacceptable and that this had taken 
substantially longer than the 30 days the relevant guidelines for ISA transfer state. He also 
reminded NS&I that it had told him on several occasions that it would reimburse him for any 
lost interest on the ISA from the date of application.
NS&I  said that interest could only be paid from the time the funds were received into the 
account  This is in line with the terms and conditions of the account. It did acknowledge that 
it had misadvised Mr M though and offered £50 for the impact this advice had on both this 
account and the linked application.
Mr M brought his complaint to this service where one of our investigators looked at it. They 
didnt think NS&I had to do any more here. They said that the delays here were because of 
issues with the original provider sending the payments to NS&I. So they didnt think that 
NS&I could be held for the loss of interest here. They also felt that what NS&I had offered 
and said in response to the bad advice given about the interest backdating was fair.
Mr M disagreed. He said that there was contradictory information around when the payment 
was received for this account and that NS&I had acted out of line with the industry guidelines 
for cash ISA transfers. He asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr M is aware, this decision will be focusing on his daughters JISA application as the 
complaint he makes on behalf of his son has been considered separately by this service.
Having looked at what happened here  its clear that this whole process took much longer 
than Mr M expected and wanted. And there are also points where NS&Is service fell short of 
what it should have in respect of what it told him during the application process. But overall, 
Im satisfied that what NS&I has done and now offered to put things right is fair.
Mr M initially made the application at the end of May 2020, but then NS&I sent a form dated 
10 June 2020 to complete as the original ISA provider had requested a signed authority 
before it released the funds. Mr M returned that authority with a letter dated 19 June 2020, 
which NS&I received on 1 July 2020 and sent to the original provider the same day. NS&I 
then chased the original provider on 28 July 2020 as it hadnt heard anything further. The 
money was then transferred and the account fully opened on 5 August 2020. 
Things clearly took much longer than Mr M expected, so I can see why hes unhappy. But 
equally, I have to be fair to both sides here. An application like this isnt an instant process, 
especially where it involves more than one party as it did here. But I accept Mr Ms point that 
the application here took much longer than the guidelines say it should have. This complaint 
is about NS&Is part in this though and what it would be fair and reasonable to hold it liable 
for, or otherwise.
In considering this, it looks like the main issues here were with the original provider sending 
the money to NS&I. This caused some significant delays. But Ive seen that NS&I chased the 
funds when they hadnt been received. When they were finally received on 5 August 2020, 
NS&I were then able to start paying interest, in line with the terms of the account. I know 
Mr M says that this date doesnt match up with what hes been told before  but NS&Is 
records show that this is when the money was received.
On some occasions, it did take NS&I some time to receive and act on correspondence. But I 
have to be impartial here and consider both sides of a complaint. In doing so I note that the 
timing of these transfers took place during the Covid 19 pandemic in 2020. That means that 
things were taking longer for businesses like NS&I  particularly where the postal service 
was involved too as it was here. But from what Ive seen there werent any unreasonable 
delays in how NS&I processed this application in the context of the difficult circumstances at 
the time. That means I dont think itd be fair for NS&I to pay interest as Mr M wants here.
Ive also considered that Mr M was told, on several occasions, that the interest would be 
backdated though. Thats clearly unhelpful and raised Mr Ms expectations about Miss Ms 
ISA, as understandably he thought thats what would happen. But the actual position is that 
NS&I wouldnt be backdating the interest. That would have been very disappointing for Mr M 
to have discovered.
That being the case, it wouldnt be fair for this service as an impartial body to say that NS&I 
should automatically do something it only said it would do by mistake. But equally it should 
recognise the impact this had. NS&I has paid £50 for the issues across this and the linked 
complaint for his son and apologised. I see that this doesnt go as far as Mr M wants, but I 
think thats fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 July 2022.
 
James StaplesOmbudsman