DRN-3610624
The complaint
The estate of Mr H complains, through Mr Hs representative, that The Prudential Assurance 
Company Limited (Prudential) unfairly asked it to return a total of £1,935.36  two months 
annuity payment  after Mr Hs death. 
What happened
I understand that Mr H received financial advice from another business to set up two 
annuities with Prudential. These were effective from 1 September 2001. One of these was 
for an annual, non-increasing pension of £6,582.60 which was paid monthly in arrears, with 
the first payment on 1 October 2001. And with all future payments being made on the 1st of 
each month.
Unfortunately, Mr H died on 30 June 2021. Prudential wrote to his executor on 4 August 
2021, as it had become aware of Mr Hs death. It asked his executor to contact it and to 
provide a copy of the death certificate.
Mr Hs executor completed verification paperwork which he signed on 18 August 2021. 
Prudential asked Mr Hs executor to pay back the annuity payments it had made in June and 
July 2021. These totalled £1,935.36.
Prudential wrote to Mr Hs executor on 24 August 2021. It told him that Mr H hadnt chosen 
the option to receive a final proportional payment, which it said was a payment for the 
period from the date of the last payment until the date of death. Because of this, it said the 
last payment to be paid from the annuities was the one on 1 June 2021.
Mr Hs executor replied to Prudential on 24 August 2021. He felt that as the annuities had 
been paid monthly in arrears, and as Mr H was alive until 30 June 2022, he shouldve been 
due the 1 July 2022 payment to cover the previous month of June. He asked Prudential to 
explain this anomaly. And also said that he wasnt in a position to repay any overpayment 
until hed received grant of probate. 
Mr Hs executor contacted Prudential again on 27 August 2021, as he still didnt understand 
why Mr H hadnt been entitled to the June payment in full. He asked Prudential to provide 
him with a copy of the document Mr H had signed where hed opted out of the final 
proportional payment. After this, Mr Hs executor raised a complaint. 
Prudential issued its final response to the complaint on 20 October 2021. It didnt uphold the 
complaint. It said that its request for the 1 July 2021 and 1 August 2021 payments to be 
returned was correct. It said this was because Mr H had chosen monthly in arrears 
payments without a final proportional payment. And that as he had died on 30 June 2021, 
the last payment due to be paid was on 1 June 2021. 
Prudential sent Mr Hs executor a copy of the final quotation it said itd sent to Mr Hs 
financial adviser at the time the annuities were set up. It said this confirmed the benefits Mr 
H had chosen. 
Prudential continued to chase Mr Hs executor for the outstanding repayment.
Mr Hs executor complained again to Prudential on 17 December 2021. He felt Prudential 
had provided him with a forged document when hed asked it for an original or facsimile. He 
said itd simply generated a new document from its current system, so it wasnt based on the 
original terms. He said hed found the original policy document and that it supported his 
assertion.
Mr Hs executor was also still unhappy with Prudentials explanation of why Mr H hadnt 
been entitled to the June 2021 annuity payment given hed lived up to 30 June 2021. He felt 
the estate only owed one months annuity payment. He asked Prudential to amend its claim 
for the overpayment to one month and to compensate him for the time hed spent on the 
complaint. 
Prudential replied to Mr Hs executor on 30 December 2021. It repeated its point that it was 
owed two months annuity payments. And asked Mr Hs executor to return the overpayment 
of £1,935.36. 
Mr Hs executor was unhappy with this response. So he brought the complaint to this service 
on 7 January 2022.
Prudential provided a further response to Mr Hs executors 17 December 2021 complaint on 
12 January 2022. It didnt uphold the complaint. It said that the document it had provided 
wasnt forged. And that it had been stored on its annuity quotation system. This had allowed 
it to save a copy of the original that had been sent to Mr H. 
Prudential felt it had already fully explained why the overpayment was for two months. And 
referred Mr Hs executor back to its 20 October 2021 response. 
Our investigator considered the complaint. She didnt think it should be upheld. She didnt 
consider that Prudential had made an error. 
Mr Hs executor didnt agree with our investigator on two points:
1. Even if there was no provision for a final proportional payment, Mr H had lived for the 
full month of June. He felt Junes payment was due at the end of the survived month, 
and due to be paid on the next working day.
2. He didnt consider that Prudential had provided satisfactory proof that Mr H hadnt 
opted for a final proportional payment. He felt hed got all of the original documents 
and that final proportional payment wasnt mentioned. 
Mr Hs executor said that the document this service had shared with him was similar, but not 
identical, to the one that Prudential had previously sent him. But that it wasnt the original 
document for the quotation, which he felt he already had. He felt his original document 
showed the contract Mr H had engaged in with Prudential. And that the document Prudential 
had shared wasnt authentic. 
Prudential told this service that the reason for the difference in the quotations Mr Hs 
executor had noted was that the copy of the quotation it had sent as part of the complaint 
response on 20 October 2021 was a printout of the system using the current layout. But it 
confirmed that the actual basis of the annuity was still the same.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. I know my decision will be very disappointing to 
Mr Hs executor. But Im satisfied that Prudential has acted correctly here. Ill explain why.
I first considered Mr Hs executors complaint point that Mr H shouldve been paid the June 
2021 annuity payment because hed lived up to the 30 June 2021.
Mr Hs executor said that Mr H lived on every day of June 2021. And that even if there was 
no provision for a final proportional payment, Junes payment was due at the end of the 
survived month.
Prudential said that as Mr H died on 30 June 2021, the last payment due to be paid was on 1 
June 2021. It also said that if hed chosen a final proportional payment, it wouldve covered 
the period between 1 June and 30 June 2021. But he didnt choose that option, so it felt it 
had correctly requested a return of the payments made to Mr H on 1 July and 1 August 
2021.
When Mr Hs annuity was priced, it was priced on the basis that he wouldnt receive a final 
proportional payment. This meant that, even if he lived to the last day of a particular month, 
he wouldnt receive a payment in respect of that month. So, even though Mr H did live until 
30 June 2021, he wasnt entitled to the 1 July 2021 annuity payment as he didnt survive the 
entire month of June. 
However, if Mr H had chosen the final proportional payment option, his annuity wouldve 
been priced on a different basis. And he wouldve received a part payment in respect of his 
last month of life. And Prudential wouldnt have asked for the return of all of the 1 July 2021 
payment.
While I acknowledge that Mr H was alive on each day in June 2021, he didnt survive to July 
2021. In order to be eligible for an annuity payment in July 2021, based on the terms of his 
annuity, he wouldve had to do so. 
I next considered Mr Hs executors complaint point that Mr H did, in fact, opt for a final 
proportional payment.
Did Mr H opt for a final proportional payment?
Mr Hs executor considers that M H did opt for a final payment upon death, as he said he 
cant see evidence that he didnt within the original documents hes found. 
Mr Hs executor has provided two documents he said are the originals. One contains one 
page of information. It states the annual amount of pension and spouses pension to be paid, 
and the commencement and first payment date. It also states that the pension will be paid 
monthly in arrears. But theres no further information. For example, it doesnt mention that 
the annuity had a five-year guarantee.
The other document Mr Hs executor provided is a six-page document called Your Annuity 
Policy, which explains the annuity in more detail. Neither document refers to a final 
proportional payment.
Prudential told this service that the application and point of sale documentation is no longer available. But it was able to provide a copy of the final quotation it said itd sent to Mr Hs 
financial adviser at the time the annuity was set up. 
Although Prudential has shared with Mr Hs executor, and this service, a two-page About 
this quotation document, Mr Hs executor considers that this is a fraudulent document. 
Ive reviewed this document. It states in a table at the bottom of the first page, under: How 
we will pay your annuity, that it will be paid: Monthly in Arrears without a final payment on 
death.
The second page of the document has a section called: What happens when I die?. This 
states:
We will not make a final payment covering the number of days between your last income 
payment and the date you die.
Ive seen no evidence that the two-page document Prudential has provided is fraudulent. 
The information it contains is in line with the information provided in the six-page document. 
And while I agree that it contains further information about the final proportional payment, 
Ive seen no evidence that Mr H selected this option. 
I acknowledge that Mr Hs executor doesnt consider that Prudential provided satisfactory 
proof that Mr H hadnt opted for a final proportional payment. But this service bases its 
decisions on the evidence it has available to it. Mr Hs executor has provided no evidence 
that Mr H did in fact opt for a final proportional payment. Based on what Ive seen, Im 
satisfied that Mr H didnt opt for a final proportional payment.
Based on what Ive seen, I cant fairly say that Prudential has acted incorrectly when it asked 
Mr Hs executor to refund the 1 July 2021 payment, as well as the 1 August 2021 payment. I 
say this because Ive seen no evidence that Mr H chose the option with the final proportional 
payment. 
Mr Hs executor was also unhappy with how Prudential had requested repayment. He said it 
was already hard enough dealing with the estate of a loved one, without harassment from a 
business. He also said it took him a great deal of time to sort out. 
Based on the letters Prudential sent to Mr Hs executor to request the repayment, I 
understand why he feels this way. Hed already told it on 27 August 2021 that he wouldnt be 
able to make any payments until he received the grant of probate. But Prudential continued 
to chase him for payment in November and December 2021.
I agree with our investigator that Prudential couldve acted more sensitively here. But Im 
unable to award compensation to Mr Hs executor, as our investigator noted. 
Overall, Im not persuaded that Prudential made an error when it requested a refund of the 
two months overpayments totalling £1,935.36. So I dont uphold the complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr H 
to accept or reject my decision before 31 January 2023.
 Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman