DRN-3776432
The complaint
Miss E complains about two failed Direct Debit Guarantee claims with HSBC UK Bank Plc 
(HSBC).
What happened
Miss E had a direct debit set up with two telephone network providers that she is now in a 
dispute with, so Miss E contacted HSBC to raise a claim under the Direct Debit Guarantee 
scheme. 
HSBC initially refunded one of the payments against one provider. Then after speaking to 
Miss E, HSBC said that as she had authorised the payments, it was unable to take the claim 
further. HSBC re-debited the money. 
HSBC did find there were some delays actioning the request and offered Miss E £100 for the 
trouble and upset this caused.
Miss E didnt agree with HSBCs outcome. Miss E said The Bill of Exchange Act 1882 needs 
to be followed and this meant the payments should be returned. So, Miss E brought her 
complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. Our 
investigator said that the Direct Debit Guarantee scheme was what needed to be followed 
and HSBC had done that. As there has been no error with the payments, HSBC were correct 
to decline to take the claim further. Our investigator lastly said that they thought the £100 
offered for the delays were fair. 
Miss E didnt agree with the investigators view, for largely the same reasons she didnt 
agree with the business. So, the complaints been passed to me to issue a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint for largely the same reasons as 
the investigator. Ill explain why. 
When a Direct Debit Guarantee claim is made, HSBC are required to follow the scheme 
rules. The scheme rules protect a customer if the payment is made in error. Miss Es dispute 
is regarding documents she has asked the two telephone providers to give her and how long 
they have taken to do it. There is nothing to suggest Miss E didnt get the service she paid 
for or that there were any errors with how much she paid for it. So, Im satisfied that HSBC 
didnt need to take the claims any further given the scheme rules. Miss E has also told our 
service in her complaint form that she has a contractual dispute with the two telephone 
providers. 
The Direct Debit Guarantee rules say
The Direct Debit Guarantee applies to all Direct Debits. It protects you in the rare event that 
there is an error in the payment of your Direct Debit, for instance if a payment is taken on the 
incorrect date, or the wrong amount is collected. It cannot be used to address contractual 
disputes between you and the billing organisation.
So, its clear from this that Miss Es contractual dispute is not covered by the scheme. 
Miss E has mentioned the Bills of Exchange Act 1882 several times and from the information 
she has sent our service, thinks this should override the Direct Debit Guarantee scheme. Ive 
thought about this point carefully, but I dont agree.  As Miss E is claiming the return of 
payments made through direct debits, Im satisfied HSBC have followed the correct scheme 
rules that apply in these circumstances  that scheme is the Direct Debit Guarantee. 
HSBC have acknowledged that they didnt get things quite right when responding to Mis E 
about her claim and have offered to pay her £100 compensation. Miss E is still free to 
contact HSBC to accept this payment. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 November 2022.
 
Tom Wagstaff
Ombudsman