DRN-2785430
The complaint
Miss A complains that Santander UK Plc blocked then closed her account. And wont 
release funds held in the account to her.
What happened
Miss A had an account with Santander. In August 2020, just under £7,000 was paid into the 
account. 
Following this payment, Santander decided to review how Miss A was operating her 
account. Whilst it conducted its review the bank blocked the account. Santander asked 
Miss A about the payment and to provide proof of her entitlement to the money which had 
been paid into the account. 
Miss A told the bank that money paid in to her account was from her fiancs former 
business partner and friend who I will refer to as X. Miss A says X told her that her fianc 
was in custody in the United States and the money was needed to pay a US government 
fine on his behalf. Miss A also provided a faster payment receipt she said was from X. 
Santander reviewed the information Miss A had provided.  But it wasnt satisfied it showed 
Miss A was entitled to the money. So, it asked Miss A some more questions about the 
source of the funds. Miss A said she couldnt give the bank any more information as her 
fianc was a high profile individual. And the money was needed so she could pay a fine in 
bitcoins to get him released from custody. She gave the bank a copy of a screen shot 
relating to the senders bank account, which didnt show the senders details, and a redacted 
bank statement she said belonged to X to show the payment was legitimate. Santander 
werent satisfied with Miss As explanation. It said the payment reference on the paperwork 
related to a business and not Miss A. So, it didnt release the money in the account to her. 
Following its review, Santander decided to close Miss As account. 
Miss A brought her complaint to our service where an investigator considered it. The 
investigator looked at everything Miss A had provided and said Santander hadnt done 
anything wrong when it reviewed and closed Miss As account. And after looking at the 
information provided by Miss A about her entitlement to the money agreed with the banks 
assessment. 
Miss A didnt accept the investigators view. She said she is entitled to the money paid into 
her account as her fianc has scammed her out of thousands of pounds and considers the 
money as reimbursement for her previous financial losses. 
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Anti-money laundering regulations and UK legislation place extensive obligations on 
regulated financial businesses to establish the purpose, nature and origin of funds. 
Santander have a set of procedure in place for monitoring accounts because of the legal and 
regulatory obligations they have to follow. Our role is to check whether they have followed 
the correct procedures, and if where they havent, we ask the business to put things right for 
the consumer. 
Having looked at all the evidence, I dont believe it was unreasonable in the circumstances 
for Santander to block Miss As account and ask her for information about the money which 
had been paid into it. I say this because this was a newly opened account and having looked 
at the activity on the account the payment was unusual.  So, I can understand why the bank 
had concerns. And whilst I accept this caused Miss A inconvenience and was no doubt 
upsetting, I cant say Santander treated her unfairly when it blocked her account. And asked 
her to provide information to show she was entitled to the money so that it could comply with 
its obligations.
 
The crux of Miss As complaint is that she wants the money that was paid into her account 
released to her. Shes said the money was paid into her account from a business associate 
of her fianc and was intended to pay fines in the US where her fianc is in custody. More 
recently shes told us that her fianc has taken advantage of her good nature and scammed 
her out of money. So, shes entitled to the money in the account as reimbursement for her 
losses. Having seen all the evidence provided by both parties, I dont think Santander has 
done anything wrong when it decided not to release the funds. I say this for the following 
reasons:
When Miss A first contacted the bank, she said the money had been paid into her 
account by a friend/business partner of her fiancs and was to be used to pay for 
fines in the US on behalf of her fianc
When however, she brought her complaint to this service she said shed been 
scammed by her fianc and the bank should release the money to her as 
reimbursement for financial losses shed suffered due to his fraudulent actions
Miss A hasnt produced any evidence regarding her fianc being in custody or that 
she had to pay US government fines
Miss A hasnt provided a plausible explanation for why she was acting as a go 
between to pay fines on her fiancs behalf  its not clear why this couldnt be paid 
directly by X
The reference on the faster payment receipt provided by Miss A referred to a 
business and not Miss A. And theres no evidence Miss A is linked to this business
Miss A hasnt provided the details of the senders bank account  only redacted 
copies  and has refused to do so
So, when I weigh everything up, I can understand why Santander wanted to know more 
about the funds. I can understand too why it didnt consider Miss A had adequately 
explained her entitlement to the money. So, I cant say the bank has treated Miss A unfairly 
when it decided not to release the money to her. And I wont be asking the bank to do so. 
Miss A has said that she is owed money by her fianc. And that shes been the victim of a 
scam by him which caused her to lose a lot of money. So, she says the money in the 
account should be released to her to compensate for the losses she suffered. I can 
understand why Miss A feels the way she does. But even if I accept this were the case, this 
doesnt mean the bank should release money which she hasnt been able to show she is 
entitled to because shes been the victim of a scam previously. This is a separate transaction. If Miss A has been the victim of a crime, then Id encourage her to report the 
matter to the police. And to her bank who can conduct a fraud investigation.
I then turn to the banks decision to close Miss As account. Its generally for banks to decide 
whether or not they want to provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any 
particular customer. Unless theres a very good reason to do so, this service wont usually 
say that a bank must keep customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had 
their account closed.
Banks should however, give reasonable notice before closing an account. Usually, that 
means 60 days notice, but it can be less  depending on the circumstances. In this case 
Santander closed Miss As account with 60 days notice. So, whilst I appreciate this caused 
Miss A trouble and upset, the bank was entitled to close the account as it has already done. 
Miss A thinks Santanders actions were discriminatory and based on her nationality. I dont 
doubt Miss A feels she has been targeted unfairly, or that she was caused a great deal of 
upset and anxiety. Thats clear from what shes told us and the bank. And Im sorry that this 
experience has made her feel unwell. Santander should ensure its reasons for taking any 
actions are not discriminatory and Ive considered the relevant law in relation to what Miss A 
has said when deciding what I think is the fair and reasonable outcome which is The Equality 
Act 2010 (The Act).
 
The Act describes race as a protected characteristic and sets out that a person (A) 
discriminates against another (B) if, because of a protected characteristic, A treats B less 
favourably than A would treat others. So, in considering whether Miss A has been unlawfully 
discriminated against, I need to determine whether there is evidence to suggest that she was 
treated less favourably on account of her race. But after looking at all the evidence, 
alongside the importance of what Santander needs to do to comply with its obligations, Im 
satisfied that when the bank blocked Miss As account and withheld funds it was for a 
legitimate purpose. Ive not seen anything to suggest that Santanders actions were based 
on Miss As nationality. 
In summary, I recognise how strongly Miss A feels about whats happened, and I dont doubt 
it was a frustrating and worrying time. So, I realise she will be disappointed by my decision. 
But overall, based on the evidence Ive seen, I cant say Santander have acted unreasonably 
and treated Miss A unfairly. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2021.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman