DRN-2228525
The complaint
Mr C is complaining that he thinks a campervan Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited 
(VWFS) supplied him under a hire purchase agreement was of unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
In June 2019 Mr C entered into a hire purchase agreement to acquire a camper van. Three 
days later he contacted the supplying dealership  who I shall refer to as J  to highlight 
some issues hed noticed with the campervan. In particular he referred the following:
The carpet was dirty
There was a mark in the sink
Floor rail cover and a curtain rail were poorly fitted
J hadnt fitted the paint protection pads on the bike rack which had caused the paintwork 
to be chipped
Mr C says J asked him to buy some carpet cleaner and it would refund the cost of the 
product. He says J also advised him it would send the paint protection pads out in the post. 
Mr C didnt think it was fair for him to have to clean the carpet himself, so J said he could 
arrange to have the carpet professionally cleaned and it would refund the cost. Finally it said 
the stain on the sink should be covered under warranty.
Mr C says he took the car to a manufacturing dealership who he says told him that the 
issues should have been picked up during the pre-delivery inspection. And he says he was 
told this should have taken around three hours  including a demonstration on how the 
campervan worked. It also highlighted the grommets on the cooker hob mounts needed 
replacing. The dealership did this and cleaned the sink. I understand it also replaced the 
floor rails.
Mr C was later contacted by J again to say he still owed around £300 for the bike rack 
supplied with the campervan that it had failed to take when Mr C first collected the 
campervan. Mr C disputed he owed this as he maintained hed fully paid anything. And he 
was unhappy with the way Js salesman spoke to him at the time. He also complained to J 
again and said he wanted to reject the campervan because of the issues hed had. He also 
said the leisure battery wasnt holding charge any longer. 
J responded to Mr Cs complaint and said it would provide the bike rack free of charge. And 
it said Mr C could have the carpet professionally cleaned. Finally it asked him to send photos 
of the sink and the paint chips. But it still didnt think Mr C had the right to reject the 
campervan.
Mr C didnt accept Js offer as he maintained hed paid for everything when he collected the 
campervan and he reiterated that he wanted to reject the campervan. He also said the 
campervan had developed a leak at the rear of the campervan. Mr C also referred this 
matter to VWFS as the supplier of the campervan. VWFS responded to say the campervan 
had been inspected by the manufacturing dealership again and it didnt find any faults with 
the battery. It also said it had pressure tested the tailgate and couldnt find any evidence of 
water ingress. So VWFS still didnt think Mr C had the right to reject the campervan. But it 
apologised for the initial issues Mr C had had.
Mr C maintained there was a leak in the rear of the campervan. And he also said, while the 
majority of the stain in the sink had gone, a mark was still there. He also provided 
photographs which he said showed there was a leak. 
Mr C later sent a video of the leak to the manufacturing dealership who responded to say:
On looking at the video suggest check the main tailgate seal is it coming in under this. Try
removing the seal and placing some Tesa tape over the mounting flange on a 50/50 split
over the flange then refit the seal and recheck with a water test. Check also that the water
in not entering the tailgate at all.
The investigator upheld the complaint. He said Mr C acquired a new campervan. So he 
thought it was fair to say that a reasonable person would expect the level of quality to be 
higher than a second-hand, more road-worn vehicle. And that it could be used  free from 
defects  for a considerable period of time.
He said Mr C obtained an independent report to show what issues still remained with the
vehicle. He highlighted the report said there werent any issues with the curtain rails or 
curtains and he said the dealership said it had removed the mark in the sink, although he 
acknowledged Mr C said this hadnt been done satisfactorily. However the investigator was 
satisfied there was still a fault with the rear of the campervan given the latest report from the 
manufacturing dealership.
The investigator said the report set out that the initial issues with the cooker, floor rails and 
sliding seats have been repaired. He acknowledged VWFSs comment that there wasnt 
anything to show there was a fault causing the leak. But he highlighted that Mr C had said it 
was an intermittent issue. So he thought it seemed likely there is a fault with the campervan, 
given Mr C has provided pictures and a video of the leak and the manufacturer 
recommended a repair. 
The investigator didnt think a reasonable person would expect to see a leak on the 
campervan so soon after purchase either. So he thought this would have made it of 
unsatisfactory quality. He said the grommets on the cooker hob mounts were replaced under 
warranty and a stain in the sink, where the tap had dripped, was removed. He also, 
highlighted that the floor rails were replaced and the sliding seats adjusted. So he thought 
VWFS has had an opportunity to repair the campervan but a further issue has arisen.
The investigator said, given whats happened, Mr C didnt want to have anymore repairs 
carried out. So he thought it was fair that VWFS now allowed him to reject it. He said VWFS 
should:
1. end the agreement with nothing further to pay and collect the vehicle at no cost to Mr C;
2. refund any deposit paid with 8% interest from the date the payment was made until the 
date of the settlement; and 
3. pay £250 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience this matter had caused.
Mr C said he was happy to be allowed to reject the campervan, but he said he hadnt used it 
since the leak materialised so he thinks VWFS should refund all the monthly payments hed 
made since then.
VWFS didnt accept the investigators opinion either. It said the manufacturing dealership 
had tested the vehicle and said we have had the vehicle pressure washed and left out in the rain and no faults have been found. It said the statement Mr C had provided was from the 
manufacturers technical department based on a video, but it said this wasnt evidence of a 
fault. It said it cant accept photographs or videos as evidence of a fault as it cant verify in 
what circumstances were they taken.
As neither party accepted the investigators opinion, the complaints been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C acquired the car under a hire purchase agreement. Legislation  in this case the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015  implied a term into the hire purchase agreement that the 
campervan must be of satisfactory quality. As the supplier and finance provider, VWFS is 
responsible for the quality of the vehicle its provided under the agreement.  
In deciding whether this campervan was of satisfactory quality, I take into account the 
relevant circumstances, such as the cash price, its mileage and age. In this case, the 
campervan was new and Mr C paid around £60,000 for it. 
The issue here is whether those problems were likely to have been present or developing at 
the time of sale, as opposed to natural and inevitable wear and tear in a used car. Ive also 
considered whether a reasonable person would expect there to be problems such as Mr C 
has experienced given it was a new vehicle and had a cash price of around £60,000  in 
short whether it was sufficiently durable. 
Mr C highlighted there were a number of issues with the campervan when it was first 
supplied to him  notably dirty carpet, mark in the sink, floor rail cover and a curtain rail were 
poorly fitted and J hadnt fitted the paint protection pads on the bike rack which had caused 
the paintwork to be chipped. Ive thought about whether these issues would make the 
campervan of satisfactory quality.
Theres no dispute the issues with the carpet and sink were present at the point of supply. 
But Im also conscious that the CRA sets out that goods arent found to be of unsatisfactory 
quality as a result of issues that would have been apparent on a reasonable examination of 
the goods. I acknowledge Mr C says J didnt give him a proper handover of the campervan. 
But I think it was Mr Cs responsibility to inspect it before he acquired it and I think a 
reasonable examination would have shown the issues with the sink and carpet. So I dont 
think these issues would make the vehicle of unsatisfactory quality. Mr C has raised 
concerns about the way J said it would to resolve these issues. But, as I dont think they 
make the vehicle of unsatisfactory quality, its not something I can hold VWFS responsible 
for.
However, the CRA also sets out that the campervan should be free from minor defects. Mr C 
has provided photographs of the chipped paintwork caused by the bike rack. The photos 
suggest the chips are very minimal. I think this is the same situation in respect to the floor 
covering around the seat. But, as I said, it was a brand-new vehicle that cost around £60,000 
so I dont think a reasonable person would expect to see any blemishes on the paintwork. So 
I dont think the vehicle was of unsatisfactory quality because of this issue.
However, Im satisfied these issues have been fairly resolved. I understand the manufacturer 
dealership has resolved the issue with the floor covering. Further to this, J has in effect 
provided the bike rack free of charge  which was originally to cost £300. I note Mr C says he had paid this, but Ive reviewed the amounts Mr C paid against the invoices and Im 
satisfied J neglected to take payment for the bike rack when Mr C collected the vehicle. So 
Mr C still owed this amount and it was, similarly, fair for J to ask him to pay it. So Mr C has in 
effect received a £300 price reduction as a resolution of this issue. And I think thats a fair 
way to resolve it.
Mr C also raised issues with the window trim, curtain rails and leisure battery. But these 
issues have been investigated and no faults were found with them. Ive thought about Mr Cs 
testimony on this, but Im not persuaded hes given me enough to demonstrate there were 
issues with these items. So I dont think it was unfair for VWFS to say it didnt need to do 
anything to put things right in this respect.
However, since J and VWFS fairly resolved the above issues, Mr C raised a further issue 
with the rear of the campervan leaking. Im conscious that the vehicle has been pressure 
tested for leaks and significant issues and no faults were found with it. That said, I have 
considered the video Mr C has provided which he says shows the leak is more than minimal. 
And having reviewed it, I agree with him. Im also satisfied that, on balance, the video is 
evidence of a leak in the campervan.
It does seem, based on this video, that there is an issue. As I said above, the CRA sets out 
that the campervan should be free from minor defects. It seems this issue arose within a few 
months of Mr C acquiring the campervan. And I dont a reasonable person would expect this 
issue to arise so soon. So I think this would also make the campervan of unsatisfactory 
quality.
Under the CRA Mr C has the right to ask VWFS to fix the campervan but if that repair is 
unsuccessful or further issues arise that make it of unsatisfactory quality, he has the right to 
reject it. Its important to note that the CRA gives one right to repair the campervan, not a 
separate right to repair each individual fault. 
So I think under the very strict interpretation of the CRA, Mr C may have the right to reject 
the vehicle and I acknowledge this is how Mr C wants to resolve the matter. But Ive thought 
about whether this is a fair and reasonable remedy in the circumstances of this case. 
I've thought about the fact that this isn't a significant fault. But it still needs to be remembered 
that this was a new campervan with a cash price of around £60,000. Mr C has experienced a 
number of issues with it. I accept the majority of the issues have been resolved, but the fact 
remains there is an outstanding issue on the vehicle that makes it of unsatisfactory quality. 
The CRA gives Mr C the right to reject it now and I don't think I can say that's an unfair 
remedy. So I think VWFS should now allow Mr C to reject the campervan.
Ive also thought about the impact the issues Mr C has had with the campervan have had on 
him. I don't think the leak has stopped him from using the campervan, but they will have 
affected his enjoyment of it. There is evidence the leak has been present since July 2019. 
So I think VWFS should refund 10% of the monthly payments Mr C has paid since then, plus 
8% simple interest. 
I also think this matter has caused him a fair amount of distress and inconvenience. Hes 
paid a significant sum of money to acquire the vehicle and he was entitled to enjoy a 
significant period of fault free usage of it. But he has suffered some unfair distress and 
inconvenience as a result of the faults with the vehicle. However, as I said, VWFS isnt 
responsible for all the issues hes had with the vehicle. Mr C has also raised concerns about 
the way some of JCBs employees have spoken to him. But VWFS isnt responsible for the 
customer service provided by JCB so it doesnt need to compensate him for this. However I do think VWFS should pay him some compensation for whats happened in respect to the 
quality of the vehicle. And I think £250 is fair compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and I 
require Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited to do the following:
1. Allow Mr C to reject the campervan and arrange to collect it at no cost to him;
2. Cancel the agreement with nothing further to pay - and arrange for details to be removed 
from Mr Cs credit file;
3. Refund the advanced payment Mr C paid *;
4. Refund 10% of each monthly payments Mr C paid since July 2019 *; and
5. Pay £250 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience this matter has caused 
Mr C.
* Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited should pay 8% simple interest on these 
payments from the date Mr C paid them until he gets them back. If it thinks that its required 
by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr C how 
much its taken off. It should also give Mr C a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so 
he can reclaim the tax if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2021. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman