DRN-4290866
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complained to Santander UK Plc (Santander) about the quality of a caravan 
they acquired. Mr and Mrs W took out a personal unsecured loan with Santander and then 
later used this money to pay for the caravan.  
What happened
At the beginning of September 2019, Mr and Mrs W were approved for an unsecured 
personal loan in the amount of £20,000. This money was deposited to Mr and Mrs Ws joint 
bank account. About two weeks later, Mr and Mrs W made a Faster Payment from a 
Santander branch to a supplier of the caravan. 
Mr and Mrs W said the caravan wasn't as described and not the one that they had had 
chosen. They also werent happy with the quality of the caravan and they questioned some 
of the safety in relation to how the caravan has been manufactured. They said that there 
were a few issues with the caravan including, among others, problems with the axel and a 
cracked window. As a resolution they wanted to be supplied with a new caravan. And as 
they werent happy with the caravan, they complained to Santander in July 2022.
In October 2022, Santander wrote to Mr and Mrs W and said that because the loan they 
were provided with was an unsecured personal loan, it is not secured against the caravan 
and that Santander have not had any involvement with the purchase they made. In this 
correspondence Santander explained that they simply provided Mr and Mrs W with the 
£20,000 loan on an unsecured basis, so they explained that they need to contact the 
company/seller of the caravan as this is not a transaction that Santander are involved in.
Mr and Mrs W were not happy with Santanders response, so they referred their complaint to 
our service. 
Santander have told our service that although they sympathise with the position that Mr and 
Mrs W find themselves in, this isnt something that Santander would be able to assist with. 
They explained that the purchase was made via Faster Payment, which doesnt offer 
protection like a chargeback or Section 75 of the Consumer Credit act 1974 (Section 75), 
therefore this wouldnt be something that the bank are able to claim back.  
Our investigator was of the opinion that the complaint shouldnt be upheld. In summary, she 
said that Santander couldnt consider raising a chargeback or a Section 75, as the payment 
came from Mr and Mrs Ws bank account using money that was in their account and not 
purchased with linked credit.
Mr and Mrs W disagreed with the investigator. So, the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is unclear or in dispute, I reach my findings on the balance of probabilities  
which is to say, what I consider most likely to have happened based on the evidence 
available and the surrounding circumstances.
Im very aware Ive summarised this complaint very briefly, in less detail than has been 
provided, and largely in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, I havent ignored it. Ive not commented on every individual 
detail. But Ive focussed on those that are central to me, reaching what I think is the right 
outcome. This reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts.
Also, I would like to express my considerable sympathy for the position Mr and Mrs W are in 
and the health issues they have told us about. I know this has been a very difficult time for 
them. With that in mind, I know that what I am about to say will be unwelcome news to Mr 
and Mrs W, and Im truly sorry if my decision adds to their distress. But Im unable to uphold 
their complaint.
This decision is not about the company from which Mr and Mrs W purchased the caravan or 
about its manufacture. In this decision Im only considering the question of whether 
Santander have treated Mr and Mrs W fairly. 
In some cases, a bank may be able to request a refund from the supplier through the 
chargeback scheme or by raising a Section 75 claim.
A chargeback is a voluntary scheme which looks to resolve payment disputes between 
cardholders and suppliers/merchants. These disputes are dealt with under the relevant card 
and scheme rules. There is no obligation for a card issuer to raise a chargeback when a 
consumer asks for one, but I would consider it good practice for Santander to pursue a 
chargeback, as long as it were possible to do so (within the scheme rules and criteria), and 
provided there is a reasonable prospect of success. This would include cases where goods 
or services arent supplied or are not as described. But in Mr and Mrs Ws situation the 
voluntary chargeback scheme doesnt apply as they didnt pay with their bank card.
A Section 75 claim allows, in limited circumstances, someone buying goods and/or services 
on credit to claim against their credit provider over the actions of a third-party supplier for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation by the said merchant/supplier. But Mr and Mrs W 
dont have Section 75 rights as they didnt purchase the caravan using a credit facility that 
wouldve provided them with Section 75 rights. Instead, they took out a personal unsecured 
loan and then later made a payment for the caravan via a Faster Payment method. Ive not 
seen any evidence to suggest that the unsecured personal loan that Mr and Mrs W had 
taken out with Santander, was credit that was provided by Santander in the course of their 
business and under and arrangement between them and the supplier. As such, the loan was 
unconnected to the transaction, and the necessary relationship between the consumer, the 
credit provider, and the provider of the goods or services was not present. 
Overall, this means that the voluntary chargeback scheme doesnt apply, and Mr and Mrs W 
have no Section 75 rights to bring a claim under that legislation either. Also, Ive not seen 
any evidence that Santander have made an error, or that they breached any of the terms 
and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ws bank account or of the loan in question. So, I cant say 
that Santander needs to take any further action in relation to Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. 
I know that Mr and Mrs W think that Santander should still be able to help them, regardless 
how they paid for the caravan. So, Ive considered this, but they did authorise the Faster 
Payment from their account and I understand that they are not disputing the transaction itself. As such, the laws, rules, and guidance around scams dont apply to this situation. This 
is purely a dispute between the supplier and Mr and Mrs W regarding the quality of product 
purchased. And in this specific case Mr and Mrs W may be able to pursue the supplier or the 
manufacturer by other means, such as through the courts, but considering the 
circumstances of this complaint, theres no fair and reasonable basis for me to direct 
Santander to help them with this faulty caravan, especially as Im satisfied Santander has 
done nothing wrong here. 
I sympathise with Mr and Mrs W for the difficulties that they are experiencing but, taking all 
the circumstances of the complaint into account, I think Santander has acted fairly and 
reasonably when dealing with their complaint. So, its not fair or reasonable for me to require 
Santander to take any further action in response to Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 20 September 2023.
 
Mike Kozbial
Ombudsman