DRN-3648261
The complaint
Ms A complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC havent refunded her for a payment she made 
by debit card, using her current account.
What happened
Ms A says made an advanced payment for dental treatment, using her Barclays debit card. 
The treatment was due to take place abroad, however, Ms A says she decided not to go 
ahead with the treatment and asked for the money to be returned to her. 
Barclays raised a chargeback request and contacted the merchant. The merchant sent 
Barclays invoices for the work it said had been carried out, and so Barclays re-debited the 
transaction to Ms As account.
Ms A insists that the invoices the retailer has raised are false and that she didnt undergo the 
treatment the merchant is claiming she had. Shes said that she can evidence this by 
showing that she paid for treatment elsewhere. And that the costs on the invoices dont 
match up to the costs that it should have charged. Shes also said some work has been 
charged more than once. Ms A says that due to the length of time it took Barclays to 
investigate matters, she is no longer able to pursue the matter through the courts.
Ms A says that she has now lost out on £1,000.98 and she would like Barclays to return this 
to her. 
Barclays upheld Ms As complaint in part. It said that it had charged her £18.48 more than it 
should have when it reprocessed the transaction following the rejected chargeback  it 
agreed to refund this amount to her and pay her £50 to compensate her for its error. It 
explained that in relation to the chargeback, it had seen evidence from the merchant about 
the service provided to Ms A. And because Ms A hadnt provided any evidence to support 
her claim that the merchant hadnt provided the services, it didnt think its decision to decline 
to continue with the claim was wrong. 
Our Investigator looked into Ms As complaint, but they didnt think it should be upheld. They 
thought that Barclays had followed the correct process when rejecting the chargeback  and 
it had done so based on evidence it had received from the merchant. The Investigator found 
that Barclays offer of £50 compensation for reprocessing the transaction at a higher amount 
was fair. 
Ms A didnt agree with the Investigators view. I have summarised her main points below:
The invoice provided by the merchant was not a true reflection of the work done. She 
says some of the charges on the invoice are exaggerated and some she didnt 
consent to. Ms A disputes that she made three visits to the merchant. Ms A doesnt 
think Barclays hasnt done enough to investigate this further.
Ms A adds that she has seen similar cases to hers that have gone to court because 
the merchant had applied excessive charges for work. However, she says that due 
the delay in Barclays investigating the claim, she no longer has the opportunity to go 
to court.
Because Ms A didnt agree with the Investigator, the complaint has been passed to me to 
make a decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having taken everything into account, Ive decided not to uphold Ms As complaint. I 
appreciate this decision will come as a disappointment to her, however I will explain my 
reasons for this below.
When a person buys goods or services using a debit card, there is no automatic right to a 
refund from their bank if something goes wrong with the purchase. However, a bank may be 
able to assist their customer through the dispute resolution system administered by the 
relevant card scheme. Disputes raised through this system are usually called chargebacks. 
The card scheme sets the rules which govern whether or not a chargeback can be made, 
and whether it should be successful. These include rules about what kind of disputes can be 
made via a chargeback, what kind of evidence is required, and any time limits which apply to 
the process. 
Chargebacks are not guaranteed to succeed  they can be contested by the other side to 
the dispute. Ultimately, if no side is willing to concede then the card scheme itself can be 
asked to make a ruling. 
I would expect a bank to attempt a chargeback on behalf of a customer wishing to bring a 
dispute, so long as there was a reasonable prospect of the chargeback succeeding. Id 
expect the bank to conduct the process in a competent way, without making mistakes. If the 
chargeback is contested by the other side, then I would not expect the bank to accept an 
obviously wrong or invalid defence, but I would not normally expect it to continue pursuing 
the dispute in the face of a valid defence. 
In Ms As case, Barclays felt that the defence from the retailer was compelling enough that it 
decided to concede the dispute and not take it any further. Ive considered whether that was 
a reasonable thing for the bank to have done in the circumstances.
Given the time that has now passed, Barclays hasnt been able to provide me with 
information about what basis it processed the chargeback. Although, I have seen notes to 
show that it did process the chargeback. In this case though, I dont think the chargeback 
reason really makes much difference to the outcome, and Ill explain why. 
As I said, I can see that Barclays processed the chargeback request soon after it received it 
from Ms A. I can also see that the merchant responded with some invoices, which it says are 
evidence that the work has been carried out, and ultimately, they continued to defend the 
claim. I appreciate Ms A disputes that the work was carried out, and she insists that the 
invoice is false, with some charges on the invoice having been overinflated and not inline 
with what it should have charged. But Ms A hasnt been able to provide Barclays with any 
evidence, to prove that the work wasnt carried out. 
I have noted that Ms A has sent this service a copy of the guide that should have been used 
when charging for treatment  Ms A says this shows that some of the items on the invoice had been over charged. But Ms A has provided the guides from 2022. The invoices from the 
merchant are dated 2021, and the merchant explained they used the 2021 guides when 
invoicing Ms A. So I think this is likely to be the reason why the treatment prices on the 
invoice dont match the guide Ms A has been looking at. 
Ms A has said that she has paid for the treatment elsewhere, and this should be accepted as 
evidence that she didnt use the merchant for the treatment. But I cant fairly say that paying 
for a treatment elsewhere is evidence that treatment wasnt carried out by the merchant.
I know Ms A feels that Barclays hasnt carried out a thorough enough investigation into what 
happened, but it isnt Barclays role to resolve the dispute between Ms A and the merchant, 
or for Barclays to find out exactly what happened. I know Ms A disputes some of the items 
on the invoice and the cost of these items, but this is essentially a dispute Ms A has with the 
merchant. Barclays can only base its decision on the evidence it has received. And as Ive 
said, there is very little evidence to support what Ms A has said about the invoices. And 
Barclays finds the evidence presented by the merchant to be compelling.
So, on this basis, I dont think Barclays did anything wrong when it took the decision not to 
continue with the chargeback. 
I can understand Ms As disappointment and frustration with whats happened  clearly, she 
has a dispute with the merchant. But its my role to decide if Barclays acted fairly in declining 
to take the chargeback further  I cant decide on the intricacies of Ms As dispute with the 
merchant. Given that Barclays had received evidence from the merchant that it thought to be 
compelling, I dont think its decision not to continue with the chargeback was an 
unreasonable one. 
I can see though that Barclays reprocessed the transaction at a higher amount. I can also 
see that Barclays has refunded the difference and paid Ms A £50 to apologise for this 
mistake. I think this is reasonable in the circumstances and I wont ask Barclays to do 
anything more for Ms A here.
Finally, I can see that Ms A has made reference to Barclays taking too long to make a 
decision on the chargeback, which has resulted in her now missing a deadline to be able to 
take the merchant to court. I cant comment on the deadline set by a court, she would need 
to take her own legal advice on this. I will note though that I havent seen anything that 
makes me think Ms A was prevented from starting proceedings with the merchant while she 
was also in contact with Barclays. Based on what Ive seen on file, while it did take Barclays 
a while to give Ms A a definitive answer on the chargeback, I can see that it was in 
communication with both her and the merchant during this time while it collated information 
from the parties. So, I dont find that it has done anything wrong here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2023.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman