DRN-3147674
complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2000. Miss H says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Miss Hs 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Miss Hs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new 
or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Miss Hs. I havent set out that detailed 
information here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Miss Hs 
complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 
I think Lloyds made it clear that Miss H didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to 
take it out. I say this because Lloyds has provided a copy of Miss Hs credit card 
application from the time. Looking at this I can see there is a separate section for PPI 
titled: Optional features and there is a tick in the Yes box to show Miss H wanted PPI. 
There is an equally prominent No box, which Miss H could have ticked if she didnt 
want the cover. Because the application described PPI as an optional feature, and from 
the way the application was set out, I dont think Miss H would have been under the 
impression that she had to have PPI.
So taking everything into account, I think Miss H chose to take out PPI and likely did so 
without undue pressure.
Miss H says this was an internet sale where Lloyds didnt recommend the PPI to her. But 
Lloyds says this was a branch sale where it provided Miss H with advice. This means it 
had to check that the PPI was right for Miss H. And the evidence about Miss Hs 
circumstances at the time, shows that the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or 
unsuitable for her. For example Miss H was eligible for the cover and she didnt have any 
means to fall back on to make the repayments on her credit card if she wasnt working, 
so she had a need for cover.
There was nothing about Miss Hs employment or occupation which would have made it 
difficult for her to claim. And she hasnt told us about any pre-existing medical conditions 
that could affect her ability to claim. There were also no additional restrictions on cover 
for mental health or back problems  so I dont think it was wrong for Lloyds to have 
recommended it. 
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Miss H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted 
this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Miss H as I concluded 
above, or too dissimilar to what she reasonably thought she was buying from the 
information she was given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it would 
have been useful for her if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think Miss H 
would have declined the cover had Lloyds done anything more.
Overall, I consider that Miss H would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy could provide 
a useful benefit in a difficult time, given her circumstances at the time. I also think the policy 
was sufficiently close to what its likely she thought she was getting. And in those 
circumstances, I think that she would have taken out the policy in any event.
Miss Hs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; 
and the duty of utmost good faith meant Lloyds should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Miss Hs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Miss Hs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Miss Hs particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint.
This means Lloyds doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
my decisionOverall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Miss Hs complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 December 2021. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman