DRN-1471964
 
The complaint
 Mr G has complained that Cigna Europe Insurance Company SA-NV (Cigna) has said it will 
not renew his hospital cash benefit insurance policy when it expires in June 2020.
 What happened
Cigna wrote to Mr G in November 2019 to say that it was no longer able to provide cover 
under his hospital cash benefit policy. It said it was taking this action on all policies of this 
type and so that this wasnt anything to do with him specifically. It said it would continue to 
provide the policy until it expires in June 2020. It also provided Mr G with some information 
on who he could contact in order to find an alternative policy. 
Mr G wasnt happy and complained to Cigna. He said he was entitled to a policy refund and 
also wanted Cigna to find him another policy. Cigna said this was a commercial decision and 
rejected his complaint. 
Mr G then brought his complaint to us. He said he has had this policy since 1993 and never 
made a claim. He said he wanted Cigna to help him find another policy and also to refund 
his premiums as its cancelling the policy. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. She 
said we wouldnt intervene in Cignas decision to stop offering this policy as it was a 
commercial decision it was entitled to make. Our investigator also said she wouldnt ask 
Cigna to return any of Mr Gs premiums as he had had the benefit of its insurance policy 
whilst he was on cover. And she also said Cigna isnt responsible for finding another policy 
for Mr G.
Mr G didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so Ive decided not to uphold 
this complaint.
I note Mr G says he has been a loyal customer of Cignas and from what I can see hes had 
this policy for a number of years. I can therefore understand how disappointed he must be to 
find out that he wont be able to renew his policy after June 2020.
But, as our investigator explained its not our role to intervene in Cignas decision to no 
longer offer this policy. But we can consider whether Cigna has acted fairly and reasonably 
in the way it dealt with Mr G. From what Ive seen I think it did. I think it gave Mr G long 
enough notice to enable him to find alternative cover and it has also provided him with 
information on how he can go about doing this. As our investigator said Mr G may wish to 
get in touch with a broker if he wants help finding a new policy. Mr G mentioned that he is struggling to find alternative cover. When we asked him a bit more 
information about this he said he had approached one broker who wasnt able to find him a 
replacement policy. He said he wasnt able to provide any evidence in writing regarding this 
as the broker said it would charge him a fee in order to do this. I have no reason to doubt 
what Mr Gs said but without any further detail I dont think I can take this into account when 
making my decision. This is because I dont know what information he provided the broker, 
what type of policies the broker searched for, the reasons why another policy wasnt 
available etc.
In any case, I note that Mr G is covered under this policy until June 2020 so there is still 
opportunity to find another similar policy. And Im not currently aware of any reason why he 
wouldnt be able to find a similar policy. 
Mr G asked that Cigna refunds some of his premiums. This isnt something I will ask it to do 
as Mr G has had the benefit of this policy throughout this time- even- if as he says he never 
made a claim.
I appreciate Mr G will find this decision disappointing but for the reasons Ive given above I 
dont think this is a complaint I can uphold. 
 My final decision
 For the reasons above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 February 2020.
Anastasia Serdari
Ombudsman