DRN-3610366
The complaint
Mrs A complains that The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited declined a life 
assurance claim for her husband, Mr A, due to their policy not being in force at the time of 
his death. She says Royal London failed to set up the life assurance policy promptly and that 
it wouldve been in force had it not been for their errors. 
Since referring the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman, Mrs A has been represented by 
a third-party firm. But, for ease of reference, Ill only refer to Mrs A in in my decision.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here.
On 9 May 2018 Mr and Mrs A applied for life assurance with Royal London through an 
Independent Financial Adviser (IFA). The application was for £405,000 of cover for a 
monthly premium of £86.27. Because of the health conditions Mr A disclosed in the 
application, Royal London required information from his GP to underwrite the policy. And, 
after receiving Mr As consent to obtain this, Royal London wrote to Mr As GP on 
27 May 2018 asking for a questionnaire to be completed. 
Royal London received a fee request from the GP surgery on 5 June 2018, which they paid 
three days later. Royal London chased the GP surgery for the questionnaire on multiple 
occasions  20 July, 17 August, 6 September, 27 September (by letter) and 19 October 
2018. They then received a call from the GP surgery on 26 October 2018 saying the 
questionnaire had been shredded by accident and so, Royal London re-faxed their request. 
The completed questionnaire was received by Royal London on 21 November 2018.
Royal London referred it to their underwriting team and, on 10 December 2018, they decided 
terms could be offered but with a +75 loading (non-standard terms). This however was 
subject to Mr and Mrs A completing a Declaration of Health (DoH) form due to the time that 
had passed since the application was submitted. Royal London emailed Mr and Mrs As IFA 
a copy of the DoH form on 12 December 2018. 
Mrs A called Royal London on 20 December 2018 and explained their IFA was having some 
difficulty opening the email. So, Royal London forwarded Mrs A the email theyd sent the 
adviser and explained a wet signature was required on the DoH form but they could accept 
a scanned copy of it. 
Mrs A sent the DoH form back to Royal London but they replied on 28 December 2018 
saying it was blank. Mrs A then sent a completed DoH form to Royal London on 
2 January 2019. Mr and Mrs A confirmed on the DoH form that they had applied for cover 
with another insurance company since the original application was completed, but they didnt 
provide any details. The DoH form contained electronic signatures with a separate page 
attached that contained their scanned wet signatures. 
Royal London emailed Mrs A on 15 January 2019 saying they couldnt accept the DoH form 
as it wasnt correctly signed. They asked Mr and Mrs A to re-sign and re-date it. 
Royal London received the correctly signed DoH form on 17 January 2019. They then 
emailed Mrs A on 23 January 2019 asking for details about the application for cover that 
theyd made elsewhere. 
Mrs A responded the same day saying they hadnt applied for cover elsewhere. But she said 
another agent, who was pushy, put through an application even though theyd advised him 
that their IFA was dealing with the Royal London application. Mrs A confirmed they had 
existing cover in place, provided details of the policy, but explained this would be cancelled 
upon the Royal London policy being set up. 
Mr A sadly died on 25 January 2019.
Mr and Mrs As IFA called Royal London on 29 January 2019 enquiring about the policy. He 
said he thought it went live the previous week but hed gone on to a portal and wasnt sure 
what he needed to do, so he asked the call handler to check. Royal London said terms had 
been issued that day and so it was ready to start. The IFA asked for this to happen and 
confirmed Mr and Mrs A were happy with the increased monthly premium cost (£137.28). 
Royal London said a welcome pack would be sent to Mr and Mrs A.
A claim was made under the policy but it was declined by Royal London as Mr A died before 
cover commenced. Royal London said, given the short period between Mr As death and the 
commencement of the policy, theyd checked if there were any errors on their part which 
may have allowed them to consider paying the claim. But they explained they were 
prevented from assessing the application sooner due to the delay in receiving medical 
evidence and the DoH form being incorrectly signed.  And so, they hadnt found any fault on 
their part as they made every effort to obtain the medical evidence at the earliest 
opportunity.
Mrs A complained to Royal London about their decision not to pay the claim. In short, she 
said:
The delay in setting up the policy was through no fault of her own. And, in 
December 2018, she was misadvised as she was told an electronic signature for the 
DoH form would suffice. Had she been advised that a hard copy of the DoH form and 
their signatures were required then she wouldve provided this  instead of providing 
electronic signatures and the separate page that contained scanned wet signatures. 
She questioned why the policy hadnt been set up on 17 January 2019, when the 
DoH form had been correctly received. Or why, when Royal London asked for the 
DoH form to be re-signed and re-dated on 15 January 2019, they didnt also ask 
about the additional cover applied for. By not going so, this delayed the application 
process. 
Had she and her husband been involved in the start date discussion with the 
underwriter then they wouldve requested for it to commence with immediate effect  
particularly when considering how long the policy application had been delayed. Also, 
why was their IFA not contacted about starting the policy earlier?
They werent informed that the 90-day free cover had expired, which put them at risk 
as they werent covered during most of the application process. Royal London didnt uphold the complaint. They said the main delay in the application 
process was waiting for the medical information from Mr As GP. The policy couldnt be 
underwritten without it and, as they did everything to expedite receiving it, the delay was 
outside of their control. Theyd also listened to the December 2018 call and their call handler 
did specify that a wet signature was needed, the boxes could be filled in online and a 
scanned copy could be submitted. But they thought there may have been a 
misunderstanding between Mrs A and the call handler. This was because Mrs A asked 
whether a scanned copy of both signatures could be provided which the call handler 
confirmed it would. Royal London believed their call handler thought Mrs A was referring to a 
scanned copy of the DoH form, containing the signatures, whereas Mrs A understood it to 
mean she could send a separate page with scanned copies of their wet signatures. They 
couldnt however place this misunderstanding as a fault on their part. 
Royal London also explained that cover couldnt commence on 17 January 2019, when they 
received the DoH form, as it wasnt reviewed until 23 January 2019  which they considered 
to be a reasonable turnaround time. Their review then prompted the queries into the 
application for cover elsewhere, which had to be resolved before they could make a final 
underwriting decision. And, although it could be considered the DoH form couldve been 
reviewed when it wasnt correctly signed (prompting the queries sooner), a full review may 
not be appropriate when it can instantly be seen that the form hasnt been completed 
correctly and therefore isnt acceptable. This however is subjective to the individual 
underwriters preferred way of working  so there isnt a right or wrong way. 
Royal London further explained that the policy couldnt be set up automatically when cover 
isnt being offered on standard terms, even if in the application it was requested to be set up 
as soon as possible. This is because they cant assume the customer(s) would accept the 
new premium amount or terms of cover offered. So, in these circumstances, they would 
issue new terms to the IFA who in turn would discuss this with their client(s). In this case, 
revised terms were issued by letter to the IFA on 29 January 2019. 
Mrs A referred her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. Our investigator didnt think 
Royal London had acted unfairly by declining the claim. He thought Royal London had 
chased the GP regularly and so werent responsible for the delays in obtaining the 
questionnaire. And, although he understood why Mrs A may have understood things 
differently from the December 2018 call, he thought the call handler was clear that the DoH 
form needed to be wet signed.
Our investigator noted Mrs A may not have known what a wet signature was but that she 
couldve asked her IFA or Royal London to clarify this at the time if she was unsure. He also 
wouldnt have expected Royal London to have reviewed the DoH form when it was apparent 
that it wasnt acceptable due to it lacking the required wet signatures. As he didnt think 
Royal London caused unreasonable delays, he didnt think they were required to consider a 
claim under the policy  as Mr A passed away before cover commenced. 
Furthermore, he thought Royal London had correctly started the 90-day free cover period  
in line with the policy terms - from when the application was submitted. And, as Mr A died 
outside of this period, Royal London didnt need to consider a claim under the free cover 
benefit. He also didnt think Royal London had to inform Mr and Mrs A the free cover had 
expired as he wouldnt have expected them to have known Mr and Mrs As personal 
circumstances  such as whether they had appropriate protection in place.
Mrs A disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to firstly send my condolences to Mrs A. I know this will be a very difficult time and I 
dont underestimate her disappointment, or the financial impact, the claim being declined has 
had on her. I want to reassure Mrs A that Ive given this matter, and everything shes said, 
careful consideration. I know this wont be the outcome shes hoping for but, for similar 
reasons as our investigator, I dont think Royal London has unfairly declined the claim. Ill 
explain why. 
At which point Id like to say that Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate 
my comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not 
because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it, but because I dont think I need to 
comment on it to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable outcome. 
Royal London is only required to pay claims, subject to the terms and conditions, from the 
point the policy comes into effect. In this case, Mr A sadly died four days before cover 
commenced. Ive therefore looked at whether Royal London handled the policy application 
appropriately and without unreasonable delays. 
It took about nine months from the point of application, in May 2018, until cover was offered 
by Royal London in January 2019. The reason why cover wasnt offered immediately was 
due to Royal Londons underwriting of the policy, they needed further information from 
Mr As GP. I think it was reasonable for Royal London to request this information so that they 
could fully assess the application. Unfortunately, it took just short of six months for 
Royal London to receive the information from the GP. 
I appreciate this delay was no fault of Mr and Mrs A. But Royal London were unable to 
underwrite the policy without this information and so were reliant on the cooperation of the 
GP surgery. And its not unusual for medical information requested from GP surgeries to 
take some time. That said, in these situations, it would be reasonable to expect an insurer to 
chase the GP surgery at regular intervals. In this case, I can see that Royal London did so 
on five occasions prior to being informed the questionnaire had been accidently shredded  
prompting them to resubmit their request by fax. Because of this, I think Royal London 
handled their request for information from Mr As GP reasonably. So, I dont think theyre 
responsible for this delay as it was largely outside of their control. 
Upon receipt of the completed questionnaire, it took just under three weeks for it to be 
considered by Royal Londons underwriters. I dont consider this to be an unreasonable 
amount of time. The underwriters confirmed cover could be offered but on non-standard 
terms  meaning an increased premium cost. But, due to the time since the policy was 
applied for, a DoH form was required so that Mr and Mrs A could confirm whether there had 
been changes to their health. I likewise think it was reasonable for Royal London to request 
this as part of their underwriting of the policy. 
There was an initial delay in Mr and Mrs A receiving the DoH form, of about a week, as their 
IFA was having difficulty with the email that had it attached. Its unclear why the IFA had this 
difficulty but I dont think I can fairly attribute this delay to Royal London.
After this, a copy of the DoH form was sent to Mrs A at her request in the 20 December 2018 
call. Ive listened to this call and Im satisfied the call handler explained to Mrs A the DoH form had to be wet signed but that a scanned copy of it could be sent. So, I think 
Royal London made their requirements sufficiently clear.
It seems though that, from the call, Mrs A thought scanned copies of their signatures on a 
separate piece of paper  rather than in the relevant section of the DoH form - would suffice. 
Although I appreciate why Mrs A thought this, it appears this was down to a 
misunderstanding between her and the call handler. This is because, when Mrs A referred to 
sending scanned signatures to Royal London, the call handler seems to have considered 
this to be in reference to the DoH form. And I dont think this was unreasonable of the call 
handler as a separate page wasnt specifically mentioned by Mrs A. 
The first DoH form Royal London received was blank and the one that followed only 
contained digital signatures (with the separate page including scanned wet signatures 
attached). These DoH forms therefore didnt meet Royal Londons requirements as they 
needed it to be wet signed.
I understand Mrs A has said she didnt know what wet signed meant as Royal London didnt 
explain this to her. And that a scanned copy of a signature cannot be considered wet  as 
only the original, which wouldve required posting, could be. So, she thinks Royal London 
asked her for something that didnt exist.
Ive considered this but if Mrs A wasnt sure what wet signed meant then I think it wouldve 
been reasonable for her to have checked this with Royal London, or her IFA, at the time. I 
dont think Royal London can be held responsible for her not doing so. And, while I accept a 
wet signature refers to the signing of physical paper using ink, I dont think this means 
Royal London asked Mrs A for something that didnt exist. But rather, they explained to her 
that they simply needed a scanned copy of their wet signatures on the DoH form  and so 
electronic/digital signatures for example wouldnt suffice. 
Mrs A has also argued that an email can form a binding contract and so the internal 
requirement of a wet signature was of no legal importance. While I accept an email can form 
a contract, I dont think thats what happened here. This is because the policy  the contract 
between Mr and Mrs A and Royal London  wasnt set up merely on the receipt of the DoH 
form. The contents of the DoH form still required consideration by Royal Londons 
underwriters before terms of cover could be issued. And I dont think it was unreasonable for 
Royal London to ask for the DoH form to be wet signed as a way of ensuring theyd obtained 
confirmation from Mr and Mrs A that the contents of it were correct. At which point, I should 
add that Royal London is allowed to decide their own internal processes - although I would 
expect these to be clearly communicated which, as Ive said, Im satisfied they did. I 
therefore dont think Royal London are responsible for any delays relating to the DoH form 
not being correctly signed. 
A further point here though is that Mrs A believes Royal London ought to have asked about 
the additional cover applied for at the same time they requested the DoH form to be 
re-signed and re-dated. She feels, had Royal London done so, this wouldve prevented a 
further delay and the policy wouldve been in place when Mr A died. Ive given this careful 
thought and, while I understand Mrs As view on this, I dont think it was unreasonable for 
Royal London to obtain the correctly signed DoH form before reviewing it. This is because 
the reason Royal London required the scanned copy of wet signatures on the DoH form is, 
as Ive said, to ensure theyd obtained confirmation from Mr and Mrs A the contents of it 
were correct. And so, as it was apparent the form wasnt acceptable due it not being 
correctly signed, I wouldnt have expected Royal London to have reviewed it. After receiving confirmation from Mrs A that they werent taking life assurance out with 
another provider, Royal London issued terms of cover six days later. I think this was a 
reasonable amount of time. I understand Mrs A feels cover shouldve been set up 
immediately upon the underwriting requirements being met. So, there wasnt a need for 
Royal London to obtain further confirmation from them before setting up the policy. But, even 
if this was needed, Mrs A also questions why they contacted her IFA instead of them 
directly.
I appreciate setting up the life assurance policy was important to Mr and Mrs A as they 
wanted to make sure they were financially protected. But, given the terms of cover had 
changed since the original application was made, I think it was appropriate for Royal London 
to check these new terms  an increased premium cost - were acceptable to Mr and Mrs A 
before setting up the policy. If they hadnt, then Mr and Mrs A may have been dissatisfied the 
policy had been set up on different terms without their agreement. And, while the IFA 
previously had difficulties with the email Royal London sent in December 2018 regarding the 
DoH form, I think it was reasonable for the new terms to be issued to them via the portal. 
This is because the IFA submitted the policy on behalf of Mr and Mrs A and was best placed 
to discuss the new terms further  such as whether it remained appropriate for their needs. 
On a further note, I understand Mrs A is dissatisfied Royal London didnt inform them that 
the 90-day free life cover had expired during the application process. Firstly, having looked 
at the terms of the free cover, Im satisfied Royal London correctly started it form the point 
the application was submitted  so it clearly expired prior to Mr As death. This means no 
claim is payable under this benefit. But, in respect of Mrs As dissatisfaction about not being 
notified the cover had expired, I dont think Royal London were obligated to do so. As the 
insurer, Royal London were required to consider the application for cover and, if put in place, 
administer the policy accordingly. They werent however required to consider what cover 
was appropriate for Mr and Mrs As circumstances  including whether, upon the expiry of 
the free life cover, this left them at risk of being under insured. 
I realise the application process took a considerable amount of time with most of the delays 
largely attributable to the GP surgery providing the questionnaire. I also appreciate that Mr A 
died only a few days before the policy commenced and so the decision to decline may feel 
very harsh to Mrs A. But, as Ive said, Royal London are only required to pay claims from 
when the policy came into effect. And, as I dont think Royal London mishandled the policy 
application or caused unreasonable delays, I think it was fair for them to decline the claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2022.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman