DRN-4235733
The complaint
This complaints about a mortgage that Mrs and Mr L took out in 2021, based on advice 
given by PRIMIS Mortgage Network, a trading name of Advance Mortgage Funding Ltd 
(AMF) in late 2020. They say they should have been steered towards a five-year fixed rate 
rather than a two-year deal.
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mrs and Mr L and AMF, so I dont 
need to repeat the details here. Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont 
include any information that might result in Mrs and Mr L being identified. Instead Ill give a 
brief summary and then focus on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention 
something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to 
the outcome of the complaint. 
The essence of the complaint is that AMFs advisor directed them towards a two-year fixed 
interest rate product whilst failing to advise them a five-year fixed rate would be more 
suitable. They have brought this complaint because when they renewed their mortgage deal 
in 2023, it was on a much higher rate. They say this extra monthly cost could have been 
avoided if the advice theyd been given in late 2020 had been to take a five-year deal.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally; nor do we issue 
fines against financial businesses. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). 
We deal with individual disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we 
dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point in a complaint of this type is typically the point-of-sale documentation. The 
value of such documents is that theyre contemporaneous, so they should reflect what was 
said and agreed at the relevant time. Theyre not fool-proof, of course; its always possible 
information might be recorded incorrectly, but its typically more reliable than peoples 
individual recollections at a distance of time which, although given in good faith, can 
sometimes be inaccurate or contradictory, or more generally influenced by hindsight. So 
unless theres a compelling reason to believe the information is inaccurate, well generally 
attach some weight to it, and Im not persuaded I should not do so here. 
AMF may not have drawn Mr and Mrs Ls attention directly to the cost of a five-year option, 
but the recommendation of a two-year deal was consistent with the preference the fact-find 
records them as having expressed. Also, Im persuaded Mrs and Mr L knew they had a 
choice of duration for their fixed rate mortgage.
Mrs and Mr L have said that the two-year deal wasnt suitable enough, because Mrs L was 
changing from employed to self-employed status at around the same time the mortgage was 
completing. They say this limited their choice of lender when renewing the rate in 2023, 
because Mrs L did not have two full years trading accounts. 
I accept AMF should have known Mrs L would not have two years accounts. But so too 
would Mrs L, and the exchanges Ive seen between them and AMF when arranging the 
mortgage advice suggest she and Mr L were reasonably experienced in and knowledgeable 
of the way the mortgage market works. That doesnt, in itself, detract from AMFs duty to 
provide suitable advice, but its relevant to how Mrs and Mr L reacted to the advice they were 
given, based on what they would have known at the time, as distinct from what they know 
now.
The rapid rise in rates that caught Mrs and Mr L out when their two-year deal expired was a 
reaction to events that happened later. I understand Mrs and Mr L are feeling pressurised 
financially and so the increase in their mortgage costs will no doubt be most unwelcome. But 
neither they nor AMF could predict the financial upheaval of 2022 (driven primarily by 
outside global influences) that led to them having to renew their mortgage deal on more 
costly terms.
Mrs and Mr L say the movement in houses prices (their loan-to-value ratio influenced the 
search for a successor deal) and interest rates since their mortgage started is irrelevant to 
whether a two-year or five-year deal was the more suitable recommendation to make. 
Rather, they say it was their circumstances, primarily the change in Mrs Ls employment 
status, that made a five-year deal more suitable. 
I appreciate why they say that, but for the reasons Ive already set out, I do think this 
complaint is partly driven by what has happened since the advice was given. I say that not 
least because if the financial environment had been such that Mrs and Mr L were able to 
agree a successor rate at a broadly similar level to their initial two-year deal, its likely this 
complaint would not have been brought. 
In any event, suitability rarely rests on one factor alone. AMF had to take a broad view of all 
the information that Mrs and Mr L gave it about their circumstances as a whole, rather than 
allow its advice to be skewed by one over-riding component; that being, in this case, Mrs Ls 
switch to self-employment. 
Yes, two years proof of income for self-employed applicants is an industry norm. But its not 
so restrictive and prescriptive a standard that it should automatically render the 
recommendation of a two-year deal less suitable than a five-year deal, when other relevant 
factors, including the applicants apparent recorded preference, are taken into account. Also, 
it would only be an issue all if Mrs and Mr L wanted to re-mortgage to a new lender; it 
wouldnt be relevant to just taking a new rate with their existing lender, which is what they 
have done. Im not sure that AMD should have assumed a re-mortgage would necessarily be 
their most likely plan at the end of the first rate deal.
I said at the outset that I wouldnt be commenting on every single point, and I havent. I have, 
as I said I would, confined myself to those matters that I consider have a material effect on 
the outcome. I can see from Mrs and Mr Ls submissions how strongly they feel about this. Thats a natural, subjective reaction, and entirely understandable when youre as close to a 
situation as Mrs and Mr L have been here.
But I have a different remit. I have to be objective, and impartial, and sometimes that means 
stepping back from the fine detail, taking an overview and deciding what is fair, reasonable 
and pragmatic in the overall circumstances of the case. It also means that Im not required to 
provide answers to every specific question that comes up if I dont consider doing so will 
affect the overall outcome.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this 
services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further 
consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 January 2024. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman