DRN-3551432
The complaint
Miss W complains that Cynergy Bank Limited didnt resolve her difficulties with using the 
authenticator app as quickly as they could have, and this caused her inconvenience. 
What happened
Miss W opened an account with Cynergy in February 2021. 
In March they updated their online banking and Miss W rang and requested passcode to 
access online banking. This was ordered for her. 
Miss W installed the authenticator app on her phone but couldnt get it to work. She 
contacted Cynergy to explain the issues and get help but she says she couldnt resolve it. 
In July Miss W says she spent a whole day trying to access her online banking and failed 
and so she complained to Cynergy. During a second call, the adviser suggested they send 
her a Digi pass. This was sent out and the issues were then resolved. 
Miss W feels like she has wasted a lot of time trying to resolve this when the Digi pass could 
have been suggested earlier. She complained to Cynergy. 
In September Cynergy didnt uphold the complaint but they offered her £30 as a gesture of 
goodwill. 
Miss W was unhappy with this response and wrote back asking for £100-150 compensation 
for the inconvenience. She didnt receive any further response, and so she brought the 
complaint to us. 
One of our investigators looked into it and he thought Cynergy should pay Miss W £100.  
Cynergy disagreed with our investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision, so 
it has come to me to review. 
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint. My provisional findings were as follows:
Ive thought about what Miss W has told me and Ive also listened to the calls and viewed all 
of Cynergys records, including some additional information which they have sent me 
following the investigator sending his view of the matter.  
Cynergys records show that Miss W made contact in March when she was having difficulty 
using the authenticator app to log in, and was advised on how to reset the app. Following 
this, Cynergys records show that Miss W successfully logged into the app. 
There appears to be no evidence of a further issue being raised by Miss W until July 2021. 
On 23 July 2021, Miss W rang to complain that it was taking three attempts to log in using 
the app. Cynergys records show 3 unsuccessful attempts to log in that day after which the 
call was made. 
On 26 July 2021 Miss W contacted Cynergy again to complain that the app was taking 
several attempts to authenticate her. Cynergys records show 7 failed attempts. The call 
handler explained about clearing search history, cache and cookies but unfortunately the call 
dropped while they were talking. Miss W had to make a second call to resolve this, and 
during that call she was offered a Digipass,
 
The Digipass was posted to her on 28 July and she used it to successfully log in on 1 August 
2021. 
Although I can appreciate that it will have been frustrating for Miss W, the authenticator may 
have been falling for any number of reasons and without evidence I cant fairly say it was 
Cynergys error. I am also satisfied that when Miss W made contact with them, the customer 
services team did their best to talk her through what to do and provide a solution for her.   
Miss W says that she should have been offered the Digipass earlier. However, Cynergy 
have explained that the Digipass is only offered when it is clear that customers are unable to 
log in via the authenticator app and a customer is having repeated difficulties, so I think they 
offered it to Miss W at an appropriate time. 
In view of the above, I disagree with the investigators view that Cynergy should increase 
their offer of compensation to £100 and I think that the £30 offered to Miss W was fair in the 
circumstances. I see no need to increase it.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I sent Miss W and Cynergy a copy of my provisional decision. . 
Miss W has replied but Cynergy havent. Miss W has emphasised that she tried logging on 
39 times in March before contacting Cynergy and that she had to ring customer services 
several times. In July she had to make further calls before being offered the Digipass.  I can 
understand this will have been frustrating, but I think that when they were contacted, 
Cynergy offered timely resolution on both occasions, and I am satisfied that the £30 offered 
is fair. 
In view of this, Im making my final decision for the reasons Ive summarised above
Putting things right
Cynergy should pay Miss W £30 for distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
Im upholding Miss Ws complaint and directing that Cynergy Bank Limited should put things 
right as above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 July 2022.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman