DRN-1040953
 
The complaint
Mr M complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) mis-sold him a regular premium payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy when took out a mortgage on his home.
What happened
Mr M took out a mortgage in 1999. At the same time he took out a PPI policy to cover his 
mortgage payments if he was unable to work due to accident or sickness or lost his job.
Our adjudicator thought that Mr Ms complaint should be upheld because she thought the 
policy recommendation was unsuitable as there wouldve only been a limited period where 
Mr M would be able to make a claim on the policy and thought if he had understood this he 
wouldnt have taken the policy out.
HSBC disagreed. So the complaint has come to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Im in agreement with our adjudicator and Ive decided to uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Mr M was advised to take the policy. What this means is that he should not only have been 
provided with information about PPI in a clear, fair and not misleading way so that he could 
make an informed choice about buying PPI. But also if a recommendation was made, the 
business needed to make sure it was suitable to Mr Ms needs and circumstances.
Mr Ms mortgage was for a term of three years. The policy terms say that cover ends when 
you reach the age of 65 years. Mr M was already 63 years old when he was recommended 
the policy. So, looking at the policy terms, it seems clear that Mr M only had a limited time to 
benefit from the cover. And even if he managed to make a successful claim before he turned 
65  the benefit wouldve stopped when he reached his 65th birthday and before the end of 
the mortgage term leaving him vulnerable without cover. 
So even though Mr M had a chance of benefitting from the policy, I think theres a real risk 
that he wouldnt have been able to get the full benefit he mightve expected or needed.
 
So, I dont think the recommendation was suitable given Mr Ms age and circumstances as 
he wouldve only had a limited time to benefit under the policy (and none at all after he 
turned 65 even though he may well have wanted to keep on working) he mightve wanted to look elsewhere for cover that could protect him as long as he continued working. And I dont 
think Mr M wouldve taken the policy if it hadnt been recommended. 
So I think he has lost out as a result.
Putting things right
HSBC should put Mr M in the position he wouldve been had he not taken out the policy. So, 
HSBC should: 
Pay Mr M the amount he paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he got it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr M made a successful claim under the PPI policy, HSBC can take off what he got 
for the claim from the amount it owes him.  
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires HSBC to take off tax from this interest. HSBC must give 
Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc and direct it 
pays the fair compensation outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2019.
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman