DRN-1735034
The complaint
Mr M has complained about his home insurer U K Insurance Limited (UKI) in relation to how 
it handled his claim made when a water leak damaged his property.
What happened
Mr M was away from home in August 2017 when his neighbour told him a significant leak 
had occurred. He made a claim to UKI and when he came home he had to stay in a hotel. 
Later he moved to rented accommodation. The property was found to be dry in October 
2017, but it was April 2018 before reinstatement work started. Mr M said work was slow and 
he had to manage everything, this meant he lost work and was caused inconvenience too. 
He found the whole matter very stressful. At one time Mr M noticed water on the floor and 
investigations showed poor work had caused a failure on a water pipe. This took some work 
to fix it but Mr Ms early spotting of the leaking water meant further water damage was 
avoided. 
Into autumn 2018 much of the reinstatement work was completed. But there were some 
snagging issues outstanding and the carpets couldnt be laid until mid-December 2018. UKI 
says its loss adjuster told Mr M that the house was habitable and hed have to leave the 
rented accommodation in early January 2019. Mr M says he hadnt been told this and 
couldnt have moved home anyway because he hadnt been able to purchase new contents 
items as UKI hadnt told him what value he could apply to individual items even though it had 
paid him £10,000 as an interim payment. It was February 2019 when Mr M became aware 
he had been expected to move out in January, with him also being told around that time that 
the furniture UKI had hired for him would be taken away in a matter of days. UKI extended 
the rental arrangement for another month with Mr M moving home in March 2019. 
In late 2018 Mr M and UKI had been discussing two issues of concern that had arisen for 
Mr M; the state of his garden and settlement for his LP records. Whilst Mr M had been living 
elsewhere his garden had become overgrown, UKI was initially reluctant to settle for this, but 
in the end agreed to pay Mr M for reinstating the garden  £4,296. Regarding Mr Ms LPs, 
UKI thought they could be replaced for a few hundred pounds whereas Mr M has claimed for 
over £7,000. Mr M then reviewed his values and told UKI hed accept £2,675.57. UKI agreed 
to pay this sum. Settlement was made for these items in July 2019.
Mr M had also told UKI he was unhappy with the way his claim had been handled. UKI said 
it wanted to wait until the claim was concluded to answer Mr Ms complaint in this respect. In 
July and August 2019 UKI wrote to Mr M. It acknowledged poor claim handling causing Mr M 
distress and inconvenience. Initially UKI offered £500 compensation but then increased this 
by a further £500 to £1,000. It said whilst it knew Mr M wanted further payment for loss of 
use of the property and loss of earnings, it said these werent covered by the policy. 
Our investigator looked at Mr Ms concerns. He noted the £1,000 compensation payment 
and that UKI had paid for the garden, more than it felt it needed to for the LPs and had 
extended the rental accommodation even though Mr Ms home was habitable. Whilst he felt 
UKI had failed Mr M in some key respects, not least a six-month delay between the property 
being declared dry and repairs starting, he felt it had acted reasonably to resolve Mr Ms 
complaint. He also explained that we dont usually make awards for lost earnings.
Mr M said he thought £1,000 was an insult. He found a case study from our service dating 
back to 2001. In that study we had awarded compensation for loss of use as well as for 
general upset, plus an amount for the inconvenience caused because the policyholder 
managed the claim, the total award was £3,750. Mr M said he should get that at least, with 
an uplift for inflation. Mr M said UKI had consistently lied about what it had done and said it 
had called and advised him when it hadnt. He said the garden, LPs and the extended 
period in the rental property were no more than what he was entitled to and it was obliged to 
do to settle the claim. He asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
Our investigator confirmed the matter would be passed to an ombudsman. But he also 
clarified that trying to assess Mr Ms case against the case study he had found wasnt 
entirely appropriate. He explained that we assess complaints on their own merits and as the 
case study was 20 years old it likely didnt reflect our current approach to determining 
complaints. He assured Mr M that his findings were in line with our current stance. He 
considered again the details of what he felt UKI had done beyond its obligations under the 
policy to put things right, (garden, LPs and extended accommodation) and noted the 
payments UKI had made for those things (totalling just under £9,000). He wasnt minded to 
make it pay anything more.
Mr Ms complaint was passed to me to consider.  
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
With regret for any disappointment this causes Mr M, Im not minded to move away from the 
opinion shared by our investigator. I agree that UKI failed Mr M but I also agree it has fairly 
and reasonably made up for that by both its offer of £1,000 compensation and the other 
decisions it took towards the end of the claim vis-a-vis the garden, LPs and rent.
This claim should not have taken as long as it did, I can see no good reason for the six-
month delay which occurred after the property had dried and before reinstatement work 
began. I note that UKI changed the loss adjuster around the time works began and that 
things progressed better after that. Im glad that was the case but it doesnt detract from the 
fact the claim should have concluded six months earlier than it eventually did. 
I can see the frustration Mr M was caused too because of the poor communication. Im 
satisfied he was caused more stress than he should reasonably have suffered as a result of 
this significant water leak and necessary resultant claim. 
I thank Mr M for the detail hes provided about everything that went on  I trust hell forgive 
me for not reproducing everything here. Suffice to say UKI caused Mr M distress and 
inconvenience and this could have been avoided if it had managed things better, been more 
pro-active and communicated better. This wasnt too much for Mr M to ask for. Valuing items like records, as well as sourcing and finding replacements on which to base 
those values can be difficult. It doesnt surprise me that there was some dispute here about 
what a reasonable settlement cost was. Whilst I know Mr M feels he has reasonably 
established the value he asked for it is clear to me that UKI still had some reservations about 
that. Whether they were founded on solid ground or not is another matter. But an insurer is 
always entitled to investigate and validate a claim, so UKI could have pursued this angle 
further. However, it chose to forego that option and settle at the price Mr M ultimately asked 
it to settle for  £2,675.57. I think that was reasonable of it in the circumstances and it is 
clear from its file that it made this choice in an effort to resolve matters, because of the 
unsatisfactory history of the claim. 
UKIs loss adjuster visited the property to assess the garden. She accepted it had fallen into 
disrepair and that Mr M could have done nothing about it as there had been no power at the 
property. UKI decided to pay for its repair. I think that was an appropriate and fair response 
to the situation. The issue wasnt covered by the policy or something Mr M was entitled to 
under the policy  but it was a loss that had arisen due to UKIs delays. UKI paying for the 
repair fairly and reasonably rectified the issue. 
As with most home insurance policies on the market Mr Ms policy offers cover for the cost of 
alternative accommodation whilst the home is uninhabitable. Uninhabitable is often taken to 
mean when the basic functions of the home such as heating, hot water and the ability to 
cook and wash are unavailable. In this case the home was repaired to a habitable state in 
late 2018 with carpets being laid in December 2018. UKIs loss adjuster accordingly gave 
notice to the letting agent for the rental period to end in January 2019. However, it is unclear 
whether this was communicated to Mr M  the loss adjuster says Mr M was told, Mr M says 
he was not, and nothing was clarified in writing. It was the letting agent that told Mr M he 
should have moved out. UKI then covered the cost of the rental property until early March 
allowing Mr M time to move home. Im also aware that Mr M feels he couldnt have moved 
home before this as whilst UKI had made an interim payment to him for contents, he didnt 
know what its exact settlement for each item was and nor did he have anywhere to store 
items if he had purchased them.
Its clear to me from UKIs file that it feels the loss adjuster didnt handle the contents claim in 
an efficient and timely manner, in short that it shouldve been concluded much sooner. But 
having considered the notes of a conversation Mr M had with UKI in October 2018, I think he 
did know that whether or not he was still disputing values for furniture, he wasnt going to be 
allowed a grace period for purchasing this once the property was habitable whilst remaining 
in the rental accommodation. But I dont think Mr M deliberately stayed in the rental 
accommodation whilst knowing he should have moved out, that doesnt make sense. I think 
its more likely there was a misunderstanding borne out of the loss adjusters failure to 
handle the claim adequately and communicate with Mr M effectively. That meant UKI 
needed to react to resolve the situation  and it did that by agreeing to cover the cost of the 
accommodation over the extended period during which Mr M stayed there. I think that was 
fair and reasonable of it.    
As our investigator explained we dont usually make awards for lost earnings. That is usually 
because the policyholder often has a choice. It may be that the choice involved two 
unfavourable options  not interceding to progress the claim thus facing further delays/poor 
work but earning an income, or sacrifice income for peace of mind regarding the claim. But 
there is a choice and I dont usually find it fair to make an insurer reimburse lost income 
when a policyholder freely chooses the second option. Mr M wasnt forced to manage the 
claim here. I know it wasnt going well at times and there were some things that went better, 
and/or further loss was mitigated due to Mr Ms intervention. But that isnt reason to make 
UKI recompense Mr M for the income he chose to sacrifice in order to add that worth to the 
claim.In terms of cash compensation, UKI has paid Mr M £1,000 for distress and inconvenience 
caused by its failures in handling his claim. I note that Mr M told our investigator UKI had 
only paid £500 for upset with the further £500 only being paid because he had shown it the 
contractor had completed dangerous work. Whilst I see Mr M believes there was an ulterior 
motive for UKI offering a further £500 in August 2019, its final response in this matter clearly 
sets out the issues it accepts have caused Mr M distress and inconvenience  beyond the 
general delays and communication issues that formed the basis for the initial offer of £500. 
UKI explained that given these additional issues it was offering a further £500. This means 
UKI has offered a total of £1,000 cash compensation. 
As I explained above, whilst I havent reproduced the detail of everything that went on here, I 
have considered everything Mr M and UKI have said. I know Mr M thinks the courts would 
award more and hes found that, on one occasion, twenty years ago, another ombudsman 
assessing a different complaint, awarded more to the complainant in that case. Ive 
considered what Mr M has said in these respects but Ive also assessed everything that 
happened during his claim, noting the distress and inconvenience UKIs failures caused him. 
Ive considered that upset in light of our approach to compensation awards and Im satisfied 
that UKI has acted fairly and reasonably in the circumstances here. I dont intend to make it 
do or pay anything more.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against U K Insurance Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2020.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman