DRN-3470374
The complaint
Miss G complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc failed to make it clear how the price of her pet 
insurance policy could increase overtime.
What happened
Miss G purchased a Maximum Benefit policy in 2007 to provide cover for her pet cat. The 
policy was underwritten at the time by AXA but was under the brand of a third-party 
intermediary  Company A.
Miss G said she purchased the policy for peace of mind, to know that her cat and any 
treatment costs would always be covered. When the policy was first taken out it cost less 
than £70.00 per year. By 2020 the cost of the insurance had increased to over £660.00 per 
year. Miss G complained that it wasnt made clear when the policy was taken out that the 
cost could be affected by the age of her cat and claims made. As a result she feels she was 
mis-sold the policy and hasnt been treated fairly.
AXA initially said it wasnt responsible for the sale of the policy. It later realised this was an 
error and said it was responsible for the sale in 2007. To apologies for the inconvenience of 
it giving incorrect information in its earlier response, it offered to pay Miss G £100.00.
AXA said it was sorry Miss G was now unhappy with the cost of her insurance but it didnt 
feel it was responsible for this. It was no longer the underwriter of the policy with this 
changing to another insurer in 2016. So it wasnt the business responsible for increasing the 
price of the policy when Miss G complained about this.
Our investigator looked at the complaint and said that they didnt think AXA needed to do 
anything else in relation to this complaint. He said that AXA was responsible for explaining 
how the price of the policy might increase overtime when it was the underwriter. But when 
the policy moved to another insurer, the responsibility passed with it. Miss G wasnt unhappy 
with the cost of her policy when it was insured by AXA and so he didnt think AXA needed to 
do anything differently. He said the current underwriter and whether the information it 
provided when the policy was migrated was not the responsibility of AXA.
Miss G disagreed and explained shes been complaining about the increases to her 
premiums since 2020. She is extremely concerned that shell no longer be able to afford the 
cover for her cat and that AXA should have been clearer from the original sale that the policy 
could increase as it has. She also thinks it wasnt made clear that the underwriter could 
change during the lifetime of the policy. 
Because Miss G didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I know this will be disappointing for Miss G but Ill 
explain how Ive reached this decision.
The policy Miss G has in place is a maximum benefit policy which, providing she renews her 
cover each year, provides continuous cover up to the policy limit for her cat. This 
continuation means any conditions that became apparent during the lifetime of the policy 
continue to be covered when it is in place. Its understandable why, when the price of this 
insurance has increased to a point that she is no longer happy with thats shes questioned 
whether this is fair. And if the information provided when the policy was taken out was clear. 
AXA said it is no longer the underwriter of Miss Gs policy. And due to the passage of time, it 
has limited records on what was said when the sale took place. It is also a little unclear on 
when it stopped providing the cover and a new underwriter took over. Miss G has provided 
some historical renewal documents that show by 2017, another underwriter was providing 
the cover. So Im satisfied from at least 2017 onwards, AXA was not responsible for the 
underwriting and pricing of Miss Gs policy. 
The question is whether AXA did everything it needed to when the policy was taken out. It 
was purchased in 2007 which was before the introduction of the Insurance Conduct of 
Business Sourcebook (ICOBs)  this came into force on 8 January 2008 and set an 
expectation on insurers to make sure they provided information that is clear, fair and not 
misleading to allow consumers to make an informed choice. And due to the time that has 
passed, it is difficult to understand what was or wasnt shared with Miss G when the policy 
was taken out. But based on what shes said and on what we know generally about these 
types of insurance sales previously, I think its unlikely AXA did give much information about 
the future price increases and what would impact these. 
Miss G didnt complain about the cost of her insurance until 2020, so I think its fair to say 
that before this, she was happy with the cost of the policy. And with AXA only being the 
insurer up until 2016, she was happy with how it priced the policy for the years it was 
responsible for this. So regardless of whether AXA did or didnt detail how the price of the 
policy might change overtime, it doesnt appear to have impacted Miss G when it set the 
price. She has said herself she expected some increase in price and the increase to this 
point can be determined to be within the threshold of what she expected. Because of this I 
dont think AXA need to do anything else now in relation to the sale in 2007 and whether it 
could have given Miss G more information about what could affect the cost of her insurance 
overtime.
I understand the frustration Miss G has with the cost of her policy increasing and the 
questions over who is responsible and whether anyone has done anything wrong. 
Although her underwriter has changed a number of times in the background, the policy is still 
with Company A as it remains as the intermediary and administrator with the brand of the 
policy. The policy wording provided by Company A explains that there may be changes to 
the company providing the underwriting and it will notify Miss G of these changes at renewal. 
If she feels this hasnt been made clear, this complaint will need to be raised with Company 
A as the administrator of the policy. But as Ive said, the policy wording explains the 
underwriter can be changed. 
Overall, I dont think AXA needs to do anything else with this complaint. It offered Miss G 
£100.00 for an error it made when initially looking into the complaint and I think this is fair. It 
quickly wrote to her three days later to explain this mistake and with this prompt correction, I 
think the offer of compensation for the distress and inconvenience is fair.
The price increases Miss G is unhappy with havent been applied by AXA and when the underwriter changed, the responsibility to provide information about the policy moved with it. 
I understand how upset Miss G has been with this complaint and the worry she has over her 
cat and being able to maintain the cover she needs, Im sorry it has left her feeling this way. 
But for the reasons Ive explained above, I dont think AXA needs to do anything else.
My final decision
I dont uphold Miss Gs complaint against AXA Insurance UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 June 2022.
 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman