DRN-4382095
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as J, complains that ClearBank Limited (Tide) wont refund 
unauthorised payments taken from their account. Mr J, who is a director of J, brings the 
complaint on Js behalf.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them all again 
here. Instead, Ill summarise the key points, and focus on giving reasons for my decision.
In October 2022, Mr J was mugged. His phone was taken and he was also forced to hand 
over his phone passcode. Following this, a series of payments were made from Js account 
with Tide, as well as from two other accounts Mr J held with other firms. From the J account, 
around £16,000 was sent via transfers to new payees, and two card payments were made.
Mr J says he didnt realise that, by handing over his phone and passcode, the robbers would 
be able to access the bank accounts. When he saw the payments that had been taken, he 
reported them to the respective banks  as well as the police. I understand one bank agreed 
to refund the payments to third parties, but not the transfers made from that account into Js 
Tide account. Likewise, the other bank wouldnt refund him as the payments from that 
account were also paid into Js account.
Tide didnt agree to refund J. It rejected the card payments on the grounds that a security 
code, sent to Mr Js registered phone number, was used to add Js card to an Apple Pay 
account and make the payments. For the transfers, it said it hadnt been able to recall any 
funds from the beneficiaries. And as the funds originated from other accounts, Mr J should 
raise his concern with those banks.
Unhappy with this response, Mr J referred the matter to our service. Our investigator thought 
Tide should have identified the activity as unusual, and blocked the account pending further 
checks. So she thought Tide should refund J from the sixth payment onward (she has 
shared a list of the transactions with both parties).
Tide appealed the investigators decision, so the case was passed to me to decide. At my 
request, it provided further information about the steps involved to make the payments. And, 
in summary, it raised the following points:
The police investigation is ongoing and it has no way to track whether Mr J will repay 
any amount recovered by law enforcement.
It didnt agree the payments looked unusual, as the funds were coming from 
accounts in Mr Js name.
The final response from the bank who refunded Mr J in part doesnt make the basis 
of its refund clear, but Tide thinks it suggests they accept they should have 
intervened. It also wanted us to consider any information from the other bank as it 
said it hasnt been able to get hold of this.
There was a delay reporting the matter to Tide and the police, which it felt is not what 
you would expect from someone who had been mugged and given access to his 
phone.
In September 2023, I issued my provisional decision explaining why I was minded to uphold 
the complaint. I invited the parties to respond with any further points or evidence. Both have 
now confirmed they have nothing further to add. So Ill proceed to finalise my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive not received anything new in response to my provisional decision, I see no reason to 
depart from that. I therefore uphold the complaint, for the following reasons.
Under the Payment Service Regulations 2017 (PSRs), J would generally be liable for 
authorised payments made from their account, and Tide would generally be liable for 
unauthorised payments.
The first consideration here is therefore whether the payments were authorised by J. In line 
with the PSRs, that comes down to whether J consented to the execution of them. That 
consent must have been given in the form, and in accordance with the procedure, agreed 
between Tide and J.
Mr J says he didnt complete the payments, as they were made using his phone which 
wasnt in his possession at the time. He says he didnt grant the muggers consent to make 
payments on his behalf  and also didnt realise they would be able to do so based on him 
handing over his phone and its passcode (which he did under duress).
I understand Tides concerns about what happened here. I acknowledge that there are some 
points in Mr Js account of what happened that are a bit unclear or surprising. It took a few 
days for him to report the fraud to the affected banks and the police. The pattern of activity 
also looks a bit unusual, given that the funds lost via Tide were loaded from other accounts 
Mr J held  rather than exclusively being stolen directly from the originating accounts. 
However, I dont view all these apparent irregularities with the same level of suspicion as 
Tide. For example, there was some confusion around Mr J telling Tide, when reporting the 
fraud, that his phone hadnt been stolen. But he has explained he had a new phone by that 
point. He thinks he got confused and was responding about the phone he was using.
In another chat, around 40 minutes later, Mr J told Tide his phone had been stolen and he 
had reported this to the police. And he has also provided a witness statement to the police 
backing this up, including the following declaration:
This statement is true to the best of my knowledge and belief and I make it 
knowing that, if it is tendered in evidence, I shall be liable to prosecution if I have 
wilfully stated in it anything which I know to be false, or do not believe to be true
Given the severity of this declaration, I find it compelling. Mr J has also provided further 
evidence that, while the investigation hasnt completed, it is still ongoing. And there are 
details from this which further support that his phone was stolen. For example, in the emails 
Ive seen, the police refer to CCTV evidence showing a masked individual attempting to use 
Mr Js phone to pay in a shop around the time of these payments.Where information is unclear or contradictory, its my role to decide what is more likely on 
the balance of probabilities. And on balance, I do consider it more likely that Mr Js phone 
was stolen  and that the transactions were made without his consent.
For the card payments, Tide says a security code was sent to Mr Js registered phone to add 
a new card on to an Apple Pay account. And that was used to make these payments.
For the transfers, Tide has confirmed the app could be accessed from an unlocked device by 
entering a security code, generated during account recovery. One Time Passcodes (OTPs) 
would also have sent to the number on file when adding new payees. It acknowledges: in 
the case that a malicious actor has been granted full access to the device and app these 
systems would not be able to adequately prevent fraud.
It doesnt appear Mr J completed these steps, given the evidence the phone wasnt in his 
possession at the time. Nor do I think, based on his testimony, that he gave the muggers 
consent in the form, and in accordance with the procedure, agreed by the bank. All he 
shared was access to the phone, and his phone passcode. I therefore think these payments 
were unauthorised. Meaning the starting position under the PSRs is that Tide is liable.
That said, Tide could still hold J liable if Mr J failed, with gross negligence or intent, to keep 
Js personalised security credentials safe  or abide by the account terms  and that allowed 
the fraud to take place.
I dont think Mr J intentionally failed to meet these obligations. He didnt intend to put his 
account at risk by handing over his unlocked phone. He didnt realise the muggers would be 
able to get access his accounts.
Nor am I persuaded Mr J failed with gross negligence. There is a high bar for this. He would 
need to have shown a very significant degree of carelessness. Such as serious disregard of, 
or indifference to, an obvious risk.
Although I appreciate there was a delay reporting the theft and notifying the bank, I can see 
why Mr J didnt foresee the risk that, by having access to his unlocked phone, the muggers 
would be able to access his account in this way. I dont think the risk was obvious; I think lots 
of people in his situation wouldnt have realised this. So, in line with the PSRs, I think Tide is 
liable to refund J for the loss incurred from these unauthorised transactions.
Id also point out that, if any of the card payments were distance contracts where the 
payment token wasnt physically present  as one appears to be  then the test is whether 
Mr J acted fraudulently or authorised the payment. As Im satisfied he didnt, regardless of 
gross negligence, Tide is liable under the PSRs for any such payments.
I also agree with the investigators argument that there is a further failing by Tide here. 
Taking into account relevant rules, codes and best practice, we expect banks to have 
measures in place to monitor for, and respond to, fraud risks. Although the activity was being 
completed using Mr Js registered device, I think the activity was concerning enough that 
Tide should have completed further checks to satisfy itself on whether Js account was at 
risk from fraud.Thats because there was a flurry of payments in and out of the account that looked 
significantly uncharacteristic within Js normal account activity. Several new payees were 
added. While these were verified using OTP codes, the way in which this fraud occurred 
shows this isnt always enough to ensure customers arent at risk. Especially bearing in mind 
we expect banks to monitor not only for unauthorised payments  but also for authorised 
scams. In response to the level and nature of the account activity, I dont think Tide acted 
proportionately.
If Tide had blocked the account activity, pending direct contact from Mr J, to ensure he 
hadnt fallen victim to an account takeover or some other form of fraud  as I think it had 
grounds to be concerned about  it would have been harder for the thieves to bypass that. 
Tides inaction here has likely contributed to the loss.
I appreciate Tide is unhappy to be held liable for the payments when the money was funded 
from two other accounts. But J has the right to complain to Tide about these payments. And 
it has an obligation to J for these in line with the PSRs. Particularly bearing in mind this is the 
point at which the funds were transferred on to third parties  rather than remaining in 
accounts which Mr J had authority on.
It wouldnt be fair for Mr J to effectively receive double recovery. But he has shown us 
evidence that one bank hasnt refunded him, on the basis that the payments were sent on to 
this account, which he was authorised on. He has also provided records to show the other 
bank has refunded some, but not all, of these payments. If Tide requires further information 
about this, to ensure it doesnt refund any payments which Mr J has already been 
reimbursed for, that would be reasonable. But I dont think it can fairly negate any 
responsibility for Js loss.
Similarly, while the police investigation is ongoing, Tide still has a duty to J for the loss. Mr J 
hasnt recovered any funds from this investigation, nor have I seen any indication he is likely 
to. So again, I dont think thats a fair reason for Tide not to refund J.
Overall, I therefore conclude Tide should refund J for the outstanding loss incurred in relation 
to the unauthorised payments made from the account. Along with interest to compensate for 
the loss of use of the funds  which should have been refunded promptly, in line with Tides 
obligations under the PSRs.
In its final response, Tide offered £250 compensation. This appears to have been for 
personal upset suffered by Mr J, relating to service failings when he raised the fraud claim. It 
doesnt appear to reflect any impact on J  which, as the account holder, is the eligible 
complainant raising this complaint. So, if this compensation hasnt been paid  which I dont 
believe it has been, and neither party has corrected me on this point  then I dont think Tide 
needs to pay this on top of refunding J for the outstanding loss, with interest.My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint about 
ClearBank Limited. To put things right, it must:
Refund J for the unauthorised payments taken from their account, less any amounts 
recovered or already refunded.
It should also pay interest on this amount, at a rate of 8% simple interest per year for 
those originating from the current account, and at the originating account interest rate 
for those which were funded from the savings account.
ClearBank Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it 
J accepts my final decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask J to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2023.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman