DRN-4207124
The complaint
Mr L and Mrs L complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC blocked a payment Mr L attempted to 
make to an Individual Savings Account (ISA) on the evening of 5 April 2023. Mr L says that 
this prevented him from taking out a 2022/23 cash ISA.
What happened
Mr L attempted to make two separate on-line banking payments to fund ISAs with another 
provider for him and his wife on 5 April 2023. One payment went through, but the other 
payment was delayed and subsequently cancelled by Barclays. Mr L and Mrs L complained 
to Barclays that the delay meant that Mr Ls 2022/23 ISA wasnt funded in time. Barclays 
didnt uphold the complaint and explained to Mr L that it had delayed the payment as it 
wasnt in-line with spending habits on the account. Barclays confirmed it had tried to contact 
Mr L the following working day to confirm the payment using the telephone number it held for 
him, but when it couldnt contact him, the payment was cancelled.
Mr L and Mrs L brought the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service and one of our 
Investigators looked into things. The Investigator didnt think that Barclays had acted unfairly 
when it stopped the payment. Mr L and Mrs L asked that an Ombudsman decides the 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr L and Mrs L will be disappointed, but for very much the same reasons 
as the Investigator Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I will now explain why.
The Financial Ombudsman Service doesnt have the power to tell Barclays what security 
checks it must carry out before approving a payment request  that is a business decision 
that only Barclays can make. However, I can consider whether Barclays applied any security 
checks fairly in this case. In deciding whether Barclays treated Mr L and Mrs L fairly, Ive 
considered Barclays terms and conditions for payment requests, and two other important 
factors. The first is that the payments were attempted on-line after 10:00pm and the second 
is that the payments were attempted on the last day possible to invest in a 2022/23 ISA.
In its terms and conditions, Barclays explains when it doesnt have to follow a customer 
instruction to make a payment from an account. Barclays says it can apply internal controls, 
including limits, to some kinds of payment  and for security reasons Barclays changes 
these and doesnt always say what they are. Barclays allowed one payment Mr L requested 
to complete on 5 April at 10:02pm but decided to refer another payment for the same 
amount that Mr L attempted at 10:09pm the same evening. In this case, Barclays says it 
referred the payment for further consideration as it believed the payment wasnt in-line with 
spending habits on the account. I think Barclays make it reasonably clear that it can do this if 
it feels it is protecting a customer from potentially fraudulent activity. 
I would reasonably expect Barclays to contact Mr L as soon as it could to satisfy itself the 
payment it has delayed isnt fraudulent. Barclays has provided evidence that persuades me 
it called Mr L on his mobile number shortly at 9:00am the following day. Mr L says he didnt 
receive a call from Barclays, but I think its more likely than not Barclays made the call as it 
recorded that it couldnt make contact or leave a message. As Barclays couldnt obtain 
authorisation from Mr L for the payment it was cancelled. In addition, Mr L and Mrs Ls 
access to on-line banking was suspended. In the circumstances of this case, I dont think 
Barclays acted unfairly or unreasonably when it cancelled the payment and suspended on-
line access as it hadnt been satisfied the payment wasnt fraudulent.
Mr L says hes made similar payments in the past and has made two further significant 
payments since without any problem. I understand that may be the case, but that doesnt 
mean that Barclays acted unfairly in delaying the 5 April 2023 payment if it failed the security 
checks and limits Barclays had in place at the time.
Unfortunately, the cancellation of the payment meant that Mr L missed out on a 2022/23 ISA. 
I have some empathy with Mr L here, but Im not persuaded the actions Barclays took were 
unreasonable. Barclays followed its process and tried to contact Mr L the next working day  
which I think is reasonable as the payment was requested after 10:00pm - but because Mr L 
attempted the payment so close to the ISA deadline, even if Barclays had been able to 
contact Mr L the next working day, the payment wouldnt have been made in time for the 
investment to be made in a 2022/23 ISA. 
My final decision
For the reasons detailed above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr L and Mrs Ls complaint 
against Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 December 2023.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman