DRN-1456552
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Telefonika UK Limited (O2) mis-sold her a mobile phone insurance 
policy. 
What happened
In June 2015, Mrs S upgraded her mobile phone on the understanding she would pay for the 
phone on a 12 month contract, after which time she would own it. 
In June 2019, while upgrading again, Mrs S says she became aware that she had also been 
paying £12.50 per month since June 2015, for mobile phone insurance to cover her for 
accidental loss and theft. Mrs S complained that the policy had been mis-sold to her and 
asked for all premiums to be returned. 
O2 explained that the policy would have been offered when Mrs S upgraded her phone in 
2015. They said that when a customer is reviewing the terms of their contract, theyre asked 
if they want to add insurance and its for them to decide. If the customer wants to, they read 
over the contract and then sign it electronically. Following this, a welcome pack is sent to the 
customer setting out the details of the policy and the fact they can cancel at any time within a 
14-day cooling off period. 
O2 also explained that they sent Mrs S a bill each month which clearly showed the cost of 
the policy, and that it would have been her responsibility to review that bill and question 
anything she didnt agree with. 
As Mrs S no longer wanted the policy, it was cancelled in July 2019. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt agree the policy had been mis-sold. He 
explained that he could see the agreement had been signed twice electronically and that he 
was satisfied Mrs S had read the policy as she had marked that she didnt want to be 
contacted for marketing purposes. He also explained that the terms and conditions would 
have been sent to Mrs S, outlining the details of the cover and the 14-day cooling off period. 
Finally, he explained that Mrs S would have been able to see the charge on her monthly bill.
Mrs S didnt agree and maintains she was mis-sold the insurance cover. Because of this the 
complaint was passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 
Its always difficult to know what was said in a face to face meeting, and due to the time that 
has passed, Im not going to be able to get any information about what was discussed when 
Mrs S first upgraded her phone in 2015. Because of this, I must base my decision on the 
information I have, and what I believe is most likely to have happened. Mrs S has said that she never agreed to take out insurance cover for her phone. However I 
have seen a copy of the agreement, and it has been signed electronically twice, by a Mrs S. 
The agreement is also dated the same day Mrs S says she upgraded her phone. Because of 
this, I believe it to be more likely than not that Mrs S agreed to take out the cover. 
A copy of the policy terms would have also been sent to Mrs S. Under the heading 
Cancellation the policy states: 
You can cancel Your policy within 14 days from the date that You receive full policy 
documents without penalty and We will refund any Premium paid providing You havent 
made a Claim within this time.
So Im satisfied Mrs S was again made aware that the policy was in place, and that she was 
told what she would need to do if she didnt want to go ahead with it. 
Finally, having looked at the sample bill which Im satisfied Mrs S was likely to have been 
sent each month, it looks to me that the cost of the insurance was shown on it. So I think O2 
gave Mrs S enough information to make her aware that she had taken out the insurance with 
her phone.  
For these reasons, while I dont unfortunately have anything to tell me exactly what was said 
at the time, based on what Ive seen, I believe its more likely than not that Mrs S was made 
aware of the insurance cover and that she agreed to it by signing the agreement. 
Because of this, Im not going to ask O2 to refund any premiums. They have now cancelled 
the policy for Mrs S, and I believe this is a fair outcome. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2020.
Danielle Padden
Ombudsman