DRN-2701025
Complaint
Mr N has complained that Amigo Loans Ltd (Amigo) shouldnt have accepted him as a 
guarantor on a loan provided to a borrower (the borrower). 
Mr N says the responsibilities of being a guarantor werent properly explained to him as he 
thought he was only responsible for making payments to the top-up amount of £2,215.58 
and not the additional funds which went towards settling the initial loan. He also says 
reasonable checks wouldve shown he couldnt afford to make the payments and so he 
shouldnt have been accepted as a guarantor. 
  
Background
Amigo provided the borrower with a top-up guarantor loan in May 2019. This was a new 
loan for a total of £10,000.00, which was made up of £7,784.42 to clear the outstanding 
balance on the borrowers initial loan and £2,215.58 in new funds. Mr N wasnt the guarantor 
on the initial loan and he says that it wasnt made clear that he was agreeing to a guarantee 
and total amount of £10,000.00 rather than just the £2,215.58 in additional funds that were 
transferred to him to pass on to the guarantor. He also says the repayments were, in any 
event, unaffordable.
One of our investigators considered Mr Ns complaint. He told Amigo that he was concerned 
about the explanation Amigo provided about the guarantee and indemnity agreement. But, in 
any event, the checks Amigo carried out before accepting Mr N as a guarantor werent 
reasonable and proportionate and if such checks had been carried out it would have seen   
Mr N wasnt in a position to make the required repayments in the event he had to. So he 
thought Amigo shouldnt have accepted Mr N as a guarantor and upheld the complaint. 
Amigo disagreed with our investigators assessment and asked for an ombudsmans review. 
As this was the case the complaint was passed to me.
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive
referred to this when deciding Mr Ns complaint.
The rules and regulations in place when Amigo lent to the borrower required it to carry out a 
reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay this loan. The 
existence of a guarantee and indemnity agreement and the potential for Amigo to pursue   
Mr N, instead of the borrower, for the loan payments didnt alter, lessen, or somehow dilute 
this obligation.
As the borrower isnt a party to this complaint, I dont have any evidence of the checks 
Amigo carried out, or the depth that they went into, before it agreed to lend to him. But the 
lack of information from both Amigo and the borrower on this matter doesnt lessen the 
problem here, as Mr N had been called upon to make the payments because Amigo is 
relying on the guarantee and indemnity agreement. 
In any event, for reasons Ill go on to explain, I dont think that this matters too much in this 
case. And I dont think it necessary for me to make a finding on whether the checks Amigo 
carried out on the borrower were proportionate. I say this despite the fact that Mr N appears 
to have been asked to make payments within a couple of months of the loan having been 
provided in the first place and Amigo has sought to enforce the guarantee against Mr N. 
Both of these factors are indications that the monthly loan payments may have been 
unaffordable for the borrower in the first place. 
The reason I dont consider it necessary to make a finding on whether the borrower should 
have been provided with the loan is because Im satisfied that it wasnt fair and reasonable 
for Mr N to have been accepted as a guarantor on this loan. I say this because as well as 
carrying out checks to establish that the borrower could afford to make the repayments, I 
also consider it is fair and reasonable to expect Amigo to have carried out enquiries into     
Mr Ns circumstances to check that hed be able to make the payments to this loan in the 
event he had to.
As I understand it, Amigos enquiries suggested Mr N was employed and earning £1,564.00 
a month. It also concluded that he had expenditure of around £1,010.06 a month which left 
him with just over £550 a month in disposable income. However, the potential repayments of 
£395.95 would take up a significant portion of Mr Ns monthly income and most of the 
disposable income calculated. 
Im also concerned that the expenditure calculation Amigo performed includes nothing at all 
for clothing, even though Mr N could be expected to maintain repayments for five years. And 
it only includes minimum repayments for Mr Ns credit cards, which arent enough for them to 
have been cleared within a reasonable period of time either. Even without this additional 
expenditure being taken into account, Mr N wouldnt have much left over once the loan 
repayment was deducted from the calculated disposable income.   
Given these circumstances, I would have expected further enquiries and for further evidence 
on Mr Ns financial circumstances to have been requested in order for it to have been fair 
and reasonable to have proceeded with the application. I cant see that this was requested 
so Ive gone on to consider whether further information would more likely than not have 
shown Mr N would be able to make the loan payments in the event he had to.
I think that had this information been requested, Amigo would more likely than not have 
discovered that when Mr Ns expenditure was deducted from his income, there wasnt really 
enough for him to be able to make the payments to this loan, without suffering adverse 
consequences or having to borrow further, in the event he had to. I know Amigo is unhappy 
our investigators assessment mentioned socialising and that it expected Mr N to cut back on 
socialising to ensure his payments to priority creditors and this loan payment were made, in 
the event this became necessary. 
However, I think that this somewhat misses the point here. Mr N did spend some money on 
socialising. But even if he did what Amigo expected and cut back, when amounts for living 
essentials such as clothing are included in his expenditure, I cant see that Mr N had enough 
funds remaining to be able to make the payments to this loan without suffering significant 
adverse consequences or borrowing further, in the event he had to. I say this in the 
knowledge that Im not entirely persuaded Amigo did enough to make Mr N aware he was 
guaranteeing the borrowers previous lending as well as the new funds being advanced. And 
that any payments would have a greater impact upon him than expected. In these circumstances, I think that proportionate checks will more likely than not have told 
Amigo that Mr N simply wasnt in a position to act as a guarantor on this loan. And as this is 
the case, I think Amigos failure to properly look into Mr Ns circumstances meant that it 
didnt act fairly and reasonably towards Mr N when it accepted him as the guarantor for this 
loan.      
As Mr N has been required to make payments (and there is an expectation hell continue to 
make further payments) to a loan that he was unfairly accepted as a guarantor on, I find that 
he has lost out as a result of what Amigo did wrong.  
Fair compensation  what Amigo needs to do to put things right for Mr N
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Ns complaint for Amigo to put things right by:
releasing Mr N from all obligations under the guarantee and indemnity agreement 
and then terminating it;
refunding any loan payments that Mr N may have made;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on the above payments from the date they 
were paid by Mr N, if they were, to the date of settlement;
removing any information recorded on Mr Ns credit file as a result of this loan;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Amigo to take off tax from this interest. Amigo must give    
Mr N a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ns complaint. Amigo Loans Ltd should put 
things right for Mr N in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman