DRN-3710460
The complaint
Mr B complains about National House Building Council (NHBC)s handling of his building 
warranty claim.
All references to NHBC also include its appointed agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
My decision focusses on events following NHBCs final response in October 2020, to its 
most recent final response in April 2022, as set out previously by our investigator. 
Any reference to events outside of these dates is for contextual purposes only.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr B is unhappy with the amount of time taken to resolve his claim. Its not unusual 
for claims of this nature to take some time to be resolved. And I can see, in some 
part, delays in the claim progressing were to accommodate Mr Bs needs. So I wont 
be holding NHBC responsible for delays I believe were reasonably unavoidable.
Considering the information available I do think there were avoidable delays and 
times where NHBC couldve reasonably acted quicker. There were several issues 
with alternative accommodation which took time to resolve. Such as when NHBC 
offered a one-bedroom apartment as alternative accommodation when Mr B himself 
had a two-bedroom apartment.
I can also see there were issues over the correct door number of the alternative 
accommodation in question. Meaning Mr B had to change the redirect he arranged 
on his mail. So, I can fully appreciate his frustration.
NHBC accepted it caused avoidable delays, and that there were times it couldve 
provided better service to Mr B. For example, it acknowledged it was unacceptable to 
expect Mr B to accept changes to dates of works at a single days notice.
In total, in the period Ive set out above, NHBC have made three separate 
compensation offers to Mr B, totalling £800.
Following our investigators view, Mr B provided further reasons as to why he felt the 
compensation offered by NHBC wasnt sufficient. A key point to this is that he had to 
take time off work directly as a result of the distress and inconvenience NHBC has 
caused him. Mr B has provided evidence to support this. 
I do acknowledge matters wouldve been stressful to Mr B. But having reviewed 
matters I cant solely attribute responsibility for the issues Mr B has described, to 
NHBC. 
I do appreciate Mr B feels very strongly about what has happened and is aggrieved 
by the whole matter. He has my natural sympathy about this. However, my role here 
is to concentrate on the errors NHBC made and the impact that caused. 
I understand, as Mr B has explained, the underlying matter itself impacted his 
feelings very deeply. However, having considered the information available to me I 
cant hold NHBC solely responsible for that. Considering everything Ive set out 
above, I think the compensation, totalling £800, offered by NHBC is in the region of 
what Id recommend in the circumstances. So, I wont be asking NHBC to increase 
this payment further.
So for these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2022.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman