DRN-3249081
The complaint
Mr W complains about the quality of a car he has been financing though an agreement with
Moneybarn No. 1 Limited (Moneybarn).  
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in December 2021. An extract from that 
provisional decision is set out below.  
Mr W took receipt of a used car in January 2020. He financed the deal through a conditional
sale agreement with Moneybarn. At the point of supply the car was about seven years old
and had completed 75,000 miles.
Coronavirus restrictions meant that Mr W had limited use of the car in the first few months
but thereafter noticed white smoke coming from the exhaust and had problems revving the
engine beyond 4,000 revs. He called breakdown services and they explained there was a
problem with the air mass flow sensor. By this time the three-month warranty had expired on
the car, so Mr W had the sensor replaced.
But problems persisted and Mr W eventually called Moneybarn to complain. A couple of
independent engineering assessments were completed. The first assessor (S) looked at
the car in early July 2020 and noted the mileage was 77,071. He thought the mass air flow
sensor was faulty but explained that could happen at any time. He wasnt persuaded the
fault was present when Mr W had taken receipt of the car.
But subsequently the turbo seized, and Mr W complained to Moneybarn again. They
arranged a further independent engineering inspection in early September 2020 and by a
different company who Ill call A. The car, at that point had travelled 77,079 miles. A
agreed that the turbo had seized and said they suspect a possible re-mapping. At this
stage, we do consider the turbo would have been in an advanced state of wear at the time of
finance inception.
Moneybarn agreed to consider a refund of the costs to repair the turbo and our investigator
thought that was a reasonable resolution.
But Mr W disagreed. He said it wasnt fair for him to have been paying for a car that had
been sitting on his drive for 18 months and he thought it reasonable to expect it to have 
lasted more than six months. He asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision and the
complaint has therefore been passed to me to consider.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Moneybarn, but I dont agree with the investigators opinion. Please
let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr W acquired his car under a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Moneybarn, who are also the supplier of the car, are
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances.
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr W. The car here was about
seven years old and had already completed 75,000 miles. So, I think a reasonable person
would expect some wear and tear, but I dont think theyd think the car was of satisfactory
quality if the turbo was failing when supplied.
The relevant legislation explains that if the fault occurs within the first six months we are to
assume it was present at the point of supply, when Moneybarn were responsible for the cars
quality, unless they can demonstrate otherwise. Im persuaded that there isnt enough
evidence to suggest the mass air flow sensor was faulty when the car was supplied. Thats
because S suggested the fault could happen at any time and without warning.
But I think there is evidence that on the balance of probabilities the turbo on this car was
failing when the car was supplied. I say that because:
A thought that it was most likely to be because of remapping. If the car had been
remapped I think thats very unlikely to have happened in Mr Ws tenure.
Mr W has explained that hed already replaced the mass flow sensor before S
inspected the car. S explained that the mass air flow sensor had failed again, and I
think that suggests it was likely that there was also an underlying and, as yet,
undiagnosed problem with the car in July 2020.
The car completed eight miles between the inspection by S and the inspection by
A. I think its reasonable to suggest that the turbo was seizing at the point of the
inspection by S in July, but only a few miles later it had failed completely and that
was the likely underlying problem. 
I can see that Moneybarn have been prepared to accept some responsibility for the failed
turbo. Theyve said they may be prepared to consider refunding the cost of the turbo repair
because they note As comments about potential remapping.
As the fault with the turbo was, in my opinion, referred to Moneybarn within the first six
months it is for them to demonstrate the fault was not present when the car was supplied.
Im not persuaded theyve been able to do that and I think they are therefore responsible for
putting things right.
The relevant legislation says that, in those circumstances, they should be given an
opportunity to repair the car.Its not fair for Mr W to have been paying for a car that hes had no use of since it failed after
only about 2,000 miles of driving, in July 2020. Moneybarn should therefore refund any
finance instalments hes paid since July 2020 and theyll need to add interest to that refund
as Mr W has been deprived of that money.
They should also arrange to have the car repaired. I can see Mr W has already provided a
couple of quotes for that work which suggest costs in the region of £1,000.
I think Mr W has been inconvenienced by these matters. Hes had to make arrangements to
make the car available for inspection and hes also had to call out breakdown services on a
couple of occasions. I think the complaint could also have been resolved earlier without the
need to escalate it and that would have added to the inconvenience Mr W has experienced.
But I also take into account Moneybarns handling of the situation. They have been prepared
to consider refunding the turbo repair costs and have arranged and paid for inspections to
identify any concerns.
On balance I think the impact has been more than just minimal and this has taken Mr W a
reasonable effort to sort out over a reasonable period. In those circumstances I think
Moneybarn should pay Mr W £150 in compensation.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above Im expecting to uphold this complaint and to tell
Moneybarn No. 1 Limited to:
Repair the turbo at no cost to Mr W or refund the cost of that repair if Mr W has had
that completed already. If the costs are refunded Moneybarn will need to add 8%
simple interest per year to that refund from the date of payment to the date of
settlement.
Refund any finance instalments paid from, and including, July 2020 in respect of the
lack of use Mr W has experienced. Add 8% simple interest per year to that refund
from July 2020 to the date of settlement.
Pay Mr W £150 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience caused.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Moneybarn and Mr W didnt provide any further comments other than to explain that the 
repairs hadnt, as yet, been completed. So, Ive not been provided with any information that 
has led me to change my provisional decision on this complaint.
Putting things right
That provisional decision therefore becomes my final decision.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Moneybarn No. 1 Limited 
to:
Repair the turbo at no cost to Mr W.
Refund any finance instalments paid from, and including, July 2020 in respect of the
lack of use Mr W has experienced. Add 8% simple interest per year to that refundfrom July 2020 to the date of settlement.
Pay Mr W £150 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience caused.    
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman