DRN-3081216
The complaint
Mr M says Canada Square Operations Limited (trading at the time as Egg) mis-sold him a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mr M bought the policy in 2001 at the same time as taking out a credit card over the internet. 
It covered him in case he was off work sick or lost his job.
I sent Mr M and Canada Square a provisional decision on 31 August 2021, to explain why 
I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
Based on what Ive seen so far, I dont think this PPI policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Ive looked at the online sales process Mr M wouldve used at the time. From what Ive seen, 
there would have been a section for PPI which gave an overview of its purpose and cost. 
Then there were two options to choose from: one to buy PPI and one to turn it down. 
According to the electronic record of Mr Ms application, he chose the option to buy PPI. And 
he did this online, in his own time, and without any potential pressure form a salesperson. 
Further, Ive not seen any wider problems with Canada Squares sales process from the 
time, nor any evidence which shows that Mr M was misled here. So I think that Canada 
Square made Mr M aware he had a choice about buying the PPI, and that he chose to take it 
at the time  though I can understand if he no longer recalls doing so after so many years.
Canada Square didnt give Mr M tailored advice about buying PPI, so they didnt have to 
check whether it was right for him. They did have to give Mr M enough information to decide 
for himself whether the PPI was right for him.
Its possible that the information Canada Square gave Mr M about PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But that, on its own, does not necessarily mean the policy was mis-sold. 
Instead, the question is whether I think better information was likely to have changed his 
mind. Here, it looks like Mr M chose to take out the policy, which indicates he wanted this 
type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he 
was affected by any of the policys main exclusions or limitations. The PPI would have paid 
out on top of Mr Ms work benefits and offered him more comprehensive cover, such as for 
when his benefits reduced to just a fraction of his normal pay. And he didnt have any 
savings or equivalent insurance in place. So the policy could have been useful for Mr M in 
case something went wrong. And the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Mr M could 
cancel it at any time without a penalty. Overall, I dont think better information about the PPI 
was likely to have put him off taking it out.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
28 September 2021. But neither Mr M nor Canada Square sent me anything new to 
consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before  that I dont think this particular PPI policy 
was mis-sold.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman