DRN-2141604
The complaint
Mr S says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a single premium PPI policy Mr S took out with a loan in 1994. Mr S
applied for the loan and was sold the PPI during a meeting.
Mr S borrowed £950 to buy a motorcycle. The PPI premium was £76.34 and was added to 
the loan and would attract interest. So in total Mr S borrowed £1,026.34. The loan was to be 
repaid over 12 months.
The PPI covered Mr S against not being able to work due to an accident, sickness or 
unemployment. In the event of a successful claim the PPI could have paid Mr S a monthly 
benefit equivalent to the loan repayment for up to 12 months.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be upheld. Barclays disagreed with the 
adjudicators findings, so the complaint was passed to me.
In July 2020 I issued my provisional findings on this complaint and invited both parties to 
reply with any comments or further information they wanted me to consider.
My provisional findings were that I was intending to uphold this complaint for the following 
reasons:
Was Mr S given a fair choice over whether to buy the policy?
Mr S says he was given the impression he had to agree to the PPI in order to have the loan 
application approved. Barclays has said it would have made it clear the policy was optional.
Ive thought about this. Mr S has told us he applied for the loan during a meeting at a 
branch. And he has been able to give us a copy of the loan agreement.
Ive looked at the loan agreement signed by Mr S in February 1994. I can see the 
agreement set out the details for the main loan and the loan for the PPI premium 
separately. But I cant see that it is mentioned on the agreement that the PPI is optional. 
And Mr S only had to sign once for the whole agreement and not separately to agree to the 
PPI. There is no option on the agreement to opt out of the PPI.
Barclays has pointed to a sample application form from 1994 which it says Mr S would 
have completed before the credit agreement was produced. The application form contains 
two boxes that could be ticked to accept or decline the PPI. But the application looks like 
the type of application that is intended to be completed by the applicant and then returned 
to Barclays by post. Mr S recalls applying for his loan in person during a meeting with a 
Barclays representative so I am not persuaded the form shown to us by Barclays would 
have been the same as the one used during the meeting.
Taking everything into account I dont think it is likely Mr S was given a fair choice over 
whether to buy the PPI policy.
I could uphold the complaint on this point only, but I also have concerns about whether the 
policy was right for Mr S.
Was the PPI policy right for Mr S?
Barclays has told us it would have advised Mr S to buy the policy. So it needed to take 
steps to ensure it was right for him. But I dont think it was for the following reasons:
The policy sold to Mr S would have paid a monthly benefit for up to 12 months per claim. 
But Mr Ss loan was taken out over the short term of 12 months.
So unless Mr S became unable to work and claimed almost immediately he would not 
ever be able to claim the full benefit. And each month that passed would see the 
maximum benefit he could claim decrease. So I think the policy represented poor value 
for Mr S.
And Mr S has told us he had up to six months savings and that his employers would have 
paid him some sick pay. Mr S has also told us he was living at home with his parents and 
had very little, if any, other committed outgoings. Barclays has shown us copies of Mr S 
bank statements from 1997 and I cant see any regular direct debits or payments for rent 
or a mortgage.
So I think Barclays advised Mr S to buy a policy that didnt represent good value to him and
for which he had little need.
I also set out in my provisional decision the steps Barclays needed to do to put things right.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S has not replied to my provisional findings.
Barclays replied to say it disagreed with my findings but gave no new reasons or provided 
any new evidence.
Therefore I see no reason to depart from the findings I set out in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
Mr S borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, so his loan was bigger than it shouldve been and 
he paid more than he shouldve each month. So Mr S needs to get back the extra he paid.
So, Barclays should:
Work out and pay Mr S the difference between what he paid each month for the loan and 
what he wouldve paid each month without PPI.
Add simple interest to the extra amount Mr S paid each month from when he paid it until he 
gets it back. The rate of interest is 8% a year*If Mr S made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Barclays can take off what he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes him.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclays to take off tax from this interest. Barclays must 
give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr S complaint and direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay
Mr S compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 November 2020.
 
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman