DRN-1712064
 
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Aviva Health UK Limited have not agreed to cover her eye condition 
anymore because and have unfairly categorised it as chronic.
Mrs B is represented in bringing this complaint, but for ease Ill refer to all submissions as 
being made by Mrs B directly.
What happened
Mrs B has a private medical insurance policy with Aviva. In 2018, she was diagnosed with 
branch retinal vein occlusion with macular oedema and needed a series of injections. When 
Mrs B claimed on her policy, Aviva told her that they classed that eye condition as a chronic 
one, and would only cover her treatment for four months  to enable the condition to be 
stabilised, and for a transfer to the NHS to take place should ongoing injections be required. 
Mrs B went on to have a series of injections, some of which were administered outside of the 
four-month period. But, when she claimed for reimbursement of the cost of those injections, 
Aviva said they wouldn't cover the ones that had been administered after the four-month 
period had lapsed. 
Unhappy with what had happened, Mrs B complained about the categorisation of her 
condition. But Aviva maintained their position, and said Mrs Bs condition met the policys 
definition of chronic. 
Mrs B referred her concerns to this service and one of our investigators looked into what had 
happened. The investigator said that he thought Aviva had fairly concluded that Mrs B's eye 
condition was chronic. Because of that, he didn't think Aviva had unreasonably 
declined cover for the injections outside of the four-month window. So he didn't recommend 
that Mrs B's complaint be upheld. 
Mrs B disagreed with our investigator and, in summary, said she recognised her policy did 
not cover chronic conditions but neither she nor her consultant felt that her condition 
was chronic. Mrs B also said that her policy didn't set out a timeframe in which a condition 
would go on to be classed as chronic, and said she wanted Aviva to provide cover for the 
outstanding treatment she'd since had. 
So as no agreement was reached, the matter was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I won't be upholding  it. 
I'll explain why.
Mrs B has set out her position in detail and I would like to thank her for taking the time to do 
so. However, my findings will only comment on those matters I consider central to the outcome of this complaint. That means I might not address every single point or argument 
that has been raised. And I trust that Mrs B wont take that as a matter of discourtesy. 
Understandably, Mrs B feels that the information she has provided from her consultant 
sufficiently demonstrates that her condition is not chronic. But I need to decide this case in 
relation to the definition of 'chronic' within Mrs B's policy, and that defines a chronic condition 
as follows:    
A disease, illness or injury that has one or more of the following characteristics:
it needs ongoing or long-term monitoring through consultations, examinations, check-
ups and/or tests
it needs ongoing or long term control or relief of symptoms
it requires your rehabilitation or for you to be specially trained to cope with it
it continues indefinitely
it has no known cure
it comes back or is likely to come back
So, in order for me to conclude that Aviva had unreasonably classed Mrs Bs eye condition 
as chronic, the available evidence would need to demonstrate that none of the above 
characteristics cited were ever present with it.
Looking at all the available evidence in this case, it would appear that Mrs B has been 
having ongoing consultations and injections in relation to her eye condition since 2018; with 
her most recent consultation and injection taking place in March 2020. 
I am aware that Mrs Bs consultant has said that they think shell only need treatment for two 
years. And I acknowledge that Mrs B doesn't think two years constitutes a long term. But the 
above characteristics dont just relate to things being long term, they relate to them being 
ongoing as well. 
So in view of the history of Mrs Bs condition so far, Im sufficiently persuaded that one or 
more of  the above characteristics have been present with Mrs B's condition. And I say this 
because Mrs Bs condition has needed ongoing monitoring through consultations, 
examinations, check-ups and/or tests. And it has needed ongoing control or relief of 
symptoms. 
Again, I acknowledge the comments that Mrs B and her consultant have made about their 
opinions on whether the condition is chronic. But as I explained above, I have to consider 
this complaint in light of the way Mrs Bs policy defines chronic; and not Mrs B's or 
her consultants opinion of what they feel constitutes chronic. 
I appreciate Mrs B will be disappointed by this, but I think Aviva have acted reasonably in 
categorising her condition as chronic. And, therefore, I'm not persuaded they were wrong in 
refusing to continue to cover her ongoing injections outside of the four-month window.
I realise that Mrs B is likely to be  disappointed by my findings. But for the reasons given 
above I wont be asking Aviva to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2020.Jade Alexander
Ombudsman