DRN-4149671
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Ikano Bank AB (publ) rejected a claim they made under sections 
75 and 140 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act).
What happened
In 2015, Mr and Mrs H purchased a solar panel system (the system) from a supplier. They 
paid for the system using a fixed sum loan agreement from Ikano  the loan agreement was 
between Ikano and Mrs H only. In 2017, Mr and Mrs H moved out of the property, so ceased 
to benefit from any savings. In 2018, Mr and Mrs H sold the property along with the rights to 
any income from the system but did not pay off the loan. The supplier of the system was 
dissolved in 2019. Mrs H continue to make the required loan repayments. 
In 2021, a claims management company made a claim to Ikano on behalf of Mr and Mrs H. It 
alleged that the system was misrepresented to Mr and Mrs H as being self-funding, in that 
their outgoings would reduce through the income and savings exceeding the monthly loan 
repayments. 
Ikano rejected the claim, so Mr and Mrs H made a complaint about this. Ikano rejected the 
complaint, so Mr and Mrs H asked the Financial Ombudsman Service to look into what had 
happened. 
Our investigator looked at the complaint with regard to section 140, since under section 75 
the claim appeared to have been made too late. Our investigator didnt recommend the 
complaint be upheld. Mr and Mrs H remained unhappy, so Ive been asked to make a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under section 140 of the Act, a court may consider whether the relationship between a 
creditor and debtor is unfair on the debtor. In doing so it can take into account things done or 
not done on behalf of the creditor in relation to linked agreements  in this case that includes 
representations made by the supplier when selling the system to Mr and Mrs H.
Mr and Mrs H have in effect said they were told the system would pay for itself on a monthly 
basis from the start, because the income and savings from the system would exceed the 
monthly loan repayments. They say this hasnt happened, so the system was 
misrepresented, which made Mrs Hs relationship with Ikano unfair on her. 
Ikano says it is unlikely that the system was represented to Mr and Mrs H in that way. While 
Mr and Mrs H have not been able to provide it, the supplier wouldve provided a document 
that included the estimated first-year benefit of the system. This wouldve allowed Mr and 
Mrs H to compare the costs and the benefits of the system and wouldve made it clear that it 
would not be self-funding in the way Mr and Mrs H allege they were told it would be. 
Ikano has provided a sample of the sales paperwork the supplier was using around the time 
of the sale. Im satisfied that similar paperwork is likely to have been used in Mr and Mrs Hs 
sale. But that they probably passed this onto the new owner when they sold the property and 
the rights to the income from the system. 
The MCS certificate shows the system was expected to generate around 2,500 kWh per 
year. Given the Feed-In Tariff (FIT) and electricity unit rates at the time the estimated 
benefits in the first year are likely to have been much less than the first-year loan 
repayments. 
With this in mind, I think it is unlikely that Mr and Mrs H wouldve been told the system would 
pay for itself on a monthly basis from the start. 
Im also mindful that the time taken for Mr and Mrs H to take any action in relation to the 
alleged misrepresentation undermines their recollection of what they was told. I think they 
wouldve realised soon after installation that the benefits were not sufficient to cover the loan 
repayments on a monthly basis. 
If that was contrary to their expectations at the time of sale, I would have expected Mr and 
Mrs H to take action then. They had plenty of time to do so before they moved out, sold the 
property and the supplier was dissolved. But instead, Mr and Mrs H took no action until more 
than six years after the sale of the system. 
Overall, considering all the evidence, I am not persuaded the alleged misrepresentation took 
place. The FIT statement information provided indicates that the system generated the 
expected amount of electricity in the first year. So, it appears to be performing as expected. 
Ive not seen anything that makes me think that a court would conclude the relationship 
between Mrs H and Ikano was unfair on her. Mr and Mrs H may feel it is unfair that Mr H is 
still repaying a loan she took out to purchase a system that they no longer own or benefit 
from. 
But I think that is not something that Ikano had any influence over. Mr and Mrs H sold the 
property and the system knowing they would no longer benefit from the system but still had 
to repay the loan.
With all of this in mind, I do not think that Ikano acted unreasonably when rejecting Mr and 
Mrs Hs claim and complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr and 
Mrs H to accept or reject my decision before 4 January 2024.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman