DRN-3795690
The complaint
Mr W complains (through a representative) that Morses Club PLC (Morses) didnt carry out 
proper affordability checks before it advanced his loans. 
What happened
Mr W took six home collected loans between January 2019 and September 2019. Ive 
included some of the information weve received about these loans in the table below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(weeks)weekly 
repayment
1 £125.00 01/01/2019 10/05/2019 25 £7.50
2 £60.00 01/01/2019 04/03/2019 14 £6.00
3 £200.00 01/01/2019 04/03/2019 14 £20.00
4 £500.00 04/03/2019 05/09/2019 33 £25.00
5 £200.00 10/05/2019 03/01/2020 33 £10.00
6 £500.00 05/09/2019 25/03/2020 33 £25.00
The weekly repayment column above is the cost per week per loan. So, where loans 
overlapped the cost will be greater. For example, when loans 1, 2 and 3 were running at the 
same time Mr Ws weekly commitment was £33.50. 
Morses considered Mr Ws complaint and didnt uphold it. Mr Ws representative then 
referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator who thought Morses made a reasonable 
decision to lend loans 1  3 and so these werent upheld. However, the adjudicator didnt 
think the remaining loans shouldve been granted because in his view, the portion of 
Mr Ws income that would have to be used to make the repayments was too high and 
therefore the loans were likely to be unsustainable. 
Morses disagreed with the adjudicators recommendation to partly uphold the complaint. Ive 
summarised its response below. 
Mr Ws income was verified as £215 per week and so 15% of his income was used to 
make his commitments to Morses. 
The percentage of income Mr W was required to use to pay Morses decreased for 
the later loans.
Mr W had a good repayment history.
Mr Ws representative acknowledged the adjudicators assessment. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Mr W could afford to pay back the amounts 
hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate 
to the circumstances. Morses checks could have taken into account a number of different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Ws income 
and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr W. These factors include:
Mr W having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr W having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr W coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr W.
Morses was required to establish whether Mr W could sustainably repay the loans  not just 
whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr W was able to repay his 
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and, in particular made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Ws complaint.
Neither Morses of Mr Ws representative have disagreed with the findings about loans 
1  3. In my view, these loans are no longer in dispute and so I wont be making a finding 
about them. But I have kept them in mind when thinking about the overall lending history. 
Loans 4  6 
For loan four Mr W declared he had a weekly income of around £215 with outgoings of 
£88.50. This left around £126.50 per week to make his weekly repayment of £25. For loan five Mr W declared that his weekly income had increased to £270.23, and his 
declared weekly expenditure was £144.50. Leaving just over £155.73 a week to afford the 
repayment of £10 per week. But the combined weekly repayment due to Morses at this time 
was £35 per week. 
Finally, for loan six, Mr Ws weekly declared income was £275 with his weekly outgoings 
declared as £98.50. This left around £176.50 per week disposable income to afford the 
repayment on this loan of £25. Again, the total commitment to Morses was £35 per week. 
Morses says for loans 4 and 6 it also carried out an income verification check, which given 
my understanding of Morses processes was done through a credit reference agency. 
Although based on the spreadsheet provided by Morses there is no salary or benefits (such 
as a pension) recorded for these loans. While income for loan 5 wasnt verified the source of 
income for this loan was noted as benefits. So, I do have some concerns about Mr Ws 
income. 
Mr W had at least two loans running at the same time, and his weekly commitment to 
Morses generally increased - it was £33.50 when loans 1 and 4 were running and then £35 
when loans 5 and 6 were granted. 
In addition, Mr W had a habit of taking new loans on the same day that previous loans were 
repaid, and it seems new loans were used to repay outstanding ones. For example, 
according to the statement of account a portion of loan 6 was likely used to repay loan 4.  
However, in saying that I dont think, given what Ive seen, that Morses made a fair decision 
when it decided to lend these loans to Mr W. Im, therefore, upholding Mr Ws complaint 
about these loans. 
As Morses has pointed out in response to our adjudicator, Mr W was committed to spending 
15% of his income when loan four was advanced, 12.9% when loan five was advanced and 
12.7% when loan six was granted. In my view these payments as a portion of Mr Ws 
income, in this case were too high when considering what else it knew about 
Mr Ws income and lending history. 
In these circumstances, there was a significant risk, in my view that Mr W wouldnt have 
been able to meet his existing commitments without having to borrow again. So, I think its 
unlikely Mr W wouldve been able to sustainably meet his repayments for these loans.  
While Morses doesnt think those percentages are excessive I think they were. There is 
clearly going to be a line beyond which it wouldnt have been reasonable for Morses to lend, 
but thats going to be particular to the circumstances of each individual complaint. And whilst 
a large proportion is going to increase the likelihood in any case that something has gone 
wrong, there isnt an automatic cut off  well always look at the broader circumstances  as 
Ive done here. 
Im not suggesting that just because Mr W had an income which was likely made up from 
benefits that funds couldnt be lent to him but what Morses needed to do is appreciate that 
considering the commitments that he had to it and over the time period the loans were in my 
view not sustainable.  
Ive considered what Morses says in response to the adjudicator, but I dont think these 
comments change my mind. As Ive said above, some checks were carried out which may 
have shown the loans were affordable, but Morses also had to consider whether the loans 
were sustainable and I dont think, in this case it did that. Based on what Ive seen Im upholding Mr Ws complaint in part, and Ive outlined below 
what Morses needed to do in order to put things right. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it not lent loans 4  6, as Im satisfied it ought to have. Clearly there are 
a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr W may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mr W in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr W would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morses liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Morses shouldnt have given Mr W loans 4 - 6.
A. Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr W towards 
interest, fees and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party 
where applicable, but not including anything it has already refunded.
B. Morses should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr 
W which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr W originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Morses should pay Mr W the total of A plus B.
D. Morses should remove any adverse information you have recorded on Mr Ws credit 
file in relation to loans 4 - 6. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires you to deduct tax from this interest. Morses should give 
Mr W a certificate showing how much tax it deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Mr Ws complaint in part.
  
Morses Club PLC should put things right for Mr W as Ive directed above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman