DRN-2920336
The complaint
Ms M complains that Insure The Box Limited incorrectly recorded two non-fault claims on her 
policy.  
What happened
Ms M had a motor policy with Insure which she took out in January 2017, with no previous 
accidents or claims declared. Her policy renewed in January 2018.
In April 2018 Ms Ms car was stolen. She contacted Insure to advise them about this. The 
car was later found by the police with no damage. Ms M advised Insure who said the claim 
would be closed.
In August 2018 Ms M contacted Insure to report an incident where she had performed an 
emergency stop causing injury to one of her passengers. Insure said that because there had 
been jo impact with a third party, no claim needed to be made. It said it would close the 
claim.
In January 2019 the policy ended. Ms M insured the car with a different insurer.
In August 2020 Ms M contacted Insure. She said she had tried to make a claim under her 
existing policy and had been advised that she had undisclosed claims. The Insure advisor 
told Ms M that the April 2018 claim and the August 2018 claim had been incorrectly recorded 
as non-fault claims, instead of information only claims. The advisor said Ms M still had to 
disclose information only claims.
Ms M was unhappy. She said her insurer intended to cancel her policy because she hadnt 
disclosed the claims to them, and that she was under the impression that the claims had 
been closed.
The Insure advisor said that August 20918 claim shouldve been closed because no contact 
had been made with a third-party vehicle. He said Ms Ms current insurer had contacted 
Insure to confirm the details of Ms ms claims and had been misadvised that the claims were 
information only, when it shouldve explained that the claim in August 2018 had been 
opened in error.
Ms M complained. In response, Insure acknowledged that it had made an error and said it 
had rectified this. It said it had contacted Ms Ms new insurer to ask whether the outcome 
wouldve been different if the error hadnt been made but had been told by the insurer that 
the decision to void Ms Ms policy was based on a combination of the non-disclosed claim 
and other concerns. Insure said that it wasnt its administrative error which had caused the 
policy to be voided. it offered compensation for the administrative error.
Ms M remained unhappy and complained to this service. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said that although it appeared that Ms Ms policy 
wouldve been voided even if Insure hadnt made the error, the impact of the error on Ms M 
warranted greater compensation that the £75 Insure had offered.
Ms M didnt agree. She said that as a result of Insures error shed had to pay a higher 
premium.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that Insure made an error in the way it recorded the claims. The terms of 
Ms Ms policy say that she is obliged to tell Insure about any accidents or losses, whether or 
not a claim is made. So, I think Ms M acted correctly in telling Insure about both incidents.
Equally, I think it was reasonable for Insure to record the incidents when Ms M reported 
these.
The error made by Insure is that it recorded the incidents as no fault claims when it should 
have recorded the first incident as information only and the second incident should have 
been closed as it was opened in error. As a result of the error, Ms Ms new insurer told her 
shed failed to disclose two previous claims.
I appreciate that Ms M feels that Insures error was responsible for her policy being voided. 
However, the information provided by Ms Ms insurer suggest that this wasnt the case and 
that there were other reasons why the policy was voided, in addition to the undisclosed 
claims. In other words, even if Insure hadnt made the error, the policy wouldve been voided 
anyway. Because of this, I dont think its fair to say that Insure was solely responsible for Ms 
Ms policy being voided. 
That said, its clear that Insures error has caused Ms M a significant degree of distress and 
inconvenience. So, whilst I cant hold Insure responsible for the policy being voided, I do 
think Insure should pay more compensation to Ms M for the impact that the error has had on 
her.
Putting things right
Ive already explained that I dont think Insure is responsible for the policy being voided so I 
wont be asking it to meet the additional premium costs incurred by Ms M. But the error has 
impacted on Ms M in other ways, in particular, she feels that shes been viewed by her 
insurer as dishonest which had caused her upset and affected her mental health. Taking 
the impact of the error into account I think further compensation of £150 should be paid.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Insure the Box Limited must pay further 
compensation of £150 to Ms M. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman