DRN-3182144
The complaint
Mr A complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) wont refund the £10,000 he lost in a scam. 
What happened
What Mr A says
Mr A says he saw a vehicle for sale for £10,000 on an online marketplace. He was interested 
in the car so completed an HPI check and arranged to go and view the car. Mr A travelled to 
the sellers address by train and notes the address he went to matched that on the log book. 
Mr A viewed and test drove the car and decided to buy it. The seller asked to be paid in 
cash, but Mr A wasnt comfortable with this and said hed pay by transfer on 14 December 
2018. 
Mr A wanted to drive the car home, so he sat in the car and tried to tax it, but the code 
wasnt accepted. He spoke to the seller who explained it was his wifes car and hed ask her 
to cancel the tax when she returned from work. The following day Mr A tried to tax the car 
again and experienced difficulties. He contacted the police and as no officers were available 
Mr A was advised to contact his bank, which he did. The bank referred Mr A back to the 
police who advised Mr A to check his log book. When Mr A checked the log book hed been 
given he noticed the watermark was missing. Mr A also checked the number on the 
windscreen and found the original number had been covered with another. Mr A then called 
the police and got a crime reference number and he also called Lloyds. 
Mr A has provided evidence from the police to confirm that it is investigating six cases 
(including Mr As) where vehicles have been stolen and cloned by organised criminal 
networks involving around £100,000. 
Mr A is unhappy because Lloyds hasnt agreed to provide him with a refund.
What Lloyds say
Lloyds noted the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code) doesnt apply in this 
case because the scam predates it. Lloyds also say that it had no reason to be concerned 
about the payment on 14 December 2018 or to stop it. But it accepted it didnt transfer Mr A 
to its fraud department when he first called and instead gave him information about 
contacting the police. For this reason, it offered to compensate Mr A by paying him £75 but 
Mr A didnt accept its offer.
Lloyds also explained it believes Mr A didnt follow the safety advice provided on its website, 
didnt pay by a secure method and bought a vehicle at a price that was too good to be true.  
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered Mr As complaint upheld it in part. She said it was 
reasonable that Lloyds didnt recognise Mr A could be the victim of a scam when he made 
the payment because the payment wasnt unusual given Mr As previous spending history. 
This was because just a few months before Mr A made a genuine faster payment of £13,500 
to a new payee. And even if Lloyds had asked Mr A questions about the transaction the 
investigator didnt think the scam would have been uncovered. She said this because Mr A 
had completed the kind of checks Lloyds would have suggested, had test driven the car and 
would have been able to provide plausible answers to any questions asked.
In relation to recovery of funds the investigator felt Lloyds hadnt contacted the bank that 
received Mr As funds quickly enough. Whilst the majority of Mr As funds had been used up 
quickly some remained when Mr A notified Lloyds of the scam and the investigator said 
Lloyds should pay Mr A this amount. 
Mr A accepted what the investigator said. Lloyds agreed it hadnt contacted the receiving 
bank as soon as it could but noted that no funds were removed from the receiving account 
during the period between Mr A reporting the scam to it and Lloyds notifying the receiving 
bank. In the circumstances, Lloyds wasnt responsible for Mr As loss. The bank that 
received Mr As funds told Lloyds it wasnt taking any action as it said Mr A was involved in a 
civil dispute.
I issued a provisional decision on 9 November 2021. In my provisional findings I said,
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. And I have
taken that into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story. Taking into account the law, regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice (including the BSI code Mr A referred to in his 
submission to this service) and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time, I consider Lloyds should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
Whilst I recognise Mr A is the victim of a scam and didnt know he was paying a fraudster 
this doesnt mean Lloyds should refund him. In this case, I need to decide whether Lloyds 
acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr A when he made the payments and when 
Mr A reported the scam. I have considered the position carefully. 
Did Lloyds act fairly and reasonably when it made the payments?As Ive explained above, I consider that as a matter of good practice Lloyds should have 
been on the lookout for unusual or uncharacteristic transactions. So Ive first considered 
whether the payment requests Mr A made were unusual or uncharacteristic. To do so, Ive 
carefully reviewed Mr As bank statements for the six months before the scam. Having done 
so, I dont believe the £10,000 payment Mr A made was unusual or uncharacteristic so I 
wouldnt have expected Lloyds to have discussed it with Mr A. Ill explain why.
The £10,000 faster payment Mr A made was for a fairly substantial sum, was to a new payee 
and took Mr As account in to overdraft. But Mr A made a faster payment for a larger sum 
(£13,500) to a new payee in October 2018, just months before the scam payment. Mr As 
account was also overdrawn in each month from April to December 2018  and in many 
months by similar amounts to after the scam payment. So, I cant reasonably conclude there 
was anything unusual or concerning about Mr As payment in December 2018. In these 
circumstances, Im persuaded Lloyds acted reasonably in not taking any further action at the 
time Mr A made the payment.   
Recovery
When a customer reports a scam to their bank, Id expect the bank to get in touch with the 
bank that received the funds to try to recover the scam payments as soon as possible.   
In this case I understand that Mr A made the payment on 14 December 2018 and that he 
first contacted Lloyds to report his concerns at 16.56 the following day. Mr A told Lloyds hed 
bought a car the day before that he suspected was stolen but didnt know for sure. At that 
stage Lloyds told Mr A it was a matter for the police. Mr A contacted Lloyds again at 10.08 
the following day. Later that same day, at 15.54, Lloyds notified the receiving bank in an 
attempt to recover Mr As funds. So, I need to consider whether Lloyds delay in contacting 
the receiving bank has caused Mr A loss. 
Ive been provided with evidence from the bank that received Mr As funds to confirm that at 
least £9,000 of the funds Mr A transferred was used up on 14 December 2018  so before 
Mr A reported the scam to Lloyds. Scammers usually remove funds quickly to avoid the 
possibility a claim is made, and this seems to be the case here. 
The evidence from the receiving bank also shows that no funds left the receiving account 
between the time Mr A reported the scam to Lloyds and the time Lloyds first got in touch with 
the receiving bank. Further funds left the receiving account on 17 December 2018, but by 
that time Lloyds had done what Id expect it to. In the circumstances Im provisionally minded 
to conclude that Lloyds has acted reasonably in not providing Mr A with a refund.
I consider the offer of £75 for the service provided to Mr A to be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this case and given that Lloyds delay in transferring Mr A to its fraud 
department hasnt caused him a loss. 
I appreciate Mr A will be disappointed with my provisional decision. But I cant reasonably 
hold Lloyds responsible for a loss Im not persuaded it caused. 
Lloyds accepted my provisional findings, including the £75 payment. Mr A responded and 
said he had nothing further to add. Mr A went on to say that he didnt consider anything else 
he had to say would change the outcome of his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has raised any new points for me to consider and I have not been persuaded 
to depart from the findings I set out in my provisional decision (and reproduced above). I 
maintain the findings and conclusions in my provisional decision and incorporate them in to 
this final decision. Im persuaded that Lloyds delay in contacting the receiving bank didnt cause Mr A any loss 
as no funds were removed from the receiving bank in the period between the time Lloyds 
should have contacted the receiving bank and the time it actually did. I consider Lloyds 
delay caused Mr A unnecessary inconvenience and stress though. Lloyds has already 
offered Mr A £75 to compensate him and I consider this to be a reasonable award. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out about I require Lloyds Bank PLC to pay Mr A £75 
compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2021.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman