DRN-1593222
The complaint
Miss M complains about how TSB Bank plc dealt with an ATM dispute. 
The complaint has been brought to us by Mrs M on behalf of her daughter, Miss M. For ease 
of reading Ill mostly refer to Miss M in my decision. 
What happened
Miss M disputes a cash withdrawal for £200 made on 9 April 2019 from her Under 19s 
account using an ATM owned by Bank B  she says that the cash didnt dispense. Miss M 
said there were no error messages on the ATM, no-one was around and she wasnt 
distracted.  On 10 April 2019 Miss M raised a dispute with TSB and the disputed amount 
was temporarily credited back to her account. She says she wasnt told it could later be re-
debited from her account.  
TSB investigated and said the funds were correctly dispensed as the ATM balanced with no 
discrepancies. They sent a letter confirming her account would be re-debited but didnt 
confirm the date on which this would happen.
On 10 May 2019 when Miss M was out with friends the funds were re-debited from her 
account. This took her account into an overdraft. She is diabetic and due to the re-debit 
couldnt buy a sugary drink or pay for her journey home. Fortunately, her friends loaned her 
money for a drink and to pay for her journey. 
Miss M complained to TSB about the way they handled the re-debiting of her account and 
felt this had put her in a vulnerable position. TSB said theyd acted correctly although they 
apologised that the advisor didnt let Miss M know the cash could be re-debited when it was 
initially reported. Miss M didnt accept this and referred the matter to us.  
One of our investigators didnt uphold Miss Ms complaint. He didnt think TSB had treated 
Miss M unfairly. Miss M doesnt agree and thinks they ought to have given the date the funds 
would have debited. Shes asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. Initially I came 
to the same conclusion as our investigator, but my reasoning on was slightly different. So, I 
shared this with Miss M and gave her a further opportunity to comment. Now Ive done so, I 
can go ahead with my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. I know that will be disappointing, so Ill 
explain why. 
Was the cash dispensed?
The cash machine that Miss M used wasnt owned by TSB but was owned by Bank B. Bank 
B has provided evidence to show that the machine balanced  meaning that there werent 
any surplus funds identified in the ATM  when next checked after Miss Ms withdrawal. 
They also provided a copy of the journal roll which gives a breakdown of the transactions. 
In relation to Miss Ms withdrawal this shows that a balance enquiry was made at 22:30, 
followed by a cash withdrawal request a minute later and that notes were dispensed at 
22:32. If Miss Ms withdrawal hadnt dispensed, Id have expected to see a £200 surplus 
when the machine next balanced. I find the technical evidence more persuasive than 
Miss Ms testimony, so on balance, I think its more likely than not that the cash was 
dispensed. 
It follows that I dont think its unreasonable for TSB to hold Miss Ms liable for the 
withdrawal. 
Customer service 
When Miss M reported the matter to TSB they credited her account with the £200 whilst they 
investigated. Its accepted that TSB didnt tell Miss M that the credit to her account might be 
temporary and could be re-debited if her claim wasnt upheld. TSB apologised for this and 
said that feedback would be provided. I think that is fair. 
Its also accepted that TSB wrote to Miss M around a week before they re-debited the £200 
from her account. Whilst neither party has been able to provide a copy of this letter its 
agreed that TSB told Miss M that they would re-debit the £200 and I accept Miss Ms 
testimony that a date wasnt included. 
TSB say that its their procedure to provide a date the funds will be taken back if they decline 
a claim in relation to an ATM dispute. So, TSB didnt follow their procedure by not letting 
Miss M know the date they would re-debit her account. But having said this, I dont think it 
makes a difference to the outcome of this complaint or means that TSB need to do more. 
The letter sent to Miss M shouldve reasonably been enough to make her aware that she 
needed to ensure she had funds in her account as £200 was due to be re-debited. As 
Miss M had been given notice that her ATM dispute had been declined and that TSB were 
going to take the funds back, it was her responsibility to ensure that the funds were available 
for them to do so. As Ive said above, it would have been better practice for Miss M to have 
been told specifically when the funds would be re-debited. But where a date wasnt given, I 
think she reasonably could have expected that this would have happened shortly after 
receiving the letter.
When the funds were re-debited Miss Ms account was taken into the overdraft facility. But 
no charges or fees have been applied, so I dont think this caused Miss M a financial 
detriment. 
Miss M says on the day this happened she was unable to purchase a drink or pay for her 
journey home and that friends paid for her. I appreciate she may have been in a difficult 
situation, but fortunately, Miss M was with friends who were able to help her out. And whilst I 
understand Miss Ms concerns, I can only consider the impact of what actually happened, 
rather than what could have happened.
Overall, I dont think TSBs decision to hold Miss M liable for the ATM withdrawal was 
unreasonable. And whilst I accept they ought to have provided a date upon which the funds 
would be re-debited  Im not persuaded their failure to do so or the service provided as a 
whole had such an impact that more needs to be done to resolve the complaint. My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 September 2020.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman