DRN-2837176
The complaint
Miss B complains about the service she received from Studio Retail Limited after she was 
the victim of fraud.
What happened
Miss B found out shed been the victim of fraud after the email address and password used 
to access her online account with Studio were changed. She says she told Studio what had 
happened and is unhappy with the time it took to fix the situation.
Studio ultimately accepted that fraud had taken place on Miss Bs account and refunded the 
fraudulent transactions. It also closed Miss Bs account, opened a new account for her and 
offered her £50 compensation for the delays in responding to her.
Miss B wasnt happy with Studios response as she says it hasnt given her a breakdown of 
the balance of her new account, so she doesnt know if the new balance is correct, and it 
hasnt confirmed if her credit file has been affected by the fraud.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint and felt Studio had treated Miss B fairly 
following the fraud. They also felt the £50 compensation offered was fair, so they didnt ask 
Studio to do anything further. Miss B didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Studio and Miss B accept that fraudulent transactions took place on Miss Bs account, 
and Studio has refunded those fraudulent transactions to Miss B. So the issue of the fraud 
itself has been resolved and, in my decision, Ive focused on whether Studio treated Miss B 
fairly following the fraud.
In order to prevent any further fraudulent transactions taking place, Studio closed Miss Bs 
account and opened a new one for her. And I think this was a reasonable thing to do.
Ive seen copies of the statements for Miss Bs old account, Studios records of the 
purchases she made, and the statements for Miss Bs new account. And from these Im 
satisfied that the balance of Miss Bs new account was calculated correctly. Ive also 
separately sent Miss B an explanation of how her new balance was calculated, so she can 
see this too.
Studio has accepted that Miss B first emailed it about the fraud on 28 April 2020. But its 
records show it only logged the fraud and took action to close her account on 7 May 2020. 
Miss B says she tried to chase a response from Studio during this time but couldnt get 
through by phone and Studio just sent generic responses to her emails. I think this delay by 
Studio in responding to Miss B will have caused her distress and inconvenience.
Studio has offered to pay Miss B £50 as an apology for this delay. And, from what Ive seen 
of the circumstances of this case, I think this is fair and reasonable compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience Miss B was caused.
Miss B has also said she wants her credit file amended so the fraud hasnt affected her and 
that shes unhappy as Studio accused her of causing the information breach which led to the 
fraud.
Studio has said it will remove any potential adverse information that was reported as a result 
of the fraud, so Miss Bs credit file wont be affected. And while I understand why Miss B 
though Studio was accusing her of causing the breach, I think it was just trying to explain the 
most common ways fraudsters get peoples account details and the steps that can be taken 
to prevent this in the future, rather than saying she had caused the breach in this specific 
case. So I dont think it would be fair to require Studio to take any further action, or pay any 
further compensation, as a result of this.
Overall, I think the action Studio ultimately took to refund the fraud and prevent it happening 
again was reasonable. And I think the £50 compensation Studio offered was fair and 
reasonable compensation for the distress and inconvenience Miss B was caused by its delay 
in responding to her. So I dont think Studio should have to do anything further. 
My final decision
Studio Retail Limited has already made an offer to pay Miss B £50 to settle the complaint 
and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
My final decision is that Studio Retail Limited should pay Miss B £50, if it hasnt already done 
so.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 June 2021. 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman