DRN-2675521
The complaint
Mr H complains TFS Loans Limited irresponsibly lent to him.   
What happened
TFS approved Mr H for a loan in April 2015. The capital amount being borrowed was £5,000 
over a 60-month term. The repayments were £195.46 per month.
Mr H says he was experiencing financial hardship at the point he applied for the loan. He 
says he was already in debt to a number of other lenders. Mr H says TFS did not complete 
reasonable and proportionate checks before lending to him. And had it done so, TFS 
wouldve seen the loan was unaffordable to him.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She argued TFS hadnt completed 
proportionate checks. She said further checks wouldve shown Mr H could not afford the 
loan.
TFS disagreed with the assessment. It says its checks were proportionate and it showed   
Mr H had the necessary disposable income to meet this loan as well as his other outgoings. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending as 
well as the key rules, regulations and what we consider to be good industry practice on our 
website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Hs complaint.   
TFS has objected to our investigators recommendations on the basis that it feels the loan 
was affordable to Mr H. It says it completed reasonable and proportionate checks; and these 
showed the loan was likely affordable to Mr H. TFS says Mr H made them aware of his 
financial position and that he was consolidating some of his debts. 
As TFS is aware the regulations which applied at the time, required it to carry out an 
assessment on whether Mr H could repay any loan in a sustainable way. These checks are 
referred to as an affordability assessment or an affordability check.
This means TFS needed to consider if any repayments which Mr H would be required to 
make would cause him any financial difficulties or have any adverse consequences on his 
finances. The checks also needed to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the 
loan which was being approved.
The relevant rules dont set out which specific checks it has to complete for them to be 
reasonable and proportionate. But these checks needed to be proportionate to the amount of 
credit being provided including the total amount of credit, amount of repayments and total 
length of the term. It is also not sufficient for TFS to just complete proportionate checks. It 
also needs to consider the information it is provided with and make a fair lending decision.
In this instance Mr H had initially applied for a loan of £12,000 but after the checks TFS 
completed it was only prepared to lend him up to £5,000. Mr H says he was using this loan 
to consolidate down some of his existing debts.
In relation to the proportionality of the checks completed; TFS completed an income and 
expenditure check, searched Mr Hs credit file and verified his income via a payslip. Mr H 
declared he was single, with no dependents and was paying £200 rent (although this 
changed in subsequent calls). Mr H also declared that he held a joint mortgage with his 
sister on a separate property other than the one declared on his application. After completing 
its checks TFS says Mr H had a disposable income per month of around £215. It says 
therefore the loan was likely affordable to Mr H.
Ive considered TFS arguments but I dont agree its checks were proportionate in this 
instance. And Im satisfied further checks wouldve shown this loan was likely unaffordable to 
Mr H. 
In this instance Mr Hs credit file showed that he was having issues managing his credit.    
Mr H had a high level of debt spread across a number of different products. And the 
information on the credit file places considerable doubt on the TFS conclusion that Mr H had 
the sufficient income to meet his outgoings and this new loan payment.
The mortgage account mentioned above was showing significant issues on it, with around 
six months of arrears existing at the time. The arrears had been on the file for some time, 
suggesting Mr H was not managing to reduce these over the past 12 months. Whilst this 
mayve been a joint mortgage, Im satisfied it suggests that there may be issues with Mr Hs 
finances such that he wasnt able to bring this further under control.
He had a credit card which had total balance of over £2,300 on it; which was one months in 
arrears. The balance was also exceeding his credit limit which was at £2,250. Significantly 
the credit file also showed that Mr H had recently entered into a payment arrangement in 
relation to this credit card. This again suggests Mr H was struggling to manage his finances 
well. 
Mr H also had an existing unsecured loan which totalled more than £5,000 in debt. Mr H was 
also one month in arrears with this commitment too. This loan had only recently been taken 
out around four months prior to this application. And considering Mr H was also in arrears 
with this, it again suggests Mr H wasnt managing his finances well. 
So considering the information TFS was presented with at the time, Im satisfied there were 
sufficient markers to suggest it needed to complete further checks on Mr H. In particular Im 
satisfied it shouldve completed further checks to verify Mr Hs outgoings, to ensure these 
werent exceeding his income.
As Im satisfied proportionate checks werent completed on this loan; I need to decide 
whether further checks wouldve demonstrated the loan was affordable to Mr H. Mr H has 
provided bank statements to our service, and in the absence of other evidence, Im satisfied 
these are persuasive evidence when deciding what further proportionate checks wouldve 
shown.
The bank statements which Mr H has provided show that he was struggling to manage his 
finances. They show he is managing his budget to either a very tight or at times negative 
margin. They also show that Mr H was unlikely to have the disposable income that TFS had concluded via its own checks.
Of note on the statements is the fact Mr H is using a number of different credit providers to 
supplement his income on a monthly basis. There are also standing orders to family 
members on a monthly basis. Mr H has explained that these payments were to repay loans 
he had borrowed from these. Some of these credits  such as unsecured loans  dont 
appear on the credit file report TFS completed. But they show Mr H was struggling financial 
to meet his outgoings within his declared salaried income alone.
When looking through these statements; and taking into account all of Mr Hs declared 
outgoings, Im satisfied that they show Mr H wasnt in a financial position to meet the 
monthly repayments of this TFS loan. And whilst Mr H mayve been consolidating down 
some his existing debts; Im satisfied that his finances were such that any benefit this loan 
mayve provided, it was still unlikely to be affordable to Mr H. And TFS ought to have come 
to the same conclusion had it completed further proportionate checks. And on that basis, Im 
satisfied this loan wouldve remained unaffordable to Mr H, and as such shouldnt have been 
approved.
Putting things right
As Mr H has ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on this loan; Im satisfied 
he has lost out because of what TFS did wrong. As such it needs to put things right. 
In order to do so I require TFS Loans Limited to:
Refund all interest, fees and charges added to loan from the outset paid by Mr H;
Any repayments Mr H has made should be deducted from the original capital amount 
lent; 
a) If this results in Mr H having paid more than he received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement).  
b) If any capital balance remains outstanding, then TFS Loans Limited should 
attempt to arrange an affordable/suitable payment plan with Mr H. 
If no outstanding balance remains once all adjustments have been then any negative 
information recorded on Mr Hs credit file regarding this loan. 
 If TFS Loans Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr H how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr H a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Mr H has also asked for redress to be attributed to the guarantor of this loan. Whilst I 
understand his reasons for this, Im unable to make any award for the guarantor of this loan 
as they are not a party to this complaint. Any redress for the guarantor would need to be 
considered under a separate complaint by the guarantor.
  
My final decisionMy final decision is that I uphold this complaint against TFS Loans Limited.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2021.
 
Tom Whittington
Ombudsman