DRN-4105712
The complaint
Mr H complains that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, were unreasonable not to 
progress a chargeback claim for him, or to uphold a claim under section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 (section 75).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr H, but I dont think Halifax have been unreasonable here. Ill 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here, 
I have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome. 
Chargeback
The chargeback scheme isnt administered by Halifax, its administered by Mastercard, and 
they set the rules. Halifax didnt have to submit a chargeback claim but Id think it good 
practice for them to do so where the right exists and there is a prospect of success.
I dont think Halifax were unreasonable not to pursue a chargeback claim as I think one 
would have been unlikely to be successful under the scheme rules.
The scheme rules required there to be evidence the service was not as described or 
defective. But the removal service Mr H paid for was received, and whilst some items were 
damaged, the supplier provided compensation for those items in line with their terms and 
conditions.
Section 75
When something goes wrong and the payment was made with a credit card, as is the case 
here, it might be possible to make a section 75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974 (CCA) says that in certain circumstances, the borrower under a credit agreement 
has a like right to claim against the credit provider as against the supplier if there's either a 
breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier.
From what I can see, all the necessary criteria for a claim to be made under section 75 have 
been met.
Was there a breach of contract?
Mr H says he was promised a removal capacity of 2,400 cubic feet and that the lack of 
capacity meant items were crammed into trucks and damaged. I dont think I have sufficient 
evidence to suggest there was a contract to supply that amount of space. Its not listed on 
the invoice or referred to in the email correspondence, and although I can see that Mr H 
turned down other quotations with lesser capacity Im not persuaded that demonstrates there 
was a commitment from his chosen supplier to provide 2,400 cubic feet of space. 
I can understand Mr Hs frustration at not being provided with any call records from the 
supplier. After all, he says it was within those calls that the space available was agreed. This 
Service doesnt have the power to instruct the supplier to provide that evidence. Mr H has 
referred the suppliers failure to provide call records to the Information Commissioner, but 
there have been significant delays, over many months, and I dont think it would be fair to 
keep Halifax waiting for a decision on this matter any longer. On the information available to 
me I am not persuaded that there was a breach of contract with regard to the space 
provided.
Nor am I persuaded that the suppliers use of sub-contractors was a breach of contract as 
the terms clearly allowed that.
15 a) We reserve the right to sub-contract some or all of the work.
Ive considered whether the supplier breached their contract with Mr H by damaging items. 
Section 49 (1) of the Consumer Rights Act (2015) says that:
Every contract to supply a service is to be treated as including a term that the trader must
perform the service with reasonable care and skill.
Mr H says that the removal staff didnt carry out the task with reasonable care, but I havent 
seen video or photographic evidence to corroborate that. Given the distance Mr Hs property 
was being carried, and the fragility of some of the items, I dont think it was unexpected that 
some items would be damaged, even if the service was carried out with reasonable care and 
skill. It was Mr Hs choice not to insure the goods with the business as he had insurance 
elsewhere, but in the absence of insurance with the business the contract explained 
compensation would be limited to five Euros per item. Thats what the supplier agreed to pay 
Mr H for the items they damaged, so it wouldnt be fair to suggest theyd breached the 
contract.
Mr H has also explained some items werent collected. The supplier sent some items later, 
so I think they completed their contractual obligations by delivering those goods. A garden 
incinerator was left but the contract explained:
It will be your sole responsibility to:
[] (e) Take all reasonable steps to ensure that nothing that should be removed is left 
behind
Section 56 and Section 140A of the CCASection 56 is relevant in the context of section 140A (that looks at the fairness of the 
relationship between a debtor and creditor arising out of the credit agreement), as the pre-
contractual acts or omissions of the supplier of the goods will be deemed to be the 
responsibility of Halifax, and this may be taken into account by a court in deciding whether 
an unfair relationship exists.
Mr H says there were clauses in the contract that were unfair, but hes not explained which 
ones. Ive reviewed the terms and conditions, but I cant find terms that seem unfair, and I 
dont think a court would therefore be likely to decide that was the case either. 
Ultimately, I dont think Halifax have been unreasonable here. They responded to Mr Hs 
claims in sufficient time and, on the evidence provided, I dont think their decisions were 
wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 June 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman