The complaint
Ms H complains Revolut Ltd didn't give her access to funds in her account while they carried 
out a review.
What happened
Ms H held an account with Revolut. In November last year Revolut carried out a review of 
her account. 
Just before Revolut decided to review Ms H's account, she transferred money into it. This 
was a benefit payment that had been paid into her previous account with another bank. She 
also had a benefit payment paid directly into her Revolut account. However, when she 
needed these funds, she didn't have access to them because her account was frozen.
Ms H told Revolut she couldn't access her money, and explained she needed it urgently to 
pay for utilities and feed her young child. Revolut completed their review within six days and 
told Ms H she needed to withdraw her money because they were closing her account. Ms H 
didn't disagree with Revolut closing her account, but wanted us to look into the service she 
received while her account was reviewed.
Our investigator looked at Ms H's complaint and thought it should be upheld. He explained 
Revolut should have given Ms H access to her benefits when they were made aware she 
was struggling with day-to-day living expenses. And because they didn't do this, he felt £50 
was a fair award for the stress she experienced.
Revolut disagreed. They said they hadn't acted unfairly by reviewing Ms H's account, and 
they did so within a reasonable timeframe. They also said their systems weren't able to 
unfreeze Ms H's benefit payments, so they couldn't have done anything differently to allow 
her access to her money.
This argument didn't persuade our investigator to change his opinion. So, Revolut asked for 
this case to be passed to an ombudsman to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I'm upholding Ms H's complaint. I know this isn't the outcome Revolut wanted. But I'll explain 
my reasoning below.
DRN-1384566 
 
It's not uncommon for financial business' like Revolut to carry reviews on their customers 
accounts. So I don't consider Revolut acted unfairly when they chose to review Ms H's 
account. It's also not uncommon for customers not to have full access to their account while 
the review is carried out. Revolut's terms and conditions set out the circumstances in which 
an account might be suspended. And having considered the circumstances of this case, I'm 
satisfied they acted in line with their terms and conditions. So I also don't consider Revolut's 
initial decision to freeze Ms H's account was unfair.
Revolut's review took six days to complete. And in most circumstances, I wouldn't say that 
timeframe was unreasonable for a customer to not have access to their account. However, 
Ms H let Revolut know that she needed access to her benefit payments at the earliest 
opportunity. Ms H was asked to provide proof of her benefits, and did so. And that was the 
right thing for her to do. Revolut taking six days to complete their review demonstrates they 
tried to treat Ms H as a priority case. But I do think they could have done more to give her 
access to at least some of the funds in her account.
One of the benefit payments Ms H needed was transferred from her previous account. Given 
Revolut may not have been able to clearly identify the source of those funds immediately, I 
don't consider they acted unreasonably for freezing this amount until their review was 
completed. However, the source of the second benefit payment was clear. And I'm satisfied 
that was the case having looked at the transactions on Ms H's account. I also can't ignore 
the fact Ms H had received payments from this source, to her Revolut account, before it was 
frozen. So during their Review, I consider Revolut had enough information to satisfy itself of 
the source of those funds, and should have allowed Ms H access to them.
Revolut has said their systems don't allow them to give access to any funds while an 
account is frozen. But Ms H explained to them on a number of occasions that she didn't 
have enough money to heat her home, or feed herself and her young child. Given the 
severity of Ms H's circumstances, I can't agree Revolut treated her fairly at that time - 
especially when she co-operated with their review.
 
Putting things right
As mentioned above, I don't consider Revolut's decision to review Ms H's account, nor the 
overall time it took, to be unreasonable. However, Revolut should have done more in this 
particular case, to allow Ms H access to some of her benefit payments when they were 
made aware she was in severe financial difficulty. During the review, Ms H has told us she 
went without food for a number of days to ensure she could feed her young child. While the 
review was completed in under a week, this would have been an incredibly stressful time for 
Ms H. So, I consider an award of £50 to be appropriate to recognise this.
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I'm upholding Ms H's complaint.
Revolut Ltd should pay Ms H £50 for the stress she experienced during the six day period 
she was unable to access her benefits.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2020.
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman