DRN-2370780
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Society of Lloyds hasnt paid him enough to settle his taxi
insurance claim.
For ease of reading, reference to Lloyds will include anything done by the underwriter.
What happened
Mr C bought a taxi for around £20,000 and insured it the next day. He bought his policy over
the phone, via a broker.
Mr Cs taxi was written off following an accident. He claimed on his policy and Lloyds paid
him £13,000, as this was the amount hed said the taxi was worth when buying the policy.
Mr C said his taxi was worth more than that. Lloyds agreed the taxi was worth £18,150 but
said the terms of the policy allowed it to pay the amount shown on the schedule. And the
amount on the schedule was what Mr C had said the taxi was worth when buying the policy.
When Lloyds refused to increase the amount, Mr C brought his complaint to us. He said
hed made a mistake in saying the taxi was worth £13,000 and that hed said that amount
because that was the advertised price before taxes and other charges.
Lloyds said by giving the incorrect valuation for his taxi, when buying the policy, Mr C had 
only paid £1,491.90 when he should have paid £1,848.94.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 10 November 2020. In that decision I 
said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms of Mr Cs policy say that if his taxi is written off, the most Lloyds will pay is the
pre-accident market value up to the amount shown in the schedule. I can see the schedule
sets out that the value of the van is £13,000  so Lloyds has paid the amount outlined in the
policy terms, its now for me to decide if thats fair and reasonable. Having done so, I dont
think it is and Ill now explain why.
Its usual for insurance policies to pay the market value of a vehicle at the time of the loss.
And even though Lloyds highlighted this term in the IPID, I dont think its fair for Lloyds to
apply it in the way it has. I say that because Lloyds is disproportionately benefitting from
Mr C making a mistake. I think the fair and reasonable way to consider this complaint is
whether Mr C made a fair presentation of the risk when buying the policy, and if he didnt to
apply the applicable remedy.
Under the Insurance Act 2015 Mr C had a duty to make a fair presentation of the risk when
buying his policy. And for Lloyds to take any action it needs to show that he didnt do that
and that he made whats known as a qualifying breach. For Mr C to have made a qualifying
breach Lloyds would need to show that if Mr C had made a fair presentation of the risk it
would have either not offered him the policy or would have charged him extra.
Ive listened to the call where Mr C bought his policy through a broker. Lloyds has shown
that the broker wasnt acting on its behalf. That means I think the broker was Mr Cs agent
and as such Lloyds isnt responsible for the brokers actions.
The broker told Mr C that he needed to make sure the answers he gave were accurate as
any answers he gave could affect the amount paid out. The broker then asked him what is
the value of the vehicle. Mr C says thats a tricky one and the broker clarified that this
meant how much would Mr C be able to sell it for, rather than the amount on the finance,
and Mr C answered around 13. The broker clarified this meant £13,000 and Mr C agreed.
Its not disputed that this valuation is incorrect, Mr C said he must have been confused and
made a mistake. While I accept Mr C made a genuine mistake, he didnt give the correct
information to the question asked. While I might not generally find it unusual for someone to
not know the value of a vehicle if theyd owned it for more than a few months, in this case
Mr C had bought his car the day before buying the policy. So, I think he did know how
much hed paid for it. For these reasons I dont think Mr C made a fair presentation of the
risk when buying his policy. Lloyds has provided information to show it would have charged
more if Mr C had provided the correct information. So, I think Mr C made a qualifying breach.
A qualifying breach is either deliberate or reckless or neither deliberate nor reckless. Lloyds
seems to have accepted Mr Cs breach was neither deliberate nor reckless as its not
avoided his policy. I also think thats fair and reasonable in the circumstances as Mr C has
explained why he made a mistake in providing the incorrect value.
The remedy for a qualifying breach that is neither deliberate nor reckless is a proportionate
settlement. In this case Mr C paid 80.7% of the premium he should have paid. It seems to be
accepted that the value of the taxi was £18,150. So, under the remedy available a
proportionate settlement means Lloyds should have paid 80.7% of this which is £14,647.05.
I appreciate the policy terms allow Lloyds to pay the amount on the schedule, but I think
applying a proportionate settlement instead would produce a fair and reasonable outcome in
this particular case. I say that because Mr C did gain a cheaper premium by making a
mistake, but equally Lloyds will have disproportionately benefitted by his mistake if it only
pays £13,000. So, to put things right Lloyds should pay Mr C an additional £1,647.05. Due
to the time Mr C has been without the money Lloyds should add interest at a rate of 8%
simple, calculated from the date of the accident to the date it makes payment.
Lloyds didnt agree with my provisional findings. It thought it had been fair and reasonable in 
paying Mr C the amount on the schedule, when it felt there was a good argument that Mr C 
had been reckless in not giving the correct value of his taxi. It pointed to my provisional 
finding that So, I think he did know how much hed paid for it to demonstrate this. 
Mr C said he was happy I intended to increase the amount he was getting but queried how it 
was proportionate that Lloyds only needed to pay 80.7% of the claim when hed only paid 
£357.04 less in premium.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not persuaded to depart from my provisional findings. Lloyds feels that Mr C was reckless in not giving the correct amount for his vehicle. It said 
he also didnt query the amount when he received his policy documents. But as I set out in 
my provisional findings Mr C seemed unsure of what he was being asked when the broker 
asked him for the vehicles value. Mr C also explained that while he knew how much he paid 
for his taxi, this included interest on the finance agreement and additional fees. So, while I 
think he knew how much he paid for his taxi in total, Im persuaded he made a genuine 
mistake in working out the cost of the taxi when deducting interest and other fees. So, I still 
think Mr Cs qualifying breach was neither deliberate nor reckless. 
I can understand why Mr C queried why it would be proportionate for Lloyds to pay 80.7% of 
the claim, when he only paid £357.04 less than he should have done. Lloyds has shown    
Mr C only paid 80.7% of what he should have. So, Im satisfied its fair and reasonable 
Lloyds pays 80.7% of the claim, as its the remedy set out in the Insurance Act 2015.
For these reasons, and those set out in my provisional decision, the fair and reasonable 
outcome to this particular complaint is for Lloyds to pay Mr C an additional £1,647.05. Plus 
interest at 8% simple per year, calculated from the date of the accident to the date Lloyds 
makes payment. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, and those set out in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint 
and require Society of Lloyd's to pay Mr C an additional £1,647.05, plus interest at a rate of 
8% simple, calculated from the date of the accident to the date it makes payment.
If Society of Lloyds considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr C how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr C a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2020.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman