DRN-3731636
The complaint
Mr R has complained that Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc trading as M&S Bank 
have filed a default on the credit card account he opened in August 2021.
What happened
Payments were initially made but M&S filed a default on Mr Rs account after a series of 
missed payments from December 2021. 
Mr R says that he was aware the payments had failed but was unable to make payment via 
the online banking system or to communicate with M&S via their online chat function.
M&S say that Mr R was sent seven arrears letters since December 2021. These were sent 
on 5 January, 15 January, 31 January, 21 February, 7 March and 31 March 2022. A letter 
was then sent on 1 April 2022 asking Mr R to clear the arrears within 21 days. As no 
payment was received a final demand was sent on 25 April 2022 asking Mr R for payment or 
to contact M&S. No payment or contact was received so the account defaulted on 19 May 
2022. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mr R appealed. He said 
that his main concern was that he had never received a letter from M&S bank and any 
evidence supplied by the bank he believed would have been falsified. He also asked how he 
was supposed to resolve any arrears when he was unable to complete payment to his 
account.
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I recognise that Mr R will be disappointed by my decision, but I dont uphold his complaint. Ill 
explain why.
Where there is a breach of the terms of a credit card account, a financial business can apply 
a charge. A breach would be where a payment is made late, or not at all. This is set out in 
the terms of Mr Rs account, which explains how much you have to pay each month and 
when? The terms also explain what could happen if you miss payments?
I have seen evidence that M&S wrote to Mr R on seven occasions about the payments he 
had missed, asking him to get in touch. Although I understand Mr Rs strength of feeling in 
this matter, there is nothing to suggest that this evidence was falsified, and I find it more 
likely than not that the letters were sent. They advised that the account needed to be brought 
up to date and confirm that if this was not done the account would go into default.
I appreciate that Mr R had difficulty making the online payments or using the chat service, 
but M&S accepts all different kinds of payment methods. These included calling to pay by 
debit card, over the counter at a bank, standing order, telephone transfer or posting a 
cheque. It follows that I dont agree with Mr Rs contention that M&S made no effort to 
ensure that he was able to manage his account effectively.
Additionally there is information on its website about how to get in touch and its customer 
support service is open seven days a week. These details were also in the letters sent to Mr 
R. Ultimately it was for Mr R to make payments in accordance with the terms of his account.  
I dont find that he was treated unfairly, or contrary to the terms of his account when M&S 
applied a default as no payment had been received, or other contact made, for several 
months. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2022.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman