DRN-3167201
The complaint
Mr H complains that Chaucer Insurance Company Designated Activity Company declined 
his travel insurance claim. My references to Chaucer include its agents.  
What happened
In December 2019 Mr H booked a holiday abroad from 22 March to 29 March 2020, he was 
due to travel with a group of people. On 28 February 2020 Mr H bought a Travel Time 
single trip travel insurance policy for himself, insured by Chaucer. 
On 17 March 2020 the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO  formerly 
the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO)) advised against all non-essential travel 
abroad due to Covid-19.
On 18 March 2020 the holiday was cancelled. I understand Mr H recovered the cost of his 
travel but was unable to recover his portion of the cost of the booked accommodation so he 
claimed that cost on the policy.
Chaucer declined the claim on the basis that the circumstances of the cancellation werent 
covered under the policy terms. 
Our investigator said Chaucer unfairly declined the claim. He recommended Chaucer treat 
the claim as covered under the cancellation/curtailment section of the policy and reassess 
the claim under the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
Mr H accepted our investigators recommendation. Chaucer didnt accept, in summary it said 
the policy documents were clear there was no cover for the circumstances of Mr Hs claim.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that when Mr H complained to Chaucer about the claim decline he said that at the time 
of trip cancellation he had symptoms of Covid-19 so couldnt travel. But as that wasnt the 
reason he gave for the cancellation on his claim form Ive not considered that issue. On his 
claim form Mr H said the trip cancellation was due to the FCDO advice against non-essential 
travel abroad so Ive considered whether Chaucer fairly declined the claim in those 
circumstances.
Industry rules and guidance 
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS). 
ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of their customers, and that they should handle claims promptly and fairly. 
ICOBS also says that insurers should give consumers appropriate information about a 
policy in good time and in a way that is easy to understand. This should include an 
Insurance Product Information Document (IPID), giving a consumer a summary of certain 
things  including excluded risks. 
The relevant documentation   
Ive considered the policy terms and conditions and the IPID in this case. The Cancellation 
or Curtailment charges section at page 20 of the policy says:
What is covered
We will pay you up to the amount shown in the schedule of benefit for your proportion 
only of any irrecoverable unused travel and accommodation costs and other pre-paid 
charges (excluding attraction, event & excursion tickets) which you have paid or are 
contracted to pay, together with your proportion only of any reasonable additional 
travel expenses incurred if:
A) cancellation of the trip is necessary and unavoidable or
B) the trip is curtailed before completion
As a result of any of the following events:
1. The death, bodily injury, illness, disease, or complications of pregnancy of:
A) you
B) any person who you are travelling with
C) any person who you have arranged to stay with
D) your close relative
E) your close business associate.
2. You or any person who you are travelling with being quarantined on the orders of a 
treating doctor, called as a witness at a Court of Law or for jury service attendance.
3. Redundancy of you or any person who you are travelling with (which qualifies for 
payment under current UK redundancy payment legislation, and at the time of 
booking the trip there was no reason to believe anyone would be made redundant).
4. You or any person who you are travelling with, are a member of the Armed Forces, 
Territorial Army, Police, Fire, Nursing or Ambulance Services or employees of a 
Government Department and have your/their authorised leave cancelled or are called 
up for operational reasons, provided that the cancellation or curtailment could not 
reasonably have been expected at the time when your purchased this insurance or at 
the time when you purchased this insurance or at the time of booking any trip, which 
occurred or became apparent within 5 days prior to the commencement of your trip 
or during the course of your trip.
5. The Police or other authorities requesting you to stay at or return to your home due 
to serious damage to your home caused be fire, aircraft, explosion, storm, flood, 
subsidence, fallen trees, collision by road vehicles, malicious people or theft.The trip being cancelled due to the FCDO advice against all but essential travel to Mr Hs 
intended destination isnt one of the specific, listed insured events for which cancellation 
cover is provided. This means Mr Hs claim isnt covered under the terms and conditions of 
his policy.
However, having taken into account industry guidelines and the relevant law, I dont think its 
fair or reasonable in the circumstances for Mr H to have no cover when he had to cancel his 
holiday. Ill explain why.
On page 11 of the policy document, under the section General exclusions applicable to the 
whole policy, the terms state:
18. We will not cover the following:

Any claim arising as a direct result of a situation highlighted by the Foreign and 
Commonwealth Office where you have travelled to a specific area where, prior to 
your trip commencing, the Foreign and Commonwealth Office have advised against 
all (but essential) travel.
The general exclusion from the IPID, on page 1, states:
What is not insured?

Travelling to a country or to an area where, prior to your trip commencing, the FCO 
have advised against all (but essential) travel.
This exclusion means if Mr H had travelled abroad he would have been acting against FCDO 
advice and would have had no cover whatsoever under his policy. So if Mr H had travelled 
abroad the policy would have been of no use to him.
The effect of this exclusion is that Mr H wasnt covered if he followed FCDO advice and 
cancelled his trip, but he also had no cover if he travelled abroad.
Ive considered Chaucers comments on why it thinks the exclusion was clear. But I dont 
think the exclusion of cover from claims arising from changes to FCDO advice was clearly 
highlighted to Mr H in the IPID, and I dont think this was easily understandable from the 
policy documents either. The cancellation section of cover doesnt list changes in FCDO 
advice as an exclusion so Mr H would need to read the terms and conditions of the policy 
from beginning to end to understand the full effect of the policy. I dont think this is fair or 
reasonable, and I think a reasonable consumer would expect an exclusion like this to be 
brought to their attention in a more prominent and transparent way
Overall, I think the way the documents were presented means the combined effect of the 
policy wasnt clear to Mr H. He had no cover at all when FCDO advice changed and I think 
this created a significant imbalance between the rights of the consumer and the rights of the 
insurer. I dont think this is fair and I dont think its likely Mr H would have bought the policy if 
he realised there would be no cover under the policy if FCDO advice changed after the cover 
was purchased. 
Putting things rightI think it would be fair and reasonable for Chaucer to treat the claim as covered under the 
cancellation/curtailment section of the policy. Chaucer should assess the claim under the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
Mr H should note that as the policy covers irrecoverable costs as part of Chaucers 
reassessment of his claim it may want him to provide evidence from the accommodation 
provider that the costs he claimed arent refundable.  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Chaucer Insurance Company Designated Activity Company to treat the claim as 
covered under the cancellation/curtailment section of the policy and reassess the claim 
under the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2022.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman