DRN-3605058
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy with U K Insurance Limited (UKI)s handling of his car insurance claim.
What happened
Mr W was involved in a car accident and made a claim on his policy with UKI. The policy 
would provide a courtesy car while his car was being repaired. UKI instructed a company, Ill 
call A, to provide Mr W with a hire car. It told Mr W to organise the pickup and drop of his car 
for repairs with the garage.
Mr W arranged for his car to be picked up and for the courtesy car to be provided on the 
same day. However, while his car was picked up, the courtesy car wasnt supplied. Mr W 
says he phoned both UKI and A, but neither company provided assistance. So, Mr W 
arranged to collect his car back from the garage. 
Mr W complained to A as he wasnt happy with the service hed received. A refunded the 
cost of the taxi and fuel costs hes incurred in picking up his car. It also offered him £200 in 
compensation, but Mr W rejected its offer and raised his complaint directly with UKI. UKI 
upheld the complaint, but it thought the offer A made was fair and reasonable. 
Mr W brought his complaint to us because he says UKI failed to provide him with a service 
both in arranging the courtesy car and rectifying As mistakes. He thinks UKI, as his insurer, 
should take responsibility for the complaint and not A.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He thought UKI could have 
been more accommodating and done more to ensure a car was ready on the date Mr Ws 
own car was going into the garage. He agreed UKI could have communicated information 
better with Mr W. But he thought the apology and monetary award was fair compensation. 
Mr W didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. He said UKI didnt apologise 
and the compensation was offered by A not UKI.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome our investigator reached and for similar reasons.
Its not uncommon for an insurer to outsource parts of the service it provides to a third-party 
business. As his insurer, UKI was ultimately responsible for dealing with Mr Ws complaint. 
However, it has confirmed A were acting on its behalf as its agents. And its not 
unreasonable UKI asked A to respond on its behalf, given A was the one who provided the 
service so was best place to respond. So, Im satisfied the offer A made Mr W was made on 
behalf of UKI. Nevertheless, I can see UKI did respond to Mr Ws complaint and apologised 
in its letter to him.
There is no dispute that mistakes were made in the handling of Mr Ws claim. UKI already 
acknowledged there were errors in the provision of the courtesy car and in the 
communication with Mr W. So, Ive thought about what happened and how it tried to put 
things right. I appreciate Mr W doesnt agree, but Im satisfied its done enough to rectify 
things, Ill explain why.
Mistakes happen, when they do, we ask the business to put the consumer back in the 
position they would have been in had the error not occurred, because we want to ensure 
they havent lost out because of it. A refunded the cost of the taxi and the fuel costs Mr W 
incurred. So, Im satisfied he hasnt lost out financially as a result of its errors. 
We do not seek to punish a business for its mistakes, and we wouldnt expect it to 
compensate for what could have happened. Rather, I would expect UKI to compensate      
Mr W for the impact its errors had on him. I accept Mr W might have lost his job if he couldnt 
get to work and that would have caused him concern. However, as he collected his car from 
the garage the same day, Im satisfied there has been no impact on his ability to get to work. 
Therefore, I dont think UKI need to compensate for this. 
Mr W explained that he needed 24-hour access to his car to support a relative with serious ill 
health. So, I can understand why it will have been troubling to find the courtesy car wasnt 
supplied when it should have been. I think the situation would have put Mr W under a great 
deal of stress, however I find this issue was resolved in good time and he wasnt left without 
access to a car for more than a few hours. 
UKI acknowledged Mr W was given incorrect information when he was told the courtesy car 
had been rearranged and would be provided seven days later. UKI said there was a 
shortage of hire cars available at the time. I think thats a reasonable explanation. Its not 
clear how this error occurred but I dont think it changes the outcome as UKI already accepts 
it may have made an error here also. That said, I think it should have informed Mr W if there 
was a problem and arranged a new date with him in advance, without him having to contact 
it. 
Mr Ws car was still driveable, and he was able to use it to get around. A new date was 
arranged, his car was picked up for repairs and the courtesy car supplied within a few 
weeks, so Im satisfied the error was rectified within a short period of time. However, I agree 
with what Mr W has said, I think UKI could have done more to help him arrange the courtesy 
car in the first instance, as the terms of the policy indicate it could have done this for him. I 
also think it could have been more proactive in resolving the problems when they arose.    
Mr W says he spent five hours trying to sort things out, and I dont think he should have had 
to. As his insurer, it could have done more to chase things with A and to update Mr W. So, I 
appreciate the situation will have been frustrating and stressful for him. 
However, I think the offer of £200, made by A, is fair compensation in the circumstances of 
this complaint, and in line with what I would have awarded.
My final decision
U K Insurance Limited has already made an offer to pay £200 to settle the complaint and I 
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. 
So, my decision is that U K Insurance Limited should pay £200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2022.
 Oluwatobi Balogun
Ombudsman