DRN-3132675
The complaint
Mrs M complains Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) have unfairly turned 
down a claim made on her pet insurance policy. 
What happened
In February 2020 Mrs Ms pet insurance policy was due for a renewal with LV but she found 
a cheaper quote with LV online. She says she spoke to LV and was assured her dog would 
be covered should he have any problems with his right leg, as shed previously claimed for a 
cruciate ligament (CCL) rupture in February 2019. She decided to go ahead with the 
cheaper online quote. 
In January 2021 she needed to make a claim on the policy for her dogs CCL rupture in his 
left leg. LV turned down the claim as it was a pre-existing condition. Mrs M says she 
understands this, as her pet had surgery on his right leg in February 2019. But she says 
shed specifically asked whether this scenario would be covered before taking out the policy 
and she was assured it would be. So, she complained as she felt the claim should be 
covered because this policy should have just continued on from the last policy.
LV said Mrs Ms policy changed when she took out the cheaper quote online and this would 
now be treated as a new policy and not a continuation of the old one, like if she had 
renewed. LV said there was no evidence of a conversation with Mrs M about this condition 
being covered before the policy was taken out and LV said she was told she wouldnt be 
covered for any issues that had already been claimed for. 
LV said the policy didnt cover pre-existing conditions and as they felt the first signs of CCL 
rupture were in February 2019  which was before the new policy started, they werent 
covered. They quoted terms for bilateral conditions and explained because the condition had 
happened in Mrs Ms dogs right leg previously, then this claim for the left leg was a 
bilateral/related condition and not covered under the policy, as it was considered to be the 
same illness or injury. 
Mrs M wasnt happy with this so complained to our service. Our investigator looked into this. 
In summary she didnt think LV had applied the policy terms fairly because our approach is, 
where we think two occurrences of the same condition arent linked then insurers shouldnt 
automatically exclude a condition in the other body part. Here, she felt LV had essentially 
said because Mrs Ms dog had surgery for CCL in his right leg in 2019, LV had turned down 
this claim with no evidence to show these conditions were linked.
Mrs M accepted this outcome, but LV didnt. In summary they said:
The policy wording for related/bilateral conditions hadnt been properly considered 
and they felt it still applied
the clinical notes didnt indicate any accidental cause and the most recent notes 
referred to cruciate disease
Our investigator reiterated the claim should be upheld. As LV didnt agree, the complaint was 
passed to me to decide. Before going ahead, I asked if Mrs M could get a letter from her 
vets confirming if the conditions were linked or not  so we asked her if she could.
She provided an email from her vet  which said prior to September/October 2020 theres no 
record of any left pelvic limb lameness or obvious left femorotibial instability noted in the left 
stifle so he felt these two lameness episodes could be considered as independent of each 
other. He did note there can be some breed association to link potential cruciate ruptures, 
but he said the causes of cranial cruciate ligament rupture/ deficiency /disease are unknown 
in many cases, so would therefore be difficult to conclusively prove. 
This was then sent on to LV. They maintained their decision to turn down the claim was right 
 because this was a related/bilateral condition, so whether there was anything on the left 
leg wasnt relevant  its that there was a condition on the right leg which is the reason for 
the exclusion. They also said theyd spoken to the treating surgeon and hed confirmed there 
was no trauma noted to the cruciate. 
As a result of that, the case has been passed to me to issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The conditions LV have quoted in support of turning down this claim say:
If your pet has already suffered from any condition, illness or injury that started 
before this policy or within the waiting period (also known as an exclusion period), 
this will not be covered under this insurance as this is called a pre-existing condition.
A pre-existing condition is defined as:
Any illness, injury, behavioural problem or vicious tendency, or any signs of illness, 
injury, behavioural problem or vicious tendency that occurred or existed in any form 
before the start date of the policy;  
And related conditions are defined as:
An illness or injury that affects more than one part of your pets body, or occurs more 
than once, or that your pet is prone or susceptible to (see the Related, recurring, 
ongoing and bilateral conditions section for more information).
The policy terms go on to explain what is meant by Related, recurring, ongoing and bilateral 
conditions:
Related illnesses and/or injuries include conditions that are likely to be recurring, 
ongoing or affect a part of the body that forms a pair e.g., knees, feet, shoulders, 
eyes, ears. A related illness that affects more than one part of the body will be 
treated as one condition. Related conditions are treated as one condition, and this 
includes payment of the veterinary fees excess. This is the way the policy works 
rather than it necessarily being scientific fact, so your vet may state that conditions 
are not technically related, but your policy terms require us to treat them in this way.
Below are just a few example scenarios: if your pet suffers damage to a right knee ligament and some years later suffers 
damage to a left knee ligament, these will be considered to be the same illness or 
injury...
So, I think its clear that the policy terms provide no cover for Mrs Ms situation based on a 
strict interpretation of them. But my remit is to decide whether I think LV have acted fairly 
and reasonably in turning down the claim.
Our general approach to bilateral conditions is unless theres evidence that establishes the 
first condition led to the second condition  or the second condition was noted as likely going 
to happen at some point in the future at the time of the first condition being diagnosed  they 
should be treated as two independent conditions. 
Ive noted LV have pointed that the lack of trauma should mean that the conditions were as a 
result of cruciate disease, so should be treated as a related condition. But the treating vets 
have confirmed that there isnt an indication that the two episodes are linked and they can 
occur independently of each other. Theres also nothing to suggest there were signs of pre-
existing cruciate disease in the right leg in 2019 which may point towards the same thing 
happening on the left leg in future. So without evidence showing a link between the 2019 
claim and this claim then I dont think its fair or reasonable for LV to turn down the claim.
I have been provided general information about CCL ruptures, all of which I understand LV 
believe supports their point of view. But Id still need to see enough evidence to show me 
that the reason for the second claim is the same as the first for Mrs Ms pet specifically. And, 
as Ive explained above, I havent seen this.
Overall then, I dont think LV have properly demonstrated the left leg issue is as a result of 
the previous right leg issue almost 2 years earlier  so Ill be upholding this complaint. LV will 
need to pay back Mrs M the cost of the claim and provide her with 8% interest for a claim 
they should have paid in the first instance.
Putting things right
Ill require LV to reimburse Mrs M the costs she paid to the vet for this claim. LV will also 
need to pay Mrs M 8%* interest from the date she paid the vets bills, to the date of 
settlement by LV.
*HM Revenue and Customs requires LV to deduct tax from the interest payment referred to above. LV 
must give Mrs M a certificate showing how much tax theyve deducted if she asks them for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I uphold this complaint and require Liverpool Victoria 
Insurance Company Limited to carry out the actions in the putting things right section of this 
decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Jag Dhuphar
Ombudsman