DRN-3689606
The complaint
Mr B complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited have mis-recorded driving data on 
his little box car insurance policy. Reference to Mr B will include that of his father.
What happened
Mr B had a car insurance policy with Admiral, which included a box to record driving data 
and provide scores based on what was considered good  or otherwise.
Mr B raised concerns upon discovery of his driving record showing harsh acceleration and 
deceleration happening at the same time.
Admiral first arranged for the box to be looked at by an engineer, but that didnt satisfy Mr B, 
so he pursued the matter further. Admiral tried to reassure Mr B that everything was fine and 
that the box was working as expected.
However, Admiral did accept that there had been some service failings which included 
communication issues leading to confusion. They paid Mr B £100 compensation.
An investigator here looked into the matter and didnt think that was enough. They 
recommended Admiral pay a further £100 in resolution of the complaint.
Admiral didnt agree, so the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are two main issues for me to consider here. The first is whether or not Admiral is 
recording the data correctly, and the second is whether their service failings have been 
adequately compensated.
Driving data
I can well understand Mr Bs concern that the data suggests he is accelerating and 
decelerating at the same time, because of course that isnt possible. But Admiral have 
explained to us how the data is recorded in batches based on time and location, so they 
dont actually believe the data is indicative of simultaneous acceleration and deceleration. 
And so this hasnt been to Mr Bs detriment.
This has been supported by the external company which provides the monitoring. So, while I 
completely understand the concern, Im satisfied that Admiral is not treating Mr B unfairly in 
respect of the data. Not least because he has managed to achieve silver and gold scores.
Service provided
I agree with both Admiral and our investigator that the service provided in this matter has not 
been where it should have been. The investigator felt that Admiral had caused Mr B to 
become paranoid about the data and how it might affect him in the future. Thats because 
part of the advantages these policies are sold on are the prospect of cheaper premiums at 
renewal.
Equally, one of the disadvantages is the prospect of greater premiums at renewal  if you 
score poorly. I can appreciate how a young driver might be extra sensitive to premium 
fluctuations, and worried about them increasing without good reason.
And this whole matter seems to have taken far to long to resolve. It seems Mr B first raised 
concerns in November 2021 and that there was a lot of back and forth between him and 
Admiral for five months  when they gave him more of an explanation about how things 
worked. Admiral suggested theyd provided more detail earlier, so we asked for a phone call 
recording, but it wasnt forthcoming.
There were points where Admiral miscommunicated with Mr B as well, which only made 
matters worse.
All things considered, this could have been resolved earlier and the way it dragged on has 
caused unnecessary distress and inconvenience to Mr B. I consider a total compensation of 
£200 to be fair and reasonable.
My final decision
It is my final decision that I uphold this complaint. I require
Admiral Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr B £200 compensation  less any such 
payments already made.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2022.
 
Will Weston
Ombudsman