DRN-1536886
The complaint
Mr A has complained about comments made by Unum Ltd relating to reviews of his income 
protection claim. 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Unums entitled to carry out reviews into Mr As ongoing claim to ensure he continues to 
meet the policy definition of incapacity. 
My ombudsman colleague previously explained to Mr A how this service might deal with a 
potential future complaint if Unum asked him to attend an assessment that his consultant 
believed to be medically inappropriate. I agree with the comments previously made by my 
ombudsman colleague about that hypothetical scenario, but as Unum has explained, this 
service cannot tell Unum how it should handle future reviews of a claim. However, if a review 
takes place and Mr A believes that an assessment Unum has asked him to attend as part of 
that review would be inappropriate, then we can consider a complaint about that and make a 
finding on the matter at the time.  
Unum told Mr A that it wouldnt be appropriate for a treating consultant to determine the form 
or regularity of its review procedure. I agree with Unum that an insureds doctor cant 
determine how often it reviews a claim or tell it what type of information it should request in 
order to complete its review. However, as weve previously explained to Mr A, this service 
would expect Unum to have regard for the opinion of an insureds treating consultant when 
reviewing a claim. If it went against that opinion without good reason, then this would likely 
be something this service would take into account when considering a complaint about the 
matter. 
Mr A has also raised concerns about Unums handling of his complaint. The Financial 
Ombudsman Service has a separate role to the Financial Conduct Authority, and the rules 
under which we operate (the DISP Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority Handbook, 
which is available online) set out the complaints we can consider. As the investigator has 
explained, complaint handling doesnt fall within the remit of this service as it isnt a 
regulated or other covered activity. 
Unum made an error in its correspondence with Mr A. Unum apologised for this error, which 
I find to be reasonable. 
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2020.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman