DRN-3657716
The complaint
Mr B, through his representative, complains about the advice he received from a 
predecessor company of ReAssure Limited in 1988 to start a personal pension plan. To 
keep things simple, Ill refer to the business as ReAssure in the rest of this decision.
What happened
In June 1988 Mr B was advised to start a Private Wealth Plan (PWP), a unit-linked personal 
pension arrangement.  At this time, he was aged 32, self-employed, with four dependent 
children. 
Mr B had previously invested in two retirement annuity contracts (RACS). However, in 1984 
he stopped contributions to both. They became paid up and therefore unable to accept 
future contributions. 
Mr B paid premiums to the PWP in the amount of £10 (gross) per month, on an escalating 
basis, until 2008. He then took the pension benefits in 2015. 
In October 2021 Mr B, through his representative, complained about the advice he received 
to start the PWP. 
Specifically, he said the plan was unsuitable as:
It was clear the two previous plans were unaffordable for him as his seasonal work 
and supporting four children, meant his income was not sufficient to support the 
contributions.
There were significant front-loaded charges which were mainly used to pay 
commission, so the product offered little or no benefit.
The adviser was new to the role and inexperienced.
ReAssure responded that the advice provided was suitable and so it didnt uphold the 
complaint.
Dissatisfied with this outcome, Mr B brought his complaint to this service for an independent 
review. One of our investigators looked into his concerns and concluded the advice was 
suitable. He explained that given the information presented, Mr B appeared keen to have 
pension provisions put in place for his retirement as evidenced by the two previous pensions 
hed purchased and kept in place for many years. He also said that the way the pension plan 
was set-up, including the charging structure, were permitted at the time by the regulator. 
Therefore, the sale wasnt unsuitable simply because initial contributions went mainly to pay 
the advisers commission. Likewise, the investigator wasnt persuaded that the fact the plan 
was sold to Mr B by an inexperienced adviser meant something had gone wrong as he 
would have been trained and deemed competent for the role by the business. 
Mr B didnt agree and so his complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im sorry to disappoint Mr B but I agree with our investigators conclusions, 
so Im not going to uphold this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I have taken into account relevant law and
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and codes of practice; and what I consider to have
been good industry practice at the time.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here),
I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Mr B has raised a number of issues. Ive carefully considered everything thats been said but 
have concentrated my decision on those issues which I find to be central to his complaint; 
that is to say, Ive limited my decision to those things I consider relevant to the suitability of 
the pension plan. 
Pension plans are considered to be one of the most tax efficient ways to save for retirement, 
as contributions to these arrangements receive tax relief (an uplift to what is contributed) and 
when benefits are taken, favourable tax rules apply (for example, typically 25% of pension 
benefits can be taken tax-free). It is also generally understood that the earlier someone 
starts to save for retirement the greater the potential for growth that on that pension plan. 
At the time the pension plan started Mr B was self-employed. This meant that he was 
responsible for his own retirement arrangements. And from what Ive seen, I agree with the 
investigator that he was keen to make such arrangements. So in the circumstances, I dont 
find it unreasonable for the adviser to recommend that he made provision for his retirement 
by contributing to a pension.
I appreciate Mr B is unhappy with the charging structure of the plan and has said that it 
wasnt affordable, but like the investigator, Im not persuaded this was the case. Businesses 
have wide discretion, especially in the 1980s, regarding what they charge for their products, 
including pension products like the PWP. These charges would have been included in the 
Terms and Conditions of the PWP that would have been provided to Mr B when he started 
the plan. I consider they were set out in what was considered at the time to be a clear, fair 
and not misleading way. Given this, I dont consider the pension plan has been mis-sold 
because of the way charges were levied. Mr B may be disappointed with the size of his 
pension fund when he took benefits in 2014. But market performance and the level of 
contributions would have impacted the growth of his fund. 
Pension plans are intended to be long term savings vehicles. Although his representative 
has said the PWP wasnt affordable, Ive not seen sufficient evidence to suggest this was the 
case. I dont consider the fact that Mr B had previous plans that he stopped contributing to 
persuasive here  several years had passed and Mr Bs circumstances would likely have 
been different. Further, I note that Mr B made contributions to the PWP for 20 years. If this 
was truly not something Mr B could afford to do, I would have expected he would have 
stopped contributing far sooner. 
In conclusion, as Mr B was self-employed when he was sold the PWP, he didnt have any 
alternative pension options available to him through an employer. So, I cant see that setting 
up a pension plan, with all its tax advantages, in order to provide him with some retirement provision was an inappropriate decision based on his circumstances at the time of sale. For 
these reasons, Im satisfied that the sale wasnt unsuitable.
My final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Jennifer Wood
Ombudsman