DRN-2546253
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W are unhappy with Fairmead Insurance Limiteds handling of a claim they 
made under their contents insurance policy.
What happened
In February 2020, Mrs W realised shed lost the diamond from her engagement ring. She 
contacted Fairmead to make a claim and provided details of quotes shed been asked to 
obtain. The quotes provided were to replace the ring were for over £3,000. 
Fairmead said the ring would need to be assessed by its supplier. Mrs W sent the ring to this 
company who provided a valuation for less than the other quotes. It did so on the basis the 
ring could be repaired. The quote to replace the diamond and carry out a repair to the claw 
of the ring would cost £1,040. 
The ring was eventually returned to Mrs W but there were delays with the ring being sent 
back. Although Mrs W asked for the ring to be returned to her before the government 
instructed lockdown, it wasnt returned to her for several weeks. And before it was returned 
there was some confusion around a repair potentially being carried out. Unhappy with the 
handling of her claim so far, Mrs W made a complaint to Fairmead. Mrs W was unhappy with 
both the valuation and the time taken to resolve the matter and the stress caused. She said 
in order to put things right, she would like a settlement figure to be offered in line with the 
valuations she had obtained. 
In May 2020, Fairmead issued its final response. It said its supplier indicated the missing 
diamond could be replaced on a like-for-like basis and, as such, a full replacement of the 
ring wasnt necessary. As Mrs W said she would prefer a cash settlement, arrangements 
were made for her ring to be returned. Fairmead acknowledged some of the delays in 
returning Mrs Ws ring had been as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, but this was not the 
sole reason for the delay. It also said the offer made by its supplier was made based on the 
cost to itself, in line with the policy terms. On that basis, it wouldnt be increasing the offer. It 
did offer £75 to Mrs W in recognition of the service falling below the standard expected.
Mrs W referred her complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, he 
thought it was reasonable that Fairmead offer you the cost of repairing the ring based on the 
information available. He also thought £75 was a fair reflection of the trouble and upset Mrs 
W had experienced. As Mr and Mrs W didnt agree, this case has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the heart of this claim are the estimates provided by Mrs W, Fairmeads specialist and the 
differences between the two. As the investigator identified, the key difference is that the 
estimate provided by Mrs W was for the replacement of the ring in its entirety. The estimate 
provided by Fairmeads specialist was to replace the diamond and carry out a repair to the 
ring and, as a result, was significantly less than the quote to replace the ring. 
Mrs W has said she doesnt think it was fair of Fairmeads specialist to only quote on 
repairing the ring. However, I note the quotes provided by Mrs W didnt specifically state the 
ring couldnt be repaired. The only comment Ive seen on the condition of the ring is from 
Fairmeads specialist, indicating the ring could be repaired. On this basis and having 
considered the information available to Fairmead, Im satisfied it was acceptable for 
Fairmeads specialist to provide a quote for the cost of a repair as a first course of action. 
As our investigator said, attempting a repair would have put Mrs W back in the position she 
would have been in before needing to make the claim. I realise the amount quoted in respect 
of the repair was for a lower amount than providing a replacement. Mrs W asked for a cash 
settlement, rather than opting to carry out the repair, and Im satisfied Fairmead was entitled 
to pay what it would have cost it to carry out the repair to the ring. I understand Fairmead 
has since made this payment to Mrs W, and I dont intend to direct Fairmead to increase this 
payment or take any further action to put things right for Mrs W in respect of this part of her 
claim.
Ill turn now to the timings around returning the ring to Mrs W. Its accepted there were 
delays in making the arrangements for returning the ring that were avoidable. Mrs W asked 
for the ring to be sent back to her before the government instructed lockdown was 
implemented. So while the lockdown did cause a further delay, the ring should have been 
returned to Mrs W before the start of the lockdown. Fairmead has recognised this and has 
paid £75 in recognition of the upset and worry caused by the delay in returning the ring to 
Mrs W. Im satisfied this is a fair and reasonable amount in the circumstances, and I wont be 
directing Fairmead to increase this amount. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 25 May 2021. 
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman