DRN-3516591
The complaint
Mr R complains that Marks & Spencer plc (M&S) didnt do enough in response to his claim 
for money he paid for flight tickets bought using his credit card.
What happened
Mr R used his M&S MasterCard credit card to pay for international flights (and prebooked 
seats) with a third party carrier, A. Unfortunately, before Mr R was due to travel A 
contacted him  firstly to reroute, and later to cancel his flights. A said the cancellation was 
due to the Covid-19 pandemic.
Mr R contacted A to see if it would refund his payment. But A was willing only to offer him a 
voucher redeemable against future travel. It said its policy was to provide refunds only 
against refundable fares. Mr R was unhappy with this position and turned to M&S to see if it 
could assist in recovering his money.
M&S told Mr R it was out of time to raise a chargeback claim against A. And it said because 
the flight was cancelled because of the pandemic, it wasnt liable to refund him under the 
connected lender liability provisions of section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 
75).
Mr R was belatedly able to get his refund from A, after the government in As home country 
stepped in to provide financial assistance. However, he remains dissatisfied with the way 
M&S dealt with his claim.
Our investigator didnt think M&S had treated Mr R fairly in dealing with his claim. She 
accepted that it was right to say it was out of time to raise a chargeback. Mr R hadnt 
contacted it within the timescale set out in MasterCards rules. 
But the investigator thought it was unreasonable for M&S to deny Mr Rs section 75 claim on 
the basis the flights were cancelled because of Covid-19. She was satisfied the cancellation 
amounted to a breach of contract on As part. Noting that Mr R had already been refunded 
his flight costs, she proposed that M&S rework Mr Rs credit card account as if hed been 
refunded in November 2020. The investigator said that if that would have resulted in a credit 
balance owed to Mr R between that point and May 2021, when he received the refund, M&S 
should pay interest on that credit balance.
M&S hasnt responded to the investigators proposal. Mr R did respond. He said hed been 
refunded the seat booking charges from the outset and this, coupled with the fact his other 
credit card provider had refunded similar costs without delay, showed that M&S had been 
wrong.
As M&S hasnt accepted our investigators findings, the case has been passed to me for 
review and determination.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on the evidence available to me, Mr Rs transaction meets the requirements set out in 
section 75 of the CCA. Section 75 has the effect that where there has been a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by A, Mr R has the same claim against M&S as he does 
against A.
Ive thought about what M&S has said, and I accept As cancellation notice does cite the 
Covid-19 pandemic as the reason for cancelling Mr Rs flights. However, it doesnt expand 
on the reasons why that meant A was able only to issue him with a voucher rather than to 
refund him. M&S hasnt offered any persuasive evidence that A was entitled to give Mr R a 
voucher or to retain his money and not provide the flights.
As general conditions of carriage dont seem to me to suggest either of these options were 
available to A in the circumstances that led to the cancellation. Rather, they say that if a 
flight is delayed by more than three hours or cancelled because of a situation thats outside 
of As control, it will rebook the passenger on the next available flight with it or any other 
carrier via reasonable route. In the first instance, thats what A did, changing Mr Rs original 
booking to and from a different UK airport.
But after that, A said it couldnt provide the flights at all. In this respect the conditions of 
carriage say that if the departure time of the new flight is more than three hours from the 
original departure time (as it would have been in this situation) and the passenger chooses 
not to travel (as Mr R did), he can request a refund of the unused portion of his ticket. That 
wasnt an option A offered to Mr R  at least, not until much later down the line  so I can 
see how the position A originally took amounts to a breach of contract.
That the breach has since been remedied doesnt mean that M&S dealt with the claim 
appropriately. It just means Mr Rs claim has been addressed. It follows that theres now no 
need for M&S to be held liable to refund him. But Id have expected a more robust approach 
from M&S towards considering its potential liability when Mr R made his claim. The absence 
of persuasive evidence to support the position M&S took suggests to me that it didnt 
properly consider the situation, and while that ultimately hasnt caused Mr R financial loss, 
theres little doubt it caused him avoidable distress and inconvenience in having to pursue 
the claim.
It's only fair that M&S recognises that distress and inconvenience by paying Mr R suitable 
compensation to reflect it. I hold with the general principle our investigator adopted in this 
respect. However, I dont think the remedy she proposed quite achieves that aim, and its 
perhaps a little more complicated than it needs to be. In my view, to reflect the problems 
Mr R was caused by M&Ss handling of his claim and the time he was without the use of his 
funds while awaiting the refund, it should pay him £100.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out here, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. To settle it 
Marks & Spencer plc must, within 28 days of receiving Mr Rs acceptance, pay Mr R £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2022.
 Niall Taylor
Ombudsman