DRN-2134904
The complaint
Mrs B and Mr B complain that Santander UK Plc (Santander trading at the time as Abbey 
National) mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
What happened
Mrs B and Mr B took out a mortgage with Santander in April 2003. Some months later in 
October 2003, they applied for an MPPI policy and this took place between the two parties 
during a phone call. The joint policy covered both Mrs B and Mr B against accidents, 
sickness and unemployment. The policy and mortgage ended in or by November 2004.
Mrs B and Mr B through their representatives say they were not told about the MPPI policy 
during the phone call. They also add that they didnt need an expensive policy as they 
were both already covered with sick pay by their employers.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mrs B and Mr B disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs B and Mr Bs case.
I have decided not to uphold Mrs B and Mr Bs complaint. Here are my reasons:
I have first of all looked into whether Mrs B and Mr B were given a choice to have 
the MPPI policy  they say they were not told about it during the phone call. This 
has been a difficult issue for me to consider as I havent been able to see much of 
the sales documentation that would have been used at the time of sale or hear a 
call recording. Although this is understandable due to the many years that have 
passed since the date of sale.
I have though considered what I know of sales that happened at that time and 
also read Mrs B and Mr Bs recollections. Having done this, I cant be sure what 
was discussed between Mrs B and Mr B and Santander during the phone call. Its 
completely understandable that Mrs B and Mr Bs recollections are not detailed 
and as I have already said the sale took place many years ago. I also need to 
consider that Mrs B and Mr B had already arranged a mortgage and this policy 
was sold separately from that. This means that most likely they would have 
understood that the policy was optional. So, with all of this in mind, I havent seen 
enough, on this occasion, to be able to say Santander didnt given them a choice 
to have the MPPI policy when they discussed it during the phone call. 
Moving on, I need to consider next whether Santander provided advice to Mrs B 
and Mr B or not during the sale. If it did, it would have had an additional 
responsibility to ensure the policy was suitable for them. On looking at the very 
limited information provided and also taking into consideration what the parties 
have said, and what I know of Santander sales during this time, I think advice was 
given.
And based on the information Ive seen, I think the policy was suitable for Mrs B 
and Mr B. I say this after considering their circumstances at the time of sale. 
Because, although they say they had excellent sick pay at the time of sale (Mr and 
Mrs B say they would have had 12 months sick pay) that they could have used, 
the MPPI policy would have paid out in addition to their means. Having the policy 
in place would mean Mrs B and Mr B could use any provisions they may have had 
to cover other expenses.
Mrs B and Mr B were both also not affected by any of the conditions limiting the 
policys main benefits such as, for example, those that affect self-employed people 
or policy holders with pre-existing medical conditions. It is unlikely Mrs B and Mr B 
needed better advice or information about the policys exclusions and limitations 
and if they had received clear information on these terms, I dont think it would 
have put them off. So, I am persuaded the policy was suitable for Mrs B and Mr B.
I am not sure if Santander gave Mrs B and Mr B clear information about the costs 
of the policy, but even if it did, I dont think Mrs B and Mr B would have done 
anything differently for the same reasons as I have already given. Ive also seen 
nothing to suggest it was unaffordable.
In conclusion, it has been a difficult decision to make due to the lack of information 
provided about this sale, but based on what I have, I do not think the policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 March 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman