DRN-3979238
The complaint
Mr L  representing the trustees of the M Trust  complains about Zurich Assurance Ltd. 
Specifically Mr L complains that Zurich delayed the surrender of a whole of life policy which 
led to the value decreasing. He also complains about the content of the annual statements.
What happened
The M Trust had a whole of life assurance policy which covered Mrs M as the life assured. 
Mr L  representing the trustees  complains that the trust hasnt been sent full valuations 
since 2017. Hes also complained about the time it took to surrender the policy as he first 
requested the forms in February 2020 and attempted to surrender them at the beginning of 
March 2020. However the policy wasnt surrendered until June 2020 and paid significantly 
less.
Our Investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She explained that the annual statements 
contained the relevant information about the policy and that the trustees were able to 
request a valuation at any time. The Investigator also said the delay in surrender was 
because the trustees hadnt provided the necessary certification of identification documents. 
She said once this was received fully, Zurich surrendered the policy promptly.
Mr L, on behalf of the trustees, disagreed with the Investigators view. He said that there had 
been many errors made by Zurich and this has caused financial loss. Hes asked for an 
Ombudsman to reach a decision, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint for similar reasons to our Investigator. Ill 
explain why.
I first want to say Ive read all the correspondence both Mr L and Zurich has sent to us and 
have carefully thought about the arguments made by both parties. However, this decision 
deals with the crux of the complaint and the length of it reflects the informal nature of this 
service. Ill also note that much of Mr Ls complaint points relate to something that we cannot 
consider as it falls outside of our jurisdiction  this was explained in a decision issued 
previously. This decision only deals with the complaint points relating to the valuations and 
the surrender of the policy.
Valuations
Mr L complains that the annual statements sent out after 2017 dont contain the relevant 
information the trustees need. Specifically, hes said that there isnt a figure showing the total 
contributions to the policy. I understand these were included prior to 2017.
I can understand why it must be frustrating that this figure was no longer included in the 
annual statements. However, I can see that the statements showed the current policy value 
as well as premiums and sum assured. It gave basic information around the charges and 
policy trustees. I dont think Zurich has acted unreasonably in providing this. I can see the 
trustees were able to request a policy valuation at any time which did include the total 
contributions  and Zurich sent this when it was requested. Ive not seen any evidence to 
show that Zurich was withholding information, nor do I think its done anything wrong in 
providing what it has done in its annual statements.
Mr L did also complain that he wasnt notified or given an explanation when the projected 
growth rates decreased. Its not uncommon for actuaries to change projected growth rates to 
bring them in line with the current economy  which is what happened here. This policy was 
taken out in 2000, and since then there have been large changes in the economy which led 
to Zurich changing its projected growth rates  to ensure its projections were as accurate as 
possible. I dont consider this unreasonable. I can also see Zurich explained this to Mr L 
when he initially complained.
Surrender
Mr L first wrote to Zurich in February 2020 asking for the relevant forms to surrender the 
policy. I can see the same month Zurich sent out the current value and surrender forms. 
Included in this was Zurichs identification requirements to be able to surrender the policy.
On 3 March 2020, Zurich received the completed surrender forms as well as copies of 
identification. Shortly after, on 6 March 2020, Zurich sent a letter to Mr L explaining that it 
couldnt accept the identification hed sent as it wasnt certified correctly. Having reviewed 
the information Zurich was sent, I can see the certification didnt match the requirements  
which had been set out clearly. And I think Zurich notified Mr L of this in a reasonable 
timeframe.
Mr L sent in the correctly certified identification later in March 2020 but hed asked not to 
proceed with the surrender during a telephone call because the value had dropped 
significantly. This was on 19 March 2020  at the start of a global pandemic. I appreciate 
Mr L complained about this, however I dont think Zurich caused any delays here. It 
explained how the documents needed to be certified and these werent submitted correctly 
by the trustees  so it couldnt surrender the policy before it had the correctly certified 
documents on file. 
Mr L then sent an instruction to surrender on 23 May 2020 with the request that he was 
contacted first. The forms were received on 29 May 2020 and the surrender was completed 
on 4 June 2020. Ive not seen any evidence that Zurich has caused unnecessary delays in 
the surrender of the policy, and so I cant agree that it has caused the trustees financial loss.
I do appreciate that the trustees will be disappointed with this decision, but Ive not seen 
evidence to show that Zurich has caused financial loss in relation to the surrender of this 
policy. It acted reasonably in not surrendering the policy when it hadnt received the correctly 
certified identification documents.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B, Mrs L and 
Mrs M as Trustees of the M Trust to accept or reject my decision before 31 March 2023.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman