DRN-1076966
Complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out with a 
mortgage in 1993. Mr S says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold him the PPI.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ss case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
When selling the PPI, Halifax had to make it clear to Mr S that he had a choice about it. But 
Mr S says the policy was added without his knowledge or consent.
Where the evidence available in incomplete or inconclusive, I must make my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  or, what I think is more likely to have happened, based on the 
evidence I do have.
There isnt very much information available about this sale. And, due to the amount of time 
that has passed, I dont think this lack of information is unreasonable or unexpected. But 
what it does mean is that I dont think theres enough evidence for me to say that Halifax 
added the policy without Mrs Ss knowledge or consent. And so I think its likely that Halifax 
did make it clear to him that he had a choice about the PPI.
Mr S says Halifax didnt recommend the PPI to him. Halifax has assumed that it did 
recommend the PPI. If Halifax did recommend the PPI, it wouldve had more responsibilities 
during the sale, which would be to Mr Ss benefit. So, as Halifax accepts that it 
recommended the PPI, Ive assessed the complaint as if it did. This means Halifax had to 
check if the PPI was right for Mr S.
Based on what Ive seen of Mr Ss circumstances at the time, I think that the PPI was right 
for him. For example, he doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the exclusions to or 
limits on the PPI cover. The policy couldve paid out for longer than hes told us he wouldve 
been entitled to full sick pay. And it wouldve meant he didnt need to rely on any savings he 
had to make his mortgage repayments if he wasnt earning.
Mr S has said he couldnt have afforded the cost of the PPI and that the benefit of the policy 
was too low. But the cost of the policy was relatively low in comparison to the monthly cost of 
Mr Ss mortgage. So I think its unlikely the additional cost of the PPI on top of the mortgage 
wouldve made a significant difference to Mr Ss financial situation. And the benefit of the 
policy appears to have more than covered the monthly mortgage repayment. So I still think it 
was right for him. 
As well as checking it was right for him, Halifax had to give Mr S clear information about the 
PPI. Its possible the information it gave him wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. But a mortgage is a serious financial commitment, and Mr Ss property couldve been at risk if hed 
failed to make his repayments. So I think he couldve found the protection the policy offered 
appealing. And, for the same reasons I think it was right for him, it seems like the PPI would 
have been useful for Mr S if something went wrong. So I dont think better information about 
the PPI would have put Mr S off taking it out.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2019.
Alan Millward
Ombudsman