DRN-4211254
The complaint
Mr B complains that his mortgage lender, NRAM Limited, hasnt charged him a fair rate of 
interest.
What happened
In 2007, Mr B took out a mortgage with Northern Rock. He borrowed £160,000 on interest 
only terms over ten years. For the first two years the mortgage was on a tracker rate at a 
margin of 0.54% above the Bank of England base rate. From 2009, it reverted to the 
standard variable rate (SVR). From 2014, a discount of at least 0.25% off the SVR would 
apply while the mortgage was up to date. 
Following the global financial crisis and Northern Rocks collapse, Mr Bs mortgage was 
transferred to NRAM. In November 2019, the mortgage was transferred on to a new lender. 
In late 2019, Mr B complained to NRAM about the interest rate applied to his mortgage. As 
this complaint only concerns the period before the loan was transferred to the new lender in 
November 2019, Ill only consider things that happened up to then. Anything that has 
happened since Mr B made this complaint would need to be raised with the new lender.
Mr B complained that NRAM had acted unlawfully and in breach of the mortgage terms and 
conditions in setting the level of the SVR it had applied to his mortgage. He said the SVR 
was too high. He complained that hed been told by an NRAM staff member that the SVR 
had been set at that level to repay a debt to the UK government, which was not something 
permitted by the terms and conditions. As his mortgage was owned by a nationalised entity, 
it was not subject to the sorts of commercial considerations which the terms and conditions 
referred to. And he complained that his mortgage rate had almost doubled. Mr B pointed to 
the terms and conditions, which he said linked his mortgage rate to the Bank of England 
base rate, and his mortgage offer, which he said implied his mortgage rate would track the 
Bank of England base rate.
Another ombudsman said that we could only consider the fairness of interest charged for the 
six years before Mr B first complained  that is, from November 2013 onwards. But that in 
considering the fairness of interest charged over that time, it would be necessary to consider 
all the circumstances of the case  including things that happened before November 2013 
insofar as they are relevant to the fairness of interest charged after that date.
Our investigator then considered the merits of Mr Bs complaint, and didnt recommend that 
it should be upheld. Mr B didnt agree with that, and asked for an ombudsman to review his 
complaint. Ive set out in more detail the arguments hes made below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Time limits applicable to this complaint
Ive said that another ombudsman has already decided that we can only consider the 
fairness of interest charged in the six years before Mr B first complained  that is, since 
November 2013. I agree with her conclusions. Thats because, at its heart, Mr Bs complaint 
is that NRAM has acted unfairly in charging him interest at a higher margin above base rate 
than he thought was implied by the terms of his mortgage offer. 
In order to be aware of cause for complaint, its not necessary to know of every argument 
that could be made. Its enough to know that something has gone wrong, which has caused 
loss, and for which NRAM was responsible. Even if he didnt become aware of all the 
arguments hes now making until more recently  such as the terms and conditions 
documents I refer to below  Im satisfied Mr B would have been aware from 2009 that he 
was being charged more interest than he expected to be charged. And Im satisfied that was 
enough to say he ought reasonably to have known of cause for complaint. 
There are no exceptional circumstances explaining why Mr B did not complain before he did. 
And NRAM hasnt consented to us considering that part of the complaint which is otherwise 
out of time. That means we can only consider the fairness of interest charged in the six 
years before he first complained. I also agree with my fellow ombudsman that in considering 
those matters, we can take into account all the circumstances of the case  including 
matters that happened before November 2013 but which impacted on the fairness of the 
interest charged after that date. For example, if there was no contractual power to change 
the interest rate in 2009, it might not be fair to charge interest based on that change from 
November 2013. 
The reversion to SVR and the increase in the interest rate Mr B was charged in 2009
In his initial letter to NRAM, Mr B complained that his mortgage rate had almost doubled 
because of NRAMs unfair increases to the SVR.
In fact, however, thats not the case. Mr Bs mortgage wasnt subject to the SVR to start with. 
Between 2007 and 2009, he was on a rate that tracked the Bank of England base rate plus 
0.54%. In early 2009, when his tracker rate expired, base rate was 2% and so Mr Bs interest 
rate was 2.54%. From March 2009 he was no longer subject to the tracker rate and moved 
to the SVR, which at that time was 4.79%. So Mr Bs mortgage interest rate did not almost 
double because NRAM increased the SVR  it increased because Mr B moved off the 
tracker rate and on to the SVR, in line with the mortgage offer. 
Mr B says that this was not permitted  he has described it as a monstrous obscenity and 
evidence of widespread fraud and criminality. In saying that, Mr B has pointed to the 
mortgage offer. He has given us a copy of a witness statement he has prepared, to which he 
has added a copy of the mortgage offer. He has annotated the offer in pencil. I have 
reproduced his annotations in red below. The offer says, with Mr Bs annotations:
This secured mortgage is based on the following interest rate periods: 
a variable rate which is 0.54% above the Bank of England [sic], currently 
5.25% (A), until 1 March 2009 giving a current rate payable of 5.79%. = 
0.54% OVER BASE RATE FOR 2 YEARS
If the Bank of England Base Rate changes, we will review the interest rate 
applicable to your mortgage on the first working day of the following month. 
We will then notify you in writing of your new interest rate and payment, 
which will take effect from the first day of the month following the review. We 
will follow this procedure whether the Bank of England Base Rate rises or 
falls.followed by
the Northern Rock Standard Variable Rate, currently 7.34%, (B) for a period 
of 5 years 1 month IMPLIES RATE OF 2.09% OVER BASE = (B)  (A)
= 2.09% OVER BASE FOR 5 YEARS 1 MONTH
followed by
Northern Rocks Variable Loyalty Discount Rate, which is Northern Rocks 
Standard Variable Rate, currently 7.34%, with a discount of at least 0.25%, 
which will apply, provided that payments are kept up to date, for the 
remainder of the mortgage giving a current rate payable of 7.09% (C). 
IMPLIES RATE OF 1.84% OVER BASE = (C)  (A)
= 1.84% FOR REMAINDER
If your mortgage payments are not up to date then Northern Rocks Standard 
Variable Rate will apply.
Mr B believes that his mortgage offer contained an implied term that the SVR (and so also 
the discount rate) was set at a particular margin over the Bank of England base rate.
But I dont agree about that. Theres nothing in the mortgage offer which says that either the 
SVR or the discount rate track, or are set at a particular margin above, Bank of England 
base rate. Theres nothing in the mortgage terms and conditions which says that either. And 
I dont think such a term can reasonably be implied into the mortgage offer either. The offer 
explicitly says that the interest rate tracks the Bank of England base rate until 1 March 2009, 
after which it reverts to a variable rate. 
Given that the first part of the mortgage was explicitly linked to Bank of England base rate, 
theres no good reason why that wouldnt be made explicit for the second and third parts too 
 if that was the intention. I think the absence of a reference to Bank of England base rate as 
part of the interest rate applicable to the mortgage after 1 March 2009 is evidence that it was 
NOT linked to base rate  not a reason for implying a term that it was.
Im therefore satisfied that, after 1 March 2009, there was no linkage between Mr Bs 
mortgage and the Bank of England base rate. The increase in the interest rate on 1 March 
2009 was not because NRAM increased the interest rate in breach of an implied term that it 
would track base rate by 2.09%, 0.54% or any other margin. The increase was because Mr 
Bs mortgage was no longer linked to the Bank of England base rate, and reverted to the 
SVR  exactly as the offer said it would. 
Between 2007, when the mortgage was taken out, and 1 March 2009 the SVR had reduced 
from 7.34% to 4.79%, and that is why Mr B was charged 4.79% from 1 March 2009 onwards. 
This was not a breach of the mortgage contract, still less a monstrous obscenity indicative 
of fraud or criminal behaviour  it was the correct application of the terms and conditions and 
the mortgage offer in line with what was agreed when Mr B took the mortgage out.
Mr Bs mortgage offer said he would pay a tracker rate set at 0.54% over Bank of England 
base rate until 1 March 2009, and that from 1 March 2009 he would pay the SVR. And thats 
what happened.
The mortgage terms and conditionsMr B also says that the interest rate applicable to his mortgage is unfair and unlawful 
because Northern Rock and then NRAM was in breach of the terms and conditions. 
Mr B points to a section of what he says are the relevant mortgage terms and conditions 
describing the Standard Variable Mortgage Base Rate. 
This section says
Standard Variable Mortgage Base Rate means such rate as we from time to time 
decide to set as the base from which to calculate interest on our variable rate 
mortgage loans (disregarding the restrictions on what we can charge under condition 
7 or Section B of the Offer). The current Standard Variable Mortgage Base Rate 
which applies to your Loan is set out in Section A of the Offer. We may change this 
rate from time to time under condition 7 or Section B of the Offer. If we transfer or 
dispose of the Offer, the person to whom we make the transfer may change the rate 
to its own base rate which it applies to its variable rate mortgage loans. That rate will 
then be the Standard Variable Mortgage Base Rate under the Offer and the person 
to whom we make the transfer may make further changes to that rate under condition 
7 or Section B of the Offer. 
Mr B says this means the SVR  and therefore his mortgage  is linked to Bank of England 
base rate. And because the requirements of condition 7 were not met, NRAM was not 
entitled to increase the SVR in 2009 by changing the margin over Bank of England base 
rate.
But Im afraid I dont agree about that either. Theres nothing in this section, or anywhere 
else in the document, which says that the Standard Variable Mortgage Base Rate is the 
same as, or linked to, the Bank of England base rate. Because those two separate rates 
both use the words base rate as part of their name does not mean they are the same thing, 
or that the one is linked to the other. The Bank of England base rate is set by the Bank of 
England. Mortgage lenders could choose to  but were not obliged to  set their own rates 
by reference to the Bank of England base rate. Or they could set their own base rates. I think 
this extract makes clear that the Standard Variable Mortgage Base Rate is a base rate set 
by Northern Rock from time to time as a reference rate for its mortgages. There is no explicit 
link  and no reasonable basis for implying a link  to Bank of England base rate. Merely 
using the same word base does not imply such a link. 
And even if I was wrong about that, and the Standard Variable Mortgage Base Rate was 
linked to Bank of England base rate, it wouldnt make any difference to the outcome of this 
complaint. Thats because the extract Ive quoted above comes from Northern Rocks 
Mortgage Offer General Conditions Edition 1  07/2001. This is not part of the terms and 
conditions applicable to Mr Bs mortgage.
It appears NRAM may have given Mr B a copy of this document during legal proceedings in 
2018 or 2019. If so, that was a mistake. These are not the terms and conditions applicable to 
his mortgage  and so the Standard Variable Mortgage Base Rate doesnt apply.
The mortgage offer letter dated 21 February 2007 says that the following documents make 
up the mortgage contract:
The Offer of Loan
Mortgage Conditions 2001
Mortgage Offer  General ConditionsTariff of Charges.
Mr B points to this, and to the mortgage deed registered with the Land Registry, to show that 
the Northern Rocks Mortgage Offer General Conditions Edition 1  07/2001 are applicable 
to his mortgage  because the offer letter says Mortgage Conditions 2001. But I dont think 
thats the case.
The mortgage deed says 
THE MORTGAGE CONDITIONS: NORTHERN ROCK PLC MORTGAGE 
CONDITIONS 2001 (filed at HM Land Registry under reference )
Northern Rock had two documents specific to each borrower  the mortgage offer, which set 
out the amount lent and the terms on which it was lent, and the mortgage deed, which set 
out the property offered as security for the lending. And each of those bespoke individual 
documents also had a set of generic terms and conditions, applicable to all borrowers. The 
mortgage deed had the Mortgage Conditions, and the mortgage offer had the Mortgage 
Offer  General Conditions. 
The Mortgage Conditions 2001 is the document filed at the Land Registry and which is the 
general terms applicable to the mortgage deed. It includes things such as the obligation to 
keep the property insured and in good repair and limitations on dealing with it until the 
mortgage is repaid.
The Mortgage Offer  General Conditions is the document which sits alongside the 
mortgage offer. It includes things such as the terms on which payment must be made, how 
interest is calculated, and how the interest rate can be varied from time to time.
Therefore the Mortgage Conditions 2001, referred to in the offer letter and the mortgage 
deed, is not the same document as Northern Rocks Mortgage Offer General Conditions 
Edition 1  07/2001. The reference to the Mortgage Conditions 2001 in the offer letter and 
mortgage deed is not evidence that Northern Rocks Mortgage Offer General Conditions 
Edition 1  07/2001 applies to Mr Bs mortgage. 
The extract above regarding the Standard Variable Mortgage Base Rate comes from the 
2001 edition of the Mortgage Offer  General Conditions (entitled Northern Rocks 
Mortgage Offer General Conditions Edition 1  07/2001), not the 2001 edition of the 
Mortgage Conditions.
Northern Rocks Mortgage Offer General Conditions Edition 1  07/2001 is an earlier 
edition of the Mortgage Offer  General Conditions. By the time Mr B took out his mortgage 
in 2007, this document had been superseded by the Mortgage Offer General Conditions 
Edition 3  2/2005, which was the version of the Mortgage Offer  General Conditions 
applicable to his mortgage. 
Mr Bs mortgage was never subject to Northern Rocks Mortgage Offer General Conditions 
Edition 1  07/2001. If NRAM sent him a copy of that document in 2018 or 2019, that was a 
mistake  he should have been given the Mortgage Offer General Conditions Edition 3  
2/2005.  
Mr B suggests that the Mortgage Offer General Conditions Edition 3  2/2005 is a later 
forgery to hide a link to the Standard Variable Mortgage Base Rate and a link to the Bank of 
England base rate. But Ive seen no evidence of that and Im aware from other complaints 
that this was the edition applicable to mortgages taken out around the same time as Mr Bs. 
In any case, as Ive said, even if the Standard Variable Mortgage Base Rate was applicable to Mr Bs mortgage  which it isnt  it wasnt linked to Bank of England base rate, and the 
fact that both rates had the word base in their name isnt enough to suggest otherwise.
I dont think its plausible that the Mortgage Offer General Conditions Edition 3  2/2005 are 
a later fabrication to remove the word base  which, as Ive said, doesnt have the 
significance Mr B attaches to it in any case. Base rate was a common phrase in the 
banking industry denoting a particular banks (or building societys) standard or default rate. 
It does not follow that because in 2001 Northern Rock described its default mortgage rate as 
its mortgage base rate that there was any linkage with the Bank of England base rate. 
I therefore see nothing sinister in removing the word base between the two editions  if 
anything, it helps to avoid confusion with the Bank of England base rate of the sort which 
has led Mr B to make this complaint.
Mr B also says that the Mortgage Offer General Conditions Edition 3  2/2005 includes the 
following wording, and this means that the Northern Rocks Mortgage Offer General 
Conditions Edition 1  07/2001 apply:
Mortgage Conditions means the mortgage conditions entitled Northern Rock 
Mortgage Conditions 2001
As Ive explained, the Mortgage Conditions 2001 do apply to his mortgage  they are the 
conditions associated with the mortgage deed concerning the security over his property. But 
they are not the same as Northern Rocks Mortgage Offer General Conditions Edition 1  
07/2001  the conditions associated with the mortgage offer and repayment of the loan  
which do not apply, because they had been superseded by the 2005 edition before Mr B 
took his mortgage out. This reference is to the Mortgage Conditions, not the Mortgage Offer 
General Conditions.
Further supporting evidence can be found in the mortgage offer itself  the definition of the 
Standard Variable Mortgage Base Rate Ive quoted above says that further information is 
given in Section A and Section B of the mortgage offer. But not only does Mr Bs mortgage 
offer not mention the Standard Variable Mortgage Base Rate  it does not even contain a 
Section A or a Section B.
For those reasons, Im satisfied that Standard Variable Mortgage Base Rate described in the 
Northern Rocks Mortgage Offer General Conditions Edition 1  07/2001 document is not 
relevant to Mr Bs mortgage, since his mortgage has never been subject to those conditions. 
Mr Bs mortgage offer is governed by the 2005 General Conditions, not the 2001 General 
Conditions. 
There is no mention of the Standard Variable Mortgage Base Rate in the Mortgage Offer 
General Conditions Edition 3  2/2005  which are the applicable conditions governing the 
interest rate charged to Mr B. Nor is there any mention of it in his mortgage offer. And 
therefore the Standard Variable Mortgage Base Rate has no relevance to Mr Bs mortgage, 
whether or not it was linked to the Bank of England base rate.
There is nothing in the Mortgage Offer General Conditions Edition 3  2/2005 which 
suggests that the SVR Mr B was subject to is linked to or tracks the Bank of England base 
rate. And therefore when Mr B reverted to the SVR on 1 March 2009  or at any time 
thereafter  nothing in the terms and conditions required NRAM to set the SVR at 2.09% 
above Bank of England base rate, 1.84% above Bank of England base rate, or any other 
margin above Bank of England base rate.
The level of SVR Mr B was chargedWhen Mr B took out his mortgage in 2007, the SVR was 7.34%. By the time he reverted to 
the SVR in March 2009, it had reduced to 4.79%. During this period, Northern Rock and then 
NRAM had reduced the SVR as Bank of England base rate fell  though the SVR did not fall 
by as much as base rate. 
Date Bank of England 
base rateSVR Difference between 
base rate and SVR
01/02/2007 5.00% 7.34% 2.09%
10/05/2007 5.50%
01/06/2007 7.59% 2.09%
05/07/2007 5.75%
01/08/2007 7.84% 2.09%
06/12/2007 5.50%
01/01/2008 7.69% 2.19%
07/02/2008 5.25%
01/03/2008 7.59% 2.34%
10/04/2008 5.00%
01/05/2008 7.49% 2.49%
08/10/2008 4.50%
01/11/2008 7.34% 2.84%
06/11/2008 3.00%
01/12/2008 5.84% 2.84%
04/12/2008 2.00%
01/01/2009 5.34% 3.34%
08/01/2009 1.50%
01/02/2009 5.09% 3.59%
05/02/2009 1.00%
01/03/2009 4.79% 3.79%
The Mortgage Offer General Conditions Edition 3  2/2005 say
Standard Variable Rate means such rate as we from time to time decide to set as 
the base from which to calculate interest on our variable rate loans (disregarding the 
restrictions on what we can charge under condition 7 or the Offer). The current 
Standard Variable Rate which applies to your Loan is set out in the Offer. We may 
change this rate from time to time under condition 7 or the Offer. If we transfer or 
dispose of the Offer, the person to whom we make the transfer may change the rate 
to its own base rate which it applies to its variable rate mortgage loans. That rate will 
then be the Standard Variable Rate under the Offer and the person to whom we 
make the transfer may make further changes to that rate under condition 7 or the 
Offer.
Condition 7 says:
7. Changing the Interest Rate
7.1 We may reduce the Standard Variable Rate at any time.
7.2 We may increase the Standard Variable Rate at any time if one of more of the 
following reasons applies:
(a) there has been, or we reasonably expect there to be in the near future, a general trend to increase interest rates on mortgages generally or mortgages similar to yours;
(b) for good commercial reasons, we need to fund an increase in the interest rates 
we pay to our own funders;
(c) we wish to adjust our interest rate structure to maintain a prudent level of 
profitability;
(d) there has been, or we reasonably expect there to be in the near future, a general 
increase in the risk of shortfalls on the accounts of mortgage borrowers (whether 
generally or our mortgage borrowers only), or mortgage borrowers (whether 
generally or our mortgage borrowers only) whose accounts are similar to yours;
(e) our administrative costs have increased or are likely to do so in the near future.
We have received evidence about how the SVR was reviewed over time, and the decisions 
Northern Rock and NRAM took from time to time to reduce it, as well as evidence about 
NRAMs broader circumstances and commercial strategy at the time which form the context 
in which it took those decisions. Part of our rules  known as DISP 3.5.9 R (2)  permits me 
to receive information in confidence where appropriate, such that only an edited version, 
summary or description is disclosed to the other party. In this case, I consider that to be 
appropriate and so we have not shared that evidence with Mr B. But I will summarise it in 
this part of my decision.
The relevant period is from late 2007 to early 2009, when the Bank of England base rate fell 
sharply, and to record lows, during the global financial crisis. At the same time, the UK 
mortgage market was going through a period of significant change and upheaval. The 
funding model of mortgage lenders changed at this time, as did the prudential and regulatory 
requirements imposed on them. During this period the SVR was reduced  but the margin 
above base rate increased. So in 2007 the SVR was 7.34% and Bank of England base rate 
was 5.25% - a differential of 2.09%. But by 1 March 2009, Bank of England base rate was 
1.00% (reducing to 0.5% on 5 March) while the SVR was 4.79% - a differential of 3.79% 
increasing to 4.29%.
Around the time of the start of the financial crisis, Northern Rocks mortgage lending 
business was largely funded by wholesale funding, the cost of which was defined by 
reference to LIBOR rather than Bank of England base rate. Before the financial crisis, LIBOR 
generally followed base rate  and so changes to LIBOR tended to take place broadly in line 
with changes to base rate, meaning changes to base rate tended to be reflected (albeit 
indirectly) in changes to cost of funding. And the same was largely true of Northern Rocks 
retail funding streams, which also contributed to funding its mortgage lending business  in 
general, where base rate increased it would need to increase the rates paid on its savings 
accounts to continue to attract and retain funds from savers to use in its lending.
However, during the financial crisis, there was an increasing disconnect between base rate 
and LIBOR  with the result that reductions in base rate were not matched by reductions to 
the same extent in LIBOR or cost of funding. Access to wholesale funding became harder 
and more expensive as wholesale funders became more concerned by risk of default  
meaning that where funding was available, margins over LIBOR increased even as LIBOR 
itself decreased. At this time Northern Rocks credit rating was impaired, and it became 
increasingly difficult for it to raise and service its wholesale funding. At the same time, it saw 
a substantial reduction in the retail deposits it held as customers moved elsewhere.
Northern Rock received a government loan in September 2007 to try to avert its collapse. 
There were conditions attached to the loan which impacted Northern Rocks wider strategy and cost of funds. Then in February 2008, Northern Rock was nationalised and restructured. 
Following the nationalisation, as part of state aid rules, there were limits placed on the size 
and scope of the business. Assets  such as parts of its loan book  perceived to be higher 
quality (in risk and prudential terms) were transferred to the private sector and those 
perceived to be lower quality retained in the nationalised vehicle that became NRAM (which 
did not have access to retail funding). This process increased the overall credit risk of the 
retained book  which also impacted cost of funding.
As with any lender, NRAM was required to balance the needs of servicing its funding 
streams (notably the government loan) with the interests of its customers. During this period, 
it reduced its SVR on several occasions. Although it didnt reduce the SVR to the same 
extent that base rate reduced, Ive explained that its costs were not directly linked to, and 
were increasingly separate from, base rate at this time.
Ive not seen any evidence that the reductions it made to the SVR were arbitrary or unfair, or 
led to an excessive SVR being charged. While NRAMs SVR was at the higher end of 
mortgage SVRs across the industry at this time, it was not an outlier. Many lenders charged 
lower SVRs  but many lenders charged higher SVRs, including mainstream lenders. While 
rates charged by other lenders did not directly impact NRAMs own cost of funding, that 
comparison does show that similar pressures were faced across the industry and led  in 
terms of overall SVR levels  to similar results. And that is a relevant factor for me to 
consider in thinking about whether NRAM acted fairly.
Mr B says that these are not relevant considerations because condition 7 is based on a 
lender operating in the commercial market  which after nationalisation was not the case for 
NRAM. But whatever its ownership structure, NRAM had to fund its business and raise 
sufficient revenue to cover the costs of that funding  and thats what the terms and 
conditions allow it to do.
Taking all that into account, I am not persuaded that Northern Rock and then NRAM 
operated the SVR variation clause in an unfair way when setting and varying the interest rate 
applied to Mr Bs mortgage in a way that resulted in an unfair SVR payable (subject to the 
discount) by Mr B from November 2013.
After November 2016, the only changes to the SVR were at the same time, and to the same 
extent, as changes in the Bank of England base rate. Although the SVR does not track Bank 
of England base rate, changes in base rate have an impact on its overall funding costs and 
as such are a matter NRAM can take into account in setting the SVR. Ive not seen anything 
that would lead me to think that NRAM varied the SVR in a way that was not fair and 
reasonable in this period  and indeed Mr B accepted in correspondence with our 
investigator that these changes were legitimate; the focus of his concern is on what he sees 
as the obscenity of his mortgage rate increasing in March 2009 and not falling thereafter.
Conclusion
For all the reasons Ive set out above, I dont think Mr Bs mortgage was linked to base rate 
(either through an implied term in the offer, or through the 2001 General Conditions). The 
reason his interest rate increased in March 2009 was that he moved from a rate that tracked 
the Bank of England base rate to the SVR, which did not track Bank of England base rate. 
This was in line with his mortgage offer and the terms and conditions.
Ive also considered how NRAM and Northern Rock varied the SVR over time, to see 
whether  looking at the terms and conditions which did apply  there was good reason why 
the SVR was set at the level it was from time to time. If there was not, that might mean that the rate applied to Mr Bs mortgage after November 2013 was unfair as a result. But having 
taken everything into account, Ive seen nothing to suggest that, during the period I can 
consider, Mr B was charged an unfair interest rate or one that was charged in breach of the 
applicable terms and conditions.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2023.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman