DRN-3354090
The complaint
Mrs S says she received unsuitable advice to invest in shares in a private company. She 
says the advice was given by Amyma Ltd (Amyma), an appointed representative of 
Equity For Growth (Securities) Limited (EFG). So Mrs S thinks EFG should pay her 
compensation.
What happened
Mrs S received emails from Amyma in 2018-2019 about investment opportunities. After 
receiving one such email, Mrs S made a £5,000 investment in shares in a company called 
Green Life Buildings (GLB) in June 2019 having earlier made another investment in a bond 
in similar circumstances.
Mrs S says that during this process, she received advice from Amyma. She now thinks that 
advice was unsuitable.
EFG did not uphold Mrs Ss complaint. EFG said that Amyma was only an introducing agent 
and had not given Mrs S any advice. It also said that Mrs S had signed a declaration that 
she was a high net worth investor and had made her own investment decisions.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint and said it should be upheld. His findings 
were (in summary):
There was no evidence that Amyma had given any advice.
However, Amyma had made arrangements for the investment in GLB by sending the 
information memorandum, giving instructions about how to make the payment and 
reconciling funds. Making these arrangements was a regulated activity.
The agreement between Amyma and EFG authorised Amyma to make arrangements 
for investments. So EFG was responsible for the acts undertaken by Amyma under 
section 39 (3) of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA).
Amyma (and consequently EFG) had breached the Code of Business Sourcebook 
(COBS) by promoting and arranging the investment in GLB when it was not 
appropriate to do so. The investigator highlighted that this was a requirement in 
COBS 10.
So, EFG should compensate Mrs S on the basis that she would not have invested in 
GLB but would have instead invested differently. He said EFG should use an 
investment benchmark that matched Mrs Ss risk profile.
The investigator dealt with Mrs Ss bond investment separately. He said that EFG was not 
responsible for that complaint as the acts took place when Amyma was not an appointed 
representative of EFG. That matter has now closed as both parties accepted the 
investigators findings.
EFG disagreed with the investigator on this complaint about GLB. It says theres no 
evidence that Mrs S actually referred a complaint to us about the GLB investment rather 
than the bond investment complaint that had been dealt with separately. It also says that 
Amyma only provided a link to the GLB information memorandum and this didnt constitute a 
direct offer financial promotion or regulated activity and exclusions applied under the 
legislation.
EFG also says that Amymas acts did not constitute a direct offer financial promotion. So the 
provisions of COBS 10 requiring businesses involved in making arrangements to ensure that 
they are appropriate for their customers do not apply.
Ive now been asked to make a final decision on this matter. Having considered matters 
carefully, my findings are the same as the investigators and essentially for the same 
reasons. Ill explain this below.
Jurisdiction
We cant consider all complaints brought to this service. Before we can consider something, 
we need to check, by reference to the Financial Conduct Authoritys DISP Rules and the 
legislation from which those rules are derived, whether the complaint is one we have the 
power to look at. This should be based on the relevant facts of the complaint. And if those 
facts are in dispute, I must decide on the balance of probability what happened.
There are a number of jurisdiction tests that must be met in relation to all complaints referred 
to us. In respect of this complaint where EFG says it is not subject to our jurisdiction, the 
following are relevant considerations.
We can consider a complaint under our compulsory jurisdiction if it relates to an act or 
omission by a firm in the carrying on of one or more listed activities, (including regulated 
activities), or any ancillary activities carried on by the firm in connection with those activities, 
(DISP2.3.1R).
Complaints about acts or omissions by a firm include complaints about acts or omissions in 
respect of activities for which the firm is responsible (including the business of any appointed 
representative for which the firm has accepted responsibility) (DISP2.3.3G).
To carry out regulated activities a business needs to be an authorised person (s.19 FSMA). 
We can deal with certain complaints against EFG, as it is an authorised person. That may 
include complaints about the acts or omissions of its appointed representatives, such as 
Amyma. That is why this complaint is against EFG, rather than Amyma.
s.39 FSMA says:
39. Exemption of appointed representatives.
(1)If a person (other than an authorised person)
(a)is a party to a contract with an authorised person (his principal) which
(i) permits or requires him to carry on business of a prescribed 
description, and
(ii) complies with such requirements as may be prescribed, and
(b)is someone for whose activities in carrying on the whole or part of that business his principal has accepted responsibility in writing,
he is exempt from the general prohibition in relation to any regulated activity 
comprised in the carrying on of that business for which his principal has accepted 
responsibility. (my emphasis)

(3) The principal of an appointed representative is responsible, to the same extent as 
if he had expressly permitted it, for anything done or omitted by the representative in 
carrying on the business for which he has accepted responsibility.
So, under s.39, the principal is required to accept responsibly for the business being 
conducted by the appointed representative. And recent case law makes it clear that the 
words part of in s.39 allow a principal firm to accept responsibility for only part of the 
business conducted by an appointed representative. The recent court cases illustrate some 
instances of what this means in practice and Ive considered matters with these 
developments in mind.
So, I think there are three important points to consider when looking at our jurisdiction to 
consider this complaint:
What are the acts about which Mrs S has complained?
Were these acts done in the carrying on of a regulated activity or an ancillary activity 
carried on in connection with a regulated activity (DISP 2.3.1)?
Were those acts ones for which EFG accepted responsibility?
What are the acts about which Mrs S has complained?
Mrs S has said Amyma advised her to invest in investments, including this one in GLB  
which she thinks lacks the regulatory protection of investments that would have been 
appropriate for her.
EFG says that Mrs S hasnt actually complained to our service about the GLB 
investment and that, in any event, her only complaint is about advice from Amyma  not 
any promotion or arrangements it might have been involved in.
Im satisfied that Mrs S has expressed dissatisfaction about Amymas involvement with 
GLB  that is why she mentioned the GLB investment in her complaint letter to EFG:
I am also concerned regarding another product GREEN LIFE BUILDINGS. it 
would appear that FCA approval for Amyma was only applied for from Jul 2018 
until Sept 2 2019, within that time period all products purchased through or 
signed of by Equity for growth under s21 have failed.
I demand an explanation or an opportunity to as to the due diligence made by 
Equity for growth before sign off ?
and what compensation they have in place for the failed recommendation.
EFG included GLB in its final response letter:
In regards to Green Life Buildings. We believe the company is performing on its 
business plan and is not in financial difficulties.Mrs S referred her complaint to us by phone in January 2020 after receiving the final 
response letter. I dont have access to the call recording. EFG has argued that the note 
of the call (which weve sent them) refers only to bond investments not a share 
investment like GLB. But, I think that the words in the note are likely to have been a 
very brief summary of what the call handler was told and so didnt specifically note the 
shares in GLB. Or alternatively, that it was an error in language on the part of Mrs S 
when describing what she was complaining about. Furthermore, even if Mrs S did not 
specifically mention GLB when making the referral, the purpose of the call was to make 
a referral not particularise the complaint. It is the complaint she had already made to 
EFG which she was referring which does include GLB.
So, I dont think the note means that Mrs S was happy with EFGs response on GLB 
and didnt want us to review Amymas role in that investment. I think its more likely that 
she asked us to investigate her concerns about all matters that Amyma was involved in 
with respect to her investments and about which shed already complained to EFG.
Furthermore, as explained by the investigator, we are not restricted to the precise 
words used by Mrs S. Mrs Ss complaint to EFG about GLB was broad. We have an 
inquisitorial remit and can look at wider issues. In this case I think Mrs Ss complaint 
encompasses all Amymas acts in connection with the GLB investment and includes 
any arrangements it made.
Were the acts about which Mrs S complained done in the carrying on of a regulated 
activity or an ancillary activity carried on in connection with a regulated
activity?
Regulated activities are specified in Part II of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 
(Regulated Activities) Order 2001 (RAO) and include:
Advising on the merits of buying or selling a particular investment which is a security or 
a relevant investment (article 53 RAO) and
Making arrangements for another person to buy or sell or subscribe for a security or 
relevant investment (article 25 RAO).
Theres insufficient evidence that Amyma gave Mrs S advice. So, the crucial issue for me to 
determine is whether Amyma conducted any other regulated activities, such as 
arrangements, or activities ancillary to regulated activities. 
Simply introducing someone to an investment may not involve making arrangements or any 
other regulated activities under the RAO. 
But, what does the evidence show that Amyma did?
My finding is that Amyma made a direct offer financial promotion of and arranged the GLB 
investment to Mrs S. I say this for the following reasons:
The FCA Handbook defines (for the avoidance of doubt, all references to the Handbook are 
as they were in the Handbook at the relevant time in May 2019) a financial promotion as:
(1) an invitation or inducement to engage in investment activity or to engage in 
claims management activity that is communicated in the course of business;The GLB information memorandum is undoubtedly a financial promotion. This isnt in 
dispute. Indeed EFG approved it as such as evidenced by a section in the information 
memorandum which says: 
Equity for Growth (Securities) Limited (EFGS) which is Authorised and Regulated 
by the Financial Conduct Authority, with registration number 475953 has approved 
the issue of this Document as a financial promotion in accordance with the provisions 
of section 21 of FSMA."
The FCA Handbook defines a direct offer financial promotion as a financial promotion that 
contains:
(a) an offer by the firm or another person to enter into a controlled agreement with 
any person who responds to the communication; or
(b) an invitation to any person who responds to the communication to make an offer 
to the firm or another person to enter into a controlled agreement; 
and which specifies the manner of response or includes a form by which any response 
may be made.
A controlled agreement is defined as "an agreement the making or performance of which by 
either party constitutes a controlled activity" - which includes investment activity with 
securities such as GLB.
With this in mind, I think the key email is dated 23 May 2019 from Amyma to Mrs S which 
says:
I have great pleasure introducing you to Green Life Buildings Limited (GLB), an 
investment opportunity with substantial growth potential, that has received EIS 
advanced assurance from HMRC.

Please click the link below for full details of the investment and how to apply. (my 
emphasis)
Below this is a hyperlink displaying the text "Green Life IM". EFG says that the hyperlink took 
Mrs S only to the information memorandum. But I think its likely to have also directed Mrs S 
to GLB application material or specified how to respond. After all, the email said the link 
would take Mrs S to full details of the investment and how to apply.
This conclusion is also supported by an email that followed between Amyma and Mrs S on 6 
June 2019:   
Dear Mrs [S],
I hope you are well.
I am pleased to confirm receipt of your signed application with Green Life Buildings 
for £5000.04
So, I think the original email dated 23 May 2019 likely contained both a link to the 
information memorandum, which is a financial promotion of the GLB investment, and 
provided an application form and/or specified how and who to return applications to.  As 
such, my view is that the email was an invitation to any person who responds to the communication to make an offer to the firm or another person to enter into a controlled 
agreement; and which specifies the manner of response or includes a form by which any 
response may be made.
While promoting investments in this way isnt specifically listed in the RAO as a regulated 
activity, Im satisfied it was essentially part of and/or ancillary to the activities of 
arrangements that Amyma was also involved in for Mrs Ss GLB investment. 
Article 25 (Arranging deals in investments) of the RAO says:
(1) Making arrangements for another person (whether as principal or agent) to 
buy, sell, subscribe for or underwrite a particular investment which is
(a)a security,

is a specified kind of activity.
(2) Making arrangements with a view to a person who participates in the 
arrangements buying, selling, subscribing for or underwriting investments falling 
within paragraph (1)(a), (b) or (c) (whether as principal or agent) is also a 
specified kind of activity.
The GLB shares are a security. Amymas involvement with Mrs S investment in GLB wasnt 
limited to just the promotion or the direct offer promotion. 
The FCAs perimeter guidance at PERG 2.7.7B says of Article 25(1):  
"The activity of arranging (bringing about) deals in investments is aimed at 
arrangements that would have the direct effect that a particular transaction is 
concluded (that is, arrangements that bring it about)." 
Amyma gave instructions to Mrs S about where to make the payment (payment was directed 
to Amyma) and it was involved in reconciling the funds. It also likely provided the application 
paperwork and/or gave instructions for that to be returned to it. I think these acts were likely 
done in conjunction with EFG itself as EFG issued the placing letter and the welcome letter 
from GLB to Mrs S said:
the data we have used to register the certificates was taken from Equity for Growth 
forms supplied.
Im satisfied that this amounted to arrangements under Article 25(1) of the RAO as Amymas 
involvement had the direct effect of bringing about the investment in GLB. 
Articles 25(1) and (2) are not mutually exclusive. Some activities can fall under both limbs. 
My finding is that Amyma also made arrangements under Article 25(2) as it made 
arrangements with a view to transactions in investments as the email from 23 May 2019 is 
evidence that Amymas promotion had the purpose of making Mrs S invest.
EFG has said that an exclusion applies under Article 27 RAO. This says that:
A person does not carry on an activity of the kind specified by article 25(2) merely by 
providing means by which one party to a transaction (or potential transaction) is able 
to communicate with other such parties.This of course would only be an exclusion to the activity under Article 25(2) not the Article 
25(1) activity that I think was also carried out. But I do not think the exclusion applies here in 
any event. PERG 8.32.5 says of this exclusion:
The Regulated Activities Order contains an exclusion (article 27: Enabling parties to 
communicate) to bring a degree of certainty to this area. This applies to 
arrangements which might otherwise fall within article 25(2) merely because they 
provide the means by which one party to a transaction (or potential transaction) is 
able to communicate with other parties. 
In the FCA's view, the crucial element of the exclusion is the inclusion of the word 
merely. So that, where a publisher, broadcaster or Internet website operator goes 
beyond what is necessary for him to provide his service of publishing, broadcasting 
or otherwise facilitating the issue of promotions, he may well bring himself within the 
scope of article 25(2).
PERG 8.32.6
For example, in the FCA's view a publisher or broadcaster would be likely to be 
making arrangements within the meaning of article 25(2) and be unable to make use 
of the exclusion in article 27 if:
(1) he enters into an agreement with a provider of investment services such as a 
broker or
product provider for the purpose of carrying their financial promotion; and
(2) as part of the arrangements, the publisher or broadcaster does one or more of the 
following:
(a)brands the investment service or product in his name or joint name with the 
broker or product provider;
(b)endorses the service, or otherwise encourages readers or viewers to 
respond to the promotion;
(c) negotiates special rates for his readers or viewers if they take up the offer;
(d) holds out the service as something he has arranged for the benefit of his 
readers or viewers.
Like the investigator, I think Amyma's email was intended to and did persuade, and so 
encouraged Mrs S to respond to the promotion. It was not merely to provide the means by 
which one party to a transaction (or potential transaction) is able to communicate with other 
parties. So, I don't think Amyma can rely on the exclusion provided by article 27.
So, this complaint involves a regulated activity (arrangements) and an activity that is 
ancillary to a regulated activity (the direct offer financial promotion). 
Were those acts ones for which EFG accepted responsibility?
As set out above s.39 (3) FSMA says:
The principal of an appointed representative is responsible, to the same extent as if 
he had expressly permitted it, for anything done or omitted by the representative in 
carrying on the business for which he has accepted responsibility.
So, for us to be able to look at the merits (the rights and wrongs) of the complaint we have to 
be satisfied that the activities carried on by Amyma were ones for which EFG accepted 
responsibility. To determine this, Ive looked at the appointed representative agreement 
between EFG and Amyma.
The agreement says: [EFG] appoints [Amyma] as its Appointed Representative pursuant to section 
39 of the Act to carry out the UK Business under Regulation 2 of the Financial 
Services and Markets Act 2000 (Appointed Representatives) Regulations 2001, 
and to that end:
3.1.1 the activity which [Amyma] is permitted to carry out pursuant to this 
Agreement is limited to arranging (bringing about) deals in investments 
and making arrangements with a view to transactions in investments 
So, EFG authorised Amyma to make arrangements for investments. That is what happened 
in this case. I think the direct offer financial promotion was also authorised as part of any 
arrangements undertaken by Amyma. And if it wasnt, my view is that the direct offer 
financial promotion was intrinsically linked to Amymas authority to make arrangements.
So, my conclusion on jurisdiction is that this is a matter that we can look at as it involves a 
regulated activity and/or an activity that is ancillary to a regulated activity. EFG authorised 
Amyma to carry on these acts. As such, it is responsible for the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my view the key consideration as to what is fair and reasonable in this case is whether 
EFG met its regulatory obligations when Amyma, acting on its behalf, carried out the acts the 
complaint is about. I consider the following regulatory obligations to be of particular 
relevance here. 
The Principles for Businesses
The Principles for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs Handbook are a general 
statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system (PRIN 
1.1.2G). I think Principles 6 and 7 are relevant here. They provide:
Principle 6  Customers interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its 
customers and treat them fairly.
Principle 7 - Communications with clients - A firm must pay due regard to the 
information needs of its clients, and communicate information to them in a way which 
is clear, fair and not misleading
COBS 4  Communicating with clients, including financial promotions 
Principle 7 overlaps with COBS 4.2 - Fair, clear and not misleading communications, which I 
also consider to be relevant here: 
COBS 4.2.1R: 
(1) A firm must ensure that a communication or a financial promotion is fair, clear and not 
misleading.
There are also rules restricting who non-readily realisable securities can be promoted to 
and how to test whether the investment was appropriate for the potential investor. These 
rules are set out in COBS 4.7 and COBS 10. These rules are relevant in this case as the shares in GLB were, in my view, non-readily realisable securities. The FCA Handbook 
definition of a non-readily realisable security is:
a security which is not any of the following:
(a) a readily realisable security;
(b) a packaged product;
(c) a non-mainstream pooled investment;
(d) a mutual society share;
(e) a deferred share issued by a credit union; or
(f) credit union subordinated debt; 
The GLB shares are a security that is not readily realisable and none of the other exclusions 
apply. So the GLB shares are a non readily realisable security.
COBS 4.7 - Direct offer financial promotions
At the time COBS 4.7.7R said:
(1) Unless permitted by COBS 4.7.8 R, a firm must not communicate or approve a direct-
offer financial promotion relating to a non-readily realisable security to or for communication 
to a retail client without the conditions in (2) and (3) being satisfied.
(2) The first condition is that the retail client recipient of the direct-offer financial promotion is 
one of the following:
(a) certified as a high net worth investor in accordance with COBS 4.7.9 R;
(b) certified as a sophisticated investor in accordance with COBS 4.7.9 R;
(c) self-certified as a sophisticated investor in accordance with COBS 4.7.9 R;
(d) certified as a restricted investor in accordance with COBS 4.7.10 R.
(3) The second condition is that firm itself or the person who will arrange or deal in relation to 
the non-readily realisable security will comply with the rules on appropriateness (see COBS 
10) or equivalent requirements for any application or order that the person is aware, or ought 
reasonably to be aware, is in response to the direct offer financial promotion.
COBS 10  Appropriateness (for non-advised services)
At the time COBS 10.1.2 R said:
This chapter applies to a firm which arranges or deals in relation to a non-readily realisable 
security, derivative or a warrant with or for a retail client and the firm is aware, or ought 
reasonably to be aware, that the application or order is in response to a direct offer financial 
promotion.
COBS 10.2.1R:
(1) When providing a service to which this chapter applies, a firm must ask the client to 
provide information regarding his knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant 
to the specific type of product or service offered or demanded so as to enable the firm to 
assess whether the service or product envisaged is appropriate for the client.
(2) When assessing appropriateness, a firm must determine whether the client has the 
necessary experience and knowledge in order to understand the risks involved in relation to 
the product or service offered or demanded.COBS 10.2.2 R:
The information regarding a client's knowledge and experience in the investment field 
includes, to the extent appropriate to the nature of the client, the nature and extent of the 
service to be provided and the type of product or transaction envisaged, including their 
complexity and the risks involved, information on:
(1) the types of service, transaction and designated investment with which the client 
is familiar;
(2) the nature, volume, frequency of the client's transactions in designated 
investments and the period over which they have been carried out;
(3) the level of education, profession or relevant former profession of the client
10.2.6G  Knowledge and experience:
Depending on the circumstances, a firm may be satisfied that the client's knowledge alone 
is sufficient for her to understand the risks involved in a product or service. Where 
reasonable, a firm may infer knowledge from experience.
COBS 10.3 Warning the client
COBS 10.3.1R
(1) If a firm considers, on the basis of the information received to enable it to assess 
appropriateness, that the product or service is not appropriate to the client, the firm must 
warn the client.
COBS 10.3.2R
(1)  If the client elects not to provide the information to enable the firm to assess 
appropriateness, or if he provides insufficient information regarding his knowledge and 
experience, the firm must warn the client that such a decision will not allow the firm to 
determine whether the service or product envisaged is appropriate for him.
COBS 10.3.3G 
If a client asks a firm to go ahead with a transaction, despite being given a warning by 
the firm, it is for the firm to consider whether to do so having regard to the circumstances.
Did EFG comply with these regulatory requirements?
COBS 4.7 says that a firm must not communicate a direct or approve a direct offer financial 
promotion relating to a non-readily realisable security unless two conditions are satisfied. 
The first condition is the client has been certified or has self certified as one of the categories 
listed. 
EFG has said in its response to Mrs Ss complaint:
Our records show that you have self-certified that you are exempt High Net Worth 
Investor and signed the exempt investor declaration
It appears Mrs S did sign a declaration saying that she was a high net worth individual. But 
even so, we know from what shes told us about her circumstances that she had very modest savings and no investment experience at the time. So, my finding is that she was not 
in fact a high net worth investor. 
COBS 4.12.9 (1)G says:
(1) A firm which wishes to rely on any of the certified high net worth 
investor exemptions (see Part I of the Schedule to the Promotion of Collective 
Investment Schemes Order, Part I of Schedule 5 to the Financial Promotions 
Order and COBS 4.12.6 R) should have regard to its duties under the Principles and 
the client's best interests rule. In particular, the firm should take reasonable steps to 
ascertain that the retail client does, in fact, meet the income and net assets criteria 
set out in the relevant statement for certified high net worth investors.
Ive seen no evidence that Amyma took reasonable steps to ascertain whether Mrs S was a 
high net worth investor. I think its likely that any such reasonable steps would have revealed 
Mrs S did not meet the criteria. So, my finding is that Amyma breached the first condition 
required under COBS 4.7.7 by making the direct offer promotion to Mrs S when she was not 
or should not have been certified as a high net worth investor.
In any event, even if Mrs S had certified herself as a high net worth investor, that would only 
satisfy the first condition of COBS 4.7.7. For the reasons already explained by the 
investigator, I think EFG failed to satisfy the second condition too  compliance with the rules 
relating to appropriateness under COBS 10.
Amyma was obliged, under COBS 10, to ask the client to provide information regarding 
his knowledge and experience  to enable the firm to assess whether the service or 
product envisaged is appropriate for the client and determine whether the client has the 
necessary experience and knowledge in order to understand the risks involved in relation 
to the product or service offered or demanded.
EFG does not say that Amyma carried out any checks  its position is that it was not 
obliged to do so given its limited role as introducer. For all the reasons I set out above  I 
dont agree that it was just an introducer and must therefore conclude that no checks 
were carried out. Had Amyma carried out checks, I think it would have identified that Mrs 
S had no little or no investment experience and knowledge. 
The GLB investment took the form of shares in a limited company which specialises in 
producing prefabricated panels for use in the construction industry. As an unlisted, 
unregulated investment with no trading history it was a high risk investment. As such, it 
was not a suitable investment for the majority of retail consumers. EFG knew or ought to 
have known this. 
So had Amyma carried out the checks it should have, it would have identified that the 
investment in GLB shares was not appropriate for Mrs S. She had neither the knowledge nor 
experience to understand the risks involved in the investment. Im aware that Mrs S had 
made an investment in one other investment introduced to her by Amyma shortly before 
GLB (not the subject of this decision), but it would not have been reasonable for Amyma to 
take account of that investment given that no checks were carried out for that investment 
either.
COBS 10.3 does provide for situations where firms can proceed with arrangements after 
giving warnings if the client still wants to proceed. But as set out in COBS 10.3.3G If 
a client asks a firm to go ahead with a transaction, despite being given a warning by 
the firm, it is for the firm to consider whether to do so having regard to the circumstances. I dont think it would have been fair for Amyma to proceed here, even if 
Mrs S did accept a warning, as it ought to have been aware she clearly did not have the 
capacity to understand all the risks involved with investing in GLB. 
So, my conclusion is Amyma was required to follow the relevant rules set out by the 
regulator. It failed to do this when making the direct offer promotion to Mrs S and making 
the arrangements for the GLB investment. Im satisfied that, had Amyma done everything 
it should have it would have concluded that it should not make the direct offer promotion 
to Mrs S and she would not have made the investment that was inappropriate for her. As 
such, EFG, as principle of Amyma, should pay Mrs S compensation. 
Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mrs S 
as close to the position she would probably now be in if she had not been given unsuitable 
advice.
On 2 November 2020, GLB contacted Mrs S by email to offer a rights issue which led to 
Mrs S purchasing an additional 1,316 shares direct from GLB and the payment was made to 
their account by bank transfer for around £800. Ive not seen any evidence that Amyma or 
EFG was involved in this transaction and Mrs S said she made the further investment to 
protect her initial investment from the impact of the Covid pandemic. But this was after Mrs S 
had already complained to EFG and our service about the initial advice.
In the circumstances, I dont think it would be reasonable to ask EFG to compensate Mrs S 
for this purchase latter purchase.
I take the view that Mrs S would have invested differently in June 2019 when making the 
initial investment. It is not possible to say precisely what she would have done differently. 
But I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and reasonable given Mrs S' 
circumstances and objectives when she invested.
What must EFG do?
To compensate Mrs S fairly, EFG must:
Compare the performance of Mrs S' investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investments. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
EFG should also pay interest as set out below.
Pay to Mrs S £150 for the trouble and upset caused to her by the arrangement of the 
inappropriate investment. Its clearly caused her a lot of worry.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interest
GLB  initial 
investment in 
June  2019Still exists but 
illiquidFTSE UK Private 
Investors Income 
Total Return IndexDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if not 
settled within 28 
days of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
If, as is likely to be the case, at the end date the GLB investment is illiquid (meaning it could 
not be readily sold on the open market), it may be difficult to work out what the actual value 
is. In such a case the actual value should be assumed to be zero. This is provided Mrs S 
agrees to EFG taking ownership of the illiquid assets, if it wishes to. If it is not possible for 
EFG to take ownership, then it may request an undertaking from Mrs S that she repays to 
EFG any amount she may receive from the portfolio in future.
If EFG does take ownership of the GLB investment, then EFG should provide an undertaking 
to compensate Mrs S for any tax liabilities she incurs as a result of transferring the 
ownership of the GLB shares. EFG will need to meet any costs in drawing up the 
undertaking.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
Mrs S wanted capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices 
representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a 
higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mrs S' circumstances and risk attitude.My final decision
I uphold Mrs Ss complaint. Equity For Growth (Securities) Limited must pay the fair 
compensation Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2022.
 
Abdul Hafez
Ombudsman