DRN-1553240
The complaint
Mrs L complains that she suffered distress and upset when Halifax Share Dealing Limited 
(Halifax) sent her a letter displaying information in the window of the envelope that she 
believed was private. 
What happened
Mrs L was sent an envelope containing a document from Halifax and noticed that the words 
Trade Confirmation were visible in the address window of the envelope. The envelope was 
marked PRIVATE.  
Mrs L believed that her privacy had been compromised as the visible wording indicated the 
nature of the correspondence and was therefore no longer private.  Mrs L complained to 
Halifax who dealt with the issue within 24 hours but did not believe that they had done 
anything wrong.
Mrs L complained to the service and one of our investigators dealt with her complaint.  The 
investigator thought that Halifax had done all it could to ensure that no confidential 
information was visible through the address window and that the words trade confirmation 
did not divulge too much personal information.  Unhappy with the investigators response 
Mrs L asked for an Ombudsman to look at her complaint.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all of the available evidence in this case to determine what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.  I realise that this will come as disappointment to Mrs L but 
I agree with the investigators view
Mrs Ls main complaint is that her privacy has been breached.  I dont underestimate Mrs Ls 
strength of feeling about this matter but its not the role of our service to decide if there has 
been a data privacy breach as that is the role of the Information Commissioners Office 
(ICO).  What I can look at is whether Halifax has made an error which has resulted in 
distress or upset to Mrs L.
I havent seen a copy of the letter and envelope so I cant say its more likely than not what 
words were showing through the envelope window.  Halifax has explained to me what their 
business process is for sending out letters and what controls are in place to ensure no 
confidential details are visible.  This also includes their supplier conducting regular tap tests 
on envelopes to ensure that no other details can be seen in the address window.
As I said before, my role is to determine if Halifax has done anything wrong which has 
resulted in any error.  Taking everything into account, I dont think that Halifax has done 
anything wrong.Even if the words trade confirmation were on display on this occasion, there is nothing to 
suggest that personal details were shown. It doesnt disclose anything further like the value 
or nature of investment and the contents were marked private.  
I understand that Mrs L would like Halifax to change the words on the envelope.  I think it 
would be helpful if I explain our role.  We have no regulatory or disciplinary powers - this is 
for the Financial Conduct Authority to decide - we cant tell a business how to operate. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs L but I wont be upholding the complaint. I note Mrs Ls strength 
of feelings in this complaint.  Halifax has said that they will be raising this matter with their 
supplier at the next scheduled meeting.   Hopefully, this goes some way in showing Mrs L 
that her complaint has been treated seriously by all parties.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs L to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 April 2020
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 April 2020.
Brian Gray
Ombudsman