DRN-3239055
The complaint
Mr R complains that RCI Financial Services Limited (RCI) continued to charge him for a 
battery he was hiring through a finance agreement with them, even though hed sold the car 
it powered.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr R, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr R acquired his battery under a hire agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The terms of the hire agreement said:
(i) the buyer returns the new hire agreement to us duly signed then, except as set out in
this paragraph, your obligations (including but not limited to your payment obligations) under
this Agreement shall end. Until we receive the signed hire agreement your responsibilities
under this Agreement shall continue. As at the date the buyer returns the new hire
agreement to us duly signed, you shall pay to us immediately upon demand the termination
sum calculated as set out in clause 16.1;
RCI reminded Mr R of those terms when they wrote to him in February 2020. They explained 
that if he sold the car hed still be liable for the battery hire until they received the hire 
transfer documentation back from the new owner. RCI told Mr R he shouldnt release the car 
with the battery until the hire transfer for the battery was complete.
So, I think RCI had made it clear to Mr R that he would remain liable for the hire charges 
until such point as they had received the hire transfer forms back.
Mr R sold the car before the hire transfer documents were returned. Whilst I can understand 
his concern that he was being asked to pay for the hire of a battery that was no longer in his 
possession, RCI were not being paid either, and they had warned Mr R of the consequences 
of selling the car before the transfer of the hire was complete. So, I dont think RCI were 
unreasonable to continue charging for the hire.
Mr R says that as the hire transfer forms were backdated he shouldnt be liable for payments 
from the date he sold the car. But theres no dispute the hire transfer forms werent received 
by RCI until 30 July 2020 and the terms of the agreement explain that its only when RCI 
receive the forms back that Mr Rs obligations under the agreement end. 
I dont think the delays in getting the hire transfer documents back was of RCIs making 
either. Mr R sent the wrong form on 27 May 2020 and RCI told him that on 28 May 2020. 
The completed transfer form wasnt subsequently sent by Mr R until 30 July 2020. Mr R has 
suggested there may have been delays because of the Coronavirus pandemic but Ive not 
seen any evidence that was the case.
RCI terminated the hire agreement in August 2020 and as Mr R had been paying in arrears 
that meant he owed three instalments for June, July, and August 2020. 
I dont think theres evidence here that RCI have done anything wrong and Im not therefore 
asking them to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman