DRN-3721411
The complaint
Mr T complains that Advanced Payment Solutions Limited trading as Cashplus (Cashplus) 
failed to refund money he lost as a result of a scam.
What happened
 What Mr T says
Mr T was researching cryptocurrency investment on the internet following a recommendation 
from a TV celebrity. He identified an investment company who Ill refer to as G and 
completed a form on their website giving his details. Mr T later received a call back from G 
and discussed investing in cryptocurrency. Mr T says he received a brochure and 
professional looking documentation from G. Mr T explained through his representative that 
he wasnt guaranteed a profit or a set rate of return.
Mr T carried out a check on a review website and saw that G had positive reviews. Together 
with the celebrity endorsement and the high ranking that G achieved on his search engine 
persuaded him that G were a legitimate investment company. Mr T said hed been required 
to send his identity documents to G which helped persuade him that they were carrying out 
security checks, which a legitimate merchant would normally do.
When Mr Ts account was being set up, he was persuaded to download a software package 
which gave G access to Mr Ts computer. An account with a legitimate crypto currency 
merchant (who Ill refer to as M) was set up in Mr Ts name. Mr T confirmed he sent funds 
from his Cashplus account to an account in his name held with M. G used the downloaded 
software to move Mr Ts money onwards from M to accounts held by the scammers. 
Mr T was first asked to invest £10,000 but couldnt afford that much at the time, so he sent 
smaller payments over several months. The table shows the payments from Mr Ts account 
and the profit from his investment.
Date Amount 
20/01/21 £599.81
02/02/21 Receive profit £78.50
02/02/21 Receive profit £28.50
05/02/21 £2,400.00
26/02/21 £2,000.00
17/03/21 £5,000.00
25/05/21 £4,571.00
Total Loss £14,463.81
Shortly after making his first payment, Mr T said, It did take a few weeks but I started to 
make about 10% profit which I thought was an extremely plausible amount. Mr T was 
encouraged to take his profits by the scammers and two small payments totalling £107.00 
were made to his Cashplus account from M.
Mr T was contacted weekly by the scammers and dealt with various individuals who sent him 
regular updates by email including performance figures showing his investment was 
growing. They also spoke with him about non-financial matters which Mr T believes was to 
build his trust in them. Mr T was also given an online account that he could access showing 
how his investment was performing. 
Mr T was encouraged to invest more to achieve better returns and in March he doubled his 
investment with a further £5,000.00. After reviewing the performance of his funds, he 
arranged with G to cash in his investment. Prior to releasing the funds, G told Mr T that he 
was required to pay a 20% fee for various costs related to his investment.
Mr T later paid this fee (£4,571.00) and a short while later experienced various difficulties 
that prevented him from receiving his final investment. G made various excuses about why 
he couldnt receive his funds and it was then that Mr T realised hed been scammed. He 
contacted Cashplus about the situation and asked for a refund.
What Cashplus say
Cashplus declined to refund Mr T arguing that hed made the payments himself. They also 
declined to process a Chargeback request due to the way the payments had been made and 
said that Mr T had received the service hed paid for with M. Mr T complained about 
Cashpluss approach and they once again looked into the circumstances but declined to 
change their position. 
Our investigation so far
Mr T then brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service for an independent 
review. After considering the information, the investigator thought that the earlier payments 
werent unusual, but the £5,000.00 payment stood out and Cashplus missed an opportunity 
to prevent the scam. She thought that Mr T was partially responsible for his loss and 
recommended that Cashplus refund 50% of the last two payments plus interest.
Cashplus disagreed and asked for a further review of the complaint. They stated that:
The transactions were sufficiently spaced apart, so it didnt register any concerns.
Mr T completed his due diligence.
The £5,000.00 payment was similar to other deposits made by Mr T and followed a 
similar pattern to the other payments to M.
Cashplus dont believe they missed any opportunities to stop the payments.
Mr Ts complaint has now been passed to me for a decision.  
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I was sorry to hear of Mr Ts loss and the impact this scam has had on him. The first matter I 
need to address is the authorisation of the payments. Its common ground that Mr T sent the 
payments from his Cashplus account to the account in his name with M, before they were 
then transferred to another account by G. So, even though he didnt intend to pay a 
fraudster, the payments were authorised under the Payment Services Regulations. 
Cashplus had an obligation to follow Mr Ts payment instructions, and Mr T is presumed 
liable for his loss in the first instance. But thats not the end of the story.
Cashplus also has to be on the lookout for, and help to prevent, payments that could involve 
fraud or be the result of a scam. Although, there has to be a balance struck between 
Cashplus identifying payments that may indicate a customer is potentially at risk of financial 
harm and then responding appropriately to those concerns  and ensuring minimal 
disruption to legitimate payments.
In this case, Im not satisfied that Cashplus should have been concerned until Mr T made the 
£5,000.00 payment, thats because:
There isnt enough about the first three payments, either by themselves, or in 
combination, that makes them sufficiently out of character or unusual whereby Id 
expect Cashplus to have identified a potential risk of fraud or a scam.
The first three payments werent significantly higher than payments Mr T had made 
on his account, noting a previous payment of £1,379.00.
M was a legitimate crypto broker.
By the time Mr T made his £5,000.00 payment to M, this type of crypto investment scam was 
well established, and Id expect Cashplus to have known about it and how, in general terms, 
it operated. This particular scam often utilised legitimate crypto brokers to receive scammed 
payments into accounts in their customers names. It was apparent from the information 
available to Cashplus at the time, that Mr T had increased his payments to M, virtually 
doubling the size of the previous highest payment. Whilst M are a legitimate crypto broker, I 
think this pattern of increasing payments should have raised concerns with Cashplus.
Cashplus believe that as these payments were funded from incoming payments by Mr T and 
they were spread apart, that they didnt have any reason to stop them. Whilst I understand 
there wasnt a rapid movement through the accounts, which is often associated with a scam, 
the virtual doubling of the outgoing payment to M should have raised concerns with 
Cashplus. If theyd contacted Mr T about the arrangement, I think its likely that the scam 
would have been uncovered. Thats because Mr T wasnt given a cover story, so would have 
no reason to answer Cashpluss questions dishonestly.
General questioning would likely have revealed typical scam factors including:
the use of a celebrity name to promote crypto profits.
The use of software to take over Mr Ts computer.
Moving funds through M by G to another account which Mr T hadnt got access to.
The release of a small payment back to Mr T (of his own money).  So, I think the last two payments could have been prevented if Cashplus had intervened at 
that point. 
Whilst I think that Mr T should receive some refund for the scam, I also think that he was 
partly responsible for his own losses. There were various aspects of the arrangement that 
were unusual, and I think should have raised more suspicion from Mr T prior to committing 
his own funds, including: 
A lack of reasonable checks to determine if G were a legitimate merchant.
oMr T said I also looked on (review site) and it came across with very positive 
reviews, which made me feel that other customers have had positive 
experiences with the company
Ive checked this site and prior to the first payment made by Mr T there were 
both positive and negative reviews, including accusations that G were 
involved in scamming people. Nearly all the positive reviews were from 
accounts that had been invited to post their review. I wouldnt describe the 
overall picture they presented as very positive, rather something to be 
approached with caution.
oApart from the review website check, Mr T seems to have relied on the 
celebrity endorsement and the high ranking achieved on a search engine to 
persuade himself this was a legitimate opportunity. I appreciate a celebrity 
endorsement may well have encouraged Mr T that G were legitimate, but Mr 
T doesnt seem to have questioned the overall scheme he was being asked to 
invest in.
oThere were inconsistencies related to the two business addresses contained 
in the emails Mr T received and on Gs website. If Mr T had carried out any 
research on the information he was being given about the company, he may 
well have found that one is a retail shop and the other doesnt appear to have 
any record of G being registered at it.
oG dont appear to be authorised by the FCA.
oMr T said hed sent his identity documents to G but unfortunately, hes been 
unable to send any evidence to show this took place. 
I dont think the story he was given by G to pay a 20% fee to release his investment 
was plausible, especially when this significant payment hadnt been mentioned prior 
to the request to withdraw the profits.
Mr T appeared to have accepted that it was usual to give control of his computer 
system to relative strangers, effectively giving them access to all the information 
contained on his computer.
When Mr T brought his complaint to our service, he explained that hed made the investment 
with G because hed lost earlier savings and his pension. He wanted to earn enough funds 
for a medical treatment, to help pay towards his mortgage and to earn money for his 
retirement. So here its apparent that Mr T was risking his remaining funds in order to earn 
enough to meet his current and future needs. I dont think it would have been unreasonable 
for him to carry out some research into the scheme he was presented with given the high 
risk of losing his remaining funds. I wouldnt expect Mr T, who I accept was an inexperienced 
investor, to have carried out a deep forensic examination of G, but I do think the evidence 
suggests he was less than rigorous when he allowed G to take his funds. 
Mr T made his payments over a period of a few months which was understandable given the 
level of funds he had available at the time. Hes also said via his representative that:  he sent it (the first two large payments) over the 2 transactions to give himself a little more time 
and reassurance that the company was genuine.  By delaying the payments, Mr T had 
given himself the opportunity to be as sure as he could that G were legitimate and from his 
representatives comment, it appears he was also somewhat concerned that G werent 
genuine. Given this I would have expected Mr T to conduct some form of additional checks. 
In his representatives submission it was commented that Mr T had done a lot of research 
into crypto investment, but this didnt appear to have included much in the way of checks 
about being scammed or Gs legitimacy. So here, I think that the losses should be equally 
shared between Cashplus and Mr T. 
Recovery
Ive also considered Cashpluss actions regarding the recovery of funds once they were 
made aware of the scam. Here, the funds were removed by the scammers through Ms 
account to their own and no doubt onwards to other accounts. What that meant for Cashplus 
is that they had no real options to try and recover the funds apart from a Chargeback 
request.
This system can be used when payments are made by card, as they were here. Its a 
voluntary system governed by the card operator and subject to strict rules. Here Mr T 
received the appropriate service from M because his funds were sent to his own account 
with them. Unfortunately, the onward movement of his funds by G wasnt something that 
Cashplus could use to raise a Chargeback. I think any application was likely to fail, so Im 
satisfied it was reasonable for Cashplus not to make one.
Putting things right
In order to settle this complaint Cashplus should:
 Refund Mr T 50% of the last two payments (£4,785.50). This account doesnt 
normally attract interest, therefore no additional amounts are included here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Advanced Payment Solutions Limited  
trading as Cashplus and require them to settle the complaint as outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman