DRN-2697374
The complaint
Mr B complains about the way Pukka Insure Ltd handled a potential claim on his car 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr B had comprehensive car insurance, provided by Pukka. On 18 February 2020 he was 
involved in an accident. His car was badly damaged, so he rang his insurance broker to get 
things sorted. 
On 2 March Pukka received notification of the accident from a third party. On 6 March 2020 
they spoke to Mr B  he described the accident and told them that he had images and CCTV 
showing what happened. Mr B told them that hed provided all the information to his 
insurance broker, who were dealing with it as a non-fault claim. Pukka contacted Mr Bs 
insurance broker, who confirmed that the matter was being handled by an accident 
management company  Ill refer to them as Company A.
Company A provided Mr B with a courtesy car and looked in to the cost of getting his own 
car repaired. But on 12 March 2020 they referred the matter back to Pukka, saying theyd be 
unable to repair Mr Bs car under their scheme because it had been written off as a total 
loss. They asked Pukka to inspect the car and give Mr B a valuation.
Mr B heard nothing until 19 May 2020, when Pukka asked him to get in touch. He contacted 
them the following day. Mr B had to provide them with all the details of the accident again  
even though hed given the same information to his broker three months earlier. Pukka 
explained that hed need to make a claim against his own comprehensive policy, but Mr B 
said he didnt want to do this unless the third-party insurer admitted liability. 
Pukka contacted Mr B again on 5 June 2020. Mr B said that, before making a claim on his 
own policy, he wanted a written assurance from Pukka that the cost would be claimed back 
from the third-party insurer. The following day Mr B sent Pukka an email confirming that he 
wasnt prepared to claim on his policy, because the accident was clearly not his fault.
The matter was eventually resolved when the third-party insurer paid out to Mr B direct for 
the loss of his car. Mr B complained that Pukka had allowed the matter to drag on for 
months, instead of simply asking the other insurer whether they accepted liability. Pukka 
said theyd done nothing wrong  they said theyd been unable to help Mr B because he 
didnt want to claim on his policy.
Our investigator thought Pukka couldve resolved things more swiftly for Mr B. He noted that, 
after Company A referred the matter back to them, it took Pukka nearly 10 weeks to contact 
Mr B. He thought Pukka couldve explained the process to him more clearly and that, if 
theyd contacted the other insurer to see if theyd accept liability, its likely Mr B wouldve 
gone ahead with a claim on his own policy. The investigator thought Pukka should cover the 
costs of the courtesy car during the period in which theyd caused a delay and pay Mr B 
£100 compensation for the trouble and upset hed been caused.
Mr B didnt think £100 covered the trouble and upset hed suffered. He said the various 
companies involved hadnt worked together smoothly  having to keep chasing them up had 
caused him a significant amount of stress and hassle. He couldnt put the incident behind 
him because the claim for the cost of the courtesy car was still being disputed. And, 
throughout the time that claim wasnt resolved, his car insurance was costing him a lot more. 
My provisional decision
In my recent provisional decision, I said:
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) sets out rules and guidance that financial businesses 
must follow. Pukka has agreed to be bound by these requirements, including the 
requirement to handle claims promptly and fairly. Ive considered Mr Bs complaint with this 
in mind. 
After the accident, when Mr B first called to discuss how to get things sorted, he had two 
options available to him. He could either be directed to Pukka so that he could make a claim 
on his own insurance policy, or he could instead choose to use Company As accident 
management services. Pukka and Company A are not linked  theyre entirely separate 
businesses. I havent seen evidence to show whether this distinction was explained clearly 
to Mr B in that first phone call, but Im satisfied that it doesnt make any difference to the 
outcome in this case. Ill explain why.
Mr B had evidence that another driver had caused the accident. This information would have 
been very important to Company A, because their credit repair and credit hire services are 
only offered to people who arent considered likely to be at fault. In effect Company A would 
pay for the repairs to his car and provide him with a courtesy car in the meantime. Theyd 
reclaim the cost of these services directly from the third-party insurer  so Mr B wouldnt 
have to pay any excess and he wouldnt risk his own insurance premium going up.
The other option was for Mr B to make a claim on his own comprehensive insurance policy, 
provided by Pukka. The advantage of this type of policy is that Pukka would cover this kind 
of accident damage, no matter who was to blame. Pukka say they wouldve instructed an 
engineer to value or authorise repairs to Mr Bs car as soon as he agreed for them to do so. 
Having set things in motion to take care of the car, Pukka say theyd try to get an admission 
of liability from the third-party insurer - theyd ask for reimbursement of their costs and also 
Mr Bs excess. But Pukka couldnt give him any guarantee that the third-party insurer would 
cover all their costs and the excess Mr B would have to pay. So, there was a potential risk 
that his future premiums could increase.
Mr B feels frustrated that his insurance broker, Company A and Pukka didnt work together 
to get things resolved smoothly for him  he feels hes had to do all the legwork to chase 
them up. This leads me to believe that Mr B didnt fully appreciate that Company A were not 
working on behalf of his insurance broker or Pukka when they offered their accident 
management services. I havent seen any evidence to lead me to conclude that Pukka were 
responsible for any misunderstanding. And its clear that Mr Bs main concern was that his 
premium shouldnt go up due to an accident that wasnt his fault. So, Im satisfied that he 
wouldnt have done anything different if hed understood that Company A were acting 
independently at this point.
 
Unfortunately, Mr Bs car was deemed a total loss. This meant that, although Company A 
continued to provide Mr B with a courtesy car, they were unable to get his own car repaired 
for him. Company A have provided evidence showing that they referred Mr Bs claim to 
Pukka on 12 March. Company A say they spoke to Pukka by phone on 16 March  again 
confirming that the claim had been passed through. But the evidence shows Pukka didnt try to contact Mr B about this until 19 May  almost 10 weeks later. In the absence of any 
justification for this delay, I find that Pukka didnt progress things promptly - and this 
extended the time it took to get things resolved.
  
Ive looked closely at what happened when Pukka did get in touch with Mr B. I can 
understand Mr Bs frustration that Pukka werent prepared to contact the third-party insurer 
to discuss liability unless he authorised them to make a claim on his policy. But this is 
standard practice in the insurance industry - I cant say that Pukka acted unfairly here. I can 
see that Pukka explained the process clearly to Mr B, and on 5 June they confirmed it in an 
email to him. Ultimately Mr B preferred to claim from the third-party insurer direct, which he 
was free to do.
Putting things right
I appreciate that Mr B has been caused a great deal of stress and inconvenience as a result 
of this accident  thats very clear. Mr B has told us that, while this claim dragged on, he 
suffered anxiety about the cost of the hire car provided to him by Company A. Mr B was 
worried that Company A would pursue him for these costs if they werent accepted by the 
third-party insurer.
 
Fortunately, in this case Company A have confirmed that Mr B wont be held liable for their 
costs. I also bear in mind Company As responsibility to explain things clearly to their 
customer, and to monitor their chances of recovering their mounting car hire costs. This is a 
matter of dispute between Company A and the third-party insurer and therefore not 
something I can look at in this decision.
I need to consider how much of Mr Bs stress and inconvenience was due to Pukkas delay. I 
find that their failure to contact Mr B promptly about the potential claim on his policy added 
nearly 10 weeks to the time it took to get things resolved, so Pukka should compensate Mr B 
for the additional stress and inconvenience caused by that delay. I bear in mind that, whilst 
this matter dragged on, Mr B was concerned about the effect this would have on the cost of 
his insurance. He was unable to put the accident behind him and start looking for a 
replacement car. I find that £200 is fair and reasonable compensation in these 
circumstances. 
Mr B is unhappy that he didnt have the benefit of his car for several months, although hed 
paid to tax and insure it. It wouldnt be appropriate for me to direct Pukka to compensate Mr 
B for the loss of any remaining tax, because he didnt authorise them to deal with the loss of 
that vehicle. On receiving notification of change of ownership, DVLA should automatically 
refund any remaining tax to Mr B. This is something Mr B would need to take up with DVLA. 
I can see that Mr Bs car was deemed a total loss on 12 March, but his insurance policy ran 
until 30 July. Mr B had chosen not to make a claim on his policy, and he didnt use it to 
insure another vehicle. The policy terms wouldve allowed Mr B to cancel his insurance and 
receive a pro-rata refund of his premium, after deduction of a £50 cancellation fee. Strictly, 
he shouldve cancelled his policy at that stage. Even though he didnt do this, it would seem 
fair and reasonable for Mr B to receive a pro-rata refund of his insurance premium, because 
there was no vehicle on risk.
Accordingly, I said that I intended to uphold the complaint and direct Pukka to pay Mr B:
£200 compensation for the stress and inconvenience hed been caused, and 
a pro-rata refund of his insurance premium, less the £50 cancellation fee, assuming 
the effective date of cancellation to have been 12 March 2020.I invited the parties to make any further comments.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr B said he was happy with the proposed outcome. 
Pukka accepted my provisional decision and confirmed they would be happy to compensate 
Mr B. But they said any refund of the premium would need to come from Mr Bs broker  
they felt unable to accept this aspect of the decision on that brokers behalf. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any further evidence in response to my provisional findings, I 
see no reason to depart from them. 
Pukka have suggested that any refund of the premium would be the responsibility of Mr Bs 
broker. Whilst I recognise that the broker wouldve arranged the policy and taken Mr Bs 
payment, Im not considering the brokers liability here. Mr Bs complaint is against Pukka  
and Im satisfied that its appropriate for a proportionate refund of his premium to be paid by 
Pukka as insurer. I would add that this doesnt prevent Pukka from coming to their own 
arrangement with the broker as to how to deal with any commission paid in respect of the 
sale of this policy.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained here, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and 
direct Pukka Insure Ltd to pay Mr B:
£200 compensation for the stress and inconvenience hes been caused, and 
a pro-rata refund of his insurance premium, less the £50 cancellation fee, assuming 
the effective date of cancellation to have been 12 March 2020.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2021.
 
Corinne Brown
Ombudsman