DRN-3498907
The complaint
Mr J complains that J D Williams & Company Limited lent to him irresponsibly. He says the
lending was unaffordable for him
What happened
Mr J opened a catalogue shopping account with J D Williams in May 2016. Mr J says that J 
D Williams shouldnt have provided him with the credit. He complains that
he was still able to use his account even when he had missed payments and his limit was
increased during this time.
Our adjudicator partially upheld his complaint. They didnt think J D Williams had done
anything wrong in its initial lending decisions, but by February 2018 they thought there were
signs that he was in financial difficulty. The adjudicator thought that J D Williams shouldnt
have allowed Mr J to make further purchases at that point and that it should have shown
forbearance and taken steps to avoid a worsening of Mr Js financial position. The
adjudicators view was that J D Williams should compensate Mr J for the impact of not
freezing his account in February 2018.
J D Williams disagreed. It said it did not have a record of Mr J contacting it at any point to
discuss any financial difficulties. It accepted that Mr Js credit shouldnt have been increased
in July 2018 and it considers it would be fair to only uphold Mr Js complaint from that point.
As J D Williams disagreed with the view the complaint was passed to me to make a
decision.
When I reviewed the case I provisionally decided that Mr Js complaint should have been 
upheld from earlier in the lending relationship. I wrote to all parties about this. J D Williams 
told me that it didnt have any further comments to make. Mr J didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when I have considered Mr Js complaint.
Having done so, I have come to a different conclusion to our adjudicator. I think that
J D Williams should have frozen Mr Js account much earlier  in October 2017. And I dont
think it should have increased Mr Js credit limit at any point after that. Ill explain why I have
reached this decision.
J D Williams needed to take reasonable steps to ensure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr J
could afford to repay what he was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the
repayment amounts, Mr Js lending history and Mr Js income and expenditure.
J D Williams has provided a copy of the checks it completed when opening Mr Js accounts
and the results of checks it ran each month when it reviewed his lending limits. It says these
show that Mr J didnt have any financial problems paying off his credit either with J D
Williams or elsewhere.
Mr J opened his account in May 2016 with a low credit limit of £125. Ive not seen anything
to suggest that the credit check J D Williams completed at the time showed anything that
would have stopped it from opening the account.
In August 2016 Mr J was using a large proportion of his credit limit and it was increased to
£200. He had also missed a payment. I think it would have been proportionate for J D
Williams to have verified Mr Js income in some way, either through a bank statement or
payslip. We asked Mr J for copies of these documents, but he didnt supply them. So I cant
say what J D Williams would likely have seen at that point. The same applies to the
increases in September, October and November 2016 when Mr Js credit limit was increased
to £300, £500 and £700 respectively.
In May 2017 Mr Js credit limit was increased to £1,100. He was using a high proportion of
his credit limit and given the large increase from the previous months credit limit I think it
would have been proportionate for J D Williams to have found out more about Mr Js
committed expenditure, such as his accommodation and utilities expenses. However, again,
I cant tell what J D Williams would have seen if it had done this, as Mr J has not provided
this information to this service.
Our adjudicator noted that in October 2017 J D Williams ought to have become concerned
about the number of missed payments on Mr Js account. These led to his balance tipping
over his credit limit of £1,100 because of the charges applied. Again, our adjudicator said
more checks should have been done, but that they couldnt know for sure what would have
been seen if J D Williams had done them.
Our adjudicator thought that by February 2018 it was evident Mr J was struggling to manage
his existing credit with J D Williams. Our adjudicator noted further missed payments and that
the balance had not significantly reduced over a period of time. At this point, our adjudicator
thought that there was a significant risk that Mr J wouldnt have been able to repay what he
owed within a reasonable period of time. They thought that at this point J D Williams
shouldnt have allowed new purchases at all after February 2018 and that the account
should have been frozen. The adjudicator thought that J D Williams should remove all
interest and charges (including any Buy Now, Pay Later interest) incurred on the account
since February 2018.
J D Williams disagreed. It said that this was effectively an arbitrary point to choose. 
However, it agreed that in July 2018 it shouldnt have increased Mr Js limit again and it
accepted that it should have frozen interest and charges on Mr Js account from that point.
I disagree with both these views. I think that J D Williams should have frozen Mr Js account
in October 2017. At that point Mr J had missed four out of five of his minimum repayments
and he was utilising more than 100% of his credit limit, due to charges and interest added
on. He went on to miss a further minimum payment in November 2017 before making it 28
days later. Throughout this time Mr J was exceeding his account limit. Following that single 
payment Mr J went on to miss a further five months of minimum
payments.Irrespective of what happened afterwards, I think it was clear by October 2017 that Mr M
was struggling to meet his repayments and was likely struggling financially. And I think it was
clear that he would have difficulty to pay off his balance within a reasonable period of time.
He wasnt making any in roads into paying off the balance of his account.
J D Williams said that it wasnt fair to uphold this complaint because interest and charges 
were added. It said that a decision to uphold should only be made at a point where the credit 
limit was increased. I disagree. J D Williams had a duty to ensure that its lending remained
sustainable throughout the agreement, and not just at the point of increasing the credit limit.
In these circumstances I think there was as significant risk in October 2017 that Mr J
wouldnt have been able to repay what he already owed within a reasonable period of time.
So I think it would have been reasonable for J D Williams to have shown forbearance and
taken steps to avoid worsening Mr Js financial situation at this point. In the absence of J D
Williams taking action at the time, I think this would have likely included preventing further
purchases on credit and to have stopped charging interest and late payment fees.
Putting things right
As I uphold this complaint in part, I think to put things right, its fair and reasonable for J D 
Williams to refund any interest and charges incurred by Mr J as a result of the credit unfairly 
granted to him.
I dont think J D Williams should have allowed new purchases at all after October 2017
and I think the account should have been frozen at that time. To reflect this, J D Williams 
should remove all interest and charges (including BNPL interest) incurred on the account 
since October 2017.
J D Williams should work out how much Mr J would have owed after the
above adjustments. Any repayment Mr J made since October 2017 should
be used to reduce the adjusted balance. If this clears the adjusted balance any funds 
remaining should be refunded to Mr J along with 8% simple interest* - calculated from the 
date of overpayment to the date of settlement.
If after all adjustments have been made Mr J no longer owes any money then
all adverse information regarding this account should be removed from the credit file
from October 2017. Or, if an outstanding balance remains, J D Williams should look to 
arrange an affordable payment plan with Mr J for the outstanding amount. As the debt
was sold to a third party, J D Williams are to either repurchase the debt or liaise with the 
third party to ensure the above steps are undertaken. Once Mr J has cleared the balance, 
any adverse information should be removed from the credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires J D Williams to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must give Mr J a
certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I partially uphold Mr Js complaint. J D Williams must put things right in the way I have 
described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2022.
 
Sally AllbeuryOmbudsman