DRN-2699391
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y 
Reaseguros, S. A. havent paid out on their travel insurance claim.
Other companies have been involved in this claim, but as Mapfre are responsible for it Ive 
just referred to them in this decision.
What happened
In September 2019 Mr and Mrs S were on holiday abroad and their luggage was stolen. 
They reported this to the police the same day, and said the below items were stolen:
Briefcase on wheels
Two laptops
Connection cables
Dongle
Mont Blonc pen
Various currencies coming to £100
Keys transponder for a boat
They submitted a claim to Mapfre for these items as well as the cost of replacement 
medication, and a taxi to and from the police station.
Mapfre replied and said Mr and Mrs S had only provided receipts for the laptops, so they 
couldnt cover them. And the laptops themselves were excluded under the terms of the 
policy, so there wasnt any payment theyd be making.
Mr and Mrs S werent happy with this, so contacted us and asked us to look into things. After 
Mapfre had been given the time theyre allowed under the rules we began considering 
things.
One of our investigators asked Mr and Mrs S if they could provide receipts for any of the 
items they hadnt been able to already. They replied, said they couldnt give a receipt for the 
pen as it was a gift ten years earlier and the receipt isnt available. They dont have receipts 
for the keys for the boat, but perhaps could get a receipt for sunglasses  which they 
subsequently provided to us. When our investigator asked about this, as it hadnt been 
included in the original claim made to Mapfre, Mr and Mrs S explained it was an unpleasant 
experience in the police station and they realised shortly after leaving the police station 
theyd forgotten to mention the sunglasses.
Our investigator explained because sunglasses hadnt been mentioned on the police report 
she wouldnt be expecting Mapfre to pay for them. She added the laptops were excluded 
under the policy terms, and although the prescription medication would be covered  the 
cost was less than the excess Mr and Mrs S would have been required to pay. And, as 
Mr and Mrs S werent able to provide receipts for any of the other items claimed for, she felt 
Mapfre hadnt acted unfairly in turning down the claim. An excess is something the 
policyholder would be required to pay in the event of a successful claim.
Mr and Mrs S said after going back and forth for nearly two years it wasnt fair to be told they 
werent entitled to anything from the policy. They added theyd looked over the policy and it 
said you had to contact the police which they did within the first hour. And that police 
documentation was provided to Mapfre and us, so surely they should be entitled to 
something. They also said from the terms of the policy they felt some items were covered  
so asked our investigator to look at things again.
Our investigator explained contacting the police was a requirement of the policy, but 
reporting the theft is a required step  it doesnt mean the claim is covered. Because Mr and 
Mrs S didnt agree with our investigator, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to explain that my role is to assess whether Mapfre have acted fairly in 
turning down the claim. If I think they havent, then I could require them to meet all, or part of 
the claim. 
So, Ive looked at the policy terms as this is the reason Mapfre have said they wont meet the 
claim  these say, amongst other things, they wont pay out for claims for theft of computers 
or equipment related to boats.
Because of that, I cant say Mapfre have turned down Mr and Mrs Ss claim unfairly for the 
laptops and keys for the boat. Its set out in the policy terms that Mapfre wont meet any 
claims for these items. I can understand Mr and Mrs Ss frustration  because theyve 
genuinely had items stolen and arent being refunded for these items. But insurance cant 
cover every situation or item  and in their case, the policy they purchased from Mapfre 
doesnt cover these items.
Mr and Mrs S havent been able to provide receipts for the other items they originally 
claimed for apart from the prescription medication. I dont think its unreasonable for an 
insurer to ask for receipts and / or proof of ownership for items that are being claimed for  
as this proves the person making the claim has some connection to the item claimed. I also 
note the policy document, and claims form, all ask for this kind of information. For the 
medication, Mapfre have said this wouldnt be met because the excess is more than the cost 
of the medication. The excess for this section of Mr and Mrs Ss policy was £75, and Ive 
seen the receipts to show the cost of the medication was less. So, Im satisfied Mapfre have 
acted fairly on these parts of the claim.
I also note Mr and Mrs S have said they realised shortly after leaving the police station the 
sunglasses werent something theyd mentioned. These appear to be prescription 
sunglasses, which would look like theyd be covered under the terms of the policy. But, like 
our investigator, I dont think itd be reasonable to ask Mapfre to cover these items given 
they werent mentioned on the police report.
I do want to make it clear I sympathise with the situation Mr and Mrs S find themselves in, 
but overall, Im satisfied Mapfre have acted fairly in not paying any element of this claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this case.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 May 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman