DRN-4374593
The complaint
Mr H complains that Creation Financial Services Limited closed his credit card account 
without notice, leaving him without a cashback offer or reward points. Hed like these to be 
paid to him, and compensation for the time taken to resolve the issue.
What happened
Mr H held a credit card with Creation, which included the ability to earn reward points that 
could be redeemed for hotels or experiences. Creation were also offering 0.5% cashback on 
qualifying purchases made using the card. He regularly used the card, often through a third 
party card aggregation service.
In September 2021 Creation wrote to Mr H to say they would be closing his credit card 
account in December 2021. They also informed him that he wouldnt be crediting his reward 
account with the points from his last statement period.
Mr H complained about the closure, and that he hadnt received the cashback amount hed 
been expecting on purchases. But Creation didnt uphold his complaint. They said they had 
given the required notice under the terms of his card account and confirmed they would not 
be adding points to the reward scheme after this notification had been given. They also said 
the offer for 0.5% back on purchases did not apply for payments through the card 
aggregation service, as these werent considered standard purchases.
Unhappy with this Mr H referred his complaint to our service. Creation then made an offer to 
resolve the complaint  saying they would transfer the accrued points to the reward scheme. 
Mr H declined this, saying this didnt include the cashback he believed his was due, nor any 
compensation for the length of time Creation had taken to resolve the issue.
One of our investigators looked into what happened and thought the offer to award the 
points was fair. They couldnt see any specifics examples of poor customer service, such 
that compensation was paid. But they agreed they couldnt see a reason why the cashback 
offer hadnt been paid  and asked Creation to pay this to him.  
Creation came back to say they had already made the payment of points. They also said 
that the payments Mr H was claiming cashback on had been made using the card 
aggregation service, which meant they didnt meet the criteria for the offer. They also didnt 
feel they should pay Mr H any compensation. The investigator then changed their mind and 
didnt feel the cashback should be provided. 
Mr H disagreed, and as such the case was passed to me to decide. After reviewing the 
evidence, I issued a provisional decision that said:
Account closure
Im satisfied that the terms of Mr Hs account allowed Creation to close it with the required 
notice period. Ive seen a copy of the notification, and Im satisfied that the correct notice 
was given. 
Creation have declined to go into detail about why they closed Mr Hs account, and theyre 
under no obligation to do so. But Ive reviewed their decision and ultimately, I dont find it to 
be irrational, or unreasonable. I cant see that Creation have treated him unfairly by closing 
his account.
But I understand Creation have now reimbursed Mr Hs reward account with the points he 
would have accrued, which is reasonable. Creation also offered a pro rata refund on the any 
annual account fee but looking at the statements I cant see that any fee was charged. From 
what Ive seen the type of account he had didnt come with anniversary voucher for a free 
nights stay.
Ive considered whether Creation need to offer any compensation regarding the closure. But 
from what Ive seen the decision to close was reasonable. I appreciate Mr H will likely be 
frustrated by the delay in the reward points being added to his account, but I think by adding 
them Creation have returned him to the position he would have been in otherwise. So, Im 
satisfied they dont need to do anything further than that.
Cashback offer
The cashback promotion Mr H was interested in ran from 1 July 2021 to 29 August 2021 and 
offered 0.5% cashback paid to the outstanding balance of the account. Mr H only received a 
total of 22p back, when he believes he should have received a lot more. 
Ive considered Mr Hs request for the cashback offer to be paid to him carefully. Creations 
position is that any payments made through the card aggregator do not meet the criteria as 
Standard Purchases. 
These are defined in the terms of the account as a purchase of goods and/or services 
(including any insurance) by you or an additional cardholder and in respect of which 
payment is made by use of the Card, Card number or, where permitted by us, a PIN and 
which may be effected in any manner including, without limitation, by means or text 
messaging by mobile phone (SMS), ATM, e-mail and Internet. 
The terms of the offer say that Certain transactions are not eligible for Cashback, these 
include Balance Transfers, Cash Advances and gambling. Cashback may be suspended 
and not earned if you breach any of the Terms and Conditions of your credit card agreement 
for example exceeding your credit limit, or failure to make at least the minimum payment 
each month.
There is nothing in the terms that seem to specifically exclude the use of a card aggregator, 
like Mr H was using. I asked Creation for technical evidence to demonstrate how these 
transactions were processed  for example if they are logged as cash advances. But nothing 
has been provided that satisfies me this is the case.
But, in any case I dont see how Mr H would have been aware of this at the time of the 
cashback offer. Ive reviewed the marketing he received, and that provided by Creation. 
There is nothing here to suggest payments for goods and services through the card 
aggregator wouldnt be counted. Had this information been included then Mr H would have 
had the opportunity to decide whether to use the Creation card without the card aggregator.
Im satisfied that Mr H was interested in the cashback awards. And he has been induced in 
to spending using the Creation account for goods and services by the seeming promise of 
receiving the 0.5% cashback, only to be declined for reasons I dont reasonably think he 
ought to have been aware of. Im minded Creation havent treated him fairly by declining to include these transactions in the cashback offer. They should honour the cashback 
promotion for payments for goods and services he made using the card aggregator.
I note from the statements that there were payments to a savings and investments provider, 
and to an electronic money institution  Im not minded these should be included in the 
calculation for the cashback offer as it should be reasonably clear to Mr H these would be 
cash advances.
The cashback offer was originally paid towards Mr Hs account balance on 14 October 2021, 
so I would ask Creation to rework the account from this date taking in to account the 
payments made using the card aggregator. This likely means Mr H repaid more than he had 
to when the account was closed  so Creation should refund any overpayment directly to 
him. As hes been without the use of these funds this should also include 8% simple interest 
per annum from the date of Mr Hs last payment to the date of settlement.
Creation disagreed, saying Mr Hs account was closed because of breaches of the account 
terms, which disqualified him from the cashback offer. They also said again the purchases 
did not count as standard purchases.
Mr H said he agreed with the issue about points and cashback but felt there had been 
customer service failings in how long it took for Creation to respond to the complaint. He said 
they didnt handle emails effectively and expected replies did not materialise.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im satisfied with the conclusions reached in the provisional decision.
Both parties now seem in agreement on the rewards point issue, so I do not need to make 
any findings on this. And there doesnt seem to be any dispute that Creation closed the 
account in line with the terms of the account  so I remain satisfied that this was a 
reasonable course of action. 
On the cashback offer, Ive considered what Creation has said. But I also note from the file 
that Creation had already paid Mr H a portion of the cashback offer  based on those 
transactions he made using the card directly rather than through the card aggregator  as 
highlighted in my provisional decision. If Mr H had been disqualified from the cashback offer, 
as Creation are now saying, I wouldnt have expected any of this to be paid. 
Creation have offered no further technical evidence of what the payments made using the 
card aggregator arent to be considered standard purchases. Overall, I do not see that 
Creations responses on this point have much merit. 
I remain satisfied that Mr H has been induced in to spending on his Creation card by the 
offer, and it would not have been clear to a reasonable person that Creation intended to 
exclude the payments using a card aggregator. In the circumstances I see its fair and 
reasonable for Creation to pay him the cashback for the purchases  excluding those may to 
the investment firm and the EMI.
On the customer service, our service cant consider how a business handled a complaint 
once it was received by a business as its not within the scope of what we do. And we 
wouldnt usually award compensation for the inconvenience of having to raise a complaint. 
Ive not seen anything to suggest a wider impact on Mr H beyond the wait for the cash back to be credited  but the interest award is to acknowledge the loss of use of these funds over 
that period. 
In the particular circumstances of the complaint, I see that the awarding of the points and 
cashback as putting Mr H back in the position he would have been in and is the most 
appropriate way to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
To resolve this complaint Creation Financial Services Limited must:
Credit Mr Hs account with the cashback offer for the purchases made using the card 
aggregator during the cashback period  excluding the transactions to the investment 
firm and the EMI mentioned above  as of 14 October 2021; and rework the account 
from this point on.
If this means Mr H paid more than he otherwise would have to close the account, 
then this money should be refunded directly to him.
Add 8% simple interest per annum on to the refund due to Mr H, from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement.
If Creation considers its required by HMRC to deduct tax from the interest award, 
they should give Mr H a certificate showing how much was deducted, should he ask 
for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2023.
 
Thom Bennett
Ombudsman